Document of
The World Bank
Report No. T-6883-RU
TECHNICAL ANNEX TO THE
MEMORANDUM OF THE PRESIDENT
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
LEGAL REFORM PROJECT
May 21, 1996
Country Operations Division II
Country Department III
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currcncy Unit   =  Ruble
I ruble   =  100 kopecks
MARKET EXCHANGE RATES
Ruble per US$1
Period Average End of Period
1993           1,018           1,247
1994           2.212           3,550
1995           4.566           4.640
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
Metric System                                         US System
I meter (m)                                 =         3.2808 feet
I kilometer (km)                            =         0.6214 mile
I square meter (In2)                                  1.196 square yards
I metric ton (ton)                                    1, 102 short tons
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADR      -    Alternative Dispute Resolution
CGJ           Courts of General Jurisdiction
GGPU             Main State-Law Administration
GNP      -    Gross National Product
GOR      -    Government of Russia
IS    -    International Shopping
LOI    -      Letter of Invitation
MOF      -     Ministry of Finanice
MOJ      -    Ministry of Justice
NCPI    -    Scientific Center for Legal Information
NGOs            Non-Governtnental Organizations
NS     -    National Shopping
RFI.R           Russian Foundation for Legal Reform
SA     -    Special Account
SCHE      -    State Committee for Higher Education
SSC     -    Sole Source Contracting
SWIFT      -    System of Worldwide International Fund Transfer
TA           Technical Assistance
TOR      -    Terms of Reference
TOT      -    Training of Trainers
RUSSIA - FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31



TECHNICAL ANNEX
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
LEGAL REFORM PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY.
I.    INTRODUCTION  .................................... I
II.   INSTITUTIONAL SETTING .......................................... 3
III.   PROJECT OBJECTIVES ..........................................   11
IV.   PROJECT DESCRIPTION ...13
V.    PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION  .......          .................... 21
VI.   BENEFITS AND RISKS .........................................     35
VII.  AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS ..........           ...................... 43
APPENDICES
Appendix A:  Project Cost Summary
Appendix B:  International Assistance to Legal Reform in Russia
Appendix C:  Legal Drafting (Tentative List for Year 1 and Thereafter)
Appendix D:  Legal Drafting (Study on Coordination of Legal Drafting Processes)
Appendix E:  Legal Drafting (Regional Pilot Activities)
Appendix F:  Legal Information (Study on Codification and Classification Systems)
Appendix G:  Legal Education Grants Program
Appendix H:  Public Education Campaigns
Appendix I:  Judicial Education Programs
Appendix J:  Judicial Reform (Study on Court Administration and Case Management)
Appendix K:  Guidelines for the Organization of Workshops for Judges
Appendix L:  Other High Priority Legal Reform Activities
Appendix M: Russian Foundation for Legal Reform
Appendix N:  Project Implementation Plan by Component
Appendix 0:  Procurement Plan
Appendix P:  Supervision Plan
Appendix Q:  Disbursement Profile
Appendix R:  First Year Implementation Plan
MAP          IBRD No. 27974 (following Appendices)



TABLES
Table 4-1     Estimated Project Cost
Table 4-2     Project Financing Plan
Table 5-1     Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements - Procurement Method
Table 5-2     Estimated Loan Disbursement Schedule
Table 5-3     Estimated Disbursements
Table 5-4     Supervision Indicators
Table 6-1     Matrix of Benefits, Impact Measurement, Risks and Mitigation Measures
FIGURES and BOXES
Figure 5-1    Russian Foundation for Legal Reform
Box 6-1       Legal Drafting: The costs of the lack of clarity



RUSSIAN FEDERATION
LEGAL REFORM PROJECT
LOAN AND PRoJCcT SUmmARY
Borrower:             Russian Federation
Implementing Agency:   Russian Foundation for Legal Reform (RFLR)
Beneficiaries:        RFLR, Federal ministries and agencies, regional authorities, courts, law
schools and law professors, judicial personnel, arbitrators, general public
Poverty:               N/A
Amnount:               US$58 million equivalent
Terms:                Payable in 17 years, including 5 years of grace, at the Bank's standard
variable interest rate for currency pool loans
Commitment Fee:       0.75 percent on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after signing,
less any waiver
Onlending Terms:      Grant to implementing agency and end-recipients
Financing Plan:       See paragraph 4.19
Net Present Value:    N/A
Technical Annex:      T-6883-RU
Map:                  IBRD No. 27974
Project I.D  No..     RU-PA-8831






RUSSIAN FEDERATION
LEGAL REFORM PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
INTRODUCTION
1.1           Fundamental change is well underway in Russia today. Since 1992, price and trade
liberalization, mass privatization. the development of a private financial sector has already led to the
emergence of new groups of entrepreneurs and new sources of wealth in the private sector. However,
economic reforms will not flourish and private investors and entrepreneurs will not prosper without a
legal system which can effectively protect private property, defend economic rights against infringement,
and establish a secu,e environment for investment and market relations. The extent of institutional change
in Russia today is not yet sufficient to ensure the continued efficient allocation of resources in the
emerging market economy. vWhich critically depends on the ability and willingness of market agents to
undertake independent economic activity.
1.2           Current legal protections available under the Russian legal system  are weak and
inadequate. This is, to a large extent, a legacy of the policies of the former socialist regime. For seventy
years the existence of property rights outside the state was barely recognized and independent economic
activity was discouraged. Executive bodies and other state organs frequently failed to implement laws
and almrost routinely issued legislative acts which contradicted laws. In addition, in the economic sphere,
the dispute resolution system was employed to carry out the central plan rather than to enforce property
rights, and the judicial system offered very few protections to citizens against administrative discretion
of executive agencies. Thus, in areas relating to private economic activity, the legislative framework has
had to be developed in great detail in order to overcome the inherent systemic prejudices against market
activities, the implication that certain activities were legally prohibited, and that citizens were to be left
open to administrative abuse. The means of securing legal protection and remedies for infringement of
economic rights, both in substantive and procedural terms, have in many instances proved to be barely
functional. What has emerged in Russia is an imperfect legal system that significantly impedes economic
transactions. Weak contract enforcement has resulted in the inclusion of risk premiums in the pricing
of goods and services. Business people feel that the laws are unreliable and contradictory. This
perception has contributed to fraud, sometimes on a massive scale, and corruption, the costs of which
are borne by the entire society. Last but not least, the inefficient judicial system fails to provide speedy
resolution of disputes and thus undermines the rule of law. This promotes the use of illegal channels to
protect property rights and to resolve competing claims.
1.3           The legal system comprises only one of many institutions which frame an economic
system, but it is arguably one of the most important. The legal system is the most formal of economic
and social constraints. Informal constraints on economic behavior are formed very much in relation to
the existing legal system. Moreover, institutional development is premised on a feedback effect: poor
institutions will lead to the emergence of organizations which are efficient at seeking rents, or creating
monopolies, which in turn will be interested in perpetuating the institutions which have favored them.
One of the key factors to a rapid and sustainable transition to the market lies in accelerating the process
of legal reform in Russia.
1.4           For the past five years the Russian legislature and Government have kept up an impressive
rate of legislative output which has begun to fill many of the initial gaps in the legislative framework
regulating the economy. However, even as the Goverrnment and the legislature work to fill these gaps



2                                                    Technical Annex: Russia Legal Reform Project
by issuing new laws and regulations, the volume of economic and entrepreneurial activity has picked up
dramatically, and new problems are arising even as the new legal framework is being established. Just
as Soviet laws do not provide an adequate framework for market transactions, other legal
institutions-such as the judiciary, the legal profession, and information systems-are having difficulty
in responding to the new demands placed upon them. Given the explosive increase in the number of
economic transactions taking place in Russia today, key legal institutions are falling behind in their ability
to regulate the marketplace.  The result is eroding faith in the link between law and the effective
functioning of a market economy. Survey and focus group data point to the following:
*      Laws are not perceived to be the basis of economic relations;
a      People are overwhelmed by the volume and flow of new laws and regulations, and have
no way of accessing accurate information about the laws that govern business and
economic behavior;
*      People are not accustomed to seeking legal counsel, nor do they feel themselves qualified
to assess the quality of legal counsel they might get; and
*      Legal institutions ranging from judges, attorneys, and legal officials are held in low
esteem and are underutilized by the population-the result being that people often turn
to extra-judicial (and frequently illegal) means of resolving disputes.
The task of continuing to generate new legislation for a market economy still looms large. But the best
drafted laws, if people perceive the laws to be not implemented or enforced, cannot lead to a properly
functioning market economy. A program  for legal reform in a transition economy such as Russia,
therefore, must aiso be equally focused on the effort to build institutions which restore, or develop, the
readiness of people to abide by and uphold the law.
1.5           A  program  supporting legal reform  in the transition to a market economy has
pzeliminarily been identified by the Government as including, among others, continuing tofill the gaps
in the legislative framework, including at the regional level; ensuring public access to transparently and
systematically organized authoritative laws and regulations; improving the education of lawvers and
awareness of the public about and other members of the legal profession; and beginning to reform the
judicia,y. Each one of :hese tasks is a long-term effort involving considerable resources. However, these
tasks cannot easily be delinked from one another. One cannot begin to encourage the public to turn to
law on resolving economic disputes if the courts are not adequately staffed to handle cases efficiently.
Nor can the country cap.ure the full value of well-drafted laws if the laws are not readily accessible to
the public for them to begin abiding by them. Finally, seeking legal counsel will be a frustrating exercise
for people who finr' hat law school graduates have had little expertise in law touching upon economic
transactions and training ili-suited to the practice of law.



Il. INSTITULIONAL SETTING
2.1            The central objective of legal reform for the economic transition is to create a framework
of laws and legal institutions that support and regulate the range of economic activities which make up
a market. The discrete tasks associated with legal reform in the transition as discussed below range from
the creation of a legislative base, increasing the availability of information about and understanding of
the law, the strengthening of the judiciary, and the growth and development of the legal profession. The
establishment of a legal framework for a market in a transition country like Russia, however, cannot
succeed if it cannot simultaneously begin to legitimize a larger, more authoritative role for law in the
governance of society. Legal reform for the economic transition in a country like Russia is integrally
linked to the legitimation of law as an organizing principle in society, rather than as an instrument of
political power. This in turn cannot be accomplished by fiat-rather, law must be shown and proven to
be of value in organizing economic and social transactions and in protecting individual citizens and
entrepreneurs against the misuse of administrative discretion of the agencies of executive power. Under
these circumstances, the passage of new laws appropriate for the market which are not effectively
promulgated, implemented, or enforced is not enough. Nor will improvements in the implementation and
enforcement of laws which are still oriented to a planned economy be sufficient. On the contrary, either
approach can prove to be harmful to the credibility of law, and ultimately to the sustainability of legal
reform in a transition economy.
2.2           In the years since the dissolution of the Soviet Union, the Russian legislature and
Government have succeeded in filling many of the initial gaps in the systemic legislative framework by
passage of numerous laws, decrees and regulations affecting market activity. There remains, however,
the far greater problem of basic institutional development in the legal sphere. Both Governmnent officials
and outside observers have concluded that the sustainability of legal reform for the transition depends
criticall, upon the creation and development of key legal institutions. These tasks include, among others,
strengthening of the law making process (the process by which the country drafts, considers and adopts
its laws and regulations at federal and regional levels and coordinates these efforts); improvement of legal
information systems (which make systematically and transparently organized laws and regulations widely
accessible to government at all levels, to legislators, judges, the legal profession and the public);
developing legal education and training (to produce competent lawyers, judges and other legal officials
required to defend and enforce the rights of market agents and to educate the public about its newly
established economic rights); and reforming the judiciary (the best laws, if inappropriately or inadequately
enforced, can neither defend the private sector against encroachments by the state, nor against the
exercise of monopoly power in the marketplace); and establishing expeditious and efficient alternative
dispute settlement mechanisms which complements the official adjudication of disputes.
2.3            Institutions are almost never built completely anew. Successful legal reform in Russia
will depend on the extent to which new institutions can incorporate, if not co-opt, elements of actors
functioning within existing institutions. In developing a legal framework for a market economy, the
Russian authorities have had to work with existing legal traditions and institutional structures which are,
at best, marginally suited to supporting market activities. In the legislative area, for example, although
in many cases systemic overhauling of the existing codes of law would be simpler, such instances have
so far been limited to the adoption of the Constitution, and the first two parts of the Civil Code.
Working in the context of existing traditions and institutional structures, moreover, has tended to preserve
the power of organizations and interest groups which have a vested interest in preserving existing
institutions. While in many cases there is potential for adapting existing codes and statutes to the
demands of the market, some institutional processes have to be fundamentally changed to facilitate this
incremental process of legal reform. These institutional distortions, in fact, have until recently prevented
reform efforts from being focused and coordinated among the various government agencies.



4                                                  Technical Annex. Russia Legal Reforrm Project
2.4           Recently, cor:enisus on the importance of legal reform has emerged within Russian
agencies under the guidance of the GGPU, which in 1994, 1995 and the beginning of 1996 has taken
a number of steps to .,oordinate legal reform efforts across all branches of government and to attempt to
address comprehensively the problems in the legal system outlined above. This approach has been
broadly enldorsed by other branches of the government, and 1995 saw considerable progress in
cooperative efforts aWross government units to identify a legal reform program. The Government's
program, as outlined in recent presidential decrees, has reinforced support for various aspects of the legal
and judicial reforms ana has created various law reform commissions, containing representatives of key
branches and units of governimeint to prepare and implement legal reform proposals.
2.5           Most recently, an All-Russian Congress on Legal Reform was held in Moscow in March
1996. In his address to the Congress, President Yeltsin declared that the primary objective of legal
reform is to demon,trate the vital necessity of law for economic and social development. He sketched
four principal directions for further reform efforts:
0      Development of the legislative base is understood to include not only the adoption of
such key missing elements of the legislative base as the third (final) part of the Civil
Code, Code of Civil Procedure and Code of Criminal Procedure, as well as legislation
affirming guarantees of hiuman rights and freedoms. It also comprises the following
goals: (a) eliminating internal contradictions in laws regulating various spheres of
activity; (b) creating a mechanism of control over executive rule-making; and (c) setting
down in law a mechanism of implementation of powers vested in the subjects of the
Federation.
i     Judicial reform will be focused first and foremost on changes in the fiscal framework to
guarantee judicial independence. Government officials at the Congress indicated that they
envisage the creation in the near future of an independent Judicial Department that would
take over the functions of financing and overseeing the courts of general jurisdiction from
the Ministry of Justice. Changes in court administration and case management and better
enforcement of court decisions are also anticipated.
e      Delineating the role of executive organs and clarifying the scope of their authority has
also been included as a key issue in legal reform and will be tackled through legislation
on the role and function of executive power. These laws are expected, among other
things, to focus on the problems of federal-regional relations, especially the procedures
of taking decisions in areas of joint jurisdiction.
*      Efforts to improve public awareness about legal issues are intended to include
development of legal information and professional legal education systems, introduction
of teaching of fundamentals of law in all high schools, and increased support for legal
scholarship.
In spite of the high level of political consensus indicated by this program, the institutions involved in legal
reform display varying degrees of commitment to leading reform in each of the areas named above. This
recognition has guided project design in each of the four areas identified in this project, as below:



Section I1. Institutioral Setting                                                              5
2.6           Legal drafting. In the last two and a half years, since the adoption of the December 1993
Constitution, the number of laws passed by the Parliament has grown exponentially. Notwithstanding the
breakneck pace of legislative activity, the task of creating a legal framework for the market is far from
complete.  Obsolete laws and legal and regulatory gaps and overlaps abound in areas of crucial
importance for effective functioning of a market, including real property law, taxation, and bankruptcy.
Moreover, the need to keep pace with the rate of both the macroeconomic and structural changes taking
place in the Russian economy today has led to the passage of imperfect laws, such that many laws which
have already been adopted are often not consistent with each other and even within themselves and need
to be modified or amended. Both the task of completing the legal basis for transition to a market, and
of beginning the internal harmonization and codification of the accumulating large mass of new legislation
must be continued to preserve and develop the role of legal institutions in regulating the market.
2.7           International technical assistance in this context cannot, of course, substitute for a policy
commitment to pass the laws necessary to support the continued development of a market economy in
Russia. It cannot serve as a direct substitute for improved coordination within the government. Nor can
it significantly reduce the amount of work associated in the drafting of a particular piece of legislation.
It can, however, inform the process of legal drafting in Russia with comparative experience, with
knowledge of models of how particular laws or combination of laws can be implemented and enforced
in practice.  At the same time, any technical assistance in this area must be provided within an
institutional framework which does not exacerbate the task of internal coordination-full government
ownersltip of the mechanisms by which this technical assistance is received and allocated among
government entit'es involved in the legal drafting process will be critical.   A final issue in the
institutional setting for legal drafting in Russia concerns the federal nature of the polity. Federalism in
Russia is as yet very new, with subjects of the Federation only now beginning to adopt their own laws.
Giv -n the certralized nature of policy making in the pre-reform period, regional authorities have had no
meaningful experience in legislative drafting. As yet, the legislative basis for jurisdictional separation is
incomplete. Pr"blems of conflict of jurisdiction are only beginning to emerge, but have the potential to
become far Iniore widespread and mechanisms on how to resolve these are insufficient.  In this
institutional conte.;t, Bank intervention will be directed to three areas: providing comparative advice in
the legal drafting process (building in particular on the experience of bilateral donors in financing such
assistance); carrying out studies which could provide the basis for institutional changes which can improve
the process of coordinating legal drafting; and training regional authorities in legislative drafting and
providing technical drafting assistance to regional authorities on a pilot basis.
.8           Lepaf information. Creation of effective and widely accessible legal information systems
is to a large extent comp!2mentary to the task of creating a modern legislative base. In Soviet times, laws
adopted by the Supreme So- iet were few, couched in general terms, useless in real life-and easy to find.
On the othler hand, the rules and regulations of executive agencies which in reality governed the conduct
of economic and political affairs were largely concealed from public view. In the context of a planned
economy the snciety was not required to be familiar with law and was in fact discouraged from it. By
contrast, market-based economies rely on publicly accessible, transparently and systematically organized
legal information f-or the effective implementation of law. The volume of laws and regulations in a
market economy is exp';nentially higher, and systemic functioning relies far more heavily on voluntary
compliance with the law than on direct enforcement.  Laws are useless unless they are applied by
economic actors tc further their interests. In this context the role of systems designed to inform the
public abou, law plays a radically different role in a market than in a planned economy. A market
economy. which i, the final analysis cannot be dissociated from a law-based state, cannot exist without
an effective system of lugal .nformation.



6                                                   Technical Annex: Russia Legal Reform Project
2.9            Such a system  does not yet exist in Russia, but efforts aimed at its creation are
intensifying. Several federal agencies are directly involved in the development of databases and electronic
distribution systems for legal information. The most important among these are databases maintained by
the MOJ, GGPU, and the High Arbitrazh Court. The MOJ Scientific Center for Legal Information
(NCPI) is meant to service the needs of the system of the MOJ and its regional centers (in each of the
89 subjects of the RF) and the courts of general jurisdiction, while a more limited electronic version is
available for the public on commercial terms. The GGPU has contributed to the STC "Systema" database
which is designed to be both an authoritative standard as well as a source for updated pieces of federal
legislation both for government entities and the public. Although a high level working group, Federal
Commission for Legal Informatization, has been established by a presidential decree to develop a
framework and design for effective dissemination of legal information, the level of consensus and
coordination it can generate remiains to be seen. In addition, a number of private sector providers of legal
information operate in Russia. Among these are companies such as Konsultant and Garant that are
becoming an important source of timely information (although not always accurate), mostly for
commercial users. However, no clear policy has yet emerged on the appropriate relationship between
the public and private sectors. In this context, the project seeks not to build a comprehensive legal
information system, but to define the appropriate role for public sector investment in this area, the
feasibility of such a system and its relationship to a number of agencies and ministries involved in this
area, and the way in which such a system might appropriately interact with emerging private-sector
providers of legal information.
2.10          Over the last several years, the Russian Parliament and executive agencies have issued
a massive amount of legislative enactments. Currently, there does not exist any systematized way of
organizing legislation. Enactments are published in daily newspapers and, with a significant time lag and
in insufficient quantities, in official gazettes. These publications are only chronological. Therefore, in
researching a legal issue at any given time, one must look through years of chronologically published
official gazettes (if available). This situation forces most official bodies, courts, and private practitioners
to create their own classification systems of legislation-systems that allow them to readily access the
enactments they need. Such a system in which each agency has to create its own organization for
legislation is very inefficient.  The project will provide technical assistance to assess the current
classification systems existing in Russia and recommend the design of a classification system that can be
introduced nation-wide, in both written and electronic form. Another endemic problem in Russian
legislation over the last several years has been frequent contradictions and overlap among different pieces
of legislation. The project will provide technical assistance to develop methodology on how to "codify"
Russian legislation, once the classification system is developed, i.e., summarize and index all pieces of
legislation on any given topic and then, through legislative action eliminate overlapping pieces of
legislation ("svod zakonov"). International technical assistance in this area can be particularly useful due
to successful recent experience with codification in countries such as The Netherlands.
2.11          Legal education. Radical changes in the substance and scope of law and changes in the
demand for professional legal services have in many ways overwhelmed the system of professional legal
education. There are not nearly enough legal educational institutions available to provide training to a
sufficient number of lawyers to satisfy both private and public sector demands. Some 60 schools are
accredited to provide legal education, but they are hampered by the inability to provide legal education
appropriate for the practice of law in a market economy. Curricula are outdated, with little coverage of
legal issues related to the needs of a market economy. Professors who are able to teach economic law
courses are in extremely short supply. Many law schools are not familiar with teaching materials or
methods geared towards the development of skills to practice, rather than to study, law. The increased



Section Il. Institutionul Setting                                                                  7
demand for !egal education has also led to the emergence of both private and quasi-private (associated
with public institutions, but juridically separate) teaching institutions. While most of these institutions
have not been acccedited by the State Committee for Higher Education (SCHE), demand for legal
education is such that attendance even at non-accredited institutions is significant'. Structural weaknesses
in the institutions -uiding legal education, including the SCHE and the Ministry of Justice, have so far
prevented top-down reforms of curricula, teaching materials, and methods. In addition, even if new
accreditation standards were to be adopted, it is not clear whether any law schools would be in a position
to meet them. In this context, Bank intervention is designed to work with a number of the stronger law
schools to develop law schoc; capacity in selected areas. This will be accomplished through the financing
of grants in areas such as the development of new courses, innovative teaching materials, new teaching
mt:lhodologies, teacher retraining, and clinical training.
2.12           Pullic education campaignts. Currently, there are wide gaps in the Russian population's
knowledge of the concept of rule of law, as well as in efforts to educate the public about such principles.
Baseline research (a summarv of which is in Appendix H) indicates that the Russian public does not yet
see the law as the primary framework for economic and business relationships. The vast majority of
people fundamentally distrusts all law enforcement agencies, including the courts. Media content analysis
indicates that media coverage of legal topics does little to address this problem, pointing to the fact that
most Russian journalists lack the basic knowledge, understanding, and research skills required to analyze
and write about law as its functions in a market-based economy. Nor are legal texts, commentaries or
basic texts readily available for the general public. At the same time, studies show that the Russian
public is aware of the unsatisfactory condition of the legal system and would like to make better use of
existing legal mechanisms to meet its business and other needs. This points to the conclusion that broad-
based efforts to increase public understanding and use of law as the basis for economic and business
activity could bring highly favorable results. Baseline research also indicates that a public information
campaign tightly focused on the role of law in regulating and organizing market transactions would be
accepted by a large majority of the public groups encompassing a wide range of political and social
opinions. The project will focus its technical assistance on mass media education, public education about
law in secondary schools, and on public information campaigns about alternative dispute resolution.
2.13           Judicial reform. The Russian judicial system faces two challenging tasks. First, the
economic reforms accompanying the transition to a market-based economy have resulted in a manifold
increase in market participants and transactions. This has placed new burdens on the formal adjudicating
system, especially in view of the increasing reliance of the business community and individuals on newly
sanctioned property and contractual rights which require enforcement by an effectively run and fair
judicial system. Second, the 1993 Constitution of the RF formally established the judiciary as an
independent branch of government. Russian judges, who in the past merely fulfilled the role of civil
servants, are now faced with the difficult task of building up their independence in adjudicating disputes,
adjusting to their new role as neutral arbiters in civil matters, and assuming the role of protecting the
legal rights of citizens vis-a-vis state agencies in a variety of criminal and administrative matters. Partly
in response to the challenges posed by the above and partly because of the legacy of Soviet institutions,
a complex and convoluted structure of judicial institutions has emerged in Russia today. It includes the
Constitutional Court, three instances of courts of general jurisdiction, and three instances of arbitrazh
(commercial) courts. There is no unified or even similar structure for administering and financing the
various courts. The Constitutional Court is directly funded from the federal budget and administered
I/ In 1995 state institutions admitted 33,000 students and private institutions 25,000.



8                                                      Technical Annex. Russia Legal Reform Project
independently from the other courts. The first two instances of courts of general jurisdiction are
administratively and financially subordinate to the MOJ; their budget is channelled through the MOJ.
Their third instance, the Supreme Court of the RF, is funded directly from the federal budget and
administered independently.  This makes the courts of general jurisdiction suffer from  a lack of
institutional leadership. Also importantly, it makes the first two instances of the judiciary beholden to
the MOJ, an executive agency which has a vested interest in maintaining the status quo and little incentive
to champion the cause of judicial reform which would eventually lead to pressures to institutionalize the
independence of the judiciary by severing or limiting MOJ's links with the courts. The arbitrazh courts
(which are transformed from the former 'state arbitrazh'-a quasi-judicial executive agency vested with
resolving disputed among state-owned enterprises) are fiscally and institutionally better off than the courts
of general jurisdiction and frequently are better staffed. There is a substantial jurisdictional overlap
between the two court systems in economic disputes. The arbitrazlh courts resolve economic disputes only
among judicial entities and among registered individual entrepreneurs. If one of the parties is a physical
person, the same dispute falls under the jurisdiction of general courts. The High Arbitrazh Court which
administers all three instances of arbitrazh courts and receives a direct federal budgetary allocation is not
particularly open to the idea of merging this dual-track system.
2.14           Judicial reform, including the introduction of structural changes, remains high on the
reform policy agenda. In the March 1996 Congress on Legal Reform, President Yeltsin underscored the
need to address judicial reform including the creation of a judicial department for the courts of general
jurisdiction, this would integrate the three instance system and limit the role of the MOJ vis-a-vis the
courts. In the current legislative and institutional context of the judiciary, external assistance can be
effective only in a limited number of areas. Therefore, the project seeks to address several discrete areas
of judicial reform. It will finance technical assistance to fill some of the gaps in the rules of procedure;
to train judges of general jurisdiction and arbitrazh courts; a study of the courts of general jurisdiction
to analyze ways in which to improve court administration and case management; and judicial workshops
which could lead to the development of professional and institutional consensus for judicial reform among
the judiciary.
2.15           Alterative dispute resolution. Private sector participants in both developed and developing
countries often seek alternatives to having their disputes adjudicated through official judicial bodies.
Alternative forms of dispute resolution (ADR), are receiving increased recognition world-wide as an
integral compoaent of law-based societies. For example, even in extremely litigious societies, such as
the United States. relatively few contract violations are resolved in formal courts of law. Mediation,
arbitration, conciliation, informal negotiations, and mini-trials complement the official adjudicating bodies
and often pro-ide quicker and less expensive solutions to a range of legal problems. As a complement
to reforming the state-run judicial system and strengthening its institutional capacity, the GOR is
interested in the development of quasi-judicial, alternative forms of dispute resolution. ADR is perhaps
even more important in countries with poorly developed legal institutions, like Russia or other countries
in transition. For example, shortcomings in the Chinese legal system have made the Chinese international
arbitration agency tne most active in the world in 1995.  Similarly, where formal Russian legal
institutions are often seen as rigid and difficult to use, skilled mediators or arbiters can often reach
innovative solitions. A wcll-functioning ADR system can also exert competitive pressure on the formal
courts of lawv. especially in commercial disputes. Given the poorI state of the formal judicial institutions
in Russia and the resulting distrust of the citizenry in these institutions, ADR can be a welcome
alternative with a potential to make an important contribution to strengthening the rule of law in Russia.
Over the last several years, ADR has progressed in several sectors in Russia, including commercial
arbitration among entrepreneurs, banks, insurance companies, and securities markets participants; and



Section II. Institutional Setting                                                            9
mediation of consumer and labor disputes. Currently, there are more than 300 private arbitration panels
registered in Russia. Yet, ADR in Russia suffers from a variety of problems that can be addressed
through technical assistance. Ignorance of the availability and advantages of ADR is widespread among
the population and in many sectors of the economy. The legislative basis for ADR is not adequate;
private arbitration functions on the basis of a 1992 provisional regulation. The limited number of
specialists versed in ADR methodology impedes further growth of the sector. (For example, the Service
for the Resolution of Labor Disputes of the Ministry of Labor routinely turns away requests for assistance
due to the lack of qualified specialists.) Due to the relative novelty of the sector in Russia, ADR experts
work in isolation and lack the basic means and infrastructure to exchange and disseminate views and
information about their practice. The project will start addressing some of these shortcomings through
financing: technical assistance in the preparation of a legislation covering ADR; training seminars for
trainers in arbitration and mediation; public information campaigns on ADR; and support for annual
meetings of specialists involved in ADR.
2.16          Project Implementation Agency. To carry out the proposed project, which cuts across
so many institutions and areas, the Government has established the Russian FoundationforLegal Reform
(RFLR). It will be responsible for implementing all components of the project. The founders of the
RFLR are the Presidential Administration, the MOJ, the MOF, the Securities and Exchange Commission,
and the Academy of Sciences of the Russian Federation. It is envisioned that the RFLR will continue
to be active after project completion in the area of legal reform, receiving funds from budgetary sources,
own legal expertise, and grants from other public or private donors. A detailed description of its
structure and functions is contained in Part V of this report, as well as in Appendix M.
2.17          Other donor assistance for legal reform. In addition to Bank's assistance to Russia since
1991 in areas like banking, privatization, and natural resources law and regulations, Russia has received
assistance from a number of countries and organizations. These are described in Appendix B and include
support for specific pieces of legislation, training of officials and judges and programs to improve
legislation. Russia has also received assistance in non-economic areas of legal reform, including criminal
law improvements, jury trials, police training, electoral law assistance, and constitutional reforms.
Private agencies and non-government organizations have supported individual aspects of law reform.
Private agencies and non-government organizations have supported individual law school exchange
programs and training of lawyers and bar associations. While support for criminal law reform and law
enforcement is increasing among official agencies, direct assistance for economic law reform is decreasing
rapidly due primarily to bilateral aid cutbacks set for 1996 and 1997.
2.18          The lessons which have been learned from other assistance provided in Russia for legal
reform, including by the Bank, are several. First, government commitment is essential in order to effect
change in the legal frarnework. Reform must therefore be owned by the government and not imposed
from the outside. Second, since legal reform crosses governmental structures and branches, an overall
reform program is needed as well as an institutional capacity to carry out such a program. Otherwise
assistance will tend to be piecemeal and of limited impact. Third, there is both substantial lack of
knowledge and skepticism in Russian society about the proper role of the legal system. Changes in the
structures and institutions must be accompanied by changes in attitudes among the public and a
willingness to use the legal system to defend individual economic rights. Last, legal reform in Russia
will be a long-term process.



10                                              Technical Annex: Russia Legal Reform Project



111. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
3.1           The overall objective of the project is to improve the performance of the Russian legal
system in areas key to the effective functioning of market institutions. Specific project objectives are:
a) To improve the quality of drafting of economic laws, decrees and regulations. To the
extent possible, this effort will complement the structural reform objectives of other Bank
projects which involve policy and legislative reforms. To assist the GOR in analyzing
federal/regional and federal interagency coordination in drafting laws and regulations.
On a pilot basis, to improve legislative drafting at the regional level.
b) To assist the GOR in designing the appropriate classification of legislation (including
in electronic format) and in identifying the appropriate method of codifying Russian
legislation. To assist the GOR in determining the appropriate scope and framework, as
well as levels of public investment, in both the electronic and non-electronic systems for
collection, organization and dissemination of legal information.
c) To begin to introduce innovative teaching methods and materials in the legal education
system, with particular emphasis on increased exchange between legal academia and
practice and to improve teacher training. To begin to improve public awareness and
understanding of the role of law in a market economy.
d) To improve the quality of judicial training for courts of general jurisdiction and
arbitrazh courts.  To assist the GOR in analyzing impediments to effective court
administration and case management in courts of general jurisdiction. To assist the
Russian judiciary in reaching broad-based consensus for necessary structural reform of
the sector. To promote the development of ADR in Russia.
3.2           These objectives are designed to complement and reinforce one another and as a result,
promote a program of compcehensive legal reform in Russia. For example, legislative changes needed
for judicial reform will be included in the drafting component. New legislation enacted following the
provision of tcchnical assistance in legislative drafting will be disseminated to federal and regional
authorities via a dissemination system, a feasibility study for which is funded out of the legal information
system. Also, one of the focusses of public education campaigns about the role of law in a market
economy will be campaigns on the utility of alternative methods of dispute resolution which will reinforce
the ADR development subcomponent of the judicial reform component.



12                                                 Technical Annex: Russia Legal Reform Project



IV. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
4.1           'lhere are four inter-related project components, consisting of technical assistance to
sLipport: (a) legal drafting; (b) collection and dissemination of legal information; (c) legal education,
including public education campaigns; and (d) judicial reform, including support for alternative dispute
resolution. In addition, other high priority activities, agreed upon between the Government and the Bank,
may be eligible for financing under the project. Costs noted below exclude taxes and duties and
contingencies.
Legal Drafting
4.2           To assist in the drafting of economic laws, decrees and regulations at the federal level,
technical assistance will be p, u vided to various executive agencies and institutes involved in the legislative
drafting process for key legal acts over the life of the project. A list of laws, decrees, and regulations
eligible for teclii;icai _ssistance will be submitted and agreed upon between the GOR and the Bank on an
annual basis. The RFLR in its capacity as the implementing agency for the project will generate a draft
list of legal acts ba;ed on the overlap of the Government's annual legislative agenda and project
objectives, to be submitted to the Government. The list would focus on high priority enactments which
are consistent with the GOR's economic reform program. The Government will in turn convey this list
to the Bank. For cach piece of legislation the Government will at the same time inform the RFLR and
the Bank which federal agen.:les and/or institutes are included in a working group set up for each piece
of legislation which will be the beneficiary of this technical assistance, as well as which agency is
designated to be the lead agency in drafting this legislation. The RFLR will then consult with the
working group as to t'ie type, trl. scope, and duration of technical assistance needed for a particular piece
of legislation, and prepare all procurement documents necessary to obtain this technical assistance. The
allocation of the technical assistance among members of the working group will be determined by the
working group. All procurement actions associated with each piece of legislation will be submitted to
the Bank for its no-objection as a package. A preliminary list of legislation has been identified for Year
1 of the project, as well as a tentative list of laws which might be covered during the life of the project,
and is attached as Appendix C. Loan fipancing is expected to cover up to $10 million of the costs of this
activity.
4.3           To address the issue of coordination of legislative drafting process in the Russian
Federation, the RFLR will commission two studies. The first will focus on an analysis of the existing
framework and mechanisms for coordination among the federal agencies and entities in the process of
legislative drafting. The study will identify the formal requirements and mechanisms designed to ensure
coordination among ministries, federal agencies, and the parliament and examine how these requirements
and mechanisms are implemented in practice. It will also examine the mechanisms by which draft
legislation is conformed to existing legislation. The study will identify laws associated with both effective
and ineffective coordination in the drafting phases for comparison. Based on this analysis, the study will
make recommendations on how the process might be improved, distinguishing clearly between short- to
medium-term and long-term policy measures which could improve the drafting process. The second study
will focus on an analysis of the framework for coordination in the drafting of federal and regional
legislation. This study will identify the ways in which the drafting of federal legislation which either
ir.fluence regional policy or are dependent upon regional and local authorities for its implementation can
be better structured to produce a more effective law. It will also identify what mechanisms exist to
ensure that regional legislation in areas of joint jurisdiction or solely regional jurisdiction conform to
existing federal legislation in this area. In this study researchers will also be asked to look at the
mechanisms and processes which exist to bring regional and federal legislation into conformity after a



14                                                     Technical Annex: Russia Legal Reform Project
conflict arises, so that the relationship between ex ante and ex post coordination can be clearly identified.
As in the first study, researchers will be required to generate specific recommendations on how the
process of coordinating between regional and federal legislative drafting might be improved in the short-
to medium-term, as well as in the long term. The terms of reference for one of these studies are
contained in Appendix D. The loan-financed cost of each study is expected to be $250,000.
4.4            To improve the drafting of regional legislation, training in legislative drafting and
technical assistance will be provided on a pilot basis to the Sverdlovsk and Orel oblasts, which were
selected by the Government according to the following criteria. First, the GOR considers these regions
(the cities of Moscow and St. Petersburg being excluded from consideration) to have clearly shown a
willingness to push forward with legislative reforms in the area of private sector development. Second,
these regions are not recipients of high levels of foreign-financed technical assistance. Implementation
responsibility will be assumed by the deputy governors of each oblast, heads of commnittees on legislation
of the regional legislative bodies, and staff lawyers of the oblast administrations. In addition, they will
be assisted by professional staff assigned to the project by regional authorities. These officials will be
in charge of determining lists of trainees and directing legal technical assistance to the appropriate
recipients. The RFLR, following consultation with the authorities of Orel and Sverdlovsk oblasts, will
contract for training in legal drafting for officials in each of these oblasts. Such training programs may
include local training, where both international and Russian experts are asked to train officials in the
oblast, and some study tours and additional training in Moscow. The training is expected to cover the
improvement of general skills in legal and legislative drafting, as well as substantive expertise in specific
areas of economic law, identified by regional authorities as priority areas. It has been tentatively agreed
with the regional authorities that staff lawyers from the executive and legislative branches, specialists
from economic agencies and potential drafters from local academic institutions will be the trainees.
4.5            In addition, regional officials may also receive some technical assistance associated with
the drafting of specific laws, upon agreement with the Bank. The project will finance technical assistance
in the drafting of regional legislation in these regions for those laws, regulations, and other enactments
which are included in the annual list of legislative priorities communicated to the Bank by the federal
Government in October of every year of the project. Tentative lists of areas/topics for the first year have
already been agreed upon between the federal and regional authorities of Orel and Sverdlovsk oblasts (see
Appendix E). There will be regional counterpart contributions. In the case of on-site training, premises
will be provided at the expense of local authorities, who will also cover at least part of administrative
costs and the cost of local transportation for the trainers. In Yekaterinburg, some instructors may be
provided by local academic institutions at their own cost. In the case of Moscow-based training, the
regional authorities will cover travel costs and standard daily allowances (Russian government rates) for
the trainees.  For legal technical assistance, counterpart contribution will consist of the expense of
preparing initial drafts of enactments (consultants will be stepping in at an intermediate stage), and also
of salaries of the implementation staff. The loan-financed cost of this subcomponent is expected to be
$1.5 million. Of this amount, approximately $900,000 will be allocated to training activities, and
$600,000 for technical assistance in legislative drafting.
4.6            Total costs of the legal drafting component will be up to $20 million, of which loan
financing will cover some $12 million.



Section IV. Project Description                                                            15
Legal Information
4.7           The dramatic increase in the legislative activity of the Duma and in the regulatory activity
of executive agencies over the course of the last two years has added urgency to the task of organizing
the Russian legislative base in a systematic and logical fashion. This component will finance the
development of legislative classification and codification guidelines by launching a feasibility study that
will analyze the current situation and propose a model classification system of legal enactments, as well
as a comparative methodology for carrying out subsequent codification. The study will be followed by
the pilot implementation of the classification system in electronic format. The study and pilot investment
together will cost $1.5 million. Terms of reference for the contractors, to be engaged through the RFLR,
are attached in Appendix F. This will be accompanied by and closely coordinated with a full-fledged
feasibility study and engineering design for a public sector legal information system. This feasibility
study will design a system which conceptually incorporates: a) both electronic and non-electronic systems
of informat: n dissemination; b) competitive access to databases of authoritative texts to private-sector
providers of such materials; c) timely and open access to as wide a sector of the population as possible.
The feasibility study will incorporate pilot and/or demonstration investments for information
dissemination. A technology advisor under contract to the RFLR during project preparation will develop
the terms of reference for the feasibility study, assist the GOR in the competitive selection of a contractor
to carry out the study, and assist the GOR to supervise the work of this contractor during project
implementation.2  Loan financing for this study is expected to cover up to $2 million, and the pilot
investment up to $4.5 million. The total cost of this component will be over $24 million, of which loan
financing will cover up to $8 million.
Legal Education and Public Education Campaigns
4.8           This component will support improvements in law school education. The number of
graduates and the type of legal education offered in state and private law schools in Russia today does
not meet the demands the society and the economy place on professional legal services. Law schools
rarely engage in modern interactive teaching techniques. Most schools use old style teaching tools, such
as lengthy textbooks offering little guidance for future practicing lawyers which are, moreover, frequently
outdated by the time they are published. Professors are rarely equipped to teach economic law subjects
and more often than not have no practical experience. To address some of these issues, this component
will finance grants programs for five law schools (to be selected by a consultative committee of the RFLR
based on agreed upon criteria, such as law school capacity, scope of curriculum, and extent and variety
of elective courses on economic and commercial law subjects). Within these programs, professors, and
groups of professors will compete for grants to produce innovative teaching materials, design new courses
and seminars, and participate in teacher training, including sabbaticals and study tours abroad. Students
of these schools will also be eligible for fellowships for graduate study abroad. Law schools will also
receive equipment for the production of teaching tools and materials, books for the libraries, and
computer equipment based on demonstrated needs. The RFLR will administer these program grants,
evaluate all grants proposals, and award grants. Throughout the grants program, it will cooperate with
the Methodological Committee (UMO) of the State Committee for Higher Education (SCHE). Appendix
G outlines grant categories in greater detail. To assist in the administration of the grants program, and
the development of grant proposals and their evaluation in the selected law schools, the RFLR will engage
one consultant per school for a period of one year. The loan-financed cost of this subcomponent is $6
2/     An information technology firm was placed under contract to the RFLR as a technology advisor in April 1996.



16                                                Technical Annex: Russia Legal Reform Project
million of which $5 million will be allocated to the grants program. Each of the five schools will be able
to competitively apply for grants in each category, out of which equipment financing will be expected
not to exceed $500,000 in total.
4.9           Further, this component will support increasing public awareness about law and its role
in a market economy. The baseline study summarized in Appendix H clearly shows the deficiencies in
the understanding of the role law plays in market transactions among the Russian public, as well as the
gap in delivering messages to the public about the rule of law. This component will, therefore, finance
a series of public information campaigns designed to address some of these deficiencies.  These
information campaigns will focus on three areas: (i) public outreach through the mass media (TV, radio,
and printed media) and journalist training; (ii) public education about law in secondary schools, focusing
on extracurricular activities and events (such as competitions on legal subjects), dissemination of
pamphlets and brochires on legal topics, and professional outreach by the legal community into schools;
and (iii) public information campaigns about the availability and utility of alternative dispute resolution
(ADR) mechanisms, such as arbitration and mediation. The RFLR will engage consultants to carry out
these information campaigns. The loan-financed cost of this subcomponent is $13 million, with $7
million for mass media campaigns and journalist training, $4 million for secondary schools education
campaigns, and $2 million for public education campaigns on ADR.
4.10          The total cost of the component will be approximately $24 million, of which loan
financing is expected to cover $19 million.
Judicial Reform and Alternative Dispute Resolution
4.11          This component will support the training ofjudges of general jurisdiction and arbitrazh
courts. Due to the new burdens placed on the judiciary, the new role of judges in a market economy,
and to the massive amounts of new legislation, the training of Russian judges has significantly fallen
behind the current needs. Apart from insufficient training capacity, the current training of Russian judges
does not take adva.; age ol new interactive and innovative teaching methods and does not provide
guidanice on judicial skill building. This shortcoming is particularly acute for new judges entering the
courts of general jurisdiction (projected at approximately 1000 per year for the next five years) who
currently do not undergo any training. The Law Academy of the MOJ is in charge of providing training
for courts of general jurisdiction. This component will finance (i) two training sessions for 25 trainers
each (selected by the Council of Judges, the Law Academy and the RFLR, from among judges and
academics affiliated with the Law Academy and its regional centers) concentrating on the role of a judge
and judicial skills building; (ii) equipment for the Law Academy for the production of teaching tools
(including written materials and video tapes) and two computer classrooms for teaching computer skills;
and partially finance (iii) a series of five two-month long regional seminars for 50 newly appointed judges
each. It is expected tnat che Law Academy and its regional centers will be able to provide training to
about ten percent of new judges over the next four years, using the trainers trained under this
subcomponent. The RFLR will engage a firm experienced in judicial training which will cooperate with
the Law Academy in the development of the training courses and course materials. For the arbitrazh
(commercial) courts, this component will finance one training session for 25 trainers (selected by the
Council of Judges, the High Arbitrazh Court, and the RFLR from among arbitrazh court judges) and
partially finance three regional roll-out seminars on new legislation and judicial skill building for 50
judges, using the newly trained trainers. The component will also finance equipment for the production
of teaching materials (written materials and video tapes) for the training department of the High Arbitrazh
Court. The RFLR will engage a firm experienced in judicial training which will cooperate with the High



Section IV. Project Description                                                          17
Arbitrazh Court in the development of the training courses and course materials. In addition, the RFLR
will engage a long-term (2 years) training consultant who will work with both the Law Academy and the
High Arbitrazh Court on designing innovative teaching materials and judicial training courses. Loan
financing for this subcomponent will cover $4 million, out of which $2.7 million will support judicial
training for courts of general jurisdiction through the Law Academy and $800,000 will support training
of judges of the arbitrazh courts. In addition, two computer rooms will be equipped for the Law
Academy at a cost of $150,000. An additional $500,000 will finance training consultant to be assigned
to advise the Law Academy of the High Arbitrazh Court. Appendix I outlines the format of judicial
education and tentative curriculum for both court systems.
4.12          This component will include a study on court administration and case management for
courts of general jurisdiction. The aim of the study is to analyze the current structure and adniinistration
of the courts, including the appointment of judges and court personnel, creation and elimination of
judicial districts, budget flows through the courts system, and management of the courts. The study will
also analyze case management issues, including the flow of cases through courts from the submission of
a claim through the execution of a judgment, identify the main bottlenecks in court rules and procedures,
analyze the division of labor within a courthouse and the organization of work of a typical judge. On
the basis of the analysis, the study will propose a set of recommendations to improve the current
administration of justice and service to the citizens through the courts of general jurisdiction. The study
will be commissioned by the RFLR and its preliminary recommendations will be discussed and consulted
on by the Council of Judges of the RF. After finalizing, the recommendations will be submitted to the
GOR for implementation into policy and will be disseminated in policy, academic, and popular media.
The loan-financed cost of the study will be approximately $500,000, including the cost of disseminating
the study. The terms of reference for the study are in Appendix 1.
4.13          This component will promote consensus building and supportforjudicial reform among
the judiciary through the organization of workshops for judges. It has been the Bank's experience in
many countries that the strongest resistance to reforming judicial systems around the world comes from
the judges themselves. Reforms of the judiciary, especially as extensive as will need to be in place in
Russia, usually do not succeed unless judges are involved in the reform process from the outset and feel
that they "own" it. To address this situation, a series of six workshops will be held which will provide
a forum for judges to discuss with their colleagues the needs of the judiciary, achieve consensus on
reform efforts to address these needs, and build a nucleus of leaders among the Russian judicial
community.  These workshops will also provide a forum  to discuss the preliminary results and
recommendations of the study on court administration and case management (above). Each workshop
will have approximately 100 participating and 10 presenting judges (including up to 3 foreigners) and will
include judges from all three judicial branches. The first workshop will be organized for the existing
Council of Judges of the RF, the representative body of the judicial professional association, totalling
approximately 100 judges. The first workshop will be preceded by a meeting of speakers presenting
judges with the workshop organizers to discuss the methodology and materials to be used during
subsequent workshops. The Council of Judges, in coordination with the RFLR, will identify the judges-
speakers for the workshops. The RFLR will engage a group of 3 professional organizers who will be
responsible for setting up the workshops, collecting and disseminating materials to all participants ahead
of time, engaging moderators for the workshops sessions, recording the discussions, writing up and
disseminating the results of the discussions to all participants of past and future workshops and the
Council of Judges for further dissemination to the judicial community. This dissemination will also be
in the form of a newsletter of the Council of Judges. The organizers will also be responsible for
administering anonymous evaluations of the workshops and individual speakers among participating



18                                                 Technical Annex. Russia Legal Reform Project
judges. The loan-financed cost of running these six workshops will be approximately $900,000. A more
detailed description of the workshops is in Appendix K.
4.14          This component will further support the training of arbiters and mediators in the
techniques of alternative dispute resolution (ADR). ADR in countries with sophisticated legal systems
is a useful complement to formal courts of law. They ease the backlog of cases in courts and provide
customers with a more expedient and less expensive dispute resolution. In Russia, ADR can play even
a more useful role by partly compensating for the weaknesses in the judiciary. To enable ADR to
develop more, a cadre of arbiters and mediators need to be trained in the methodology and techniques
of ADR. This component will finance (i) a six week training of twelve trainers in commercial arbitration
for the system of chambers of commerce, three arbiters and mediators for the Better Business Bureau
('Byuro Bezuprechnogo Biznesa") specializing in customer protection, and five arbiters and mediators for
labor disputes for the Labor Disputes Resolution Service at the Ministry of Labor; and (ii) three roll-out
regional seminars for chambers of commerce on commercial arbitration and mediation. The RFLR will
engage a firm experienced in training of trainers in ADR who will organize the training and co-organize
regional seminars using the newly trained trainers, and prepare all the necessary teaching tools. The
loan-financed cost of the component is $1 million.
4.15          Finally, this component will support annual meetings of arbiters and mediators. In order
to foster the development of ADR as a complement to the formal court system which would provide
useful service to the business community and consumers, specialists involved in ADR need to exchange
information about new trends and developments in ADR, local practices, precedents, techniques to
involve and inform the public about ADR services, etc. Unlike other professions, such as law professors
and judges that can rely on existing institutional structures for such exchanges, specialists in ADR
(especially at such an early stage of development as in Russia) do not have similar fora. This component
will, therefore, finance (on a declining basis) four annual meetings of arbiters, mediators, conciliators,
trainers and academics in the field. These four day meetings (including approximately 300 participants)
will be fora for exchange of information and experiences, and for workshops and seminars on new ADR
techniques and methodology, as well as opportunities to inform the public about ADR. The RFLR will
engage consultants who will be responsible for the preparation, organization, and content of these
meetings and for the development of any materials to be distributed at and after the meetings. The loan-
financed cost of this subcomponent is $750,000.
4.16          Total project costs for this component are estimated at over $10 million, of which loan
financing will cover $7.5 million.
Other High Priority Activities
4.17          Because the Russian legal system is in the process of transformation, the government's
priorities in the legal reform area are undergoing constant revision, articulation, and development. To
address this shifting nature of the legal environment, this component will support the financing of other
high priority activities in the legal reform area, including the preparation of future projects on which the
Borrower and the Bank will agree. The cost of this component will be $3 million. Several such activities
that have already been discussed with the GOR as tentative subprojects are listed in Appendix L.
Preference will be given to subprojects that meet the objectives of one of the defined project components.



Section IV. Project Description                                                             19
Project Management
4.18          Highly qualified professional staff at the RFLR  will be critical for effective
implementation of the project. The total costs of project management will be approximately $6 million,
of which loan financing s expected to cover about $4.6 million for consultants and operating costs (on
a declining basis) throughout the life of the project. As loan financing for project management declines,
the federal Government has indicated that in the event the RFLR does not find other donor financing to
cover other costs, it will commit to allocating resources from the federal budget to cover recurrent costs.
Budgetary financing has been requested for some part of recurrent costs for the second half of 1997,
which will correspond to Year Two of the project, when loan financing will decline to 80 percent of
costs.
Project Financing
4.19          The )roposed Bank loan of $58 million provided with 17 years maturity and five years'
grace period at the standard variable interest rate would finance 65 percent of the total project costs
(exclusive of taxes; see Table 4-2 and Appendix A). The loan would cover almost all of the foreign
exchange costs plus approximately $5 million of local costs. The federal Government would cover all
taxes and will assume full repayment responsibility under this project. Taxes for 1996 will be covered
by funds already transferred to the RFLR upon its creation, and tax obligations for 1997 have been
submitted to the MOF for budgetary allocation. Counterpart financing in this project is drawn from a
niumber of difftrent sources, including direct project beneficiaries such as regional administrations, law
schools, training institutes, and institutions associated with ADR. Federal budgetary allocations cover
larger percentages of the costs associated with activities such as legal drafting and legal information,
where loan financing is additional to activities which are already federally mandated and funded.



20                                                     Technical Annex. Russia Legal Reform Project
Table 4-1. Estimated Project Costs'
(US$ million equivalent, excluding taxes)
Foreign as
Local           Foreign           Total         % of Total
Legislative Drafting               8.0              12.0             20.0              60
Legal Information                 16.8               8.0             24.8              32
Legal Education                    1.5              18.6             20.0              93
Judicial Reform                    3.0               7.4             10.4              71
High Priority Activities          --                 3.0              3.0             100
Project Management                 5.8               --               5.8              --
Base Costs                        35.1              49.0             84.0              58
Price Contingencies                2.1               3.2              5.3              60
TOTAL PROJECT COST                37.2              52.2             89.4              58
a  Totals may not add up due to rounding.
Table 4-2. Project Financing Plana'
(US$ million equivalent, excluding taxes)
Local          Foreign          Total       %  of Total
GOR                                  28.4               -            28.4             32
RFLR                                  1.2               -              1.2              1
Regional Admin.                       0.8               -             0.8
Other Project Beneficiaries           1.1               -              1.1              I
World Bank                            5.8             52.2           58.0              65
Total                                37.2             52.2           89.4
% of Total                          42                58
a  Totats may not add up due to rounding.



V. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMLEMENTATION
Project Organization
5.1           ImpleFmentation of all components will be carried out by the project implementation unit,
the Russian Foundation for Legal Reform. The RFLR is a non-commercial entity that has been established
by government and non-government founders (Presidential Administration, MOJ, MOF, Securities and
Exchange Commission, and the Academy of Sciences) to implement the project. The RFLR was created
in February 1996 by Presidential and Governmental decrees and registered in April 1996 by the Ministry
of Justice. The founders' meeting has taken place, and a President has been appointed. The founders
control the RFLR through the Council of Trustees, to which each founder nominates a representative.
Day to day operations of the RFLR are run by the President and by the Financial and Operations
Directors. The RFLR was encouraged by the Bank to have strong procurement and disbursement arms
reporting to the Financial Director in order to respond to the project implementation demands and
professional project officers reporting to the Operations Director. In addition, the President may be
assisted by an expatriate advisor. The governance structure of RFLR, including the statutory organs and
their main functions, is contained in Appendix M. The RFLR will be financed by the project on a
declining basis. Loan financing will cover 100 percent of the operating costs of the RFLR for the first
year of operations; the second year 80 percent, the third year 60 percent, and the fourth year 40 percent.3
5.2           The RFLR will be responsible for:
a) selection and supervision of consultants to carry out the analytical and feasibility
studies, organize training, provide drafting advice to both federal and regional authorities,
carry out public information campaigns, organize judicial workshops, and annual
meetings of arbitrators;
b) procurement of equipment for law schools under the competitive grants program and
legal materials for private arbitration panels;
c) publicizing and dissemination of the teaching materials and analytical studies
generated under various project components;
d) establishment of project financial operations, project accounting and asset control
procedures, disbursements and reimbursements from the Special Account (SA), and
reporting to the Bank on all disbursement and accounting matters; and
e) reporting to the Bank on all aspects of the project, including the monitoring of project
and program indicators.
5.3           To fulfill these functions, the following structure and mix of skilled professionals is
proposed:
3/     Percentages here reflect financing percentages rather than disbursement percentages. Financing of recurrent costs
will be reviewed during the annual work program review when the RFLR is expected to present expenditures for
financing each year which sum to the declining percentages described above.



22                                                        Technical Annex: Russia Legal Reform Project
Fig. 5-1. Russian Foundation for Legal Reform
[|     President      I
Expatriate advisor        Office Manager
.    ~~~~~~~~~~~~I
Drivers
Translator
President's secretary
Financaiali                                    Operarot  Dire
Financial Assistant                             Director's secretary
_                    ~~~~~~~~3 staff secreta ries   _
Procurement Coordinator]  2 Disbursement officers  Legal Information         Legal Drafting
2 Procurement officers                             Project officer         2 Project officers
| Procurement assistant p                                    Legal Education          Judicial Reform
_  _                                        3 Project officers           and ADR
2 Project officers
Operations Director will be responsible for execution of the four components. He/she will be
assisted by up to eight project officers who will handle implementation of each component. The
Operations Director will be responsible for coordinating the work of the project officers, to see
that the pace of implementation of the individual components is consistent with the anticipated
pace of the overall project implementation. The Operations Director will work with the Financial
Director to coordinate the flow of work between the project officers and procurement and
disbursement specialists.
1-inancial Director will be responsible for establishing project accounting procedures, in
facilitating the preparation of financial statements that conform to international standards, and in
providing general financial advice to the RFLR. The Financial Director will work with the
Operations Director to coordinate the flow of work between the project officers and procurement
and disbursement specialists.
Project officers will be primarily responsible for coordinating with respective Governmnent
agencies and ministries associated with each component. They will be responsible for drafting
terms of reference for consultants and contractors who will be hired to work within each
subcomponent. They will confer as necessary with staff specialists on procurement. The
component project officers will be assisted by project assistants as necessary.
Procurement coordinator will advise the RFLR in all aspects of the procurement process
including the preparation of bidding documents, bid evaluations, contracts with suppliers of



Section V. Project Management and Implementationi                                        23
equipment and services. The procurement coordinator will also recommend institutional changes
to strengthen the RFLR's ability to procure services and equipment from local and international
sources.
5.4          In addition, given the RFLR's lack of experience with international and Bank procedures,
especially with regard to financial reporting and procurement, it is proposed that consultant support
services be provided to augment RFLR's capacity. An expatriate advisor will be engaged by the RFLR
to assist in a number of activities, including procurement oversight. A number of short-term consultants,
including expatriate advisors, may serve to augment RFLR's capacity, particularly in the early stages of
the project.
Implementation Process and Schedule
5.5          Implementation of this project will be phased in. Certain activities are anticipated to be
implemented at a faster pace than others; other activities, given their institutional development objective,
will be implemented as counterpart capacity is developed. The project will monitor the development of
counterpart capacity by monitoring progress against implementation schedules, as well as agreements
reached in a side letter to the Project Agreement. All components will be implemented over four years,
following loan effectiveness in mid-1996. Implementation processes and schedules will be reviewed with
the RFLR during the project launch mission in June 1996. Below is a summary description of
implementation for each component; Appendix N contains a detailed implementation schedule for each
component. Annex R contains a first-year implementation plan.
Legal Drafting. Implementation of this component will require the RFLR to obtain Government
confirmation of the proposed legal enactments for which TA will be provided during Year One
of the project by October 1996. For each of the legal enactments on the list, the RFLR will
confer with the respective working group in charge of the legislation (see paragraph 4.2 for more
details) to determine levels, types, and timing of TA. Based on this consultation, the RFLR will
undertake to carry out all procurement actions necessary to place consultants under contract by
June 1997. In the meantime, the RFLR will have agreed with the Bank (by March 1997) upon
operating guidelines for this component.
Legal Information. The technology advisor working with the RFLR will be tasked with
preparing TOR and advising the RFLR on a long list of potential contractors who could carry out
the feasibility study and pilot investment under this component. This will be carried out before
September 1996, such that the RFLR will have selected contractors for both the legal information
and codification studies and placed them under contract by November 1996.
Legal Education. Implementation of this component will be on parallel tracks. Contracts for
some of the public education campaigns will have been bid and consultants selected to carry out
the campaigns by September 1996. Development of the law schools component will take more
time, however, with emphasis during the first year of implementation being placed on law schools
selection (according to agreed upon criteria) and the assignment of education consultants to each
selected law school. The operating guidelines for the grants program (to be agreed upon with
the Bank) will be developed by March 1998.
Judicial Reform. Implementation of judicial reform activities will first be focused on carrying
out the first annual arbiters' conference and selecting a training consultant to work with the Law



24                                                 Technical Annex: Russia Legal Reform Project
Academy and the High Arbitrazh Court. Training for the courts of general jurisdiction and first
judicial workviiops will get under way by September 1997, and operating guidelines for work
under the A\DR componient will have been agreed upon with the Bank by August 1997.
Implementation of the project will also be coordinated via annual work programs agreed upon with the
Bank. In every year of the project, the RFLR will prepare a detailed organization and staffing plan for
review as part of the annual work program. Financing percentages for recurrent costs of the RFLR will
also be reviewed every year as part of the annual program review. Implementation processes and
schedules will be reviewed with the RFLR during the project launch mission in June 1996. A midterm
review is scheduled on or about October 1998.
Procurement4
5.6           All Bank-financed works, goods and consulting services will be procured in accordance
with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995), and
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and the World Bank as Executing Agency (August 1981)
respectively. International Shopping (IS) and National Shopping (NS) procurement will use commnercial
documentation acceptable to the Bank that will be adequate for later review and audit purposes. The
RFLR will be responsible for tracking procurement actions and approvals as well as periodic reporting
to the Bank on procurement progress. Additional details on expected procurement actions are provided
in Annex 0. A summary of procurement categories and procurement methods is shown in Table 5-1.
A General Procurement Notice will be issued in the second quarter of 1996.
5.7           The majority of procurement actions under the proposed project will be for consulting
services. To insure that the standard of consultants procured under the project is of sufficiently high
quality, the Government will submit for Bank prior review terms of reference not already prepared during
project preparation and shortlists for all major consulting contracts.
5.8           Technical Assistance and Consulting Services. Approximately 50 consulting service
contracts, anmounting to $45.8 million, will provide foreign and local technical assistance for individual
specialists/advisors, technical and feasibility studies, pilot investments, training programs, seminars, and
workshops under the project.
Legal Drafting ($12.9 million).  Estimated 18 consulting service contracts will be
procured on a competitive basis for technical assistance in legislative drafting, studies,
training programs, and study tours. Specialized ad hoc drafting assistance needed for the
RFLR or the working groups on specific pieces of legislation or regulations will be
procured on a sole-source basis with individuals for contracts below $50,000 for up to
$1.6 million in the aggregate.
*      Legal Information ($8.4 million). Three consulting services contracts will be procured
on a competitive basis for feasibility studies coupled with pilot investments in the
development of legislative classification and codification guidelines ($309,000 for the
feasibility study and $1.26 million for the pilot investment); and a public sector legal
information system ($6.8 million).
4/     All figures in this section include price contingencies, and thus vary from project costs in Section IV.



Section V. Project Management and Implementation                                           25
*      Legal Education ($14.9 million). Five individual consultant contracts of $200,000 each
will be procured on a competitive basis for the law school grants program, while the
public education campaigns will be divided into three contracts-$7.4 million for mass
media and journalist training; $4.3 million for legal education through secondary schools;
and $2.2 million for ADR.
*      Judicial Reform ($7.9 million). A total of six consulting services contracts procured on
a competitive basis will include $500,000 for a resident training advisor; $2.9 million for
training judges of the courts of general jurisdiction; $863,000 for training judges of the
arbitrazh courts; $754,000 for a study on court administration and case management;
$963,000 for judicial reform workshops; and $1.86 million for ADR training and ADR
meetings.
*      RFLR ($1.8 million). Individual consultants to be financed under the project include the
project officers, an expatriate assistant, and a translator. The RFLR will be responsible
for personnel policy and for supervision of the consultant selection process. For the
project officers and the expatriate advisor, Bank "no objections" will be required. Prior
Bank review will not, however, be required for the appointment of support staff.
Individual contracts will usually be of up to one year in duration but may be extended
by mutual agreement. To facilitate the Bank's replenishment of the Special Account, the
RFLR will set up a payroll accounting system acceptable to the Bank. Rather than
require documentation to support payment to each individual, the Bank will accept the
docun.entation certified by the RFLR covering payroll accounts.
*      High Priority Activities ($3.2 million).  Sub-projects under this component will be
submitted to the Bank for review and approval under procedures outlined in Appendix
L. All procurements for goods under this category will be carried out using NS or IS
procedures as determined by the threshold contract amounts; all procurements for small
works will be carried out in accordance with the special procedures laid out below for
procurement of small works, and will not exceed $75,000 per contract. As per Bank
Guidelines, procurement of consulting services will be subject to prior Bank reviews for
all TORs, and foi full review procedures would apply to contracts with firms over
$100,M0  and with individuals over $50,000. If consultancy contracts are sole-sourced,
they will be subject to Bank review as outlined below in paragraph 5.9.
The use of local consulting finns and personnel will be encouraged to develop the domestic consulting
industry. Bank-financed consulting services will be procured in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines:
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and the World Bank as Executing Agency, August 1981.
The Bank's standard bidding and contract documentation will be used.
5.9           Sole-Source Conti acting (SSC). SSC, as outlined in the Bank's Guidelines, will be used
to finance fellowsh;ps and other grant activities amounting to $4.9 million within the law school grants
program. The fellowships and other grant activities will be procured using SSC following a solicitation
of proposals from applicants of the five candidate law schools which, in turn, will have been selected
from an initial competition amongst law schools nationwide.5 Under the subcomponent financing studies
5/     Selection pro.edures of the nationwide competition amongst law schools and of individual proposals will be
elaborated in the operating guidelines.



26                                                         Technical Annex: Russia Legal Reform Project
on coordination of legislative drafting processes, the study on coordination in the drafting of federal and
regional legislation may have to be contracted on a sole-source basis. This is due to the politically
sensitive and highly specialized nature of this study and the unique sets of skills and cross-sectoral
knowledge required to conduct the study. Prior Bank review and approval will be required for contracts
with individuals that are expected to exceed $50,000 each and with all firms contracted through SSC.
5.10            Procurement of Small Works.  Small works totalling $533,000 are anticipated for
activities to be included in other high-priority projects. They are estimated not to exceed $75,000
equivalent per contract, and will be procured and awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation will include a detailed
description of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of
agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award will be made to
the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience
and resources to successfully complete the contract. Such activities may include refurbishing, upgrading,
and configuring the premises, installing comnmunications lines, proprietary computer network upgrades,
and software. In addition, a small amount of financing may be used for small maintenance contracts and
for small repairs, such as window replacements and insulation. Prior Bank review will be conducted for
all contracts for works, regardless of value.
Table 5-1. Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$000's equivalent including contingencies and taxes)
Procurement Method
ICB        NCB        Other       NBF        Total
Technical Assistance
Legal Drafting                                    12,875      11,848     24,723
Legal Information                                  8,398      18,463     26,861
Legal Education                                   19,803a     4,951      24,754
Judicial Reform                                    7,885       3,808      11,693
RFLR                                               1,796       449        2,245
High-Priority Activities                          3,233b/      808        4,041
Goods                                                      886c'        221        1,107
Small Works                                                533dl        133        666
Recurrent Costs                                           2,539"       5,834      8,373
TOTALS                                                    57,948      46,515     104,463
a/ Includes sole source contracting for fellowships and grants awarded on a competitive basis, see para. 5.9.
b/  This allocation may include procurement of consulting services, equipment, and small works. This procurement will be camed out
in accordance with Bank Guidelines and thresholds established in text, see paras.5.10-5.1 1.
c/  Includes goods purchased in accordance with Bank Guidelines for procurement of goods through NS.
d/  Includes small value, simple renovation, works procured using procedures under small works as outlined in para. 5.10.
e/  This will include purchase of office supplies which will be carried out using NS and IS thresholds in accordance with Bank
Guidelines (see also para. 5.13).



Section V. Project Maniageiaent and Implementation                                       27
5.11          Nati.nal Shopping (NS) and International Shopping (IS). Procurement of goods in the
project- i.e., furniture, computers, fax machines, copy machines, and risographs-is estimated at
$886,000. NS or IS will be used as these goods are readily available, off-the-shelf items, and will be
small value purchaces for the RFLR ($151,000), two regional administrations ($25,600 each), five law
schools ($130,000 each), and the Law Academy ($157,500).  Spare parts for equipment and netware
elements may also be included. Since most contracts are expected to be less than $50,000, NS techniques
described in the Guidelines will be followed. NS purchases will be carried out by obtaining at least three
price quotations from different cligible suppliers. The first two NS actions will be subject to Bank prior
review. The othcr small value NS purchases will be subject to ex-post documentation reviews, with
payments being made using the Special Account and Statements of Expenditures. For purchases of goods
above $50,000, but less than $300,000, IS will be used based on quotations from at least three suppliers
from at least two different Bank member countries. Bank review of IS actions will be conducted on an
ex post basis during supervision missions or procurement reviews. In addition, the Bank will conduct
prior reviews of the first two contracts under both NS and IS procedures.
5.12          Recurrent Costs. These costs include compensation for RFLR staff and operating costs
for the RFLR. The staff proposed to be employed should be experienced, capable, and their terms and
conditions of employment should be acceptable to the Bank and are subject to prior review. Leasing of
premises for the RFLR should be based on obtaining at least three quotations from rental agencies in
Moscow. For all goods and equipment purchases which fall in the category of recurrent costs. NS will
be used for contracts below $50,000. IS will be used for contracts greater than $50,000 but less than
$300,000. In addition, the Bank will conduct prior reviews of all contracts of goods above $100,000.
As Bank financing will cover declining levels of overall recurrent costs of the RFLR, allowable
expenditures in this category will be reviewed and agreed to during annual program reviews.
5.13          Bank Procurement Supervision. The first two NS and two first IS purchases of goods
will be subject to prior Bank reviews and "no-objections," as provided for in the Guidelines. All
purchases of works are subject to prior Bank reviews and "no-objections." Procurement of consulting
services will be subject to prior Bank reviews for all TORs, and for procedures, documentation, and
contracting with firms over $100,000 and with individuals over $50,000. Procurements of goods and
services will use the Bank's standard bidding and contracting documents, modified or supplemented as
necessary, with Bank prior approval(s). This procurement plan will result in the Bank's prior reviews
of approximately 80 percent of total Bank funds committed for materials and equipment. In addition to
reviewing TORs, Bank reviews of contracting actions for expert services under the second and third
components will cover an estimated 80 percent of total Bank funding for technical assistance inputs.
5.14          Procurement Approvals and Reporting. A procurement coordinator will be engaged by
the RFLR to assist in the development of procurement plans and establishment of procurement
procedures. The supervisor will oversee the preparation of documentation, guide staff with planning, bid
packages, solicitations, bid/proposal evaluations and reports, contracting and the RFLR's periodic
procurement implementation reporting requirements.  The procurement supervisor will also help
coordinate documentation flows needed to secure the World Bank's clearances and "no-objections" on
consultants' TORs and equipment packages needing prior Bank review. In addition, Bank staff will
monitor procurement activities, contract administration, and project record keeping during periodic
supervision missions. Additional details on procurement can be found in the Procurement Plan in
Appendix 0 and Supervision Plan in Appendix P.



28                                                   Technical Annex. Russia Legal Reform Project
Disbursements
5.15          The loan is expected to be fully disbursed over 4 years, closing on December 31, 2000.
The Bank would finance: (i) 100% of expenditures for consultant services; (ii) 100% of expenditures for
study tours and other training; (iii) for equipment, 100% of foreign expenditures for direct imports, 100%
of local ex-factory costs for locally manufactured items and 80% of local expenditures for other items
procured locally; and (iv) for civil works, 100% foreign expenditures and 80% of local expenditures.
Table 5-2 gives the estimated project disbursement schedule. Disbursements would be made as follows:
Table 5-2. Estimated Loan Disbursement Schedule
Disbursements over 48 months ($ millions)
Bank Fiscal Year    97         98             99             00         01
Semester-    1        2      3       4      5      6       7      8
Per Semester(%)       2      11     12      14     19      24     11      7
Per Semester          1.0    6.5    7.0    8.0   11.0   14.0    6.5    4.0
Cumulative (%)        2      13     25      39     58     82      93    100
Cumulative            1.0    7.5   14.5   22.5   33.5   47.5   54.0   58.0
5.16          Special Account.  To facilitate timely project implementation, the borrower would
establish, maintain and operate, under conditions acceptable to the Bank, a Special Account in US dollars
in a comrnercial bank in Russia. During the early stages of the project, the initial allocation of the
Special Account would be limited to US$500,000. However, when the aggregate disbursements under
the loan reach $5 million, the initial allocation may be increased up to the authorized allocation of US$
2 million by submitting the relevant Application for Withdrawal. Replenishment applications should be
submitted at least every three months, and must include reconciled bank statements as well as other
approptiate supporting documents.
5.17          The commercial bank holding the SA would be chosen on the basis of open competitive
bidding, and would, as a pre-condition, be required to meet the following criteria:
a)     it should be financially sound as demonstrated by their latest accounts which would be
audited by an internationally recognized audit firm;
b)     have significant foreign correspondence banking in all major currencies;
c)     have some experience, or at least the capacity to acquire experience, in issuing letters of
credit, transacting direct foreign payments;
d)     be a member of SWIFT, or plan to use the facility to expedite payments;



Section V. Project Management and Implementation                                                29
Table 5-3. Estimated Disbursements
(US$ million equivalent)
Category                             Amounts    Percentage of Expenditures to be
Allocated    financed
Law-making
Consultant services             12.0      100% of expenditures
Ecuiprnient and materials                 100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and
80% oflocal expenditures for other eoods
Legal infarmation                       8.0
(cnsultant services                       100% of expenditures
Equipment and materials                   100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and
80% of local expenditures for other goods
procured locallv
Legal education and training                      100%
Training programs               2.0       100% of expenditures
Consultant services             2.0       100% of expenditures
Equipment and materials         1.0
Public education proerams       12.5      100% of expenditures
Judicial reform and ADR
Consultant services             7.0       100% of expenditures
Equipment and materials         0.5       100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and
80% of local expenditures for other goods
procured locallv
Other high-priority activities          4.0
Consultant services                       100% of expenditures
Equipment and materials                   100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and
80% of local expenditures for other goods
procured locally
Small works                               100% of foreign expenditures, 80% of
local expenditures
RFLR OReratina costs                    5.0       100% of expenditures
Unallocated                            4.0
Total                                   58
e)     be willing and able to issue a Comfort Letter to assure that amounts deposited in the SA
would not be set off, seized or otherwise attached to satisfy amounts due to the
commercial bank by the Borrower;
f)     be willing and able to adequately maintain accounts as required by the Bank, including
regular statements, and any other information that may be considered necessary; and



30                                                Technical Annex: Russia Legal Reform Project
g)     charge competitive rates for services and other transactions fees.
5.18          Disbursements will be fully documented, except that expenditures related to training,
study tours and contracts of goods valued less than $100,000 would be made on the basis of Statement
of Expenditures (SOEs). Documentation supporting the SOEs would be retained at the RFLR, and made
available for review by Bank supervision missions and auditors. A detailed disbursement profile can be
found in Appendix Q.
5.19         Accounts and Audits. The RFLR will maintain a single set of project accounts, including
the Special Account. Project records will be audited in accordance with the Guidelines for Financial
Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed by the World Bank, (March 1982). All project accounts
(including the Special Account and SOEs) will be subject to an annual audit by an independent auditor
acceptable to the Bank. The annual audit report will be submitted to the Bank by the RFLR within six
months of the end of the Government's fiscal year.
Project Monitoring and Supervision
5.20          The RFLR would be responsible for monitoring the project and would collect, review and
evaluate information regarding separate components and subprojects. The RFLR would report to the
Bank semi-annually on project implementation according to an agreed format.
5.21          Project performance will be monitored using: (i) outcome indicators for each of the
project's four objectives; and (ii) output indicators for each project activity. These are described below,
and outlined in Table 5-4.
5.22          Project outcomes will be monitored using both qualitative and quantitative measures of
achievement of the project's objectives. The four objectives are: (i) improve the quality of drafting of
economic laws, decrees and regulations by better analysis of issues subject to legislation and better
coordination among draft.ng agencies; (ii) improving legal information by classifying legislation and
identifying the appropriate framework for public and governmental access to laws, decrees, regulations
and decisions; (iii) iinproving legal education and training by introducing innovative training programs
and increasing public awareness of new economic laws and improvements in the legal system; and (iv)
improving judicial institutions through training, review of court efficiency and fostering alternative dispute
resolution mechanisms. These are discussed below.
5.23         Law Drafting. While at present there are significant numbers of laws being drafted in
Russia, technical quality is often low, conflicts arise between different jurisdictions and follow-up after
enactment is sporadic. The project addresses this by establishing an annual legislation drafting work
program, financing better input into drafts, reviewing coordination between agencies and national/local
jurisdictions. Outcome measures of the impact of the project on law drafting will focus on the quality,
timeliness and ease of implementation of new laws and regulations, and will include surveys to assess
these factors. Ou.tput measures will focus on the volume of laws and regulations prepared and on the
efficiencies in processing drafts within the Government.
5.24         Legal Information.  At present there are multiple, unconnected databases on legal
infornation, including legislation and court decisions. In addition, the lack of a coherent source of
systematically and uniformly organized official texts has lead to numerous private sector initiatives to
supply legal information to customers but these results have not produced authoritative versions nor



Section V. Project Management and Implementation                                         31
inexpensive access to the public at large. The feasibility study proposed under this component would
clearly assess the costs and benefits of creating an integrated public-sector legal information system
against the costs and benefits of incremental ad hoc investments being carried out by the GGPU, MOJ,
and other federal and regional agencies. The outcome to be measured in this component would be the
differential between the investment finance saved as a result of carrying out a systemic feasibility study
at this stage against the no-project scenario of not having carried out a comprehensive review compared
against the cost of carrying out the feasibility study. The output of the pilot/start-up investment carried
out as part of the feasibility study could be measured by examining the completeness of information made
available by the pilot system, and the breadth of user access to that system.
5.25          Legal Education and Training. While a number of initiatives are underway to expand
law courses at institutions, they have not kept up with demand as private sector activities increase.
Outcome measures will focus on surveys and interviews of students benefiting from new teaching
materials and techniques. Output measures would examine the numbers and range of courses offered and
the students, teachers and officials being educated and trained under project programs. In the area of
public education, outcome measures will compare results from information campaigns with the baseline
survey. Output measures would examine the number of programs conducted, the amount of training
performed and the dissemination of information and public materials.
5.26          Judicial Reform. Courts are in critical need of facilities, resources, training and
improvements in court administration. Outcome measures will consist of surveys of judges trained under
the project, trainees and participants in judicial workshops and annual meetings of arbiters and mediators.
Output measures will include the number of judges trained, number of mediators trained and the rate of
establishment of new dispute resolution bodies.
Supervision
5.27          Supervision indicators are shown in Table 5-4. The project supervision plan is shown
in Appendix P. The plan includes a schedule for Bank supervision missions, the skill mix required, the
staff weeks input, and cost. An average of three supervision mission per year are planned. Staff inputs
will total 10 staff weeks for the remainder of FY96 and 40 staff weeks in FY97, 35 for FY98, 35 for
FY99, 20 for FY00 and 4 for FY01. A start-up mission with a launch workshop is planned for June
1996. A project completion report will be prepared by RFLR.



Table 54. Supervision Indicators
AcrivrrY/             PROCESSES TO BE                    OUTPUT INDICATORS                      OUTCOME INDICATORS
SUBCOMPONENT                MONITORED
Legal drafting
Studies to improve         Inter-agency legal drafting    Numbers of consultants involved, areas of  Increased efficiency ;mnd speed of legal
coordination in legislative    coordination at the federal    coordination studied, officials interviewed,  drafting processes, cohesion of the
drafting processes         level, federal-regional     deadlines for presentation of s.udies       executive in presenting new bills to the
drafting coordination                                                  parliament, lower incidence of conflicts
between federal and regional
l authorities over new laws
Direct assistance in the   Activity of GOR and of      Number of laws for which assistance is      Frequency of introduction of new draft
drafting of key economic    regional administrations in   provided, number of regional draftir.g officials  laws, their initial assessment by
legislation                introducing draft legislation   trained                                independent observers (Russian and
having effect on economnic                                              fore:gn), reaction of foreign and
development or on federal-                                              domestic investors to adoption of
regional relations                                                      various pieces of legislation
Legal information
Feasibility studies for    Development of capacity     Number of consultants involved, coverage of    Increased accessibility of legal
codification of legal      and reach of legal          pilot information system proposed, deadlines    information to economic actors and
enactments and creation of   information systems,     for presentation of studies                  general public as measured by numbers
a legal information system    progress of efforts aimed at                                         of people familiar with particular laws,
codifying legislation                                                   actual introduction of a universally
accepted legal classification systems,
lower incidence of contradictions
between and within laws
Legal educationl



AcTvrrI/               PROCESSES TO BE                    OUTPUT INDICATORS                        OUTCOME INDICATORS
SUBCOMPONENT                 MONITORED
Competitively awarded       Adjustment of law school    Numbers of classes in which new methods are   Assessments of teaching quality at the
financing to five law       curricula, instruction      introduced, of legal clinics and new kafedras    law schools-recipients of grants by
schools for innovative      methods and teaching        set up, of new books published, of teachers  independent specialists, their relative
methods and materials in    materials to the            and students covered by training             popularity among students and
legal education             requirements of market                                                   employers before and after
cconomy, interaction                                                     implementation of project activity,
between law schools and                                                  numbers of books and other materials
the legal profession (both                                               published with project support
private and public sectors)
Outreach through mass       Evolution of public attitudes  Numbers of TV and radio programs and spots  Increased public awareness of and
media and training of legal   toward the role of law in  prepared, of schools and students covered by    reliance on law as measured by
journalists, public legal   society and more            campaign, of school sessions, of lecturers   surveys, improved quality of legal
education in secondary      specifically in economic    involved                                     reporting by journalists trained, more
schools, information        transactions, mass media                                                 positive attitudes toward law among
campaign about alternative    coverage of legal matters,                                             schoolchildren covered by campaign
dispute resolution          generational trends with                                                 than among other population groups as
mechanisms                  regard to perceptions of law                                             measured by selective surveys
Judicial reform
Judicial training           Responsiveness of the       Number of training sessions and of           Increased preparedness of judges to
judiciary to the emergence    participants (by session and total)        decide economic cases as measured by
of new areas of litigation,                                              surveys of training participants,
ability of judges to apply                                               improved public perceptions of the
new legal rules and to write                                            judiciary as measured by surveys of
reasoned opinions                                                        litigants in courts where judges are
involved in training before and after
l___________________________                                              project  activity
Training of arbiters        Public use of ADR           Number of training sessions and of           Increased qualification of arbiters as
involved in ADR             mechanisms as opposed to    participants (by session and total)          measured by surveys of training
courts, ability of arbiters to                                           participants, more positive assessments
handle complex areas where                                               of arbiters by economic actors involved
courts lack in competence                                                in ADR based on their comments



AciwrVr/              PROCESSES TO BE                   OUrPuT INDICATORS                      OUTCOME INDICATORS
SUBCOMPONENT                MONITORED
Study of court             Evolution of efficiency of    Numbers of consultants involved, of courts  More streamlined court administration,
administration and case    the judiciary in terms of  studied and of judges interviewed, deadline for  increased rates of case disposition
management                 administrative capacity,   presentation of study                       following recommended and accepted
ability to handle cases                                               changes in case management
quickly without
deterioration of quality of
justice
Judicial workshops         Developing consensus       Number of workshops and of participants (by    Better understanding of the need for
among judges on objectives   workshop and total)                      and objectives of judicial reform as
of judicial reform,                                                   measured by surveys of workshop
evolution of judges'                                                  participants, emergence of judges who
attitudes toward their role                                           are willing to play an active part in
in society                                                            judicial reform efforts



VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS
6.1            The project's main objective and intended benefit is to reform the institutions which make
up the framework for market transactions. If successful, these changes will gradually lead to greater
overall stability and predictability in economic activities and will lower transaction costs by providing a
clearer and more comprehen.ive legal framework for the development of a market economy. To this end,
the project will finance technical assistance in four areas of law which are expected to yield the following
benefits:
6.2            Law drafting. The intended benefits of both components-the analytical studies as well
as the direct assistance for drafting-are expedited drafting of an extremely broad legislative agenda, as
well as improved quality of drafting. The economic benefits of such measures are difficult to measure,
as the benefits of both are diffused throughout the economy in the form of lowered transaction costs.
Lack of coordination and poor drafting imposes costs on the economy and reduces the effectiveness of
government policies, as in the case of cost recovery in housing and maintenance services (see Box 6-1).
The risks involved ill this activity are both non-project and project. Because legislative activity is
obviously sensitive to tI.e overall policy environment for reform, both activities can be influenced by
political events. In additioni, the specific component risk lies in the fact that better drafted laws do not
necessarily lead to better laws passed tirougli the legislative process and/or better economic outcomes
if adopted laws are not implerr.nted and enforced. The project seeks to address this risk through other
components whic;h are intended to influence the implementation and enforcement of laws.
6.3            Legal information. The benefits of a well designed legal information system are difficult
to define. It will undoubtedly lower many of the transaction costs that bedevil the Russian economy, but
its scope is impossibl to foiesee at this poinit. Perhaps the benefit of the proposed feasibility study
should be considered to be the savings from the cost of funds which might otherwise have been used in
ad hoc incremental investments in the legal information system. In addition, there are less quantifiable,
though equally real costs which might have been involved in the evolution of public-sector legal
information systems which either crowd out or distort the market for private-sector provision of such
services. There is some risk that following the feasibility study there may be no funds to carry out the
creation of a full-fledged system, but the pilot/start-up investment envisioned as part of the feasibility
study will be designed as a fully operational system which could be used on its own as well as part of
a larger system. The benefits from  project funded activities on codification and classification are also
difficult to quantify. Nor can they be assessed separately from the benefits of a well defined legal
information system, as well as designed codification and classification systems are a necessary inputs into
a legal information system.
6.4            Legal education. The costs associated with the grants component, such as the cost of
administration can be offset against a number of different benefits. Because the component is designed
to solicit proposals from law professors and groups of professors (potentially in conjunction with
publishers) within five law schools (to be selected), the component is designed to develop and encourage
bottom-up innovation. The beneficiaries of this activity are also concentrated in the younger generation,
and baseline research indicates that the generational group most receptive to change and reform in
attitudes about law is youth. Pilot approaches, moreover, are designed to enhance capacity and
receptiveness for further reform. In addition the component must be considered in the context of the fact
that top-down reform in this area, which might have been somewhat less costly, was not feasible in the
current policy environment. The risk associated with this design is that its impact could be limited. The
project seeks to mitigate this risk by concentrating the grants program in five law schools and by acting
as a repository of materials developed under the program and disseminating this information beyond the



36                                                     Technical Annex: Russia Legal Reform Project
Box 6-1: Legal drafting: the costs of lack of clarity
In the context of Russian federalism, local authorities in Russia (municipalities, for the most part)
have been given implementing authority in many areas of housing policy. One of these areas is cost recovery
for the provision of housing maintenance and utility services, most of which are provided by municipal
enterprises. The legacy of the Soviet period in this area included extremely low cost recovery for these
services, such that in 1993 cost recovery from tenants in some cases fell to below 5 percent of the recurrent
cost of providing these services. The federal Government has, in recent years, tried to create an enabling
legislative framework to allow cities to increase cost recovery-key to cities' fiscal rationalization, as well as
to more efficient provision of maintenance and utility services. This policy objective, however, was pursued
via ad hoc government decrees as follows. Government decree 935 was issued in September 1993 and
established an indicative framework for achieving cost recovery which suggested that tariff increases cover
20, 40, 60, 80, and 100 percent over the next five years such that cost recovery would be achieved in 1998.
The increases themselves were indicative; cities were free to set their own pace. The binding target was 100
percent by 1998. This was not fully understood by local authorities, some of whom saw these intermediary
increases as mandatory. As a result of the political outcry the Government issued decree 1329 in December
1993 to explain that cities were allowed to go at their own pace, taking local affordability issues into
consideration. Not only by this stage had the Government paid the "cost' of issuing two decrees instead of
one, the "cumulative' legal framework which emerged was now biased towards cities which might want to
lag behind the federal guidelines. As federal Government officials became aware of the fact that some local
authorities did not understand that they could exceed the 20-40-60-80-100 pace set by decree 935, in March
1995 the Government issued yet another decree. This last decree sought to reiterate that the guidelines
established in the 935 decree were not binding by invalidating that specific section in decree 935; but the
result in the localities was even greater confusion about the legal framework surrounding cost recovery for
maintenance and utility services. The cost of this confusion was continued distortions of municipal budgets
through subsidization of maintenance and utility services even as energy price increases increased actual costs,
continuing drains on enterprises who had to provide subsidies to maintain and operate assets (housing) which
in any case they were not entitled to own, and continued inefficient operation of maintenance and utility
services-as well as the cost to the Government to keep revisiting this policy issue in their deliberations.
five selected law schools. Unlike any other components in this project, the public information component
seeks to address the demand side of legal reform; by educating the public about the role of law in the
economy, the component seeks to create more informed and demanding consumers of law. There exists
a project risk that low awareness of law is not the only barrier preventing the public from relying on law
to organize economic activity; some of this risk could be reduced by the fact that other project
components are designed to address issues of implementation and enforcement of law.
6.5            Judicial reforn. The judicial and ADR training is intended to improve the quality of
dispute resolution service to the business community and the general public. The benefits of this
component are diffuse, as in the legal drafting component, since the lowered transaction costs of
improved dispute resolution are difficult to gauge. But users of the courts where judges have participated
in training financed by tht project can be surveyed to give qualitative assessments of the outcome. There
is some risk that the component is not large enough to address the breadth of judicial training needs, but
continuity of this activity could be spurred by the judicial workshops also included in this component.
In addition, some of the recommendations from the study on case management and court administration
will be a condition for receiving direct assistance in any follow-up activities. Also, both the training of
trainers and annual meetings and arbiters and mediators subcomponents are intended to foster the
development and increase of ADR panels. Users of ADR, especially the business community and
consumers, can be surveyed to give qualitative assessments of the service they receive.



Table 6-1: Matrix of Benefits, Impact Measurement, Risks, and Mitigation Measures
FORM OF TECHNICAL         EXPECTED BENEFIT         MEASU RE OF IMPACT                     RISKS             [  MITIGATION MEASiRE
ASSISTANCE
Legal drafting    Studies to improve        Streamlining of         Both the benefits of this    Non-project policy risk-         Study will be disseminated
coordination in legislative   legislative processes,   project activity as well as the  improvements must oe enacted   in public domain, discussed
drafting processes         improved outputs       cost of poorer coordination   via legislation and regulations    in the context of seminars
in legislative drafting                                       on legal reform, so that
processes are difficult to                                    recommendations may
measured.                                                     enter academic and public
discourse
Direct assistance in the   Building up the        The benefits, as well as the    Project risk-even better      All other component of the
drafting of key economic   legislative framework   cost of the counterfactuals  drafted laws, if not properly   project address issues of
legislation                for a market           such as failure to pass pieces   enforced, will not have their    the implementation and
economy                of key legislation, or inferior  expected benefit.            enforcement of laws.
pieces of legislation difficult   Non-project policy
to measure.                   risk-legislative agenda may
not include these laws.
Legal            Carrying out of a          Systemic                Savings gained measured       Non-project risk-that           Pilot investment will be
information      feasibility study for      identification of gaps   against the counterfactual of   financing for the full       designed as a fully
codification of legal      in the current legal   unplanned and uncoordinated   investment beyond pilot         operational system which
information and the       information system      incremental investments in    activities may not be available   could be run on its own as
creation of a legal        and systemic          the legal information system.  upon the study's completion     well as in the context of a
information system         assessment of how                                                                    larger system.
they might be
addressed
Legal education   Competitively awarded     Introduction of new     Law school graduates whose   Risk of non-                     RFLR will be a repository
financing to five law      teaching methods and   academic coursework is        sustainability-benefit may be    for materials and make
schools for innovative     materials in a sector    assessed to be more relevant   localized, difficulty of     them available at handling
methods and materials in    where reformist      to the public and private      dissemination of innovation     cost to all other interested
legal education            leadership is lacking    practice of law in a market    beyond the selected law      law schools.
l                       economy.                      schools.



FORM OF TECHNICAL          EXPECTED BENEFIT            MEASURE OF IMPACT                       RiSKS                   MITIGATION MEASURE
ASSISTANCE
Training of legal            Increased awareness     Surveys of public awareness    Project risk-awareness may         Other project components
joumalists, production of   and understanding        about legal matters and         not be the only barrier to        address issues of
leaflets about the role of    about the role of law    reliance or, law, follow-up   reliance on law to organize       ernorcemelia.
law in economic             in a market economy    on quality of articlcs            economic activity and  --solve
transactions, improved                               authored by trained             economic disputes; in the
classes on legal matters in                          Journalists. It campaigns are   absence of effective
schools                                              not nat.onwide, public          enforcement of law or private
awarenc s in different          contracts, law may continue to
regions can be measured        be tangential to economic
against each oter.              activity.
Judicial reform    Judicial training            Improved qualmta of    Survey of training               Risk of non-sustainability        Judicial workshop
judgments and           participants.                                                     component seeks to
streamlining of the     Before and after surveys of                                       increase awareness for
judicial process        court users.                                                      need of training on part of
.______________   ____________________________       judiciary .
Training of arbiters         Improved quality of    Survey of training               Risk of non-sustainability        ADR emerges as a grass-
involved in ADR              ADR, development        participants                                                      roots or sectoral response
of altemative sources                                                                     to the perceived need for
of adjudication to                                                                        non-judicial adjudication;
regular judiciary                                                                         potential for private-sector
to carry the momentum is
.__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  h ig h .
Study in court               Rationalization of      Rates of case disposition       Non-project policy risk-some    Some of the
administration and case      court administration    following recommended           improvements may have to be    recommendations may be
management                  and case management   changes in case management   implemented via laws and                implemented in a future
I_______________  I_______________I_______                regulations                       pilot  subproject.



FORM OF TECHNICAL       EXPEcm  BENEFIT        MEASURE OF IMIACT                   RISKS               MGATION MEAsuRE
ASSIANCE
Judicial workshops       Developing consensus  Survey of workshop         Project risk-no guarantee that
in judiciary on      participants               consensus could be developed
objectives in judicial
reform, developing a
constituency for
judicial reform



40                                                 Technical Annex: Russia Legal Reform Project
6.6           No cost recovery is envisioned under this project. Many of the beneficiaries are in fact
government entities, such as the ministries and agercies involved in legislative drafting or the courts.
Some scope for cost recovery exists in components such as training, for example for ADR arbiters, but
the institutional complexity of arranging for cost recovery are high. This is because the assistance is
being carried out not through established institutions and channels, but through mechanisms created for
this purpose, largely through the RFLR.
6.7           Institutional capacity of the RFLR is a key factor in implementation of this project. Risk
attendant on the inadequate institutional capacity at the RFLR runs through all the components, to varying
degrees. As discussed above, the RFLR was chosen as an implementing vehicle for the project because
of the absence of any other one agency capable of cutting across all the areas involved in the four
components, and because not all the principals involved in the components are equally open to carrying
out activities which are designed to introduce reform. It is a newly created entity and subject to all the
risks of a new agency, but simultaneously enjoys the benefits of being outside of the civil service (and
therefore able to attract qualified specialists in an area where the differential between private and public
sector pay is particularly high), and designed a priori to carry out project activities.
Risks
6.8           There are substantial non-project risks that the consensus among government entities and
branches may dissolve or that relations could become politicized to such a degree that the passage of laws
could become difficult or delayed. This risk will be heightened by instability that may follow the
presidential elections in June 1996. While support for legal reform is widespread in Russia, different
parts of the government may have different areas of emphasis. There are also risks that implementation
will be delayed by inadequate government coordination, especially if the role of the GGPU is changed
or key personnel move. The project risks stem from the fact that many of the benefits sought under the
project are dependent on a number of different factors, not all of which are addressed in the project. For
instance, better drafts of laws resulting from the legal drafting component of the project can only lower
transaction costs in the economy if they are properly implemented and enforced. The project seeks to
mitigate some of these risks by trying to take a multifaceted approach to legal reform, by addressing
issues of implementation and enforcement, and also by including different institutions within the project.
As a result, the design is intended to allow other components to proceed (e.g. studies and training) even
if some areas are affected by changes in government commitments (e.g. legislative drafting).
Nonetheless, it must be recognized that particularly in a country as large and complex as Russia, the
proposed project could be only a partial contribution to the extensive and long-term task of reforming
the Russian legal system. While the risks of this project are considerable, they must be considered in
the context of the much greater detrimental effect of not carrying out the proposed project and
maintaining the status quo of the Russian legal system which does not meet the demands placed on a legal
system in a functioning market environment.
6.9           At the same time the complexity of the project introduces implementation risks of its own.
Experience to date in Russia with TA projects indicates that the outcome is heavily dependent on the
quality of the implementing agency, and directly upon the quality of the staff at that agency. Many of
the staff of the RFLR have held positions as senior civil servants involved in legal reform. Because the
RFLR itself is a new institution, it is difficult to prejudge how it will perform its functions. These risks,
however, are attendant on the vast majority of projects in Russia-to some extent they should be
recognized as non-project risks. A transition economy such as Russia either has existing institutions
which cannot be restructured to carry out the functions and tasks required of entities operating in a market



Section VI. Benefits and Risks                                                                  41
economy, or simply lacks such institutions. If new institutions have to be created-the risks are
magnified by adding an institutional development aspect to almost every endeavor.
Sustainability
6.10           The project seeks to introduce reforms in a number of areas where such reforms have not
yet been attempted-public edlication in law, as well as innovation in legal education. There is some risk
that these activities will not continue to be carried out following project completion. However, the
project has been designed to focus on activities which contain within themselves the potential for further
extending reforms-public education will include training of joumalists, judicial reform will address the
training of trainers, and legal education activities will include the training of professors. To the extent
that the project focuses on new activities-such as clinical courses in legal education or workshops for
the judiciary-it is intended to demonstrate the potential benefits of such new activities. Sustainability
of such activities will depend ultimately upon whether the constituents for such refonn-law schools
which wish to establish themselves as centers of excellence, or judges who develop an understanding of
the role of an independent judiciary-begin to make such objectives their own. Project design has sought
to address such issues by, for instance, focusing the RFLR's work with law schools to a smaller number
of institutions, or by assigning an educational consultant to each law school. Until such time the
government will retain a role in promoting and facilitating such activities, including financing the
recurrent costs of the RFLR which are not covered by Bank financing.6
6/     Such responsibilities will be outlined in the project implementation agreement between the RFLR and the Ministry
of Finance.



42                                                Technical Annex. Russia Legal Reform Project



VII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.1           Prior to negotiations it was agreed with the GOR and the RFLR that the staffing selection
for senior RFLR staff would reach an advanced stage by negotiations.
7.2           During negotiations, agreements were reached on: a) the procedures and application
requirements for Bank financing under the high priority legal reform activities component of the project
(para. 4.17, Appendix L): b) the mechanism for agreeing to the annual work program (para. 5.5); c)
the holding of a mid-term review on or about October 1998 (para. 5.5).
m:\mari\1egref\buff\buff\ta.02 May 21, 1996 5:03pm






APPENDIX A
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
(see next page)






Russian Federation
Legal Reform Project
Project Cost Summary
(RRucle Million)       _ _ _                              (US$ '000)
%      % Total                                         %       % Total
Foreign    Base                                        Foreign    Base
Local _  Foreign    Total   Exchange    Costs          Local      'oreign    Total   Exchange    Costs
1. Legislative Drafting             56,224.0  60,711.5 116,935.6            52         24  11,111.0  11,997.8  23,108.8            52          24
2. Legal In2ormation                95,122.6  40,643.7 135,766.2            30         27  18,798.1   8,032.0  26,830.1             30         27
3. Legal Education drd Tra_ning  31,622.5  9,9E8.5 125,611.1               75         25   6,249.2  18,574.0  24,823.2             75         25
4. Judicial Reform                  24,519.8  37,341.4  61,861.2            60         12   4,845.6   7,379.4  12,225.0             60         12
5. Foundation for Lesial Reform   38,204.0             -  38,204.0           -          8   7,549.9           -   7,549.9            -          8
6. High-Priority Activilies          3,817.3  15,24114  19.51.7            80          4      753.0   3,012.0   3,765.0            80          4
Total BASELINE COSTS                  249,503.2 247,926.7 497,429.7            50        100  49,306.8  48,995.2  98,302.0             50        100
Physical Contingencies                       -          -          -          -          -          -           -          -          -          -
Price Contingenc.es                  88,351.1   92,989.7 181,340.9           51         36   2,962.5   3,198.9   6,161.4             52          6
Total PROJECT COSTS                   337,854.4 340,916.2 678,770.6             50        136  52,269.3  52,194.1 104,463.4            50        106
Mon May 20 09:04:40 1996
'                                                                         1-1 Project Cost Summary



Russian Federation
Legal Reform Project
csonpnts by 3nznaezs
(US$ '000)
Russian
Other Project  Foundation for    Government of          Regional                                        Local
World Bank       Beneficiaries   Legal Reform            Russia        Administrations          Total           For.      (Excl.   Duties
Amount      *     Amount      *    Amount       I     Amount       *     Amount      *      Amount        I      Exch.    Taxes)  6 Taxes
1. Legislative Drafting            12,926.0      52.1        -        -        -       - 11,052.6       44.6   819.2       3.3  24,797.9       23.7 12,874.8  B,691.5  3,231.5
2. Legal Information                8,398.0      29.9        -        -        -        - 19,706.1      70.1        -        -  28,104.1       26.9  8,398.0 17,606.6  2,099.5
3. Legal Education and Training 20,328.5         76.8 1,068.2       4.0        -       -  5,082.1       19.2        -        -  26,478.8       25.3 19,803.3  1,593.3  5,082.1
4. Judicial Reform                  8,042.6      61.6        -        -        -       -  5,022.0       38.4        -        -  13,064.6       12.5  7,885.1  3,103.4  2,076.2
5. Foundation for Legal Reform   5,019.5         62.9        -        - 1,153.5    14.5  1,804.1        22.6        -        -   7,977.0        7.6         -  6,172.9  1,804.1
6. High-Priority Activities         3,232.9      80.0        -        -        -        -    808.2      20.0        -        -   4,041.1        3.9  3,232.9          -    808.2
Total Diburamnot                       57,947.5      55.5 1,069.2       1.0 1,153.5      1.1 43,475.1       41.6   819.2      0.8 104,463.4       100.0 52,194.1 37,167.7 15,101.6
Mon May 20 08:34:38 1996
1-1 Components by Financiers



Russian Federation
Legal Reform Project
Table 1. Legislative Drafting
Detailed Costs
(USS '000)
Breakdown of Totals Incl. Cont.
Local
Base Cost                               Totals Including Contingencies                For.     (EAcl.   Duties
1997      1998      1999      2000    Total        1997      1998       1999      2000    Total       Exch.     Taxes)     Taxes   Total
I. Itnvestt Coats
A. Drafting Roon4ic Law
and Regulations
1. Consulting Contracts (8 for 20 laws)   1,125.0  1,687.5  4,500.0  3,937.5 11,250.0  1,152.8  1,772.4  4,849.3  4,357.7 12,132.1  9,705.7                            -  2,426.4 12,132.1
2. Reserve Fund (sole source)                        -          -  1,250.0          -  1,250.0           -         -  1,347.0           -  1,347.0  1,C77.6            -    269.4  1,347.0
3. Office Space + Expenses                       150.0    150.0      150.0      150.0    600.0      153.7      157.5     161.6     166.0    638.9            -    638.9          -    638.9
4. FedBudget for LegDraft                        666.0     999.0  2,664.0  2,331.0  6,660.0         682.4  1,049.3  2,870.8  2,579.8  7,182.2                -  7,182.2          -  7,182.2
Subtotal Drafting  Roon4a  Laws
and lAgulations                                 1,941.0  2,836.5  8,564.0  6,i18.5 19,760.0  1,998.9  2,979.2  9,228.7  7,103.5 21,300.2 10,783.3  7,821.1  2,695.8 21,300.3
B. Legislative Drafting Study                            -         -    312.5           -    312.5          -          -    336.8           -    336.8    269.4           -      67.4      336.8
C. Federal/Regional Coordination
of Legislative Drafting Study                          -         -         -    312.5      312.5          -          -         -    34E.8    345.8    276.7             -      69.2     345.8
D. Regional Pilots
1. Training                                          -    796.9    265.6            -  1,062.5           -    637.0    286.2            -  1,123.2    898.6            -    224.6  1,123.2
2. TA for Drafting Legislation                       -    187.5       375.0     187.5    750.0           -    196.9      404.1      207.5     808.5     646.8          -    161.7      808.5
3. RegBudgets for LegDraiting                        -    187.5       375.0     187.5     750.0          -    196.9      404.1     207.5      808.5          -    808.5          -    808.5
4. Equipment                                      62.5          -         -         -      62.5       64.0         -          -         -      64.0          -      51.2      12.8      64.0
Subtotal Regional Pilots                              62.5  1,171.9  1,015.6       375.0  2,625.0        64.0  1,230.8  1,094.5        415.0  2,904.3  1,545.4        859.8      399.2  2,804.3
Total Inv -snt Costs                                   2,003.5  4,008.4  9,892.1  7,106.0 23,010.0  2,052.9  4,210.0 10,659.9  7,864.3 24,787.2 12,874.8  8,680.9  3,231.5 24,787.2
I. RDaurrnt Costs
A. OSM (5%)                                            2.5       2.5       2.5        2.5      10.0       2.6        2.6       2.7        2.8      10.6         -      10.6          -      10.6
Total Reaurrent Costs                                      2.5        2.5       2.5       2.5       10.0       2.6       2.6        2.7       2.8      10.6          -      10.6          -      10.6
Total                                                   2,006.0  4,010.9  9,894.6  7,108.5 23,020.0  2,055.5  4,212.6 10,662.6  7,867.1 24,797.9 12,874.8  8,691.5  3,231.5 24,797.9
Mon May 20 08:36:23 1996
1-1 Legislative Drafting



Russian Federation
Legal Reformn Project
Table 2. Legal Information
Detailed Costs
(US$ '000)
Breakdown of Totals Incl. Cont.
Local
Base Cost                             Totals Including Contingencies              For.    (Excl.   Duties
1997     i998      1999      2000    Total       1997      1998     1999      2000    Total    Exch.    Taxes)  a Taxes   Total
'. InVetmant Coats
A. Claasifiaatox and Codification
1. Feasibility Study                        375.0         -                   -    375. 0    384.3         -         _         -    384.3    307 .4         _      76.9    384.3
2. Pilot Investment                             -  1,500 0          -         -  1,500.0         -  1,575 .4                   -  1,575.4  1,260.4          -    315.1  1,575.4
3. Of'ice SpF.ce+ (Cod.f)                   100.0    100.0                    -    200.0    102.5    105.0           -         -    207.5         -    207.5          -    207.5
Subtotal Clasaifioator and Codification    475.0  1,600.0              _         -  2,0,5.0    486.7  1,680.5           -         -  2,167.2  1,567.8    207.5    391.9  2,167.2
S. Publia Saector Loegl
Infoatw;ioa sy8tm
1. Feasibility Study +
Pilot Investment                       2,A37.5  3,250.0  2,437.5           -  8,125.0  2,497.7  3,413.5  2,626.7             -  8,537.8  6,830.3          -  1,707.6  8,537.8
2. Office Space+ (LegInfo)                  125.0    125.0    125.0           -    375.0    128.1    131.3    134.7            -    394.1         -    394.1          _    394.1
Dub wtal Publia Sector Legal
Ineoratio  Systa                         2,562.5  3,375.0  2,562.5            -  8,500.0  2,625.7  3,544.8  2,761.4            -  8,931.9  6,830.3    394.1  1,707.6  8,931.9
C. FedBudget for
Codif  Legal Info                         4,5rO.O  6,000.0  4,500.0           - 15,000.0  4,611.0  6,301.8  4,849.3            - 15,762.1          - 15,762.1         - 15,762.1
Total Inefstmat Coats                            7,537.5 10,975.0  7,062.5            - 25,575.0  7,723.5 11,527.1  7,610.7            - 26,861.3  8,398.0 16,363.7  2,099.5 26,861.3
II. acuw-rant Coats
A. Classificator  Codi-
fication - 0 & Y                                 -      60.0     60.0      60.0    180.0          -      63.0      64.7      66.4    194.1          -    194.1         -    194.1
B. Legal Information
System - 0  M                                97.5    227.5    325.0    325.0    975.0         99.9    238.9    350.2    359.7  1,048.8             -  1,048.8         -  1,048.8
Total 3.auzrat Coats                                 97.5    287.5    385.0    385.0  1,155.0         99.9    302.0    414.9    426.1  1,242.8            -  1242.8           -  1, 242.8
Total                                             7,635.0 11,262.5  7,447.5    385.0 26,730.0  7,823.4 11,829.0  8,025.6    426.1 28,104.1  8,398.0 17,606.6  2,099.5 28,104.1
Mon May 20 08:36:25 1996
2-1 Legal Information



Russian Federation
Legal Reform Project
Table 3. Legal Education and Training
D.tiLild Coats
(USS '000)
Breakdown of Totais Inc. Cont.
Local
Base Cost                               Totals Including Contingencies                For.      (Excl.    Duties
1997      1998      1999       2000    Total       1997       1998      1999      2G00      Total     Exch.     Taxes)      Taxes   Total
I. Itvrestflnt Costa
A. Law 5chool Ozants Progra
1. Education Consultants  (5)               -    625.0      625.0          -  1,250.0           -    656.4    673.5            -  1,329.9  1,064.0            -    266.0  1,329.9
2. Educational Grants
& Fellowships                             -         -  2,812.5  2,812.5  5,625.0              -         -  3,030.8  3,112.6  6,143.4  4,914.8               -  1,228.7  6,143.4
3. Grants for Equipment                _    -    625.0           -         -    625.0           -    656.4           -         -    656.4           -    525.2      131.3    656.4
Subtotal Law Sobol Grants Progrin              -  1,250.0  3,437.5  2,812.5  7,500.0               -  1,312.9  3,704.3  3,112.6  8,129.8  5,978.7           525.2  1,626.0  8,129.8
3. baea Lgral Ildnation
1. Contract #1 (MassEdu)              2,625.0  3,500.0  2,625.0            -  8,750.0  2,689.8  3,616.0  2,828.8               -  9,194.6  7,355.7            -  1,838.9  9,194.6
2. Contract 12 (PubEdu)                     -  1,500.0  2,000.0  1,500.0  5,000.0               -  1,575.4  2,155.2  1,660.1  5,390.8  4,312.6                 -  1,078.2  5,390.8
3. Contract *3 (ADR)                        -    750.0  1,000.0        750.0  2,500.0           -    787.7  1,077.6        830.0  2,695.4  2,156.3            -    539.1  2,695.4
Subtot.al haJ  logal ldmoation             2,625.0  5,750.0    ,625.0  2,250.0 16,250.0  2,689.8  6,039.2  6,061.6  2,490.1 17,280.7 13,824.6                     -  3,456.1 17,280.7
Total Invoot-nt Cota                          2,625.0  7,000.0  9,062.5  5,062.5 23,750.0  2,689.8  7,352.1  9,765.9  5,602.7 25,410.6 19,803.3                   525.2  5,082.1 25,410.6
II. Reourrant Cost.
A. Teaching Courses                             -         -    300.0    600.0        900.0          -         -    323.3      664.0      987.3          -    987.3          -    987.3
B. OCM (5%)                                     _      25.0      25.0       25.0      75.0          -      26.3      26.9      27.7       60.9         -      80.9          -      80.9
Total RArarrent Coats                                -      25.0     325.0     625.0      975.0          -      26.3     350.2     691.7  1,068.2           -  1,068.2           -  1,068.2
Total                                          2,625.0  7,025.0  9,387.5  5,687.5 24,725.0  2,689.8  7,378.4 10,116.2  6,294.4 26,478.8 19,803.3  1,593.3  5,082.1 26,478.8
Mon May 20 08:36:26 1996
3-1 Legal Education and Training



Rus.ian Federation
Legal Reform Project
Table 4. Judicial Reform and ADR
Detailed Costs
(US9 '000)
Breakdown of Totals Incl. Cont.
Local
Base Cost                              Totals hncluding Con.tingencies        _     For.      (Excl.    Duties
'997   _1998        1999      2000    Total        1997      1998      1999      2000    Total    Exch.       Taxes)      Taxes   Total
I. Inves8Ot Costa
P. training of Judes
1. Training Consultant                      62.5    250.0    25C.0         62.5    625.0       64.0    262.6    269.4         69.2    665.2      532.2          -    133.0     665 2
2. Training of Judges - CGJ                     -  1,012 .  1.350.0  1,012.5  ',375.0              -  1,063.4  1,454.8  1,120.5  3,638.8  2,911.C               -    727.8  3,638.6
3. Local Contribution - LawAcad                -    300.0    400.0    300.0  1,000.0              -    315.1      431.0    332.0  1,078.2             -  1,078.2          -  1,078.2
4. Training of Judges - ArbCourts              -    700.0    400.0    300.0  1,000.0              -    315.1      431.0    332.0  1,078.2        862.5          -    21%.6  1,078.2
5. Local Contributions - ArbCourts             -    120.0    160.0    120.0    400.0              -    126.0      172.4    132.8    431.3            -    431.3           -    431.3
Subtot.l Sra.Lnng of Judges                     62.5  1,982.5  2,560.0  1,795.0  6,400.0           64.0  2,082.2  2,758.7   1,986.6  6,891.5  4,375.7  1,509.4  1,076.4  6,891.5
B. Court Management Study                          -         -    875.0           -    875.0          -         -    942.9           -    942.9    754.3           -    188.6      942.9
C. ADR training
1. ADR Training                                -    623.0    625.0            -  I.'50.0          -    656.4      673.'          -  1,329.9  1,064.0            -    266.0  1,32'.9
2. Local Contributions - MOL                    -         -    150.0    150.0    300.0             -         -    161.6    166.0    327.;             -    262.1      65.5      327.7
Subtotal ADR Training                              -    625.0    775.0    150.0  1,550.0              -    656.4      935.2    166.0  1,657.6  1,064.0    262.1          331.5  1,657.6
D. ADR Meetings
1. ADR Meetings                            234.4     234.4    234.4    234.4        937.5    240.2    246.2    252.6    259.4          998.3    798.6           -    199.7      j98.3
E. Judicial Reform Workshops                       -    337.5    787.5            -  1,125.0          -    354.5    848.6            -  1,203.1    962.5           -    240.6  1,203.1
F. Equipment                                       -    187.5          -          -    187.5          -    196.9           -         -    196.'          -    157.5       39.4     196.9
Total Investant Costs                              296.9  3,366.9  5,231.9  2,179.4 11,075.0    304.2  3,536.2  5,638.3  2,412.0 11,890.4  7,885.1  1,929.1  2,076.2 11,890.4
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Computer Room                               150.0     150.0    150.0    150.0    600.0    153.7    157.5           161.6    166.0    636.9            -    6se.9          -    638.9
B. Computer Center Staff (2)                  120.0      120.0     120.0    120.0    480.0    123.0    126.0          129.3    132.8    511.1            -    '1.1           -    51.1
C. Equipment 0 & M (5)                            -       7.5        7.5       7.5      22.5         -       7.9       8.1        8.3      24.3          -     24.3         -      24.3
Total Recurrent Costs                              270.0    277.5    277.5    277.5  1,102.5    276.7    291.5             299.0 3297.1  1,174.3 _3_    7,174.3                   -  1,174.3
Total                                               566.9  3,644.4  5,509.4  2,456.9 12,177.5    580.9  3,827.7  5,937.0  2,719.1 13,064.6  7,88>.1  3,103.4  2,076.2 13,064.6
Mon May 20 08:36:28 1996
4-1 Judicial Reform and ADR



Russian Federation
Legal Reform Project
Table 5. Foundation for Legal Reform
Detailed Coats
(US$ '000)
Breakdown of Totals Incl. Cont.
Local
Base Cost                        Totals Including Contingencies             For.    (Excl.  Duties
1997    1998    1999       2000    Total   1997        19JB     1999    2000    Total   Exch.  Taxes)   & Taxes  Total
V. .atannt Cost.
A.  -oject  pe-rialiats
Degal Drafting Specialints  (2)               87.5    87.5    87.5       87.5   350.0    89.7        91.9     94.3    96.8    372.7          -   298.2    74.5   372.7
EY,atriate Aasi'-art                          75.0    75.0    75.0       75.0   300.0    76.9        7B.8     80.8     83.0   319.4          -   255.6      63.9   319.4
Lega' Inform.-tiun Specialists                43.8    43.8    43.8       43.8   175.0    44.8        46.0    47.1      48.4    186.3         -   149.1      37.3   186.3
Le;al Education Specialists (3,              131.3   131.3   131.3   131.3   525.0   134.5   1337.9   141.4   145.3   559.0                  -   447.2   111.8    559.0
uudicial Reform and ADR (2)                   87.5    87.5    87.5       87.5   350.0    89.7        91.9     94.3    96.8   372.7           -   298.2    74.5   372.7
Transl3tor                                    37.5    37.5    37.5       37.5   150.0    38.4        39.4     40.4     41.5   159.7          -   127.8      31.9   159.7
Secret,ries (3'                               40.5    40.5    40.5       40.5   162.0    41.5        42.5    43.6    44.8   172.5            -   138.0      34.5   172.5
Drivers (2)                                   24.0    24.0    24.0       24.0    96.0    24.6        25.2     25.9    26.6   102.2           -    81.8      20.4    102.2
Subtetsl Pro3ect Specialists                    527.0   527.0   527.0    27.0 2,108.0   540.0   553.5   567.9   583.2 2,244.7                    - 1,795.7   448.9 2,244.7
B. Smal1 Works                                  625.0         -        -        -   625.0   640.4           -        -        -   640.4          -   512.3   128.1   640.4
2. Phonea and Installation of Lines              25.0         -        -        -    25.0    25.6           -        -        -    25.6          -    20.5       5.1    25.6
D. Furniture
Workstations                                  30.0        -         -        -    30.0    30.7           -        -        -    30.7         -    24.6       6.1      30.7
Conference Rooms                               7.5    _             -    _          7.5      7.7         -                        7.7        -      6.1       1.5      7.7
S3utotal Furniture                                37.5        -        -        -    37.5    38.4           -        -        -     38.4         -    30.7       7.7     38.4
Z. Offioe Technology
Computers - 486                               66.7        -         -        -    66.7      68.4         -        -        -    68.4         -    54.7      13.7      68.4
Monitors                                      15.0        -         -        -    15.0      15.4         -        -        -    15.4         -    12.3        3.1     15.4
Modems                                        15.0        -         -        -    15.0    15.4           -        -        -    15.4         -    12.3       3.1      15.4
Laser Printers                                12.5        -         -        -    12.5      12.8        -         -        -    12.8         -    10.2       2.6      12.8
Computer Laptops                              12.5        -         -        -    12.5    12.8           -        -        -     12.8         -    10.2      2.6      12.8
Xerox Machines                                25.0        -         -        -    25.0    25.6          -         -        -    25.6         -    20.5       5.1      25.6
Fax Machine                                    0.6        -        -         -      0.6      0.6        -    _             -      0.6        -      0.5      0.1       0.6
Subtotal Office Technology                      147.3    _             -47.3 7.3   151.0                    -        -    _        151.0         -   120.8      30.2   151.0
Total Ivestmt Costs                                1,361.8   527.0   527.0   527.0 2,942.8 1,395.5    553.5   567.9   583.2 3,100.1                  - 2,480.1   620.0 3,1C0.1
II. Deaurront Costa
A.  suegmant and adonistxation
1. President's Off ioe
President                                100.0   100.0   100.0    100.0   400.0   102.5   105.0   107.8   110.7    425.9                  -   255.6   170.4    425.9
President's Secretary                     20.0    20.0    20.0        20.0    80.0    20.5       21.0    21.6    22.1        85.2         -    51.1    34.1       85.2
Subtotal President's Office                  120.0   120.0   120.0    120.0   480.0   123.0    126.0   129.3   132.8   511.1                 -   306.7   204.4    511.1
2. Executive Director'a Offiio
Executive Director                        83.3    83.3    83.3        83.3   333.3    85.4       87.5    89.8       92.2   354.9          -   213.0   142.0   354.9
Executive Secretary                       20.0    20.0    20.0        20.0    80.0    20.5       21.0    21.6    22.1        85.2         -    51.1      34.1     85.2
Office Manager                -            50.0    50.0    50.0       50.0   200.0    51.2        52.5     53.9    55.3   213.0           -   127.8      85.2   213.0
Subtotal Eaxective Director's Offioe    153.3   153.3   153.3   153.3   613.3   157.1    161.0   165.2   169.7   653.1                       -   391.9   261.2   653.1
3. Fianotal unit
Financial Director                        75.0    75.0    75.0        75.0   300.0    76.9       78.8    80.8       83.0   319.4          -   191.7   127.8    319.4
Financial Assistant                       50.0    50.0    50.0        50.0   200.0      51.2     52.5    53.9    55.3   213.0            -   127.8    85.2   213.0
Disbursement Officers (2)                 83.3    83.3    83.3        83.3   333.3    85.4       87.5    89.8       92.2   354.9          -   213.0   142.0    354.9
Subtotal Financi-l Unit                      208.3   208.3   208.3   208.3   833.3   213.5    218.8   224.5   230.6   887.4                  -   532.4   354.9   887.4
4. Proauranm t Unit
Procurement Director                      66.7    66.7    66.7        66.7   266.7    68.3       70.0    71.8       73.8   284.0          -   170.4   113.6   284.0
Procurement Specialists (2)              116.7   116.7   116.7    116.7   466.7   119.5   122.5   125.7    129.1   496.9                  -   298.2   198.8   496.9
Procurement Assistant                     30.0    30.0    30.0        30.0   120.0    30.7       31.5    32.3    33.2    127.8            -    76.7    51.1    127.8
Subtotal Fracurant Unit                      213.3   213.3   213.3    213.3   853.3   218.6    224.1   229.9   236.1    908.6                -   545.2    363.5    908.6
5-1 Foundation for Legal Reform



3ubtotal M agoont and Akdinistration    695.0   695.0   695.0   695.0 2,780.0   112.1   130.0   748.9   169.2 2,960.2                          - 1,776.1 1,184.1 2,960.2
B. Operational Costs                           450. 0   450 .0   450.0   450.0 1,800.0   461.1   472.6   484.9   498.0 1,916.7                - 1,916.7          - 1,916.7
Total Recurrent Costs                             1,145.0 1,145.0 1,145.0 1,145.0 4,580.0 1,173.3 1,202.6 1,233.9 1,267.2 4,876.9                  - 3,692.8 1,184.1 4,876.9
Total                                              2,506.8 1,672.0 1,672.0 1,672.0 7,522.8 2,568.7 1,756.1 1,801.8 1,850.4 7,977.0                  -6,172.91,804.1 7,977.0
Mon May 20 08:36:32 1996
5-2 Foundation for Legal Reform



Russian Federation
Legal Reform Project
Table 6. High-Priority Activities
Detailb  Costs
(US$ 'O)
Breakdowr. of Totals Inacl. Cont.
Local
Base Cost                         Totals Including Contingencies                For.    (Excl.  Duties
1997     19'9      1999     2000      Total   1997        1998      L999     2000      Total   Exch.  Taxes)    Taxes  Total
I. Imvs       t Costs
A. High-Priority Activities a                      - 3,750.0          - 3,750.0          -         _ 4,'l41.1          - 4,041.1 3,232.9  _         -   80e .  4,041.1
Total                                          -         - 3,750.0          - 3,750.0           -        - 4,041.1           - 4,041.1  3,232.9           -   P08.2 4,041.1
Mon May 20 08:36:33 1996
6-1 High-Priority Activities



Russian Federati n
Legal Reform Project
iqenditure Accounts by C ponents - Base Costs
(US$ '000)
Legal                       Foundation                                  Physical
Legijlative        Legal        Education       Judicial        for Legal   High-Priority                Contingeciese
Drafting      Information  and  Training        Reform          Reform        Activities      Total       t    Amount
X.  Invsstnt Costs
A. Equipment                                  62.7                -          627.2           188.2           185.5               -   1,063.7        -       -
B. Technical Assistance                   14,997.3        10,040.0       17,570.0          9,224.3        2,115.6                -  53,947.1        -       -
C. Local TA                                8,038.8        15,631.0                -        1,706.1               -               -  25,375.8        -       -
D. Fellowships                                    -              -        5,647.5                -               -               -   5,647.5        -       -
E. Small Works and Installation                   -              -               -               -          652.3                -      652.3       -       -
F. High-Priority Activities                       -                                                              -        3,765.0   3,765.0         -       -
Sotal Inv - s - - nt Costs                    23,098.8        25,671.0        23,844.7        11,118.5         2,953.4         3,765.0  90,451.4         -       -
II. Rzoeurent Costs
A. RFLR Operational Costs                         -               -               -              -        1,806.5                -   1,806.5        -       -
B. RFLR Staff                                     -               -               -              -        2,790.0                -   2,790.0        -       -
C. Equip. O.M                                 10.0         1,159.1            75.3            22.6               -               -   1,267.0        -       -
D. Operational Ccsts                              -              -           903.2         1,083.9               -               -   1,987.1        -       -
Total Roaa rxent Costs                             10.0         1,159.1           978.5         1,106.5        4,596.4                -   7,850.6        -       -
Total RARBLNXE COSTS                           23,108.8        26,830.1        24,823.2        12,225.0         7,549.9         3,765.0  98,302.0         -       -
Physical Contingencies                               -               -               -               -               -              -           -       -       -
Price Contingencies
Inflation
Local                                     3,453.2         5,367.1           958.6         1,287.6        2,543.8             55.2  13,665.5        -       -
Foreign                                     877.0           366.0        1,229.3            505.7               -          220.9   3,198.9         -       -
Subtotal Inflation                          4,330.2         5,733.1         2,187.9         1,793.3         2,543.8           276.1  16,864.4         -      -
Devaluation                                -2,641.1        -4,459.2          -532.4          -953.6       -2,116.1                - -10,703.0        -       -
Subtotal Price Contingencies                   1,689.1         1,274.0        1,655.5           839.6           427.2           276.1   6,161.4         -       -
Total PRDJ CS COSTS                             24,797.9        28,104.1       26,478.8         13,064.6        7,977.0         4,041.1 104,463.4         -       -
Taxes                                         3,231.5         2,099.5         5,082.1         2,076.2         1,804.1           808.2  15,101.6         -       -
Foreign Exchange                             12,874.8         8,398.0        19,803.3         7,885.1                -        3,232.9  52,194.1         -       -
Mon May 20 08:39:03 1996
1-1 Expenditure Accounts by Components - Base Costs



Russian Federation
Legal Reform Project
Project Components by Year
(US$ '000)
Totals Including Contingencies
1997      1998       1999       2000       Total
1. Legislative Drafting             2,055.5   4,212.6  10,662.6   7,867.1  24,797.9
2. Legal Information                 7,823.4  11,829.0   8,025.6        426.1  28,104.1
3. Legal Education and Training   2,689.8   7,378.4  10,116.2   6,294.4  26,478.8
4. Judicial Reform                     580.9   3,827.7   5,937.0   2,719.1  13,064.6
5. Foundation for Legal Reform    2,568.7   1,756.1   1,801.8   1,850.4   7,977.0
6. High-Priority Activities                -          -   4,041.1           -   4,041.1
Tota]L PROJZCT COSTS                   15,718.3  29,003.8  40,584.2  19,157.1 104,463.4
Mon May 20 09:07:03 1996
1-1 Project Components by Year






APPENDIX B
INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE TO LEGAL REFORM IN RUSSIA
Over the last several years, several bilateral and international entities have been active
in Russia in supporting legal reform. These include:
(a)    The Bank: Under the terms of reference of the Soviet Union Technical Assistance Fund,
the Bank assisted the government by providing grants to prepare several key pieces of
legislation including banking law, privatization regulations, and petroleum law. The
Bank and IFC have also reviewed and commented upon various pieces of legislation in
the securities, bankruptcy, and commercial law areas.
(b)    Japan: Japan has supported preparation of the current Legal Reform Project through a
$2 million PHRD grant to the Russian government.
(c)    USAID: The US government has supported legal reform in Russia through several
programs, including one aimed at fostering the rule of law and democracy, which has
focused on passage of certain laws, as well as electoral reforms and training of officials,
among them judges and lawyers. Another program has focused on commercial law and
privatization, and especially on drafting assistance. One more initiative involved working
with the government on the draft of the new Civil Code. Lastly, a program run through
the American Bar Association has funded review of laws, twinning of law schools,
workshops and support for bar associations and jury trials. With the exception of a new
program dealing with crime prevention and criminal law, most of the larger USAID law
programs, which have totalled over $40 million to date, will end in 1996 or taper off in
1997. The US government has actively cooperated with the Bank in preparation of the
current Legal Reform Project and has funded several of the preparation studies which the
government requested. In the future, the US intends to structure its continuing legal
assistance programs in Russia, including support for criminal law reform, in a manner
which complements, and does not overlap with the Bank-financed activities.
(d)    Netherlands: The Dutch government has actively assisted in the drafting of the new
Russian Civil Code because of its own recent experience in revising its civil code.
(e)    Germany: German assistance has largely been in the form of legislative assistance, such
as on the Russian Civil Code, and legal training for judges and attorneys. Germany has
also executed some legal assistance programs in Russia funded by the TACIS program
of the EU.
(f)    United Kingdom: The UK has made several grants out of the UK Know How Fund to
support provision of legal assistance for law drafting and other legal advice to Russian
agencies.
(g)    EU: The European Commission's TACIS program has financed selective legal assistance
in Russia, such as review of draft legislation and conference on various legal topics.
(h)    Council of Europe: Russia became a member of the Council of Europe in late 1995.
The Council has agreed with Russia on a program of legal assistance in the area of
constitutional reform, strengthening of government institutions, human rights, criminal
law reform, and increasing the independence of the judiciary. The program is expected



2                                                        Technical Annex: Russia Legal Reform Project
to total approximately 6.2 million ECU over the next two years. Funding for this
program is being discussed with the EU.
(i)    Switzerland: The Swiss authorities have been providing assistance and training to
Russia's Ministry of Justice.
(j)    United Nations: The UN Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice Programme has
proposed a three-year program to assist the Russian government in improving crimne
prevention through computerization of criminal justice activities, training, study tours,
and pilots. The program will cost approximately $6 million.



APPENDIX C
LEGAL DRAFTING COMPONENT
ON PRIORITIES OF LEGISLATIVE DRAFIING IN THE ECONOMIC SPHERE
Tentative List for Year 1
1.    On Accounting.
2.    On Auditing.
3.    Civil Code of the Russian Federation (third part).
4.    Code of Civil Procedure of the Russian Federation.
5.    On State Registration of Legal Persons.
6.    On Means of Alternative Dispute Resolution, including necessary revisions in relevant codes of
procedure.
Preliminary List for Year 2-4
1.    On Free Economic Zones.
2.    Laws on Status of Judges and Magistrates in the Russian Federation.
3.    On Legal Persons.
4.    On Trust Management of Property.
5.    On Alienation of Shares Designated for Federal Government Ownership.
6.    On Privatization (Revisions and Amendments).
7.    On Non-State Pension Funds.
8.    On Fundamentals of Budgetary System and Budgetary Process.
9.    On Mandatory Insurance of Bank Deposits.
10.   On Insolvency (Bankruptcy) of Banks and Other Credit Institutions.
11.   On Circulation of Promissory Notes.
12.   On Changes and Amendments to the Federal Law "On Banks and Banking Activities".
13.   On Municipal Banks.
14.   On Changes and Amendments to the Law of the Russian Federation "On Currency Regulation
and Currency Control".
15.   Tax Code of the Russian Federation.
16.   On Federal Targeted Budgetary Funds.
17.   Labor Code of the Russian Federation.
18.   On Tariff Agreements.
19.   On Licensing of Certain Kinds of Activities.
20.   Land Code.
21.   Housing Code of the Russian Federation.
22.   On Mortgage.
23.   On Execution of Court Decisions in Civil Actions.
24.   On Leasing of State-Owned and Municipally-Owned Real Property.
25.   On Changes and Amendments to the Customs Code of the Russian Federation.
26.   On Changes and Amendments to the Code of Arbitrazh (Commercial Court) Procedure of the
Russian Federation.
27.   On the Procedure of Adoption of Rulemaking Acts in the Russian Federation.
28.   On Registration of Real Property Rights and Transactions.






APPENDIX D
LEGAL DRAFHING COMPONENT
STUDY ON COORDINATION OF LEGAL DRAFTING PROCESSES
Draft Ternis of Reference
Background
1.             The Russian Federation (RF) is in the process of implementing a Legal Reform Project
(Project). The Project consist of four components: legal drafting, legal information, legal education, and
judicial reform. The overall project goal is to improve the performance of the Russian legal system in
areas key to effective functioning of market institutions. The objectives of the legal drafting component
include improving the quality of economic enactments, assisting the RF in the development of federal-
regional relations, improving legislative drafting at the regional level (through pilot activities), and
strengthening the legal drafting process and institutional capacity of federal agencies involved in legal
drafting. These terms of reference (TORs) refer to the latter objective and detail the consultants' services
(Services) that will be required to meet this objective.'
2.             The Project is financed, in part, by the World Bank (Bank), pursuant to a loan and project
agreements entered into between the RF and the Bank and the Russian Foundation for Legal Reform
(RFLR), the agency responsible for project implementation.
Objective
3.             Taking into account the current and future legal developments in the RF, especially as
they relate to economic and market-oriented activities, the consultants (Consultants) shall undertake a
comprehensive study of the legal drafting process and institutional capacities the federal agencies
responsible for drafting of legal enactments. Based on the above assessment, the Consultants shall issue
specific recommendations on ways to improve such processes and agencies' institutional capacities, and
be available for reasonable follow up discussions related to such a study and recommendations within and
outside government organs.
Services
4.             The Consultants shall perform the following Services:
(a)    Review the overallprocess of legal drafting, which includes the drafting of laws, decrees,
resolutions, regulations, and other legal enactments (legal enactments) by the federal
agencies of the executive branch, including the Government of Russia, Main State-Law
Administration, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Economy, Ministry of Justice, and
other central and line ministries, government commnittees, etc.
1/     Consultants' qualifications to be considered during the selection process should include: (i) experience in legal affairs
and analysis on state level; (ii) experience in policy, governmental, and organizational fields; (iii) knowledge of the
Russian legal and government siructures, processes, and needs; (iv) depth and variety of knowledge of other countries'
legal and governmental structures.



2                                                            Technical Annex: Russia Legal Reform Project
(b)    Analyze the inter-agency coordination and cooperation of all key agencies involved in the
legal drafting process on the federal executive level (including those referred to in par.
4 (a) above).
(c)    Analyze the intra-agency administrative and operation processes of all key agencies
involved in the legal drafting process on the federal executive level (including those re-
ferred to in par. 4 (a) above).
Output
5.             Based on the above analysis and taking into account the current  political and
governmental structure of the RF, and, to the extent applicable, comparative experience of other
countries, the Consultants shall issue a comprehensive report which: (i) describes the current legal
drafting processes and inter and intra agency institutional capacity; (ii) discusses the key weaknesses and
needs related to the above processes and institutional capacity; and (iii) proposes specific and detailed
recommendations seeking to address the above weaknesses and needs. The report shall distinguish, as
appropriate, between problems related to legal drafting of laws, decrees, resolutions, regulations, etc.
6.             The Consultants' report shall discuss, among other things, whether and, if so, how institu-
tional capacity and legal drafting processes can be significantly improved through:
(a)    intra-agency organizational and administrative changes (if so, specifically, what kind);
(b)    improved inter-agency cooperation and coordination (if, so by what means, i.e., different
operational processes, electronic communications, etc.);
(c)    better access to legal information;
(d)    training of legal professionals involved in legal drafting (if so, what type of training, i.e.,
length, place of training, type of training, etc.);
(e)    training of support staff (if so, what type of training, i.e., length, place of training, type
of training, etc.);
(f     changes in the time and role afforded to legal counsel in the legal drafting process;
(g)    equipment and other technical modifications and improvements (for example computer
equipment, copying machines, communication equipment and systems such as electronic
mail, etc.); if such modifications are proposed, the report shall specify the one-time
purchase costs, as well as the estimated recurrent operating and maintenance costs
associated with such modifications; and
(h)    the role to be played by outside parties (institutes, non-governmental organizations, legal
experts, and public at large) in the legal drafting process.
7.             The Consultants shall submit to the RFLR a draft report (interim report) in Russian within
4 months days from the time of contract execution. A copy of the interim report (in English) shall be
submitted to the Bank. The Consultants shall meet with the RFLR within 30 days of submitting the



Appendix D. Study on Coordination of Legal Drafting Process                                  3
interim report to discuss the RFLR's comments and recommendations with respect to the interim report.
Within 60 days of such discussions, but in no case later than 7 month from the time of contract execution,
the Consultants shall submit to the RFLR a final report (final report), in Russian, addressing the questions
and issues discussed in these TORs, and taking into account the views and recommendations expressed
earlier by the RFLR and those of the Bank. A copy of the final report (in English) shall be submitted
to the Bank. The final report shall be at least 30 pages in length, with attachments, if necessary.






APPENDIX E
LEGAL DRAFI1NG COMPONENT
REGIONAL PILOT ACTIVITIES
1.            The Russian constitution reserves certain areas to exclusive federal legislative jurisdiction;
additional areas lie within the joint jurisdiction of the federal authorities and the 89 subjects of the Russian
Federation. All other areas fall under the exclusive jurisdiction of the 89 subjects of the Russian
Federation. The current constitutional, political and economic environment in Russia has led to an
explosion of legislative and regulatory activity of the 89 subjects of the Russian Federation. Economic
activities are increasingly affected and regulated by regional and local legislation, which does not (at least
in theory) compete with, but complements, federal enactments.
2.            The increasing need to generate more regional enactments, the novelty and urgency of
this task at the regional level, as well as the complexity and diversity of subject matters that need to be
covered, especially in the economic area, greatly affect the quality of such enactments. An additional
element of complexity is the need to pay due attention to the constitutional balance between the federation
and its subjects. During project preparation, it was determined that, in addition to the overall factors
referred to above, there are at least three common impediments to effective legal drafting at the regional
level: (a) weak institutional and technical capacity; (b) insufficient access to legal experts with specialized
knowledge in economic areas; and (c) lack of financial resources.
3 .           Two oblasts, Orel and Sverdlovsk, were selected by the federal authorities and have
agreed to participate in the pilot program.' These regions were chosen on the basis of demonstrated
willingness to push forward with legislative reforms in the area of private sector development. It was
also determined that these regions are not recipients of high levels of foreign-financed technical
assistance.
4.            The Sverdlovsk oblast covers an area equivalent to the combined size of Austria, Belgium,
Holland and Switzerland. It is located in the north central region of the Ural mountains and is inhabited
by approximately 5 million people. More than 80 percent of the population lives in urban areas. The
capital of the oblast is the city of Yekaterinburg, the third largest city in the Russian Federation. The
oblast provides approximately 1/7 of the country's GNP.
5.            The political structure of the oblast government is similar to the federal structure. There
are three branches of oblast government: the executive, legislative, and judicial branches. The executive
branch is represented by the oblast Government, headed by a chairman. Above and somewhat separate
from the Government is the office of the Governor, who heads the oblast Administration. (This
subdivision of executive authority is similar to the federal subdivision between the office of the President
and the office of the Prime Minister who heads the Government of Russia). The legislative branch is
represented by elected deputies who form the oblast Legislative Assembly, made up of two chambers.
The judicial branch consists of district courts and one oblast court. (Pursuant to the Russian constitution
and laws, the courts are part of the federal judiciary.)
1/     The cities of Moscow and St. Petersburg were excluded from consideration by the federal authorities on the grounds
that these cities have unique access to expertise and know how in this area.



2                                                           Technical Annex: Russia Legal Reform Project
6.             The Sverdlovsk oblast recently adopted a charter (constitution) that defines the political
and legal structure of oblast government. This document was prepared in consultation with federal
authorities. Also, in January of 1996, the oblast and federal governments signed an agreement on the
delineation of power between the two levels of government.
7.            The Orel oblast, a mid-size agrarian region of about a million people, is located in the
"black earth" region of Central European Russia. It is in 60th place among the 89 subjects in population
and in 61st place in industrial production and 43rd place in agricultural production. In recent years, the
oblast has become known for its efforts at land reform.
8.            The governmental structure of the Orel oblast is dominated by the executive branch-the
oblast Administration headed by a popularly elected governor (officially called Head of Administration).
The legislative branch-the Duma-is relatively weak but is gradually becoming more active, especially
after the adoption in February of 1996 of the oblast charter (constitution). The judicial branch is part of
the federal judiciary. The oblast governor has recently been elected chairman of the Council of the
Federation (upper chamber) of the Federal Assembly while continuing to serve as governor.
9.            The regional pilot subcomponent would seek to improve the technical and institutional
capacity of regional authorities in the two oblasts by providing (i) training to regional officials involved
in legal drafting and (ii) technical assistance in drafting regional enactments. The training would focused
on training in general legal drafting techniques. Special emphasis and concentration would be given to
training in legal economic matters and administrative law. Training activities would take place with the
assistance of local experts within the oblasts, specialists from other regions of Russia, and, as necessary,
foreign specialists. In Orel, relatively more emphasis would have to be placed on training than in
Sverdlovsk oblast, as the latter is one of the centers of Russian legal scholarship. It has been tentatively
agreed with the regional authorities that staff lawyers from the executive and legislative branches,
members of the working groups on implementation of the pilots, specialists from economic agencies and
potential drafters from local academic institutions would be amnong the trainees. Specific commnitments
by the oblasts to facilitate training programs (guarantees of leave with pay for trainees, readiness to
interact with the RFLR) would be agreed to implementation arrangements between the RFLR and the
oblasts.
10.           For both the training and legal TA activities, counterpart contributions will be required.
In the case of on-site training, premises will be provided at the expense of local authorities who will also
cover at least part of administrative costs and the cost of local transportation for the trainers. In
Yekaterinburg, part of the local instructors' time may be contributed pro bono. In the case of Moscow-
based training, the sending party will have to cover travel costs and standard daily allowances (Russian
government rates) for the trainees. For legal TA, counterpart contributions will consist of the expense
of preparing initial drafts of enactments (consultants will be stepping in at an intermediate stage).
11.           Technical assistance would be provided after initial training activities have taken place
and sufficient progress is judged to have been made to utilize the legal technical assistance to be provided,
as described below. Technical assistance would be provided by either local, Russian, or foreign
specialists, and will relate specifically to draft enactments with strong federal-regional and/or economic
aspects. Regional authorities will have to submit to the federal inter-ministerial commission an annual
or semi-annual list of laws, regulations, and other enactments the drafting of which will require legal
technical assistance. For each proposed enactment, there would be a brief description of existing legal
and regulatory framework, needs and deficiencies in such a framework, a list of goals that would be



Appendix E. Regional Pilot Activities                                                             3
sought to be achieved with the passage of the enactment, proposed terms of reference for legal consultants
and a description of eligibility criteria and qualifications. It is expected that there would be much greater
reliance on local (i.e., Russian) expertise. Also, regional applications would have to clarify the
relationship between the existing federal laws and regulations and regional enactments (current and
proposed).
12.            A tentative list of areas/topics that might require legal technical assistance has been agreed
upon by the federal authorities and those of the Orel oblast. These areas/topics include the following:
(a) legal aspects of land reform; (b) delineation of federal and oblast jurisdiction in privatization and in
land law; (c) management of state shares in privatized enterprises (law and regulations); (d) various
model statutes pursuant to the federal law on joint-stock companies; (e) local self-government; and (f)
state registration of legal persons and of real property rights on the territory of the oblast.
13.            A tentative list of areas/topics that might require legal technical assistance has been agreed
upon by the federal authorities and those of the Sverdlovsk Oblast. These areas/topics include the
following: (a'. free economic zones in the Sverdlovsk oblast; (b) regulation of non-budgetary funds; (c)
creation of the Oblast Bank; (d) credit resources of the Sverdlovsk oblast; and (e) circulation of
promissory notes in the Sverdlovsk oblast.
14.            The implementation arrangements related to the pilot activities between the RFLR and
the pilot regions would nced to be satisfactory to the Bank and would, unless agreed otherwise by the
Bank and the borrower, include the following items: (i) grant terms of the assistance and the oblast
interest in participating in the pilot; (ii) specify to recipients of training and TA; (iii) counterpart
contributions; (iv) RFLR responsibilities procuring services to be financed under the subcomponent; (v)
implementation responsibilities of the pilot oblasts, including procedures, terms and criteria related to the
legal technical assistance and training (for TA these would be very similar to the federal procedures,
terms and criteria); (vi) responsibility of the inter-ministerial commission of the federal government to
approve the periodic oblast legal training and technical assistance program; (vii) undertaking by the oblast
authorities to issue an executive order (decree) appointing a regional coordinator (working group) for the
pilot and giving him/her appropriate powers; and (viii) reporting responsibilities of the pilot oblasts.






APPENDIX F
LEGAL INFORMATION COMPONENT
STUDY ON CODIFICATION AND CLASSIFICATION OF LEGISLATION
TERMS OF REFERENCE'
Background
1.            The Russian Federation (RF) is in the process of implementing a Legal Reform Project
(Project). The Project consists of four components: legal drafting, legal information, legal education,
and judicial reform. The overall project goal is to improve the performance of the Russian legal system
in areas key to effective functioning of market institutions. The objectives of the legal information
component include improving the gathering, organization, dissemination of and access to legal
information. The codification subcomponent of the legal information component seeks to assist the RF
in identifying appropriate methods of classifying legal information (in both hard copy and electronic form)
and optimizing the uniformity and consistency of such classification across Russia.
2.             The Project is financed, in part, by the World Bank (Bank), pursuant to loan and project
agreements entered into between the RF and the Bank and the Russian Foundation for Legal Reform
(RFLR), the central agency responsible for Project implementation.
Objectives
3.             Taking into account the current and future legal developments in the RF, the objective
of the work of the consultants (Consultants) is to develop a classification system (classificator) and
methodology for codification ("svod zakonov") of Russian legislation. The work to achieve this objective
will be divided into two phases (described in the paragraph below). This TOR (especially the description
of services contained in Section C) covers only the first phase. Initially, the Consultants will be
competitively selected to carry out Phase 1. Upon the completion of work under this TOR, the results
of Phase I will have to be approved by the RFLR and by Russian experts and authorities, such as a
working group on the preparation of codification. Thereafter, the Consultants who will have carried out
Phase I may be selected by the RFLR to continue with Phase 1I without further competition.
4.             During Phase 1, the Consultants shall:  (i) undertake a comprehensive study of the
existing legal and regulatory framework of legal codification; the existing codification systems and
classificators developed and used in the RF by governmental and non-governmental organizations; and
other countries' codification systems (to the extent they are relevant to the RF); and (ii) reconmnend a
classificator for legal enactments of the RF that could be used both in a hard copy and electronic forms.
5.             Phase 11. Based on the proposals and recommendations of Phase 1, as well as on any
modifications resulting from reviews of the proposals by Russian experts and authorities, Phase 1I will
include the development of the classificator in hard-copy and electronic formns; testing of the classificator
11     These terms of reference describe the work to be performed by a consultant (individual or firm) to be selected and
hired by the Russian Federation, through the Russian Foundation for Legal Reform (RFLR) during project implementation.
The consultant would be engaged in accordance with the terms of the loan agreement and project agreement (which refer to
the Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and the World Bank as Executing Agency, published in
August of 1981). and to be entered into by the Russian Federation and the RFLR, respectively, and the World Bank.



2                                                           Technical Annex: Russia Legal Reform Project
among its users (such as courts, government agencies, law schools, and private practitioners and business
people); development of a lexicological analysis of the texts; and recommendations for a methodology
to carry out a full codification ("svod zakonov") of Russian legislative enactments and other normative
acts. Detailed TOR defining scope of work and services for Phase II will be developed by the RFLR on
the basis of results of Phase I and on further consultations with Russian experts.
Services
6.             The Consultants' Services under Phase I shall include the following activities:
(a)    Review and analyze the legal and regulatory framework applicable to legal classification
and codification in Russia. This would include, but not be limited to, the December 16,
1993 Presidential Decree No. 2171. Review other activities being undertaken by the
Russian government or other parties that may affect the development of a unified and
comprehensive codification system in Russia. This would include taking into account
work by major Russian scientific and academic research institutes to develop a
compilation of Russian laws and enactments ("svod zakonov") and related classificators,
to review the status and consistency of post-1987 legal enactments, and to review the
applicability and content of USSR laws in the RF.
(b)    Review  and analyze the methodology applicable to past legal classification and
codification systems in Russia. This would include, for example, the question of which
and how different legal enactments were classified and codified, including, laws, decrees,
executive resolutions and instructions, and regional enactments. Analysis should cover
classification and codification systems used in the USSR and, where relevant, in pre-
Revolutionary Russia.
(c)    Reviewv and analyze (through research and personal interviews with relevant government
officials, legal drafters, judges, deputies, experts, providers of legal information, and
users of legal information), the existing classificators and codification systems developed
and used in the RF. This would include, but no be limited to, classificators developed
and used by the Main State Law Administration (GGPU), Ministry of Justice,
Government of Russia, High Arbitrazh Court, Supreme Court, Constitutional Court, and
systems used by the private sector.  This work should include review of existing
classification systems through the method of systems analysis.
(d)    Analyze the classification needs for enactments of the subjects of the RF, (taking into
account the information being developed through other studies and activities conducted
under the Project.)
(e)    Provide comparative analysis of classification and codification systems of two countries
with comparable legal systems (preferably civil law jurisdictions) in order to assist the
RF in designing the most appropriate methodology for classification and codification of
legislation.
(f)    Make proposals for a comprehensive classification system  (classificator) of Russian
legislation at the federal and regional levels. In the design of the classificator, the
Consultants will have taken into a count the necessity to program the classificator into



Appendix F. Legal Infornation Component                                                        3
an electronic format.  Every effort shall be made that the categories used for the
classificator in a paper copy are compatible with and usable in the electronic format.
Apart from a general scheme of the system, the proposal will include detailed definition
of classification categories (to be used as a model) in several selected areas of law. The
selection of the areas of law will be agreed upon with the RFLR. In addition to the
RFLR, the Consultants will consult with and take into account in the development of their
proposals and recommendation the views of Russian and other users of the classification
system, such as judges and court personnel, government officials, academics and private
practitioners.
(g)    Prepare a task statement (concept paper) which would outline the design of the electronic
form of the classification system and explain how the system would be used.
(h)    Develop a computer-generated demonstration model (on limited material) that could be
used as a visual tool to describe the characteristics and benefits of the classification
system in both hard copy and electronic forms.
Output of Phase I
7.            The Consultants shall submit a comprehensive report which addresses all of the issues
identified in paragraph 6(a) through (h) above. Apart from the analysis referred to above, the report (and
its attachments) shall contain: (i) proposals and recommendations for a classificator, including a sample
of classification categories in selected areas of law; and (ii) the task statement (concept paper) outlining
the design of the electronic form of the classification system, with the demonstration model materials
attached.
8.            The Consultants shall submit to the RFLR a draft report (interim report) in Russian within
three (3) months from the time of contract execution containing draft proposals under items (i) and (ii)
in paragraph 7 above. Within a week thereof, a copy of the interim report (in English) shall be submitted
to the Bank. The Consultants shall meet with the RFLR within 30 days of submitting the interim report
to discuss the RFLR's, Russian experts' and Bank's comments and recommendations with respect to the
interim report. Within two (2) months of such discussions, but in no case later than seven (7) months
from the time of contract execution, the Consultants shall submit to the RFLR a final report, in Russian
and English, addressing the questions and issues discussed in this TOR, and taking into account the views
and recommendations expressed earlier by the RFLR, the Russian experts, as appropriate, and the Bank.
A copy of the final report (in English) shall be submitted to the Bank.
Qualification of Consultants
9.            The Consultants team  shall include lawyers with detailed knowledge of the current
Russian legal system and its organization, traditions, as well as knowledge and expertise in the
codification and classification system of other (preferably civil law) countries. Further, the Consultants
team shall include (or subcontract) experts in systems analysis and programmer(s) with experience in
information technology system building in Russia. Their expertise will inform the design of the
classificator and be central for the preparation of the tasks statement (concept paper) and the
demonstration model under paragraph 7(ii) above.



4                                                         Technical Annex: Russia Legal Reform Project
Coordination of Activities With Other Parties
10.           Throughout the time of the Services, the Consultants shall be in close contact with the
designated official(s) of the RFLR and other officials and experts referred to by the RFLR. The
Consultants shall also be in direct contact and consult with the representatives of Mitretek, Systems, Inc.
(engaged as technology advisors to the RFLR), and with the company to be engaged by the RFLR to
perform services related to the development of a legal information system in the RF. This close working
relationship and excharge of information is essential to properly integrate the analysis and
recommendations being developed as par', of the Services and those being developed under the contract
for a feasibility study cn legal information. It is especially critical in the preparation of the demonstration
model under paragraph 7(fi) above.



APPENDIX G
LEGAL EDUCATION COMPONENT
LEGAL EDUCATION GRANTS PROGRAM
1.           As part of the Legal Reform Project, the Russian Foundation for Legal Reform (RFLR)
will competitively award grants to five competitively selected law schools, and within each of these law
schools, to individuals, as well as to groups of individuals. There are six broad categories for which
funding is available and several subcategories within them. These grants will be awarded on the basis
of criteria agreed to between the Bank and the RFLR. The grant will finance certain activities deemed
essential to the reform of Russian legal education.
Category I Grants: Grants for Development of Teaching Materials andlimnovative Teaching
Methodologies
2.            A major problem facing teachers and students has been a lack of up-to-date teaching
materials. There is both a lack of materials for courses already in the curriculum and for new areas of
the law that should be but are not yet being taught.
3.            An additional problem with legal education as traditionally practiced in Russia is too-great
a reliance on lecture as the primary means of learning by students. Not only is this more inefficient than
having students gain such knowledge through reading. It fails to involve students actively in the learning
process. It also fails to challenge them to use the knowledge they are learning to resolve problems.
4.            Priority Substantive Areas of Law: Proposals for teaching materials in any area of law
are potentially eligible for funding if the applicant demonstrates the need for them. However, given
limitations on the amount of funding available, priority will be given to grants that address areas of
greatest need. Priority areas of the law are: (1) the law regulating private relationships among private
individuals and entities and the development of business and the economy, including such topics as
international trade, property law, contract law, torts, bankruptcy, enterprise organizations, and other areas
of private law; (2) the law of government regulation of business, such as securities regulation, antitrust
law, product safety, taxation of businesses, and privatization of state industries; and (3) skills necessary
for law practice, especially as it relates to representation of private individuals and entities engaged in
business.
5 .           Priority Based on Proposed Teaching Methodology: All forms of teaching materials and
all methodologies used is new courses developed in areas of law relevant to a market economy are
eligible for funding under this category. However, priority will be given to producing teaching materials
that (1) enhance efficiency in imparting basic knowledge by allowing student to read and absorb basic
legal concepts and rules outside of class rather than in lecture; and (2) emphasize concrete practical
application of legal knowledge to rcalistic problems through active involvement of the student in the
learning process in class. Not only is such a "problem solving method" more efficient; it also prepares
student better for practice.
6.            Also applications for the development of simulation courses will also be given priority.
Simulation exercises, also known as role-playing, are already an established part of teaching and learning
in Russia, both for law students and for lawyers, judges, procurators and other practitioners. However,
the use of simulation exercises has largely been for the purpose of demonstrating to an audience how a
particular judicial or quasi-judicial investigative process is carried out. There is a need to develop the
simulation method of teaching beyond its use as a demonstration device so that each student has the
opportunity to play the role of lawyer. There is also a need to expand simulation courses beyond judicial



2                                                         Technical Annex: Russia Legal Reform Project
and quasi-judicial proceedings. An important consideration for this category will be the role of practicing
lawyers both in authoring teaching materials for which grants are requested, and in evaluating grant
applications.
7.            Finally, law school libraries have suffered from the escalating cost of books and the need
for a wider variety of books and other materials that encompass new areas of the law that were of little
importance just a few years ago. Grants are available for the acquisition of various kinds of equipment
and books. Priority will be based on demonstrated need.
(a)    Grants to Individuals or Groups of Individuals to Develop Teaching Materials
Grants to produce up-to-date teaching materials suitable to train law students for practice
in limited areas of the law related to law practice to be listed based on survey showing
areas of greatest need. Preference will be given to materials that emphasize practice over
theory. Included within the category of teaching materials are interactive computer
programs.
(b)    Grants to Individuals for Development of Simulation Courses and Simulation Segments
of Other Courses
Definition of simulation courses: courses in which the primary mode of instruction is to
require that each student, as an active participant, assume the role of a practicing lawyer
confronted with a mock fact scenario that would face a practicing lawyer in real life.
Grants for developing entire simulation courses are limited to courses that cover areas of
practice suitable to teaching practice skills: client counselling, negotiation, legal writing,
pre-trial practice, fact investigation, trial practice, and appellate advocacy. Grants may
also be made for development of "simulation segments" for other courses (for example,
a course on International Trade).
(c)    Grants to Law Schools for Equipment Needed to Support Development of Teaching
Materials and Innovative Teaching Methodologies
Equipment to establish a local or regional publication capacity. Computer equipment
necessary for production of teaching materials. Video equipment necessary for a
simulation course or simulation segment.
(d)    Competitive Grants for Funding the Costs of Publication of Texts Through Traditional
Means (Including Translation of Foreign Books)
Funding is available to pay the costs of publication of a limited number of texts through
a regular publisher of such books.Books may be designed either for use by practicing
lawyers or for use in law school courses. However, to qualify for publishing under this
category, books must be practical rather than theoretical.
Some books that have been selected for publication by the primary governmnent legal
materials publisher, will be eligible on an one-time interim basis for immediate payment
of publication costs.



Appendix G. Legal Education Component                                                        3
(e)    Acquisition of Books and Other Research Materials for Law Libraries
Funding is available for the acquisition of legal materials, books, treaties, international
legal documents and other materials for legal research.
Category 1I Grants: Teacher Training, Retraining and Recruitment
8.            Grants are available to individual teachers for the purpose of training or retraining those
teachers. Training must be for the purpose of (1) gaining teaching competence in priority areas of
substantive law or (2) for the purpose of learning innovative teaching techniques. Innovative teaching
techniques are defined as clinical teaching, simulation teaching or the "problem solving method" of
teaching. A grant for teacher training may be combined with a grant for preparation of innovative
teaching materials. Such a combination is encouraged as a means of assuring that training or retraining
will produce tangible results.
9.            Grants are also available for promising students and lawyers interested in a career in
teaching for graduate study that would qualify them to enter the teaching profession.
(a)    Teacher Training and Retraining
Formal training of teachers at another institution of higher learning. Sabbaticals or leaves
foi teachers for self-directed training.
(b)    Grants and Fellowships to Students and Others for Graduate Study Qualifying them for
a Career in Teaching
Grants are available to students with superior academic records and others for financial
assistance for the purpose of pursuing graduate study that will prepare them for a career
in law teaching.
Category  III Grants:   Special Grants for Major Changes in Curriculum  and Academic
Administration - Law Clinics, New Kafedras (Chairs)
10.           A limited number of special grants are available to make changes in the administration
of the curriculum that are somewhat more involved than text and teaching materials production and
teacher training and recruitment. These special grants are available to fund establishment of Legal Clinics
and new Kafedras to cover new areas of law, and to make other changes in the academic administration.
11.           Russian law students in their 5th year of study currently rotate through lawyers' offices
to allow them to gain some insight into the actual work of lawyers in society. As valuable as these
experiences are, none of them allows the student, under appropriate supervision, to actually assume the
role of a practicing lawyer. Legal Clinics, if permitted under local practice, would allow students to
actually experience being a legal practitioner.
(a)    Legal Clinic Courses
Definition of Legal Clinic Courses: Any law school course that involves law students in
actually representing clients in court or administrative proceedings, in legal negotiations,
in drafting documents, in giving advice or counselling or in any other legal representation
activity normally engaged in by practicing lawyers. Grants may be made to establish a



4                                                         Technical Annex: Russia Legal Reform Project
new legal clinic or to continue or expand an existing program. Multi-year projects will
be financed up to a maximum of 2 years.
(b)    Kafedras
Funding is available to establish a new Kafedra on the Advocatura within the law school
of the applying institution or to expand an already established kafedra of that type.
Category IV Grants: Equipment for Law Schools and Law Libraries
12.           Russian law schools have suffered from the lack of basic office technology that has
become the standard for business, government and many other educational institutions.
(a)    Computer Equipment
Grants are available to acquire computer equipment.  An allowable expense of
computerization of law schools is the cost of establishing an electronic mail service.
(b)    High-Speed High-Volume Duplication Machines for Publishing (Risograph)
Grants are available to law schools for Risograph machines suitable for publishing
teaching materials under Category I.
(c)    Copy Machines
Grants in this category are available for the purchase of copy machines for use of faculty
and students at law schools.
(d)    Grants for Improvements for Law Libraries
Copy machines to be located in libraries for use by teachers, researchers and students.
Computerization of libraries.
Category V Grants: Grants to Law Schools for Lawyer Training
13.           Grants are available for law schools to organize training events for lawyers and other
personnel in government departments who need legal training. Since law schools have the facilities for
such training and often have the necessary expertise available from their teachers, they are currently in
the best position to organize legal training events for the staff of government agencies. To assure that
the latest issues of praztice can be addressed at such training events, law schools should be able to involve
prominent practitioners in those events.
(a)    Grants for Training of Government Lawyers
Priority will be given to training in those areas of law that have changed the most in the
last few years and which are most directly relevant to proper performance of the job of
the given group of government lawyers trained.



Appendix G. Legal Education Component                                                    5
(b)    Training for Other Personnel
Funds are available for training events for other workers whose jobs require that they
have legal knowledge.
Category VI Grants: Grants to Produce Legal Education Materials for the General Population
14.          Grants are available from the Fund for professional outreach projects that propose means
of informing the public of their legal rights and the nature of the legal culture that Russian society is
striving to achieve. Because of their special knowledge of the history and nature of legal institutions and
of teaching methodology, law schools are a logical place to turn to for projects designed to educate the
general population about legal issues.
Booklets/Pamphlets and Other Written Materials for High Schools and the General
Population, and Ptblic Issue Forums on Television and Radio
Funding is available for Law Schools, in cooperation with local television or radio stations, to
organize public issue forum shows for broadcast or community education events (programs) in
the region where the law school is located.






APPENDIx H
PUBLIC EDUCATION CAMPAIGNS
1.           The preliminary results of the baseline study (Study) on public legal awareness and mass
legal education in Russia reveal wide gaps in the Russian population's knowledge with respect to the rule
of law, as well as in efforts to educate the public to such principles. The lack of awareness and
information is especially pronounced in the areas of civil and business law, which are vital to the
functioning of a market economy and the success of economic reform.
2.            The Study also indicates a pointed lack of respect for the rule of law, legal institutions,
law enforcement authorities, and key legal players such as judges and lawyers. The Russian public, by
and large, is unwilling to seek legal counsel and pay for it, especially conflicts occur.
3.            Nevertheless, the Study indicates that the Russian public is aware of the unsatisfactory
condition of the legal system, especially in comparison with Western countries, and shows that the
citizenry would like to utilize the existing legal system to the greatest extent possible to satisfy their
business and legal needs. Most of the interviewees expressed hope that a rejuvenated legal system, which
could emerge as a result of legal reform efforts, would be more useful and could be applied more broadly
than the existing one for their benefit and the good of society.
4.            Government institutions, NGOs, private organizations, and individuals surveyed in the
Study currently are not involved in mass information and education efforts in the area of law as the basis
for economic and business relations. However, many expressed willingness to participate in an
education/information campaign to boost public knowledge about civil and commercial law to help alter
existing widespread patterns of behavior that militate against the successful implantation of a market
economy in Russia.
Summary of Key Findings
3     The Russian public does not yet see the law as the primary framework for economic and
business relationships. The vast majority of the nation fundamentally distrusts both the
law enforcement and the court system. Russians routinely underutilized the judiciary to
resolve business disputes, and do not consider Russia as a country governed by law.
*     The media's coverage of legal topics, especially in the areas of business and commercial
law, is limited and deficient in content. The overwhelming majority of Russian
journalists in the field lack the basic knowledge, understanding, and research skills
required to analyze and write about law as it functions in a democratic market society.
*     Texts of even the most basic laws are not widely available in libraries. Commentaries
on law, compilations of legal precedent, and application guidelines for legal practice are
in extremely narrow circulation. Books on legal subjects for lay readers, practical
brochures, overviews of the Russian legal system, and legal how-to manuals for
entrepreneurs are in such extreme short supply as to have virtually no impact on a lasting
scale.
*     Electronic legal databases exist but are affordable only by large corporations and private
law firms.



2                                                           Technical Annex: Russia Legal Reform Project
*      Today in Russia there are no sustained educational or mass information programs on
business and commercial law, or business dispute resolution, being carried out by either
government bodies, NGOs, private organizations, or individuals.
*      Key informants and focus group respondents felt that broad-based efforts to increase
public understanding of law as the basis for economic and business activity in society are
necessary. Such a campaign would draw support across party and political lines and may
be a rallying point for legal reform generally.
Study Outline
5.            The Study included the following six components:
*      in-depth attitudinal research, consisting of a representative poll of the adult urban
population (n= 1,200) of the Russian Federation and 8 focus groups drawn from the
general population and elites, including lawyers, managers and government officials. The
focus groups were spread between the capital and a provincial town;
*      content analysis of the electronic broadcast media;
*      content analysis of the capital city and provincial press;
*      in-depth interviews with Russian institutions dealing with public legal education and
information issues;
*      a detailed library and bibliography survey of mass education materials; and
*      evaluations by legal experts, social researchers, and journalists of key media programs
and publications on legal topics for non-lawyers.
6.            The results of opinion research paint a rather bleak picture of legal education and
information accessibility in Russia.
*      81 percent of the respondents consider that they are insufficiently informed or completely
uninformed as to their civil rights, including property rights and other laws underlying
business and economic activity.
*      Only 11 percent of the population consider themselves "sufficiently informed" or "close
to sufficiently" informed of the legal framework and their rights.
*      79 percent consider their property to be insufficiently protected, or that the laws which
protect their property are faulty.
*      Over 70 percent of the entrepreneurs involved in the focus groups said that business
conflicts are resolved through criminal means and bribes rather than through the courts.
*      A significant majority of the respondents (59 percent) consider that the existing laws do
not sufficiently protect property rights



Appendix H. Public Education Campaigns                                                     3
*     Over 58 percent "somewhat" mistrust the militia (the police), while 28 percent of the
respondents completely mistrust it. Only 6 percent "completely trust" it.
*     While over 51 percent believe that business disputes are resolved through bribes and
organized criminal structures, only 8 percent believe that they are resolved through the
courts.
*     52 percent of the respondents do not trust the court system, while only 28 percent trust
it "somewhat. "
7.            The findings of the focus groups indicated that Russians do not consider Russia a rule of
law state. Respondents considered a rule of law state one where laws are of high quality, where a
mechanism to observe and enforce laws exists, where the populace is well-informed about these laws,
and where both law enforcement organs and the courts are well-informed and highly professional.
8.            Focus group participants expressed the majority view that the school system does not
provide the basics for understanding the role of law in a market society. They indicated that those
newspapers which cover legal topics are accessible to only a very small part of the population. They also
noted that television does not provide adequate information on legal topics, neither through news,
documentary, nor dramatic programming.
9.            Opinion research indicates that the tendency to seek legal advice (and to pay for it) is
still extremely weak. Respondents further indicated a lack of willingness to pay for legal information,
expressing the view that one is "entitled" to this as a "right" and also that people "deserve" access to law.
10.          Media content analysis showed that the situation in television is especially grave, with
little or no time spent on new legislation or important legal issues impacting the public. Also, such
central newspapers as Izvestiya, Finansovye Izvvestiya, Finansovaya Gazeta, Kommersant-Daily,
Nezavisimaya Gazeta and many other, as well as local newspapers from Voronezh and Chelyabinsk
regions were screened. Legal topics are covered in a sporadic fashion, evidencing little to no grasp of
the issues on the part of the journalists. The only exception mentioned is the Izvestiya-Ekspertiza
supplement, which offers extensive coverage of legal issues, especially in the securities area, though this
is primarily consumed by elites.
11.          For the purposes of the Study, libraries in Moscow and Vladimir were examined at
random against an all-Russian list of popular and professional legal literature publications for the years
1992-1995:
*     Between 1992-1995 a total of about 1,000 books on legal issues were published, which
is a fraction of the number in some other transition economies.
*     About 30 percent of these books are texts of laws and regulations; 14 percent are
commentaries to laws; textbooks were 10 percent; methodological publications 14
percent; about 10 percent are legal dictionaries and other information literature.
*     In city and region libraries, only 30 percent of these books were available; in some legal
disciplines there were none available.



4                                                        Technical Annex. Russia Legal Reform Project
*     The study noted high demand for books on legal topics - up to 30 percent of the total
books demanded in libraries.
12.          Good books on legal subjects for elementary, secondary and high schools are practically
non-existent. Due to the interest in the abuses of the Soviet regime, most of the books that are available
tend to focus on constitutional law and human rights. These issues receive the lion's share of attention
from the donor community, such as the Soros Foundation, the Council of Europe and the U.N. School
books dealing with civil and commercial law simply do not exist.
13.          In-depth interviews with key executives and decision makers in the Russian government,
including law enforcement institutions and procuracy (Attorney General's Office), educational authorities,
Russian and Western NGOs demonstrated that many of interviewees in the educational and NGO sectors
felt that Russian society desperately needs a campaign to educate the public about the law, and business
and economic law in particular. Both the government institutions and the NGOs have the capacity to be
involved in such efforts, but are lacking Western expertise in mass communications and public relations,
and are in need of adequate resources to engage in sustained activities.
14.           Based upon the Study, the Russian legal professionals involved formulated several
messages that need to reach the Russian public in order to stimulate the utilization of business and
commnercial law and develop legal institutions:
*     Laws exist in order to regulate relations between people, including those in business and
economic affairs, and to protect their rights. Part of this message is that market does not
equal chaos. It means that the rule of law exists in order to regulate market relations.
This also includes communicating the basic understanding that there are laws regulating
relations between buyer and seller, lender and borrower, and lessor and renter, etc.
e     The purpose of the law is to increase the security of business transactions and make them
more predictable. This includes communicating the point that legal information can be
acquired and understood by everyone (or by their counsel). This is a broad message that
applies across the board to different types of transactions and to different aspects of
market behavior (trading in consumer goods and commodities, real estate, securities
transactions, etc.).
*     A contract is an agreement between two or more parties, especially one that is written
and enforceable under the law.  Contracts exist to regulate relations in particular
transactions, while the law broadly defines the rights and obligations of parties to
transactions. Contracts exist in order to prevent disputes. This message should also
include the need to observe and enforce contracts.
*     Disputes can and should be resolved by applying laws and stipulations of contract. The
fora for dispute resolution can be the courts, including the arbitrage courts, or ADR,
such as commercial arbitration (treteyskiye study) sponsored by professional
organizations, for example, chambers of commerce.
*     The functions of the legal profession and independent judiciary must be explained, and
its prestige enhanced. Increased use of the legal profession and institutions by the
Russian public must be promoted, with special emphasis on business transactions and



Appendix H. Public Education Campaigns                                                       5
economic behavior. A particularly high profile should be assigned to ADR as the means
to promote civilized relations in the market sector.
*      The population needs to be informed as to how the legal system of the country is
structured; what the branches of law and legal institutions are; where and how to access
legal information concerning at least simple economic transactions such as the buying and
selling of apartments, opening small business, or signing labor contracts.






APPENDIX I
JUDICIAL EDUCATION PROGRAMS
1.            The judicial education' and training component of the Project has two parts: one targeted
at the courts of general jurisdiction (CGJ) and its training institution, the Law Academy of the Ministry
of Justice (Law Academy); the other at the arbitrazh (commercial) courts. While the education format
is very similar for the two separate court systems, it is not identical; in the case of CGJ, greater emphasis
is placed on newly appointed judges and the development of their judicial skills. For both court systems,
the Project would initially finance training-of-trainers (TOT) programs for judicial educators from among
judges and academics. In the second stage, the Project would finance roll-out seminars for judges in
which the newly-trained judicial educators would form the core faculty.
Courts of General Jurisdiction
Training Judicial Educators
2.            Selection of Trainers: The Target Group. A maximum of 25 trainers/educators will be
selected, consisting mainly of CGJ judges, with a few judicial educators affiliated with the Law Academy
or its regional centers. The trainers will be chosen for their potential as leaders in judicial reform and
will form the nucleus of a judicial education faculty for Russia. This group should be representative of
the geographic regions of Russia, with no more than four judges/educators from Moscow. The TOT
would be repeated twice over the life of the Project, in consecutive years, for a different group of 25
judges/educators each year.
3.            Part 1: External Training Curriculum. Part I of the TOT will be an intensive two-week
program held outside of Russia for 25 trainers/educators. The curriculum would include the definition
and development of: judicial education objectives; judicial education standards; needs assessments; long-
range strategic planning; judicial reform process - connecting to the community; orientation programs;
"marketing" of judicial education; curriculum development (introduction of required content of programs
on judicial independence, the role of the judge, the relationship between the media and the judiciary,
judicial ethics on and off the bench, judicial accountability to the public, codes of judicial conduct, case
flow management, the science of fact finding, judicial reasoning, judicial skills (efficient and impartial
chairmanship, sensitivity to the needs of witnesses, litigants, and the public, ensuring the rules of natural
justice are enforced), stress management and adapting to change, the exercise of judicial discretion,
judicial activism, elements, and practice of the adversarial system, and computer skills for judges).
4.            Part lI: Internal Training Curriculum. Part II of the TOT will be a four-week collegial
programn held within Russia for the same group of 25 judges/judicial educators who successfully
completed Part I. Further study of substantive topics of law would be included in the curriculum, as
would practicing teaching methodologies and styles, and the development of personal teaching tools.
I/    In the context of this Project, judicial education will be defined as collegial meetings (national, regional, and local),
training seminars/workshops, and all professional information-be it in print, audio, video, computer disk, on-line, or mentoring
feedback-received by the judge.



2                                                        Technical Annex: Russia Legal Reform Project
Training Newly Appointed Judges
5.            Selection of Seminar Participants: The Target Group. Fifty newly appointed judges
from the first instance CGJ. These orientation programs for newly appointed judges would be held at
the regional centers of the Law Academy, and would be taught by the trainers/educators who participated
in the external and internal TOT. There would be five of these seminars held over the life of the Project.
Duration: two months.
6.            Teaching Methods
*      Lectures (to be kept to a minimum)
*     Workshops
*      Syndicates in plenary session
*      Distance learning
*     Video plus workbooks
*     Panel discussions
*      Assignments
*      Dramatic presentations and role playing
7.            Teaching Tools
*     Audio and video tapes
*     Hypotheticals
*     Workbooks
*     Overhead transparencies
*      XInteractive tapes
*     Self-evaluated tests
*     Bench book
*     Model codes of ethics
8.            Curriculum. The topics addressed during the orientation programs would include: the
role of a judge; transition from the bar to the bench; judicial independence (appointment, security of
tenure, discipline, and dismissal); judicial conduct on and off the bench; code of judicial ethics; judicial
reasoning and the exercise of judicial discretion; judgment writing and delivery; organization of judge's
time; understanding of the clerical functions of the court; records management; development of computer
skills; orientation in new legislation; areas of substantive law; legal research; and review of evidence and
procedures.



Appendix 1: Judicial Education Programs                                                   3
Arbitrazh (Commercial) Courts
Training Judicial Educators
9.            Selection of Trainers: The Target Group. A maximum of 25 judges of the arbitrazh
courts will be selected based on demonstrated potential to be leaders in judicial reform and form the
nucleus of a judicial education faculty for Russia. The group should include judges of first, second, and
third instance, with two representatives from each of the regions where there is a second instance
arbitrazh court. The TOT would take place once over the life of the Project.
10.          Part I: External Training Curriculum. Part I of the TOT will be an intensive two-week
program held outside of Russia for 25 judges/judicial educators. The curriculum would include the
definition and development of: judicial education objectives; judicial education standards; needs
assessments; long-range strategic planning; judicial reform process - connecting to the community;
orientation programs; "marketing" of judicial education; curriculum development (introduction of
required content of programs on judicial independence, the role of the judge, the relationship between
the media and the judiciary, judicial ethics on and off the bench, judicial accountability to the public,
codes of judicial conduct, case flow management, the methods of alternative dispute resolution and the
interaction between private arbitration and mediation and official courts of law, enforcement of arbitral
awards,  the science of fact finding, judicial reasoning, judicial skills (efficient and impartial
chairmanship, sensitivity to the needs of witnesses, litigants, and the public, ensuring the rules of natural
justice are enforced), stress management and adapting to change, the exercise of judicial discretion,
judicial activism, elements and practice of the adversarial system, and computer skills for judges).
11.          Part 11: Internal Training Curriculum. Part II the TOT will be a cour-week collegial
program held within Russia for the same group of 25 judges/judicial educators who successfully complete
Part 1. Further study of substantive topics of law would be included, as would practicing teaching
methodologies and styles, and development of personal teaching tools.
Training Judges
12.          Selection of Seminar Particpants: The Target Group. Fifty judges of first and second
instance of the arbitrazh courts. These training seminars would be held in the regions (judges from
neighboring regions where seminars are not held would be able to participate), and would be taught by
trainers who participated in the external and internal TOT. Over the life of the Project, there would be
three of these seminars. Duration: two weeks.
13.          Teaching Methods
*     Lectures (to be kept to a minimum)
*     Workshops
*     Syndicates in plenary session
*     Distance learning
*     Video plus workbooks
*     Panel discussions
*     Assignments
*     Dramatic presentations and role playing



4                                                         Technical Annex: Rassia Legal Reform Project
14.           Teaching Tools
*      Audio and video tapes
*      Hypotheticals
*      Workbooks
*      Overhead transparencies
*      Interactive tapes
*      Self-evaluated tests
*      Bench book
*      Model codes of ethics
15.           Curiculum. The topics addressed during these seminars would include: the role of a
judge; judicial independence (appointment, security of tenure, discipline, and dismissal); judicial conduct
on and off the bench; code of judicial ethics; judicial reasoning and the exercise of judicial discretion;
judgment writing and delivery; orientation in new legislation; areas of substantive law; legal research;
review of evidence and procedures; enforcement of judgments; and methods of alternative dispute
resolution and enforcement of arbitral awards in arbitrazh courts.



APPENDIX J
STLIDY ON COUIRT ADMINISTRATION AND CASE MANAGEMENT
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
Objective
1.              The purpose of the study is to describe and analyze the principal aspects of the operation,
administration, and financing of the courts of general jurisdiction (CGJ) and the case-flow management
in these courts and, on the basis of such analysis, make recommendations for improving their
performance'.
Background
2.              The Russian Federation (RF) is in the process of implementing a Legal Reform Project
(Project). The Project consists of four components: support for legal drafting, legal information and
codification, legal education, including public information campaigns, and judicial reform, including
support for alternative dispute resolution (ADR). The overall Project goal is to improve the performance
of the Russian legal system in areas key to etfective functioning of market institutions. Among the
activities to be conducted under the judicial reform component of the Project is this study.
3.              The study will focus on CGJ. The experience of the commercial (arbitrazh) courts can
be used for comparison as well as taken into account in making recommendations for the CGJ. The study
is not to primarily focus on the operation of criminal law and procedures used by the courts of general
jurisdiction in carrying out the law of criminal procedures, except in so far as those procedures are
common to or inextricably involved with the procedures used to conduct the responsibilities of the courts
for non-criminal law cases2.
4.              Some of the findings and recommendations of the study may be tested on a pilot basis
under the Project. The recommendations may also be a basis for the design of programs to be carried out
with the assistance of entities other than the World Bank.   The Consultants will also make
recommendations to the RFLR on how to disseminate the findings and recommendations of the study.
5.              Throughout the study, the Consultants will give consideration to whether any legislative
changes are necessary to ensure adherence to the reforms recommended by the Consultants. If yes, the
Consultants will outline the nature and extent of such legislative changes.
1/      The study is not responsible for designing activities to carry out the recommendations nor preparing detailed budgets
for their implementation.
2/      Appendix A sets forth a very short description of the composition and size of the three court systems of the Russian
Federation. The following existing documents should be reviewed and consulted by the organization which will
conduct this study: (i) Parts One and Two of the Civil Code of the Russian Federation as amended March 1, 1996;
( ii) Russian Federation Code of Civil Procedures as amended November 30, 1995; (iii) Procedure Code for the
Russian Commercial Courts as amended July 1, 1995; (iv) Collected Resolutions of the Russian Federation Supreme
Court (1993 edition); (v) Instructions of the Russian Federation Ministry of Justice; and (vi) Draft of the Russian
Federation Constitution Act "On the Russian Federal Judicial System."



2                                                           Technical Annex: Russia Legal Reform Project
Summary Description of the Composition and Size of the Court Systems of the Russian
Federation
There are three court systems in the Russian Federation (RF): (i) the Constitutional Court (one on
the federal level; some republics, subjects of the RF, have separate constitutional courts); (ii) the
courts of general jurisdiction (three instances, the highest of which is the Supreme Court of the RF);
and (iii) the arbitrazh (commercial) courts (also three instances, the highest of which is the High
Arbitrazh Court). Each system is organized and operated independently with separate funding
sources and administrations.
There is no unified or even similar structure for administering, operating, and financing the various
courts. The Constitutional Court is directly funded from the federal budget and administered
independently from the other courts. The High Arbitrazh Court receives a separate budgetary
allocation for all the three instances of courts. The first two instances of courts of general
jurisdiction are administratively and financially subordinate to the Ministry of Justice (MOJ); their
budget is channelled through the MOJ. Their third instance, the Supreme Court of the RF,
however, is funded directly from the federal budget and administered independently. This structure
makes the arbitrazh courts (which are transformed from the former 'state arbitrazh' -- a quasi-
judicial executive agency vested with resolving disputed among state-owned enterprises) fiscally
better off and institutionally easier to administer and manage than the courts of general jurisdiction.
Jurisdictional lines between the courts are laid out by the Constitution of the RF and are further
elaborated in specific laws. There is, however, a substantial jurisdictional overlap between the
general jurisdiction and arbitrazh court system in economic disputes.
As mentioned, the system of courts of general jurisdiction is comprised of three levels, each of
which has original jurisdiction over some cases. There are 2,500 trial courts manned by
approximately 12,000 judges in the first instance courts, about 3,000 judges in the regional courts
(second instance) and 116 judges employed by the Supreme Court. The vast majority of cases are
heard in the district and cit courts (first instance), with approximately I % of cases reaching the
regional and oblast (second instance) courts. Very few cases reach the Supreme Court, which
exercises some original jurisdiction as do the middle level (regional and oblast) courts.
The arbitrazh courts consist of much fewer courts and judges (their first instance courts are regional
and oblast courts): 82 courts in the first instance (a total of 89, one in each of the subjects of the
RF, are planned), 10 federal circuit courts in the second instance (with some original jurisdiction)
and the High Arbitrazh Court. There are a total of 1,774 judges of which 1,578 are at the trial
level, 143 in the circuit courts and 53 work in the High Arbitrazh Court.
In addition to judges, the district and city courts of general jurisdiction employ judicial enforcement
officers who work for both general jurisdiction and arbitrazh courts. These 9,500 enforcement
officers, are tasked with executing judgments of both court systems.



Appendix J. Study on Court Administration and Case Management                             3
Organization and Conduct of Study
6.            The study will require the participation of several experts as set forth below under each
of the major topics to be addressed. These experts are to include persons familiar with the Russian legal
and judicial system. The team conducting the study ("Consultants") should include persons with
experience in the operation of court systems in the civil law and common law systems. The Consultants
will hire the necessary experts to perform the work and provide them with any logistic and administrative
support.
7.            As part of the methodology of the study, the Consultants will conduct surveys of judges,
selected counsel, court personnel and judicial administrators, and conduct first hand observation of the
conduct of the work of selected courts at each level of the system. The survey and observational work
will guide the analysis of both (A and B) parts of the study. Given the overall focus of the project and
considerations of practicality, the observational and analytical work will concentrate on first instance
courts in six different sites.  Because of their importance, the sites will include Moscow and St.
Petersburg. Other sites should include two oblast capitals in European Russia and in the central and far
east regions of Asian Russia. The exact sites would be chosen by the Consultants in consultation with
the RFLR (who will solicit views from the Council of Judges).
8.           The Consultants will prepare a workplan to be presented and agreed to by the RFLR
within four weeks of the effective date of the contract. The workplan will include a detailed schedule,
methodology, and output of the work to be conducted.
9.            The Consultants will conduct the work in close collaboration with the RFLR and assure
that the RFLR's guidance is observed by the persons who are conducting the work. There will be
periodic consultations between the RFLR and the person or persons of the Consultants who are
responsible for the conduct of the work. Findings and recommendations will be informally shared and
discussed with the RFLR. A formal mid-term review of progress will be conducted by the RFLR and
the Contraccor within 16 weeks of the beginning of the work.  A draft of the findings and
recommendations of the study will be provided by the Consultants to the RFLR for comment by the end
of the 24th week of work under the contract. In addition, preliminary results of the study will be shared
and discussed with the Council of Judges which will comment and critique Consultant's preliminary
findings and recommendations. The Council of Judges, in consultation with the RFLR, will decide on
the appropriate fora to discuss the preliminary findings, which may include judicial workshops financed
under the Project. The Consultants will submit their final report within 6 weeks of the receipt of the
comments from the RFLR.
10.          The following subparts set forth the aspects of the operation of the courts of general
jurisdiction which are to be the subject of the study. Each subpart indicates the topics to be covered, the
level of effort which is likely to be needed, and the qualifications of the persons to be used in the conduct
of the work.
A. Analysis of Court Administration Issues of the Courts of General Jurisdiction
11.          Objective and Scope of Services. The objective of this part of the study is to analyze
issues involved in administering CGJ, including budget analysis, personnel issues, and costs of providing
justice through the CGJ. The study will include recommendations concerning: (i) ways to rationalize
the flow of money in and out of the court system; reduce the costs while improving the performance of



4                                                            Technical Annex: Russia Legal Reform Project
the court system; and for generating the resources for financing the operation of the justice system
without impeding access to justice; (ii) ways to improve the management of personnel; and (iii) was to
improve the administration of the CGJ system. The study will include a discussion of how best to
measure the impact on the efficiency and fairness of the justice system of carrying out the
recommendations.
12.            The areas for analysis under this part of the study will include:
*      budget overview and analysis (including information from the Ministry of Justice
(MOJ) concerning the budget of the general court system and, for comparative
purposes, information from the High Commercial Court concerning the budget
of that court system).
*      does the current system of administering the CGJ by local branches of the MOJ
in any way impede the: (i) independence of the judiciary; and (ii) efficient
functioning of the administration of justice; if so, how can the current system be
improved to provide a better dispute resolution source to the public3
*      personnel review  (number of personnel, their responsibilities, appointment,
promotion and dismissal policies for court personnel, skill requirements)
*      appointment and disciplining (suspension and removal) of judges
i      review of current procedures (including legislative requirements) for the creation,
merging and abolishing of courts and court districts and consider whether a
reform of this system is necessary give the size of the population and the
country; if yes, propose reform measures
e      desirability of the creation of a new level of judicial officer, such as a magistrate,
be authorized to hear specific categories of cases (the proponents of this step
assert that it would increase access to the courts, make hearings quicker and
cheaper and make the selection of the judicial personnel easier because
qualifications could be less academically demanding)
*      desirability of a less formally organized courts (such as justices of peace) at the
entrance level of the court system (in considering the question, the Consultants
will take into account the reforms which have been introduced in industrialized
countries to expedite the handling of cases and make the process more responsive
to the needs of the public)
*      desirability in the RF of a system of administrative courts (would a separate
administrative court system make possible a faster and more objective way of
handling the resolution of some 1.5 to 2 million cases concerning administrative
violations?)
I/     The purpose of this study is not to propose detailed structural changes in the judiciary in RF.



Appendix J. Study on Court Administration and Case Management                                5
0      desirability of creating a position of a professional manager in Russian courts
who would assist chief judges in performing their managerial role
*      How can the security of court buildings and of judges be improved? (Suggest
measures which should be taken to improve the situation, include changing the
security standards of the courthouses).
13.           Level of Effort and Qualifications. The work required for this part of the study will
require the services of persons experienced in court administration and in analyzing the costs and
revenues of court systems in the industrialized countries and detailed knowledge of the operation and
administration of the courts in Russia. Member(s) of the Consultants team should be or have been
responsible for the fiscal operation of a major court system - either at the national level or in a major
region. It would be desirable that at least one of the experts have produced analytical work which has
been the basis for the introduction of significant reforms in the operation of a court system. Their time
will be divided into two phases - the first to organize the collection of the data, to discuss and agree on
the analytical approach to be taken and review the approach with the RFLR and the Council of Judges,
and the second, to carry out the analysis and the production of the report.
B. Analysis of Case-Flow Management and Process of Providing Justice through the CGJ
14.           Objective and Scope of Services. The objective of this part of the study is to analyze the
management of the case flow through CGJ. The study will result in proposals and recommendations
concerning ways in which management of the flow of cases through CGJ can be changed in order to
achieve a more efficient and effective justice system.  It will include a discussion of appropriate
performance targets and of how to measure the impact of carrying out the recommendations.
15.           The study will take into account the provisions of the Russian Constitution and the basic
legislation and regulations listed in footnote No. 2, page 1 above. It will also take into account the
regulations at the regional, oblast and city level which may govern the operation of the courts which are
used as objects of the study. The study will also use data collected from the judges, court personnel and
litigants and their lawyers in the courts included in the survey. These will be the same courts used in
the analysis of the costs of providing justice. (See subpart A above). The survey will include interviews
with the personnel involved as well as the direct observation by the team conducting the study of the
actual operation of the process.
16.           The study will analyze the various stages of the process (e.g. intake of the complaint,
registration of the case, gathering and recording of evidence in preparation for the hearing, the hearing
or "trial" and its recording, the reaching and expression of the decision, the choice of sanction and the
enforcement personnel.) The study will determine the two most frequent categories of cases (likely to
include debt collection) filed in CGJ and analyze the court procedures and case management flow on the
basis of these two types of cases.
17.           The study will also analyze the quality and availability of the support services to the
process of justice. This will include the personnel systems for judges and court personnel, the book-
keeping and other financial controls used by the courts, and record-keeping, filing, retrieval and archival
systems used for case management. Attention will be paid to the effectiveness of these services from the
point of view of the public as well as the personnel of the justice system.



6                                                       Technical Annex: Russia Legal Reform Project
18.          Questions which should be addressed include, but are not limited to, the following:
*     Is the current practice of having judges meet personally with prospective litigants
to go over their proposed filings a good use of the time of the judges? Is it
compatible with the role of the judge in making a final objective resolution of the
case, or could the initial review of the adequacy of the filing be performed by
court personnel?
*     How can the enforcement of court decisions be improved? Currently there are
9,500 judicial enforcement officers on the staffs of the district and city courts.
However, less than half of the judgments are executed. A draft "Law on a
Judicial Bailiffs Service" and a draft "Law on the Enforcement of Judgments"
has been prepared. Their provisions should be taken into account.
*     What is the current system of records management? What standards changes
should be proposed to make record management more appropriate, including
proposals on records management equipment, docket maintenance, records
retention schedules (to allow for the destruction of unnecessary records), and
procedures for purging files of inactive cases? How are cases currently archived?
In courts or the MOJ? Consideration should be given to making the archiving
system more efficient, perhaps on a regional basis.
3     In Russia, sizeable concerns exist about the accuracy of the records of judicial
proceedings. Presently, notes are taken in long hand by a secretary who has no
legal training. (In the commercial court system the notes are taken by the judge.)
There are many complaints of delays in the proceedings and inaccuracies in the
records. How could the current methodology of court reporting be improved so
that it is a reliable part of the official record ( What changes in the legislation
may be needed to make acceptable the use of sound or video records? What are
appropriate methods of maintaining records? Should all proceedings require a
verbatim record or should some require only a summary?)
i     What is the current usage of standardized legal forms? Is it adequate? Which
other standardized forms should be in use (which are the areas in which
standardized approaches are appropriate for all judges and courts)?
*     How can automation be best introduced (and improved) in courts in order to
enhance case management?
*     Review current system of producing and maintaining case statistics and make
recommendations for its improvement.
19.          The following issues should be addressed in the analysis of procedural items that impact
on the performnance of CGJ and the service they provide to the public:
*     How is the new system working which permits a judicial order to be issued
without the holding of a hearing in some cases? Should the use of this modality
be expanded?



Appendix 1. Study on Court Administration and Case Management                             7
*     What is the current system of issuing default judgments?  How can it be
improved?
*     Should there be any modification to the current right of the parties to agree to
transfer original trial jurisdiction from the district to the kray and oblast courts?
*     Does the present system of providing expert opinion testimony work well? There
have been complaints that the judicial expert opinion centers in each oblast
(which are under the MOJ) do not perform adequately. How can the expert
opinion system be reformed to provide better service to the public?
20.          Level of Effort and Qualifications. As in the first part of the study, the work on this
part should include a team of Consultants experienced in case management and procedural issues in
industrialized countries, as well as detailed knowledge of the work of courts in Russia. The importance
of understanding why certain practices are followed or not followed will require an intimate knowledge
of the Russian conditions under which the justice system operates and the cultural assumptions which the
various participants in the justice system make in performing their roles.
21.           Taking into account the foregoing, the Consultants should plan to provide the services
of professionals with experience across the range of topics outlined above. As in the first part of the
study, the time of the experts will be divided into two phases - the first to organize the collection of the
data, to discuss and agree on the analytical approach to be taken and review the approach with RFLR and
the Council of Judges, and the second, to carry out the analysis and production of the report.






APPENDix K
GUIDELINES FOR THE ORGANIZATION OF WORKSHOPS FOR JUDGES
1.           International experience has demonstrated that the strongest resistance to reforming
judicial systems around the world comes from the judges themselves. There are a number of reasons for
that: first, perceived threat to their tenure; second, professional inertia; third, "rent-seeking" attitudes and
habits; and fourth, cultural traditions concerning the role of a judge. Reforns usually do not succeed
unless judges are involved in the process from the outset, feel that they own the reform process, and
provide vital insider information on the problems in the adjudication system.
The Workshop Concept
2.            A series of judicial workshops are proposed as a device to involve judges in the reform
process. These workshops are aimed at getting Russian judges to share their experiences and discuss
problems in camera. These are not training seminars, but interactive fora where judges themselves will
be working out solutions. The ultimate goals of the workshops are achieving consensus and leadership
building (which are both central to judicial reform). The workshops are designed to involve judges of
all three court systems (courts of general jurisdiction, arbitrazh courts and the Constitutional Court) and
from all three instances. They will be organized in close cooperation with the Council of Judges of the
RF which is the principal professional association of Russian judges of all different court systems. The
Council, currently headed by a member of the Supreme Court of the RF, is interested and involved in
issues of judicial reform in Russia.
Objectives of Workshops
3.           Immediate objectives of the workshops are:
a)     To gather information.  How  Russian judicial system  operates in practice (its
administrative structure, structure of specific courts, case management practices, budget
allocations and flows, costs of justice for the litigants and invisible costs to the society,
judicial training, legal procedures, ADR methods, and physical facilities and equipment),
can only be learned from the judges themselves.
b)     To identify problems and hear proposals and solutions. No one is better equipped than
judges to suggest realistic solutions to the problems they face every day. Usually they
will have a good feeling of what would and would not work in practice.
c)     To motivate the judges. Giving the judges, who are often poorly paid and feel
"forgotten" by their government, a voice in reform. This constitutes a great morale-
booster, and reinforces pride in their job and satisfaction with their position. Moreover
such workshops can begin to generate a sense of corporate identity, essential to the
development of the judiciary as the third branch of government as envisioned in the
Constitution of the Russian Federation.
d)     To identify potential leaders. Discussions during the workshops will reveal who
understands the nature of the necessary changes and possesses leadership qualities among
the judiciary.



2                                                         Technical Annex: Russia Legal Reform Project
f)     To encourage fraternity among judges. Informal setting will help the formation of
"esprit de corps" among the Russian judiciary, especially given the nature of the different
court systems in the RF.
Methodology
a)     Speakers or facilitators can be the same for all the workshops (or all the sessions). Ten
speakers are need for workshops; a maximum of three will be foreign judges/speakers.
Most of them should be judges or former judges. Prior to the first workshops, a meeting
of speakers will be held in order to explain the nature of the workshops, agree on written
contributions, and emphasize to them that these presentations are not about the law or
legal doctrines, but about the daily work of judges.
b)     Nature of the presentations. The role of the speakers is to introduce subjects for
reflection and discussion, to raise questions and problems, and to encourage and stimulate
debate and exchange of ideas among the participating judges. Presentations should not
last more than half an hour. They are not supposed to refer to the substance of law or
to legal doctrine, but rather to real life experiences.
c)     Participating judges. It is important that at least ten days before the workshops the
participants receive and have the opportunity to review the reading materials prepared
by the speakers. In workshops organized later, these materials should include reports
from  prior workshops.  The judges should be ready when they return to their
jurisdictions to share the experiences of the workshops in presentations, speeches,
lectures, articles, and papers.
d)     Duration of the workshops. The workshops will take three days for each participating
judge. Three sets of workshops (each lasting three days) will take place during the same
week, staggered by a day.
e)     Venue.  The workshops should be held in a resort outside of a large city in order to
create a collegial atmosphere and give the judges an opportunity to interact with one
another.
f)     Evaluation and Reports. At the end of each workshop, participating judges will make
anonymous evaluations of the program, the speakers, the reading materials, the
discussions, the organization, and the conclusions. These evaluations, together with the
records of the workshop proceedings will be factored into the preparation of a final report
of each of the workshops. Conclusions and recommendations of the workshops will be
distributed, in consultation with the Council of Judges and the RFLR, to the judiciary.
This distribution can be in the form of a newsletter of the Council of Judges. Also,
judges participating in later organized workshops should familiarize themselves with
reports from prior workshops.



Appendix K. Guidelines for the Organization of Workshops for Judges                          3
Tentative Issues for Discussion
a)     Social role of the judge in a transition economy. The administration of justice is a
service provided by the state to society to solve conflicts rather than merely to interpret
laws. The objective is to serve citizens and economic actors in society.
b)     Judicial reasoning and exercise ofjudicial discretion. Judges may not be making use of
all the authority the law gives to them. Different methods of interpretation, legal
classification and analogies, exercise of discretion could all be used to the benefit of a
society in transition.
c)     Improvements in court administration and case management.  The RFLR will be
commissioning a study on improvements in court administration and case management
as part of the project. A preliminary version of this report should be presented and
discussed at a workshop.
d)     Organization of the work of a judge. Talking to lawyers and parties to a case, examining
evidence, sitting in hearings, writing decisions, handling backlog. How to use time more
efficiently.
e)     The role of the judge in civil and commercial proceedings. Filing of complaints,
evaluating written pleadings, listening to oral arguments, writing decisions, dealing with
appeals.
f)     Training of judges (what judges really need to learn according to their experiences in the
field) and the benefits and drawbacks of specialization ofjudges on specific areas of law.
g)    Independence of judges. Real life problems of relations with government authorities,
legislators and the press.
h)     Ethical aspects of judges' work. Ex parte communications, conflicts of interest, etc.
i)     Security of judges.
Organization of the Workshops
4.            A general coordinator should be hired to organize all aspects of the workshop. The
general coordinator will hire the necessary personnel to carry out this task.
5.            Costs include travel for the participating judges, speakers and staff; lodging and meals;
administrative expenses.
Qualifications and Tasks for a Coordinator
6.            Personal qualifications: Preferably, the person should be an educator with administrative
experience in the education sector, with some knowledge of teaching techniques and resources. The



4                                                            Technical Annex: Russia Legal Reform Project
person should have knowledge and experience in organization of courses. Being a lawyer is not a
requirement, though a legal educator with a knowledge of administration would be a plus.
7.             Duties of the General Coordinator:  To exercise the general supervision of the
organization, preparation, development and evaluation of each workshop by the staff under his or her
orders. Specifically, overseeing: (i) designation of each of the speakers or facilitators; the coordination
with them for the preparation of the reading materials for the judges, the printing of those materials and
their distribution to the judges at least ten days before a workshop; (ii) coordination with the Council of
Judges and the RFLR in selecting judges who will attend each workshop; (iii) coordination of the
necessary travel arrangements for all of those attending; (iv) the selection of the place where each
workshop is going to take place; (v) coordination about the dates of the event(s); (vi) coordination of
accommodation, meals, distribution of list of attendants and participants, pencils, papers, water and
services during the meetings and sessions, medical emergencies, communications, etc.; (vii) coordination
of all activities during each workshop necessary for the success of the event(s); (viii) coordination of the
preparation, distribution, collection and processing of the conclusions and recommendations of the
workshop(s), as well as of the evaluations of each workshop; preparation of a final report on each
workshop; and (ix) coordination of the hiring of the necessary staff to perform those duties mentioned
above.



APPENDix L
OTHER HIGH PRIORITY LEGAL REFORM ACTIVITIES
1.           To qualify for financing under this category, subprojects will have to be approved by the
Bank. Preference will be given to subprojects that meet the objectives of one of the defined project
components. The information that will need to accompany requests for Bank financing under the other
high-priority activities component (Part E) of the Project will, inter alia, have to contain: (i) detailed
description of the proposed activity (subproject), together with a proposed implementation schedule; (ii)
identification of the implementation agency for the activity; (iii) description of the level of requested
(proposed) financing from the Bank (including an estimate of the foreign versus local expenditures
breakdown of the costs), together with an estimated disbursement schedule; (iv) description of the
proposed selection procedures (including terms of reference, qualifications and duration of service) for
any consultant to be engaged or for any goods to be procured for the purposes of the subproject; (v)
determination of the level of counterpart contribution for the subproject.
2.            The following is a non-exhaustive tentative list of activities that, if further developed, can
be financed under other high-priority activities component (Part E) of the Project following an agreement
between the Borrower and the Bank:
(i)    Testing in courts, on a pilot basis, the introduction of measures designed to improve
court administration and case flow management. Such activities will be identified and
recommended through the study and/or judicial workshops financed under the judicial
reform component (Part D) of the Project.
(ii)    Conferences and workshops for government officials, legal academics, and practitioners
on key aspects of legal reform.
(iii)   Support for activities of local bar associations. Such activities may include, inter alia,
various training programs, definition and institutionalization of admission standards to the
bar, and development of standards and requirements for continuing legal education.
(iv)   Support the development and definition of new standards for accreditation of law schools
and legal education and graduation criteria, including through academic and professional
organizations, such as the Association of Russian Law Schools (est. in January 1996).
Support meetings of academic and professional organizations to discuss the future shape
of legal education in Russia.
(v)    Designing a pilot program for the arbitrazh courts on court annexed alternative dispute
resolution, especially arbitration and mediation.
(vi)   Preparation activities for future legal reform projects.






APPENDIX M
RUSSIAN FOUNDATION FOR LEGAL REFORM
Statutory Organs and Their Functions
1.           The Russian Foundation for Legal Reform (RFLR) is a non-commercial entity established
to promote legal reform in Russia and manage resources provided for this purpose. Directive No.81-rp
of the President of the Russian Federation, dated February 22, 1996, and Decree No.230-r of GOR, dated
February 23, 1996, authorized the creation of the RFLR and appointed it to manage credits and other
forms of international financial assistance to Russian legal reform, including the resources under the
Bank-financed Legal Reform Project.
2.           The statutory organs of the RFLR are: General Meeting of Founders (participants),
Council of Trustees, President and Executive Director.
3.           The General Meeting of Founders (participants) has exclusive authority to:
*     amend the Charter;
*     reorganize the RFLR;
*     accept new participants;
*     expel participants;
*     appoint members of the Council of Trustees; and
*     appoint and dismiss the President.
4.           The Council of Trustees (5-10 members, with the President and the Executive Director
members ex officio) meets under the chairmanship of the President and has exclusive authority to:
i     approve annual budgets and sources of financing;
*     appoint and dismiss the Executive Director (upon the reconmmendation of the President);
*     receive annual reports of the Executive Director;
*     approve annual financial statements;
--    confirm the auditor of the RFLR and approve his conclusions;
e     authorize transactions for amounts exceeding $350,000, except as specifically provided
for in the section on the authority of the President; and
*     create consultative committees and select their members (upon the recommendation of the
President).
5.           The President (who may either be honorary, working without compensation, or be
compensated on a contract basis):
*     calls General Meetings of Founders and meetings of the Council of Trustees;
*     takes decisions on the creation of non-commercial organizations and participation by the
RFLR therein;
*     confirms deputy directors and the chief accountant (or, in the case of the President
working on a contract basis, appoints them);
*     chooses the auditor and submits his nomination to the Council of Trustees;
*     authorizes transactions for amounts exceeding $200,000;
*     determines staff requirements of the RFLR and hiring terms; and



2                                                           Technical Annex: Russia Legal Reform Project
*      carries out other functions not within the exclusive authority of the General Meeting of
Founders and the Council of Trustees.
In the case of the President working on a contract basis, he/she is additionally authorized to sign contracts
and conduct other financial affairs of the RFLR, including plenary authority to conclude any transactions
for amounts not exceeding $450,000, and transactions specifically connected to sole-source contracting,
and taking out loans for amounts not exceeding $450,000. In "exceptional cases", the President can sign
contracts for amounts exceeding $450,000, with mandatory notification of all members of the Council
of Trustees within three days. The Council of Trustees has ten days to overrule the President in such
cases.
6.            Executive (Operations or Financial) Director:
*      signs contracts and conducts other financial affairs of the RFLR;
*      hires and dismisses staff members; and
*      carries out other functions in the ordinary course of business.
The Executive Director has the authority to appoint deputy directors and the chief accountant, to hire and
dismiss staff, and to sign contracts for amounts exceeding $200,000, if the President is honorary, working
without compensation.
7.            The RFLR can create consultative conunittees consisting of prominent experts in specific
areas of the RFLR's activities.



APPENDIX N
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN BY COMPONENT
(see next page)






LEGAL DRAFTING
19"                                            ~~~~~~        ~     ~     ~~CY 199                                                               C  1996
14~.   DK.   Jm.   Feb.   M  Aw.   M-Y    J~    JWyOAu       .            No      D.c.   Jan.    Feb.   Mw.   AW.    May    Jew    July    A
Ar- -,lb 009  -f b-tHl1                                                                                   {          Lzz-                   -- 
_ _    _    _  _   _    _  _    _    _ _-                                                                                                                                                   icM Ri       2  v   1
h.* d-f TOf pi Pb
P.P    T A. 



LEGAL DRAFrING
LEGAL REFRM  PROJECT - ugai ' TatiIg
SCHEDULE FOR PROJECT START-UP AD MPL                                                                                                                                     __.___
- -          L                                         r                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CY 1999                              ICY 2000I            1'1              I           I
ALdhdty                                               Sepi.    Oca.    No,  D| r.    Jan.    Feb.    Mar.   Apr.  MN.| Juae    July    Aug.   Stpt.   Od    No  D|ec.    Jan.    Feb.   Mar.   Apr.    May    June    July
A,-  d. GOt  f0 I.., . o.d, yor                      _     _ _______
Cook, ~~~~oi, onokow a,C-oact 3QAG) 0c 04"00 1.0#8
Propor TOO
0.ok d-a  of ToxRIf r.k.o
r______  __                                                 i0 <===ii IXi                                                             tt t1     
To-, LoIiw KP.op,o  ________
a,d o.I' n/o.,,-.  .olo0o
N.koor0 of TO_ WI p.Goao
Cm,0  so po.6 TA lorW             
NIS-,IC-
5p -' d.Aal-P.Wo.  -od-ooo  ko o  dW.ftr
Pr.Poa TMO
0.0k Ia.-  of TOR/1.0 prbao
N.aa of 00.
TooOOg 00.0, dr.0,oi
P.P  T.O Ro
O.at r~a0 If T05100 Ir .0,1 _
m- It
B.0k ok~   f ~0    00
CooO po.otoa ~ ~ ~     ~        ~        ~        ~        ~       ~        ~       (Cwa  f )(Cnw  4
C-WaO p-.oo TAO .0, dr.f.*



LEGAL DRAFTING
LEGAL REFORM PROJECT - Logo1 DA.ing                                                 4-
iCHEDIJLE FOR PROJECrT START-UP ADTIMPL  T                       t
_                     _          I I I                 _I 
AdIiy                                             Au.S    Sep|.          |N.        Dec
C-f.er emda wo-k,e grW WG) - g-
"- TOR              _                         __ ____  _   _   _ _ _                 _
leek cfe.ere of TOR/O pek.    ___________
LU= LOV- p.spe-
roe ce.ee.o of nle.  cw       __                       ___               _ 
unog-rc                                      , ___     
C-W . - &peo  TA o W_
Conlc -hb rwo SWIV (WG) o   - I-               _ ,                    _ , 
Pr.    T_                                             |_UR
.*k  -r  a TOILOI p_.__
I-- L0LSd LO _  _p___
Ne..ooe f C                                        _ _ 
C-eoo n ped TA . Wr
oo fee.-eo e.e.e       nn - Iql de= =       ==                         = =  
-nTOI                                                        
C,A k.oe  f ToT/LOI _ k._
1- LOLUedp,
r 0 Ie. dde.h.g_                                                  _ _ _ 
BWlek  .fon.. of7D    WI e.j
Brk d-    rr      r 
r_r en- -.d-  -      n n r      WSW d_._
PW    TOR 0==< 
8-k d'       d TORA.01 =   _==   
RBUINAL DRAFrIG__    
S_ ru Pr"      d r b                                     _ _ __   
N _Be,W d c_
Tr...g . kg.[ dal&ng_ _ _ _.                                        __ _ _
T. r.. AC . kW                                              _    _ _f_ _
r B.al d~  a ._-__  __d 
C41d   yro                                             _ _.         _    






LEGAL INFORUMA7ON
LEGAL REFORM PROJECT -LegllIdorr-  |  1  |  |   |   |   |    _                                                                                     
SCHEDULE FOR PROJECT START-UP AD IMPLEMENTATION   |-                                                                                                                                                    _      _.- -   _         -
____ _CY 1S _                                      1=                       CY 1997                      --- _  =  i -  1                                                     CY 1998
Activny                                     l | Sq^- |      |Oct    Nov.   Dec.   Ja.   Feb.   Mar.   Apr.    May   Jum  | July      Aug.   Sept.   Oct.    Nov    Dc.    Jn.     Feb.   Mar.   Apr. IMay  Eune K
'_-_^~_____  _ = _                                                                                    _                    _ 1
TOR dpnonf0        ~   u-
Ci,. .0 ouoy no suy. onel. poop. dol llllllllllllllllllll[lllliOl    
3uk ckoo of TOR .oo LO! puoho
Nd Evh~- "Eu..
Bd .o  _o MI                                                    i         I pk
B. - of .uo.Md~n
cu~0007n neo. o   f. -.W0 o R.
_ _ _ _ _ _ _    _   _   _        z  I   z   z  I        ACM+ t



LEGAL INFORMATION
LEGAL REFORM PROJECT - Lgal Information |                                                                      - _ _|          _ L       |
SCHEDIJLE FOR PROiECr START-UP AD IMPL+  t    --                                                                                    - =t
_ _ _   I  S T L ^ r    E _ = 1   T r ~ TCY 1999                                                                                        CY T IT
Adiety                                        Aug. -Sept    Oct.   No,   Dec.    Jan.    Feb.   Ma.   Apr.   may   June    July   Aug.                     Oct.   No      Di.  Jan        Feb.   Mar.   Apr    M y   June
_ _ _=_ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _= _= _= _= _= _ =   =                           _= _ _    , - ,                                                                    1                                                   _ _ _   _  t
_________                     _____                                                                                                                                 7 _  _  0  "t    tAp.
___        ___                ___             =                        I-t--II =.L                                       l11 1                     _                 1    i1                      T-  
T. ti p-oITtWI  iL                                                   -                                                          -              - _ _                                                      -  _   - i r
S.Oi n  i Pe=pao   f B..                                     I  I  I  I                                                                                                                                   -
_  _  _  __E_           _     _  _  _  _      E     l  .  .     .  .  . IE      h
C.a.neaaa.o  . o O
C-IL--._. Id PM                                              I TOR                                         t                                          t f Ii       
-  L TOP t1 n LW.                                                                                                        1                               1
sw -=I                                                                                                                                                                               I
B.* dW~ of qpu.ah o
-C~   .-  ey - m. a OM.    loe-



LEGAL INFORMA TION
LIAL RFR   IRar-LAO  l T  ==F
SCHEDuLE FOR REWECT START-UP AD CAMPL
LEA REOS  _UJC                                  _ _uw~s  _-     
Ad~vMy                                       ui    Aug.    "t    Omt    NOv    Dec.
NW B.*b   adSW
B.adu.k of  aft      MW
CoWL ..- ,y -  f..Wy,,.  -p    p)f TOR
TOR O._  =T4o                                 =                  7= 
Cr  ol do aO I   d r.v of _   ____  _t  
Souf - LOVP,O   _f _d                -    -  -  -  -   -
B.d a___
_____________________________________
. TO od   f Plecd el
C lo rry -u o,ml a. of  TOR _.  _~ _   _            __        _  






LEGAL REPORM PROJEC        T -                                          LqaI Ed T, d I._ _   _T                                                         =I
SCHEDULE FOR PROJECT START-UP AD 4PLEENTATl                                                                                                     -                           - _. . _
I,cy"    I  I                                            ICY i"                                                                            rr__rc 7  l                 CY 199I
~~~~~~~~~Saept 5.   |Oct.  I  No,.            |Dec  Jan.    7 Fe b.  Mar,.   |Apr.    |Masy  | Ju x  Jly  |Aug.  Se_p( .|No| b.|M,  1  My|J|Juy|^
A    _  _   __  _   __   _  _                                                        J.w-                                 No,L~ '  ~     DNO ec.  Jm~.  Feb.  M .A p,   ay J  _July  A
__C_____e_____                                                          I                                      I  I   II   I~T If I                                 I_     
_   _    _  _    _  _    _  _ bA                                                                                                    + .' 4



1ihIfii'



ilili   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~      ~~lidi    LIII    II ~
r~ ~E T T T  ~ 11 TTTTlTUl1rTTTTTrrr
_ __ __  I_   __ __     I I11 1111111111111111   111
_  ' _:d _       _____I 1111111111   I;
ii~~       1111 11111111   11 Z
T XEE 11111111111111  E~~~~~~~~
X X X 0   X X _ _X X I  rTr  +ltlTtill X  
I






F!I! jljj |i~ Z |I,Z     |Z |F|X(|  |{j
Z  m1111111  _T111|111 11_   __T  _T_  ___   ii
W~~I   ii: T  ^  XI'I     
g ~   u    IIIIII I hhhIII_T IIII    r              
hEl  mmmlX        ffiT ii0W
mmmmhhhhhmmh__T hm4i  Wfl-4               |.  



LEGAL REFORM PROJECT - Judidal Refonm                                                                   1  tX |_ _ - A
SCHEDULE FOR PROJECT START-UP AD IMPL                             _                          _      _      _
_            z _ _ _ = _ _ _ _  Z I~~~7-cy 1999                                                                                                     CY G  2 }}1 
Adjikyk                                      Al Sep. I Oct.   Nov I Dec.   Jan.   Feb            .                                                                                      | A  M.Y  | Jt* Aug.
T.a.ing *BSfCUDf"ral^ dX                                              - T- f. 1WS f C-                                                                           T          t G-. J
_.k ,) _-   of TOR W W I _Ip.cko
Seal - WOI / Pp-ino of ~Do
B.d Rv-J.o  W Seoo
Co.om - Pp-o own.s P-osaw
T..tf Tn.in C2)
-.P        far AMo  -S                                                                                                                                     ___)(eirr0)  Smr #)(emn 
3-m    - .    AO . ) C
ha~  5Pn  or AT.HihAhlot = o|l W I potae -     L1LIlIIIIIt       <
-SW "L I Pupommo .do
Bid Evl.a a. e.o
Tr.o.g Jo. T,o.ao
Tea.gn RoOl.o                                                (Seminar 11) -       -      -(Seminar #2)              (Sminar #3)
Tro,.WM Spenae f La A-d a.) High Aob.OooI, C,.                                                                               - -l -                                                                  -       -     I         -
Ca.   p id. L.w Acd.., High Arbiruh C.. oR TOR
TOR t. ala.a.d  awoy r B o.. ioodb fo
___________  El....  MMMI El.....EMIMbyE B..*F
j.i FXf Wt==
P.p- TOR                                                                             -      ---             -4-
P-ar-ok,p owawg wo Coonr ofolc Jdg.                                                                                                                                 --
Pre* rep           _ __-P             _  _      (Worksh  #2)                                  (Workshop-#3)                                (Workshop #4)                                 (Workshop #5)    -      -     +
o oy odeeo.ogor 0     v0 mpoono.        --                                                                                           -1 -   - r          I                         I n;zX
Bk L)aO  ofT-LOlpockoe       _                                                                 -   -      -L             i-                                                                                               - e=
.   of _l   .                                                                                                                              -it  -WI-_                                                 -            i|
1=honooosauow)r444__ --F



111  lS |  11111ll        l _l_ III I                  11111       11   1l!I1 






JUDICIAL REFORM
LEGAL REFORM PSROJECT                                                                                                                                                                    1L                                         [j 7 j  
CVEDL   FORTPOJECT ~START~-UP AD IP"LEME AT'ION                                                         ~-                                                       .-I- ~ ..                                                                   ~-  
Adtiviy                                              .1-      Oct.    Nuo.      De.      Jan.    Feb.    Mar        Apr.    May        June    July      Aug.3Sept.   Oct.    No,            Dec.    Janj  Feb.    Mar            Apr.{  MaIJne              Jl
M.nd-  DM! / R.pnoc f .  d
Bd E-uhtno ad Snforoa
for   Tr in         - _   _    _ _   _    _-                                                                                .-                                                                                                    -    -
Tooag Rodknr
A-a) Coofnon
TOR p.1urow
B.nk olnuo of TOE an  uuiaautoo  n  no
Nnnii  uu
B.Ankclerncrtrgoioi
c    A,. PP..-d'k, .                                                                                                  fren-                                                                                                             er nce1 1111  1111 
_____________________                                                                                _                                                               _ -                    -   _                                        -/
Cunfnrnrnca                                                        111~~~PrjwAcivtyI 



JUDICIAL REFORM
LEGAL REFORM PROJECT-                                                      - - -    ,----                                                               ------                               -t-v-i-i-
SCHEDULE FOR PROJECT START-UP AD IM4-__ __
- -                 p    p                                                                                             P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- 
____  __________   -.I  I                                         I   I  '   I   I   ~~~~~~~~~~ ~~ ~~                                                                                         ~~~~~CYI1999 7 5 !    __  CY 2000
-Acti vity                                   'A   Sept.   Oct.    Nov    Dec.    Jan.    Feb. (Mar            Apr.    May    June    July    Aug.   Sept.1 Oct.    Nov 1Dc               Jan.   Feb.   Mart Apr.    May    June    July
TO pTepca-n                      __                                     -                                                                -T 
Tranig ofTastc p-                                                                                             i LKt-
-_-ffi  I   '                                                                                                                  t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
SeooniLo /P e~tmc ro                 Bid .H             L'qIk-                                                     - 4 
Bid EaunosdStuu                                                               1    7    1T                                           
Negosario otconaur-                        --        L-                      - ~ -.Y-.--~.   .-77~-.   ~.-7-i---                                --                        -< --         '     -         t 
TORy  aLI___I~i zh                                                                                _-                             
an  ttacof TOR a,ot.....utiaiu_ tcinnoturtr --                                               -                  -      .-f-
P Cnpt-epr-sdin .1 -f--                                                                                                                                                                      ' 
A - 



JUDICIAL REFORM
LEGAL REFORM PROJECT                                            _
SC        E FOR PRECT START-UP                                      __  _
__________4  1=  =_  
Adinky                                                                      . goV DW OC.
MlreaTifve Thcp,ur Resolturin     _                              I  = = =_  
Traning of Teinren           _                                _ ___                   __ 
_r pepr.tion    _______             __ _-              _         _ - __  _- __  _    _      _
B.ik cl.arooc of TOR IoM LOI pakapge  _  _       __
_od Evaluon and Seection                            t       _
NCgOtiftion of Cowclc    _- _-1S                          _                __    
Cnn nclors o ropre (raining progrunr    _-                  _ __         _     ___ 
Trang for Tra-ners       ___   -                           __
__                  _- _I _                                           I,___
Tr-rrug R,i_n         _                                                               _
Samniu t__ri = nOt = 
Anonul Confoncenx e----t1+g
TOR p-ep-rarron  _           _            _ t
Baokcleare ool TOR andioenrirnlosWcr,fnandftt          t
Ne-o-raecniroor    __     __-_ -                   4 -        0         i -         -- |_
B fanS clearanor if nepalrconura I                                           ;-  
rotisuit. w prepare moronoiS for 1Jo corf___|_      _
crrrterrrotos (4)                        --               I       ,    i4
Prepoln  prooadrflngr or .o-rfrne _--X !l!!!!__    ft
_    _   -  -----   -4t -__                                       -i-  -1 -
.    _   _       __ _-            __ --------r---    a -4   -         4
-   -------    -'- ---~___  ---- --       '--t                                  4-1






APPENDix 0
PROCUREMENT PLAN
Summary of Major Procurement Activities
CATEGORY                     PROCURE        / OF        LoAN        GOR/        TOTAL
MENT      CONTRAcrs    FuNDs         OTHER
METHOD'
TECHNICAL AssisrANCE
Legal Drafting                                            18+      12,875        11,848      24,723
a) Drafting of economic laws              SL           8+       9,171
l          30+       1,618
b) Coordination of legislative drafting  SSC            2         546
c) Drafting of regional legislation
- Training                            SL            2         899
- TA                                 SL/I          6+         647
Legal Information                                          3        8,398        18,463      26,861
a) Classification/codification            SL            1         309
b) Electronic classificator (pilot)       SL            1        1,260
c) Feasibility study LIS/pilot investment  SL           1        6,830
Legal/Public Education                        _             8      19,803         4,951      24,754
a) Education consultant                   SL            5        1,064
b) Fellowships                           SSC                    4,915
c) Mass media campaign                    SL            1        7,356
d) Schools campaign                       SL            1       4,313
e) ADR campaign                           SL            1       2,156
Judicial Reform/ADR                                         7        7,885        3,80 
a) Training of judges (CGJ)               SL            1       2,911
b) Training of judges (Arbitrazh)         SL            1         863
c) Training consultant                    SL            1         532
d) Case management study                  SL            1         754
e) ADR training/annual meetings           SL           2         1,863
f) Judicial workshops                     SL            1         963
RFLR_                                                               1,796           449       2,245
High Priority Activities--                                          3,233           808       4,041
* SL - short list; I - Individual; SSC - sole-source contracting; SW - small works; NS - national shopping.
Procurement actions which fall under these categories will be carried out in accordance with Bank thresholds for goods
(NS/IS); works (SW); and consultant services (prior review of all TOR, prior review of contracts exceeding $50,000 for
individuals and $100,000 for firms).



2                                                             Technical Annex: Russia Legal Reform Project
CATEGORY                    PROCURE        # OF       LoAN        GOR/         TOTAL
MENT     CONTRACTS    FUNDS         OTHER
METHOD'
GOODS                                          NS           11         886          221       1,107
SMALL WORKS                                    SW            7         533           133        666
RECutRRENT COSTS                                                     2,S39         5,834      8,373
TOTAL                                              57,948       46,515     104,463
SL - short list; I - Individual; SSC - sole-source contracting; SW - small works; NS - national shopping.
Procurement actions which fall under these categories will bc carried out in accordance with Bank thresholds for goods
(NS/IS); works (SW); and consultant services (prior review of all TOR, prior review of contracts exceeding $50,000 for
individuals and $100,000 for firms).



APPENDIX P
SUPERVISION PLAN
Legal Reform
Mission                                                   Staff
FY      Dates        Activity               Required Personnel     Week Input
96      6/96         Launch Mission         Task Manager           2
Procurement            1
Institutional Specialist   2
Legal Specialist       4
Operations Officer     1
Total FY96            10
97      9/96         Supervision Mission    Task Manager           2
Judicial Specialist    2
Legal Specialist      4
Institutional Specialist   2
Desk Work              Task Manager           6
Legal Specialists      8
Institutional Specialist   4
Operations Officer     2
ResMis
12/96       Supervision Mission    Task Manager           1
Legal Specialists      2
3/97        Supervision Mission    Task Manager           2
Legal Specialist       2
Judicial Specialist    1
Operations Officer     2
ResMis
Totals FY97           40
98      9/97         Supervision Mission    Task Manager           1
and Annual Review
Institutional Specialist   I
Legal Specialists      2
Procurement Specialist  1



2                                                        Technical Annex: Russia Legal Reform Project
Mission                                                   Staff
FY      Dates        Activity               Required Personnel     Week Input
2/98        Supervision Mission    Task Manager           2
Legal Specialist      4
Procurement Specialist  2
Judicial Specialist    2
Operations Officer     2
ResMis
6/98        Supervision Mission    Task Manager           1
Legal Specialists      2
Operations Officer     1
ResMis
Desk Work              Task Manager           10
Legal Specialists      2
Institutional Specialist   2
Totals FY98           35
99      9/98         Supervision Mission,   Task Manager           2
Annual Review and
mid-term review
Institutional Specialists  2
Legal Specialists      4
Judicial Specialists   2
Procurement Specialist  1
Operations Officer     2
ResMis
2/99        Supervision Mission    Task Manager           2
Legal Specialist      4
5/99        Supervision Mission    Task Manager           2
Legal Specialist      4
Desk Work              Task Manager           8
Legal Specialsists    2
Totals FY99           35



Appendix P. Supervision Plan                                                                3
Mission                                                    Staff
FY       Dates       Activity               Required Personnel     Week Input
00       9/99        Supervision Mission    Task Manager            1
and Annual Review
Institutional Specialist   I
Legal Specialists      2
2/00        Supervision Mission    Task Manager           2
Legal Specialist       2
5/00        Supervision Mission    Task Manager           2
Operations Officer     2
ResMis
Desk Work              Task Manager           8
Totals FY00            20
01       9/00        Completion Mission     Task Manager            2
Operations Officer     2
ResMis
Totals FY01            4






APPENDIX Q
DISBURSEMENT PROFILE
Estimated Loan Disbursement Schedule
Disbursements over 48 months (US$ millions)
Bank Fiscal Year -     97           98               99               00          01
Semester -       1       2       3        4       5        6       7        8
Per Semester(%)          2       11       12      14       19      24      11       7
Per Semester              1.0     6.5     7.0      8.0    11.0    14.0      6.5      4.0
Cumulative (%)           2       13      25       39      58       82      93      100
Cumulative                1.0     7.5    14.5    22.5    33.5    47.5    54.0    58.0
Legal Reform Disbursement Profile
60 -
50-
4 0 -                                      ................  .  
30   -       ---     ---   -----..  ....  .                    _....  I   + Cumulabve|
20    -                     ..... ..
10   -..                        ....  ..........  .... ..... ..  ......................
2      4       6      8      10      12      14     16
Quarters






APPENDIX R
FIRST YEAR IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
by September 30, 1996:
For legal drafting: the RFLR to assign at least two project officers to be responsible for the
implementation of the component;
For legal information: the RFLR to evaluate bids from contractors to carry out the feasibility
study and pilot investment: the RFLR to have prepared TOR and to have selected contractor (sole
source) for the codification study;
For public education: the RFLR to place consultants to carry out the public education campaign
under contract;
For judicial reform: the RFLR to have prepared TOR for the training specialist for Law Academy
and High Arbitrazh Court;
For ADR: the RFLR to assign at least one project officer to be responsible for the implementation
of this component; project officer to have prepared TOR for consultant to carry out the first
annual meeting of arbiters and mediators;
by October 31, 1996:
For legal drafting: project officers to obtain all necessary agreements with ministries and agencies
to submit an official list of enactments for which technical assistance would be provided under
the project for agreement with the Bank as to financing under this component for Year One of
the project; project officers to ensure that for each enactment on the list, a lead agency has been
named to be in charge of the drafting process, and other interested agencies and ministries are
clearly specified; to have prepared TOR for the first contract;
For legal information: the RFLR to finalize negotiations with selected contractor for feasibility
study; to receive Bank clearance on consultant selection for the codification study and to place
the consultant under contract;
For ADR: the RFLR to receive Bank clearance on TOR for consultant;
by November 15, 1996:
For judicial reform: the RFLR to have completed consultations with Law Academy and High
Arbitrazh Court on TOR for training specialist and to have submitted TOR to the Bank for
clearance;



2                                                        Technical Annex: Russia Legal Reform Project
by November 30, 1996:
For legal drafting: project officers to confer with the lead agencies for each enactment and
determine the levels, forms and timing of technical assistance to be rendered; the RFLR to submit
TOR and LOI for the first contract to the Bank for clearance;
For legal information: the RFLR to receive clearance from Bank on proposed contract for
feasibility study and to place contractor under contract;
For ADR: the RFLR to select consultant to carry out the annual meeting and to finalize
negotiations with the selected contractor;
by December 15, 1996:
For legal drafting: the RFLR to receive Bank clearance on TOR and LOI for the first contract;
For legal education: the RFLR to assign at least two project officers to be responsible for the
implementation of this component;
For judicial reform: the RFLR to receive Bank clearance on TOR for training specialist;
For ADR: the RFLR to submit selected consultant and proposed contract for Bank clearance;
by January 15, 1997:
For legal drafting: the RFLR to issue LOI to bid for the first contract;
For ADR: the RFLR to receive Bank clearance on selected consultant and proposed contract, and
to place consultant under contract;
by January 31, 1997:
For judicial reform: the RFLR to select consultant to act as training specialist;
by February 15, 1997:
For legal education: the RFLR to select five law schools to work with according to agreed upon
criteria, and provide documentation on school selection to the Bank for clearance;
For judicial reform: project officer to prepare TOR for judicial training contract (courts of
general jurisdiction);
by February 28, 1996:
For legal drafting: the RFLR to have written up operating guidelines for work under this
component based on the experience to date, and submitted a draft for Bank clearance;



Appendix R. First Year Inplementation Plan.                                                  3
by March 15, 1997:
For judicial reforn: the RFLR to receive Bank clearance on selection of consultant to act as
training specialist and on proposed contract, and to place consultant under contract; the RFLR
to receive Bank clearance of training TOR and LOI;
by March 31, 1997:
For legal drafting: the RFLR to receive World Bank clearance of the operating guidelines for this
component; the RFLR to evaluate consultant bids for the first contract and to select a consultant;
For judicial reform: the RFLR to issue LOI to bid for judicial training contract;
by April 15, 1997:
For legal education: school selection finalized, project officers to prepare consultant TOR for
schools;
by April 30, 1997:
For legal drafting: the RFLR to receive Bank clearance of selected consultant and proposed
contract; the RFLR to have prepared TOR for drafting training of regional officials;
by May 15, 1997:
For legal drafting: the RFLR to receive Bank clearance of TOR and LOI for training of regional
officials; the RFLR to have prepared TOR for the first regional drafting contract;
by May 31, 1997:
For legal drafting: the RFLR to place consultant (federal laws) under contract;
For legal information: the RFLR to receive Bank clearance of TOR (to be prepared by the
codification contractor) and LOI for classificator in electronic format;
by June 15, 1997:
For legal drafting: the RFLR to issue LOI to bid for training of regional officials and to receive
Bank clearance of TOR for the first regional drafting contract;
For legal information: the RFLR to issue LOI to bid for classificator in electronic format;
by June 30, 1997:
For judicial reform: the RFLR to evaluate consultant bids for judicial training and to select a
consultant;



4                                                         Technical Annex: Russia Legal Reform Project
by July 15, 1997:
For legal drafting: the project officers to confer with the Government working group on the
second law in the program;
by July 31, 1997:
For legal drafting: the RFLR to select a consultant for the first regional drafting contract;
For judicial reform: the RFLR to receive Bank clearance of selected consultant and to finalize
negotiations to carry out training program for courts of general jurisdiction;
For ADR: based on June 1997 first annual conference of arbiters and mediators, and upon
consultation with the Better Business Bureau, the Labor Dispute Resolution Service of the
Ministry of Labor, the Russian Chamber of Commerce and other relevant entities, the RFLR to
draw up draft guidelines for implementation of the training of trainers activity under this
component;
by August 15, 1997:
For legal drafting: the project officers to have prepared TOR for the second federal drafting
contract;
by August 31, 1997:
For legal drafting: the RFLR to receive Bank clearance of selected consultant and proposed first
regional drafting contract, and to place consultant under contract;
For legal education: the RFLR to place consultants for each law school under contract;
For ADR: the RFLR to submit draft guidelines for training of trainers in ADR to the Bank for
clearance;
by September 15, 1997:
For legal drafting: the RILR to receive Bank clearance of TOR and LOI for the second federal
drafting contract;
by September 30, 1997:
For legal drafting: the RFLR to issue LOI to bid for the second federal frafting contract; the
RFLR to evaluate bids and select consultant for training of regional officials;
For legal information: the RFLR to evaluate consultant bids for classificator in electronic format;
For judicial reform: project officers to have prepared TOR for training of trainers for arbitrazh
courts;



Appendir R. First Year Implementation Plan.                                                            5
For ADR: the RFLR to receive Bank clearance of operating guidelines (pertaining to training and
future annual meetings of arbiters and mediators) for this component; the project officers to have
prepared TOR for training of trainers in ADR.






MAP SECTION






IBRD 27974
uTITED STATES 0t AMERICA
-E. -oo .do,,e,  ob-s       - d, o-m,oons
oh,do, o-oy. --onoPIo- Eho.oo"                                                                                                  RUSSIAN   FEDERATION                                                                                -
rI* W-,ldg-k CO-p O-y IdgtrMo
rh.olsrorrsolooy           o L.gm1                                                                                      lEGAL REFORM  PROJECT
ony eodo,s. n,.oT ot OsCORPMOnO o'
PROJECT LOCATIONS
6     NATIONAL CAPITAL
- -    RIVERS
ECONOMIC REGION BOUNDARIES
UNITED                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  86
KITCGDO.                                -          -                                                                                   OBLAST, KRAI, OR REPUBLIC BOUNDARIES
-- -    AUTONOMOUS OBLAST. OKRUGO  OR REPUBLIC BOUNDARIES'
---   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                    c
,,Wdod.o                                ,  i  A*9". M. K-,-....-C.-                                'd                           ! 
NORWAY    ~              ..~-:'~x.x-
- -                           ,hSWEDEN                                                                                                                                                                                     a -  -
-     ,,                             ,        -9                                                                                                                              , 
, '9^3j;- -   _           --N-35 .
7   85
GERMANY                                    --                                 5..,
FINLAND         f,
POLAND             LIOJNI                                                                                                                                                                                    X
wJ0 -.                                                                                                                                   A \   . _---J   =  -  78         0                             ~                                                                   8189
7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
2~~~~~~~~~EAU                                             6 oAo,wij_- <I_"                                   4'                  t                                                  : :(  
SrRlANAIMRC                                        52 >' C,                          & 1  e                     A     N              F 10   .0    o    o    0    E   _ s  ,                                      4)D
;~ ~ ~    ~ -  -                         E!-                                                                                                                                                                                xr"a' V\EJrA     OT   AC5SV    OG   l   OG    YrA Vi   RLI   #SENSBRA XES NSBEA<FR_'
20'-    - ~ ~ ~ ~        ~         ~         ~         ~         ~         ~         ~        ~        ~        '                   ' 
~~                                              KAZABSTAN                                         61                         / 3    76                         2.*
I Arkhongel         7 Noogotod               12 Bryonik   22. Tulo                CHERvOTYONt             20 ChesOITR                   40 Asltokhoo            48 CkuooRE                53 Boshkortoston      61  AItol                 70 EAryot                 BE AmurA
2 NeneTo            8 Psko..                 I3 Ivonovto   23 VIodimir          25 Belgotod               31 Dogheslon                  Al IColmykin           459 K,roo                  545 ChnIyobinsk       o2 Oorny Alto,            71 Ch1Io                  81  Komohotho
2 Korelo            9 Leningrad              14 Kolugo    34 Toroslool          26 Kutsk                  32 IngusE                         Kholmg Tortgch      50 Marly El               55 Kurgon             62 Kenrerovo              72 Ago. ButyMi            82 Kotyok
4 Kont             10 St Petersburg Cry      15 KoRltonto                       27 LIpoIrk                32 Kobord.no-BoILot           42 PRYRO                5I Mordov                 56 Orenburg           64 NMoMRib,RsL             73 Itkursk               82  Khoboroovsk
5 MurroMYLk        I I KoIhn ngrod           16 Moscoow                         28 Tomrbov.               34 trosoodor                   42 Somnoro             52 NIzEnly Noogorod       57 Pert               65 Omuk                    74 Ust-Ordyn Buryot      84 Jewsrsh AO
6 Vologdo                                    17 MAoRoM.. City                   29 Voro.rezh              35 Adygeyo                    44 Sorotoo                                        58 Koml-Pormlok       66 Torrsk                  75 Krosnoyorsk           85 Mogodoo
IS Orel                                                     26 North ORROtIM               45 Tototstorr                                    59 UdrrurT             67 Tymen                  76 Eonrrk                86 Cfrukot
19 Ryozon                                                   37 Rosto..                     46 Volgogrod                                     60 Soerdloosk          68 KEoYty-MMYRI           77 KIromos                87. Pr1morsk1
30 Snrolnsk                                                 38. Slrooropol                 47 UIyonoosk                                                            69 Yomolo-Neoets          78 Torrrl ,SB SoLholint
21  Toot                                                    39 Koroohoeoo-Cherkess                                                                                                           79 Tuoo                   89 Soofro (YMEAtJ
ROMANIA  12  23~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MY18









IMAGING
Report No:fT-   6883 RU
Type: MOP



