Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 4035 RU
                          Loan Agreement
                      (Legal Reform Project)
                              between
                        RUSSIAN FEDERATION
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                        Dated June 21, 1996
                                                 LOAN NUMBER 4035 RU
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated June 21, 1996, between RUSSIAN FEDERATION (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(the Bank).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the
Project;
      (B)   the Project will be carried out by the Russian Foundation
for Legal Reform (the RFLR) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part
of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to the RFLR the
proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement; and
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and condi-
tions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even
date herewith between the Bank and the RFLR;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
Page  2
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)   The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
            "Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no
            withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in
            the territories of any country which is not a member of the
            Bank or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such
            territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to persons
            or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or
            import, to the knowledge of the Bank, is prohibited by a
            decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under
            Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations."
      (c)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-
paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which
            any further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent
            with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's
            Articles of Agreement."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective meanings
therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
      (a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and
the RFLR of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to
the Project Agreement;
      (b)   "RFLR" means the Russian Foundation for Legal Reform, a non-
commercial state foundation established by the Borrower pursuant to
Directive No. 81-RP of the President of the Borrower of February 22, 1996
and Decree No. 230-R of the Government of the Borrower of February 23,
1996;
      (c)   "Statutes" means the decrees, acts, charter and other
instruments relating to the creation and operation of the RFLR, and any
legislation and decrees upon which the statutes or the legal reform
program of the Borrower are based, including Decree No. 673 of the
President of the Borrower of July 6, 1995, as the same may have been
amended to the date of this Agreement;
      (d)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
      (e)   "Fiscal Year" means January 1 to December 31; and
      (f)   "Subprojects" means the activities carried out under Part E
of the Project.
                             ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various
currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of
fifty eight million dollars ($58,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of
the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of
the date of such withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed
Page  3
out of the proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of  the Project, open and
maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2000 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate
for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus one-half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of
this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal
amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at
the rate applicable during such Interest Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the
Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of such Semester.
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on
                  the date immediately preceding each date specified in
                  Section 2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with the
                  Interest Period in which this Agreement is signed.
           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
                  percentage per annum, of the outstanding borrowings of
                  the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, excluding
                  such borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank has
                  allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B)
                  loans which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
                  bearing interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the second
                  six months of a calendar year.
      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this
Section shall be amended to read as follows:
            "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount
            of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a
            rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified
            Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Quarter,
            plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates
            specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
            shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
            during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."
            "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter,
            the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
            Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."
            "(c)  (iii) 'Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on
            January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-
Page  4
annually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the
Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3
to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
To this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower: (i) shall act through
the RFLR and shall cause the RFLR to perform in accordance with the
provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of the RFLR
therein set forth; (ii) shall take or cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable the RFLR to perform such obligations;
and (iii) shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would
prevent or interfere with such performance.
      (b)   The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to
the RFLR on a grant basis under arrangements satisfactory to the Bank for
the sole purpose of carrying out the Project.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement
of the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by
the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09
of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by the RFLR pursuant to
Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, with the assistance of the RFLR:
      (a)   maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators
satisfactory to the Bank, the carrying out of the Project and the
achievement of the objectives thereof;
      (b)   prepare, or cause to be prepared, under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank, on or about September
30, 1998, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section,
on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the
period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such
date; and
      (c)   review with the Bank and the RFLR, by October 31, 1998, or
such later date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section, and thereafter, take all measures required
to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of
the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations
of the said report and the Bank's views on the matter.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements
of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with
                  sound accounting practices, records and accounts
Page  5
                  reflecting such expenditures;
           (ii)   ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
                  bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such
                  expenditures are retained until at least one year after
                  the Bank has received the audit report for the fiscal
                  year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                  Account was made; and
          (iii)   enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
                  records.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, or shall cause to:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
                  (a) (i) of this Section and those for the Special
                  Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
                  with appropriate auditing principles consistently
                  applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
                  Bank;
           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
                  case not later than six (6) months after the end of
                  each such year the report of such audit by said
                  auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
                  Bank shall have reasonably requested, including a
                  separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                  statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal
                  year, together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be relied
                  upon to support the related withdrawals; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
                  said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the
                  Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
                             ARTICLE V
                       Remedies of the Bank
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   The RFLR shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
      (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date of
the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that the RFLR will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
      (c)    The Statutes shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability
of the RFLR to perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
      (d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall
have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of the RFLR
or for the suspension of its operations.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower;
and
      (b)   the events specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur.
                             ARTICLE VI
Page  6
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following is specified as an additional matter,
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be
included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely,
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by RFLR,
and is legally binding upon the RFLR in accordance with its terms.
      Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance or the Deputy Minister of
Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance
            Ilyinka Street 9
            103009 Moscow
            Russian Federation
                                          Telex:
                                                112008
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD                     197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA),
                                                 64l45 (WUI) or
                                                 82987 (FTCC)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                   RUSSIAN FEDERATION
                  By /s/ Yuli Vorontsov
                                            Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                  By /s/ Yukon Huang
                                            Acting Regional Vice President
                                                   Europe and Central Asia
Page  7
                              SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to
be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Consultants' services     12,000,000         100%
    under Part A of the
    Project
(2) Consultants' services      8,000,000         100%
    under Part B of the
    Project
(3) Part C of the Project
    (a) Law school programs
        (i) Consultants'       2,000,000         100%
            services
       (ii) Training programs  2,000,000         100%
      (iii) Equipment and      1,000,000         100% of foreign
            materials                            expenditures, 100%
                                                 of local expenditures
                                                 ex- factory cost) and
                                                 80% of local expend-
                                                 itures for other items
                                                 procured locally
    (b) Public education    12,500,000           100%
        programs
(4) Part D of the Project
    (a) Consultants'         7,000,000           100%
        services and
        training
        programs
    (b) Equipment and          500,000           100% of foreign
        materials                                expenditures, 100%
                                                 of local expenditures
                                                 ex-factory cost) and
                                                 80% of local expend-
                                                 itures for other items
                                                 procured locally
(5) Sub-projects under       4,000,000
    Part E of the
    Project
    (a) Consultants' services                    100%
    (b) Equipment and                            100% of foreign
        materials                                expenditures, 100%
                                                 of local expenditures
                                                 ex- factory cost) and
                                                 80% of local expend-
                                                 itures for other items
                                                 procured locally
    (c) Small works                              100% of foreign
Page  8
                                                 expenditures and
                                                 80% of local
                                                 expenditures
(6) Incremental Operating     5,000,000          100%
    Cost
(7) Unallocated               4,000,000
                             __________
         TOTAL               58,000,000
                             ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of
the Borrower;
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and
      (c)    the term "Incremental Operating Costs" means Project related
operating costs and expenses, including incremental staffing costs, rental,
communications, utilities, office equipment and supplies, travel and
subsistence allowance, interpretation and translation, and such other
incremental office operational costs and expenses as may be agreed by the
Bank.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the
date of this Agreement.
4.    The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made
on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods
under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent; and (b) services
under contracts, in case of firms, costing less than $100,000 equivalent
and, in case of individual, costing less than $50,000 equivalent, under
such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Borrower.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower to improve
the legal framework in Russia by inter alia: (a) strengthening the
preparation of legislation needed to support economic reforms; (b)
improving legal information; (c) enhancing legal training and education;
and (d) strengthening dispute settlement machinery, including courts and
alternative dispute settlement mechanisms.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from
time to time to achieve such objectives.
Part A:     Law-Making
1.    Preparation of draft laws and regulations needed to support economic
reforms in subjects agreed with the Bank through provision of technical
assistance.
2.    Improving the drafting process for laws and regulations at the
national level by carrying out a study to identify changes and needs and
implementation of the recommendations thereof.
3.    Improving federal-regional law drafting by carrying out a study on
ways to better coordinate legislation and implementation of the
recommendations thereof.
Page  9
4.    Improving drafting of priority economic legislation at the regional
level through selection of pilot areas to carry out law-making activities
including training thereon.
Part B:     Legal Information
1.    Improving the classification and codification of laws and
regulations by carrying out a study and implementing the recommendations
of such study in pilot activities.
2.    Improving the legal information system within Russia by carrying
out a needs assessment for official and public legal information and
implementation of the recommendations of such assessment through
demonstration activities.
Part C.     Legal Education and Training
1.    Carrying out legal education and training programs under criteria
agreed with the Bank aimed at law schools, legal institutes, legal
teachers and students, and officials involved with the legal system.
2.    Improving public education and awareness about changes in the
legal system through provision of advisory services and information to
the public through the media and through public education materials.
Part D:     Court Reform and Alternative Dispute Resolution
1.    Improving court administration and facilities by carrying out a
needs assessment.
2.    Strengthening training of judges and court personnel through
training programs and facilities.
3.    Expanding alternative dispute mechanisms through training,
provision of advisory services, materials and equipment.
4.    Carrying out a program of workshops for judges to improve court
functioning, administration and efficiency.
Part E:     Sub-projects
      Carrying out other high priority legal reform activities and
project preparation actions, under sub-projects agreed with the Bank.
                                 * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2000.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                             Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                            (Expressed in dollars)
On each March 15 and  September 15
      beginning September 15, 2001
      through September 15, 2012                   2,415,000
On March 15, 2013                                  2,455,000
                      Premiums on Prepayment
      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium
payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid
shall be the percentage specified for the applicable time of prepayment
below:
      Time of Prepayment                 Premium
Page  10
                                    The interest rate (expressed as a
                                    percentage per annum) applicable to the
                                    Loan on the day of prepayment
                                    multiplied by:
Not more than three years                        0.18
      before maturity
More than three years but                        0.35
      not more than six years
      before maturity
More than six years but                          0.65
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity
More than 11 years but not                       0.88
      more than 15 years
      before maturity
More than 15 years before                        1.00
      maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories set forth in
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time
to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided,
however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $500,000 until the
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or
exceed the equivalent of $5,000,000.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account
shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the
Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate
amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts
as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
                  shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into
                  the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall
                  specify.
           (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents and
Page  11
                  other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this
                  Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of which
                  replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such
                  request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                  withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the
                  Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have
                  requested and as shall have been shown by said documents
                  and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special
                  Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish
to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was
made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the
Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special
Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
      (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank,
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank
pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and
accounts for the Special Account;
      (c)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of
its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to
make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
      (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to
the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an
amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was
not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence
as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if
the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or
justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by
the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank
all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
Page  12
      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant
provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
