Page  1
RCA 248423. 
\09
WUI 64145 
\09
FAX (202) 477-6391
 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street N.W. 
(202) 477-1234 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
 
Washington, D.C.  20433 
Cable Address:  INTBAFRAD 
I
NTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
 
U.S.A. 
Cable Address:  INDEVAS 
 
CONFORMED COPY 
 
February 22, 2001 
 
Mr. P. A. Laptev 
President 
Russian Foundation for Legal Reform 
Moscow 
Russian Federation 
 
Re: 
Loan No. 4035-RU (Legal Reform Project) 
 
Amendments to the Project Agreement 
 
Dear Mr. Laptev:  
 
We refer to the Project Agreement dated June 21, 1996 for the Legal Reform Project (the 
Project) between the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and the 
Russian Foundation for Legal Reform (the Project Entity).  We also refer to Mr. V.D. Mazaev’s 
letter to the Bank Reference No. 3490i-11/00 dated November 27, 2000, and to Mr. S.I. 
Kolotoukhin’s letter to Mr. V.D. Mazaev, Reference No. 27-00-06/1403 dated November 27, 
2000 requesting certain amendments to the Project Agreement. 
 
We are pleased to inform you that the Bank accedes to your request and hereby amends 
the Project Agreement as follows: 
 
1. 
Schedule 1 of the Project Agreement
(Procurement and Consultants’ Services) is hereby 
amended.  The revised Schedule 1 is attached hereto as Annex 1. 
 
2. 
A new Section VIII in Schedule 2 of the Project Agreement
(Implementation Program) is 
hereby added to read as follows: 
 
“Section VIII
:
Implementation of Training Programs
1. 
Regarding the training programs to be carried out by other means except through a 
consultants services contract under Parts A, C, D and E of the Project, the Borrower, through 
RFLR, shall: 
 
(a) 
furnish to the Bank for approval the objective and content of each such program 
as well as the schedule for its implementation; 
 
(b) 
select the beneficiaries of such training programs in accordance with criteria 
satisfactory to the Bank; 
 
(c) 
not later than June 30 and December 31 of each year, furnish to the Bank a report 
of such scope and detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the results of each training 
program and the benefits to be derived therefrom; and 
 
Page  2
-2-  
 
(d) 
not later than June 30 and December 31 of each year, exchange views with the 
Bank on the training programs to be carried out in the following calendar year.” 
 
Please confirm your agreement by signing, dating and returning to us the attached copy 
of this letter. These amendments will become effective upon receipt by the Bank of the copy of 
this Amendment Letter countersigned by you.  
 
Very truly yours, 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION  
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
/s/ 
Julian F. Schweitzer 
 
Country Director for Russia  
 
Europe and Central Asia Region 
 
CONFIRMED: 
 
RUSSIAN FOUNDATION FOR LEGAL REFORM 
 
By:   /s/ Mr. S.I. Kolotoukhin 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Date: 
April 27, 2001 
 
Page  3
-3-  
 
ANNEX 1 
Schedule 1 
Procurement and Consultant’s Services 
Section I
:
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines 
for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits dated January 1995, revised in January and 
August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999. 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 
5
of
Appendix 1 thereto. 
 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B: 
 
(a) 
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
 
(b) 
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
Contracts for the printing of books under Part C, D and E estimated to cost from $50,000 
equivalent to $200,000 equivalent per contract up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $700,000 
equivalent may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
 
2. International 
Shopping
Contracts for office and computer equipment estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent may be 
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers in at 
least two different countries in accordance with the provisions of the Guidelines. 
 
Page  4
-4-  
 
3. National 
Shopping
Contracts for office and computer equipment, office supplies and books estimated to cost 
less than $50,000 equivalent per contract up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,800,000 
equivalent may be awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least 
three suppliers in accordance with the provisions of the Guidelines. 
 
4. 
Procurement of Small Works
Eligible works estimated not to exceed $75,000 equivalent per contract, and not to exceed 
$600,000 in the aggregate, shall be procured and awarded on the basis of quotations obtained 
from three qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation.  The invitation shall 
include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where 
applicable.  The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for 
the required work, and who has the experience and resources to successfully complete the 
contract. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for contracts, 
the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. 
Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement 
plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
With respect to: (a) the first two contracts under Parts C.1 and C.2 hereof; and (b) each 
contract under Parts B and C.3 hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 
1
to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts in accordance with the provisions 
of Section I (Introduction) and Section IV (Types of Contracts and Important Provisions) of the 
“Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by 
the Bank in January 1997, revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultants 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule. 
 
Page  5
-5-  
 
Part B
:
Quality-and-Cost Based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultants Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto and the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality-and-cost based selection 
of consultants. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for Selection of Consultants
1. 
Quality Based Selection
Contracts for certain complex assignments for which it is difficult to define, precise 
Terms of Reference (TOR) and required consultants inputs or assignments that can be carried out 
in substantially different ways may subject to a case-by-case agreement with the Bank be 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.2 through 3.4 of the Consultants 
Guidelines applicable to quality-based-selection of consultants. 
 
2. Fixed-Budget 
Selection
Contracts for certain assignments which are simple and can be precisely defined and for 
which a budget has been fixed may subject to a case-by-case agreement with the Bank be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.5 of the Consultants Guidelines 
applicable to fixed budget selection of consultants. 
 
3. Individual 
Consultants
Services related to activities under the Project that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultants Guidelines may be procured under contracts awarded to 
individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultants Guidelines. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for 
selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultants 
Guidelines. Selection of consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank and with the provisions of said paragraph 
1. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than 
the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (A)) and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultants 
Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Page  6
-6-  
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior 
review and approval. The contract shall be awarded only after said approval shall have been 
given. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultants Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Page  7
-7-  
 
Bmorata 
M:\BACKUP\RUSSIA\amend\L4035 PA amend.doc 
1/12/01 2:50 PM
 
