                                       Document of
                                     The World Bank




                                                               Report No: 36549

                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                    (CPL-40350 TF-29492)

                                           ON A

                                          LOAN

                             IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 58MILLION

                                          TO THE

                                  RUSSIAN FEDERATION

                                          FOR A

                                 LEGAL REFORM PROJECT




                                       June 28, 2006




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
Europe and Central Asia Region

   CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

(Exchange Rate Effective May 31, 2006)

     Currency Unit = Russian Ruble
       27.05 RUB = US$ 1
        US$ 0.037 = 1 RUB

           FISCAL YEAR
      January 1    December 31

ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS



    Vice President:    Shigeo Katsu
  Country Director     Kristalina Georgieva
   Sector Director     Cheryl Gray
Task Team Leader:      Craig Neal

                                 RUSSIAN FEDERATION
                                    Legal Reform Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            20
6. Sustainability                                                                22
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 23
8. Lessons Learned                                                               26
9. Partner Comments                                                              28
10. Additional Information                                                       41
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             42
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             43
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             45
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             46
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             50
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                51
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            52

Project ID: P008831                                                  Project Name: Legal Reform Project
Team Leader: Craig R. Neal                                           TL Unit: ECSPE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 27, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: Legal Reform Project                                     L/C/TF Number: CPL-40350; TF-29492
   Country/Department: RUSSIAN FEDERATION                                                 Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Law and justice (65%); Tertiary education (35%)
                  Theme: Access to law and justice (P); Judicial and other dispute resolution mechanisms (P); Legal
                            institutions for a market economy (P); Law reform (S); Legal services (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 10/04/1995                                     Effective: 08/01/1986                08/01/1996
     Appraisal: 06/13/1996                                         MTR: 10/31/1998                  11/01/1999
      Approval: 06/13/1996                                      Closing: 12/31/2000                 12/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Russian Federation/Russian Foundation for Legal Reform (RFLR) succeeded by
                                           the Federal Center for Project Financing (FCPF)
                      Other Partners:      The Legal Department of the Office of the President (GPU), the Supreme Court of
                                           the Courts of General Jurisdiction, the Supreme Arbitrazh Court, the Judicial
                                           Department, the Ministry of Justice (MOJ), the Ministry of Education, the
                                           Ministry of Culture, FAPSY, eight law schools, various secondary schools, and
                                           various non-governmental organizations

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes Linn
Country Director:               Kristalina Georgieva                           Michael Carter
Sector Director:                Cheryl Gray                                    Yukon Huang
Team Leader at ICR:             Craig Neal                                     Andrew Vorkink
ICR Primary Author:             Craig Neal


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
       The project objective was to improve the performance of the Russian legal system in areas
       key to the effective functioning of market institutions. The specific project objectives
       were to: (a) improve the quality of drafting of economic laws, decrees and regulations;
       (b) assist the Government of Russia (GOR) in designing the appropriate classification of
       legislation, and disseminate legal information; (c) introduce innovative teaching methods
       and materials in the legal education system, and improve public awareness and
       understanding of the role of law in a market economy; and (d) improve the quality of
       judicial training for the Courts of General Jurisdiction and Arbitrazh [i.e., commercial]
       Courts, analyze impediments to effective court administration and case management,
       develop a broad based consensus for necessary structural reform, and promote the
       development of alternative dispute resolution (ADR) in Russia.

       Context:
       With only four years of transition, following the collapse of Soviet political and economic
       structures, the legal system of the Russian Federation was grossly inadequate to the needs
       of a market-based democracy at the time the project was conceived. The
       legislative/regulatory framework and the capabilities of the constituent institutions were
       both severely challenged.

       Against the backdrop of major inter-branch struggles over the pace and direction of
       economic and political reforms, the Legal Department of the Office of the President
       approached the Bank for support in legal and judicial reforms. Many in the international
       community expressed serious concerns over the poor legal protections in Russia and
       looked to the Bank to take a major role in addressing them. Consequently, in June 1996
       the Bank approved the first legal reform project in the former Soviet Union ­ a
       multi-faceted US$89 million investment operation, supported by a US$58 million loan.
       The 1997 Country Assistance Strategy reiterated the importance of developing the legal
       infrastructure, as part of Russia's ongoing transition to a market economy.

       Assessment of Objective:
       The overall objective clearly targeted a significant impact on a profoundly complicated
       socio-economic system, while reserving a degree of selectivity. Given the saliency of the
       problems of the Russian legal system and the complexity of that system, it would be hard
       to imagine a substantially different approach (save the use of the Adaptable Program
       Lending instrument that was introduced in 1998).

       In large measure, the targeted goals reflected the available opportunities to address some
       of the key determinants of the performance of the legal system. For example, whereas the
       Presidential Administration and the Government expressed strong in interest addressing
       the contradictions and disorderliness in the rapidly changing body of legislation, the courts
       did not express a consensus on significant structural reforms. As a result, the project
       sought to address legislative drafting directly, but for the judicial system it focused on
       analysis and knowledge-sharing, in lieu of a large program of capacity building in the



                                                - 2 -

       courts.

       Selectivity of the objectives ­ together with a flexible implementation approach ­
       mitigated many of the challenges of working in an area as complex as the legal system, in a
       huge country like Russia. However, the number of involved parties invariably created
       implementation challenges, which led to somewhat mixed results. Most notably, by
       working with the legislative, judicial, presidential, and governmental branches, the project
       depended on effective inter-branch relations. In September 2003, the project literally
       froze, when the quasi-governmental project implementation agency founded under
       presidential and government decrees was deemed not to have proper budgetary status.
       Only in March 2005, was the project restored by transferring the implementation
       responsibilities to an entity under the Ministry of Finance and resolving the project funding
       problems.

3.2 Revised Objective:
       Not applicable.

3.3 Original Components:

       Legal Drafting Component (US$20 million, total base cost) comprising technical
       assistance and training to:
       (a)     Assist in the drafting of economic laws, decrees and regulations at the federal level
               ­ on the basis of annual priorities established by the GOR and agreed with the
               Bank;
       (b)     Analyze and improve the mechanisms to coordinate the legislative drafting
               processes across federal agencies and between federal and regional authorities;
       (c)     Improve legislative drafting in two pilot oblasts (Sverdlovsk and Orel); and
       (d)     Prepare specific legislation at regional levels ­ on the basis of annual priorities
               communicated to the Bank by the federal authorities.

       Legal Information Component (US$24 million, total base cost) comprising technical
       assistance and information technologies to:
       (a)     Develop legislative classification and coding guidelines; and
       (b)     Design and pilot a public sector legal information system.

       Legal Education and Public Education Component (US$24 million, total base cost)
       comprising technical assistance, competitively-awarded faculty grants and graduate
       fellowships, materials, information technologies, and public information services to:
       (a)     Produce innovative courses and teaching materials; introduce innovative teaching
               methods; and upgrade available teaching and research resources; and
       (b)     Improve public outreach and journalist training, improve public secondary
               education on legal matters, and promote public understanding of alternative
               dispute resolution mechanisms.

       Judicial Reform and Alternative Dispute Resolution Component (US$10 million, total
       base cost) comprising technical assistance, training, workshops, seminars, pedagogical



                                                 - 3 -

equipment, materials, and information technologies to:
(a)     Train judges on legal matters and judicial practices; strengthen pedagogical
        resources of the MOJ's Law Academy and the Training Department of the High
        Arbitrazh Court;
(b)     Assess court administration and case management practices in the Courts of
        General Jurisdiction;
(c)     Build consensus and support for judicial reform among the judiciary; and
(d)     Develop a cadre of arbiters and mediators for alternative dispute resolution.

Other High Priority Activities Component (US$3 million, total base cost) comprising
inputs as required to meet emerging priorities and needs in the reform of the legal system
­ as would be agreed between the Borrower and the Bank.

Project Management Component (US$6 million, total base cost) comprising technical
assistance, small works, equipment, information technologies, and operational costs (on a
declining basis) to ensure effective implementation of the project.

Assessment of Component Design:
Each component clearly supports the overall project objective and contributes to the
corresponding, specific project objectives. Two general observations are relevant,
however. First, of practical necessity, each of the project interventions represents ­ at
best ­ a first pass at addressing the needs in the relevant areas. Second, it is hard to
demonstrate ­ positively or negatively ­ that the selected project interventions were the
"optimal" set, especially when factoring in assessments of the receptiveness of the
beneficiaries.

In the years since the project was designed, the Bank has placed greater emphasis on the
formulation of monitorable impact indicators within a logical project design framework.
When applied well, these techniques can sharpen the links between components and
project objectives. They also make more explicit the important factors that are left outside
of the scope of the project interventions and other risk factors. This can sharpen project
design. In retrospect, the project may well have benefited from applying these techniques.


With respect to the individual components, it is clear that the Legal Drafting Component
addressed what was universally recognized as among the most pressing problems in
transition countries: the incomplete, out of date, and contradictory legal framework (at
the national and sub-national levels). At the time, structural reform and capacity building
in judicial system were also recognized as important requirements for a properly
functioning market-based democracy. However, in retrospect, an implementation gap
arose between the legislative framework and the performance of the judicial system (which
was widely observed in most transition countries). This gap suggests that inadequate
attention was paid to generating consensus in the judicial system on the urgent need for
structural, substantive and process reforms in the court system, and consequently on
effecting reforms in the courts. That said, the performance of the judicial system has



                                         - 4 -

        always been seen to depend on the behavior of those employed within the system and of
        its clients. In this regard, the project properly identified and sought to address the poor
        understanding in Russia of how the legal/judicial system functions in a market-based,
        democracy.

        In short, a critical analysis of the effectiveness of the components in achieving the project
        objectives largely centers on interventions that were not explicitly specified at preparation.
        The project design partially addressed these through the Other High Priority Activities
        Component, and the inclusion of resources to prepare subsequent projects. As a project
        design feature, this flexibility was particularly appropriate, given the complete absence of
        project experience in legal/judicial areas in the former Soviet Union (as well as the limited
        base of general project experience in Russia).


3.4 Revised Components:
        No formal revisions.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
        No formal QER/QAG review was undertaken.

        Quality at Entry was Satisfactory (or Moderately Satisfactory on a six-point scale). The
        project and 1997 CAS both emphasized the importance of developing the legal
        infrastructure, as part of the transition to a market economy. The Government's strategy,
        as declared by then President Yeltsin in a March 1996 address to the All-Russian Congress
        on Legal Reform, included: (a) development of the legislative base; (b) judicial reform; (c)
        improvement in public awareness about legal issues; and (d) delineation of the roles of
        executive organs. The project directly touched on the first three, and contributed to the
        fourth by helping to harmonize federal and regional legislation.

        The project triggered no special Bank safeguards, other than the standard fiduciary ones.
        These were adequately addressed in the project management arrangements.

        Other notable aspects of quality at entry include:
        (a)     Consultation. Despite the accelerated preparation period (concept review to
                decision meeting in 5 months), substantial consultations where held with
                stakeholders in government, the judiciary, academics and outside observers ­ in
                Moscow as well as several regions. Experts in legal education, ADR, and judicial
                reform assisted in the planning process. A public survey of the public perception
                of the legal system was also conducted.
        (b)     Donor Coordination. The Technical Annex to the Memorandum of the President
                identified ten major bilateral and multilateral assistance providers in the legal
                reform area in Russia.
        (c)     Economic and Sector Work. The project was not preceded by a body of analytic
                work, given the accelerated project preparation. Nevertheless, the Technical
                Annex presents a respectable analysis of issues arising in the areas which the
                authorities had requested Bank support.



                                                    - 5 -

       (d)     Benefits and Risks. The nature of the project does not lend itself to clear and
               quantitative benefits. Nevertheless, the Technical Annex presents a respectable
               analysis of how the benefits were expected to arise. The Risk analysis section
               clearly highlighted: (i) the political risks associated with legal reform; (ii)
               implementation capacity risks associated with a complex project; and (iii) the
               sustainability risks associated with leveraging innovations in legal education and
               public information.
       (e)     Technical Preparedness. The Technical Annex contained well elaborated, draft
               terms of reference and/or plans for: (i) a study on coordination of legal drafting
               process; (ii) regional pilots for legal drafting; (iii) codification and classification of
               legislation; (iv) legal education grants program; (v) public education campaigns;
               (vi) judicial education programs; (vii) a study on court administration and case
               management; (viii) organization of workshops for judges; (ix) provisional "other
               high priority areas". The Annex also presented a detailed first year implementation
               plan, and a list of thirty-four provisional priorities for legislative drafting work.
       (f)     Implementation Arrangements. The implementation arrangements were based on
               the creation of a new quasi-governmental body under presidential and government
               decree (The Russian Foundation for Legal Reform). This reflected the strong
               impetus for reform emanating from the Presidential Administration and the absence
               of established implementation capacity in each of the many beneficiary institutions.
               In retrospect, this configuration created vulnerabilities to shifting political
               alignments. These came to roost in a two year hiatus in project activities, while
               the Foundation was liquidated and the project passed to the Federal Center for
               Project Finance under the MOF.
       (g)     Monitoring and Evaluation. The Technical Annex presents matrices of output and
               impact indicators. However, the project pre-dates the Bank's requirements for
               Key Performance Indicator formulation and monitoring. It is always difficult to be
               sure of counterfactuals. However, the absence of good measurable impact
               indicators may have left the project more vulnerable to changes in key project
               decision takers.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
       During the period 1996-2005, it is fair to say that the Russian legal and judicial system has
       become more conducive to a market economy. Notwithstanding many serious deficiencies
       and an extensive unfinished agenda, the legal system has improved its performance in
       terms of: the quality of drafting of economic laws, decrees and regulations; the
       classification of legislation; the dissemination of legal information; legal education; public
       awareness; the quality of judicial training; court administration and case management; the
       consensus of the need for judicial reform; and alternative dispute resolution.

       However, set against the entirety of the legal and judicial system, the project's
       contributions must be seen as somewhat marginal. This simply reflects the relative scope
       and scale of the Russian legal system, as compared with those of the project interventions.



                                                  - 6 -

       However, set within the confines of the scope of direct project interventions, the project
       has shown satisfactory positive impact ­ albeit mixed across the many project activities.
       How law is taught in high schools and law schools has clearly benefited from project
       activities, as has how the public understands and gains access to legal information. Both
       components exceeded expectations. There has been gradual progress in the area of judicial
       training, court administration, case management, and consensus building for judicial
       reform. After a substantial delay, the Judicial Reform Component has basically met its
       relatively modest expectations. Some important laws were drafted through the project,
       and a working legislative classification system has been implemented. However, a positive
       and broad-based impact on Russian legislation is not demonstrable. Overall, therefore, the
       Legal Drafting Component did not meet expectations.

       In terms of sustainability, the areas of project success ­ piloting modern information
       systems for court administration and case management, legal education and legal
       information ­ demonstrate clear signs of being sustained into the post-project period.
       Similarly, project support to judicial training and judicial reform also appear to be
       sustainable, in part through the large Federally Targeted Programs and in part through a
       proposed follow-on Bank-financed Judicial Reform Support Project (JRSP) currently
       under development. The aspects of the legal drafting component which were successful
       will be sustained, in so far as they are institutionalized in laws and legal classification
       schemes.

       On balance, the project's overall impact rating is Satisfactory (or Moderately Satisfactory,
       if a 6 point rating scheme is applied ­ reflecting the weak performance of the Legal
       Drafting Component).

       Notwithstanding all the many measurement problems associated with performance
       indicators in the legal system, the project rating would be considerably more robust if the
       project had benefited from the measurable results schema which have been applied to
       more recently developed projects.

4.2 Outputs by components:
       Legal Drafting Component (Appraised: US$20 million, total base cost ­ Actual: US$5.47
       million inclusive of loan, borrower co-finance, Japanese Grant, and the RFLR
       contribution) -- Unsatisfactory.

                Of thirty-four prospective legal acts identified at project appraisal, the following
                nine were drafted and passed into law:
                ·       On Limited Liability Companies (drafted in 1997, effective in 1998).
                ·       On State and Municipal Unitary Enterprises (drafted in 1997, effective in
                        2002).
                ·       On Licensing (drafted in 1997, effective in 1998; later superseded).
                ·       On Arbitration Panels (drafted in 1997, effective in 2002).
                ·       Amendments to the Civil Procedure Code (drafted in 1997, effective in
                        2003).



                                                  - 7 -

·       Amendments to the Arbitration Procedure Code (drafted in 1997, effective
        2002).
·       On Land Management (drafted in 1998, effective in 2001).
·       On State and Municipal Land (drafted in 1998, effective in 2002).
·       On State Registration of Legal Entities (drafted in 2000; effective in 2002).

Two other laws were drafted, but not adopted:
·       On State Immunity (drafted in 2000, passed the State Duma, but rejected
        by the Council of Federation).
·       On State Liability Arising from Participation in Civil Legal Relations
        (drafted in 2001, approved by the Government, but never introduced to the
        Parliament).

Among the legal acts targeted, but not drafted, under the project were: the civil
code; a law on alternative dispute resolution; laws on accounting and auditing;
laws on the status of judges; revisions to the privatization law; a law on the
insolvency of banks; the tax code; the labor code; the land code; a law on
mortgages; a law on execution of judgments; and a law on registration of real
property.

The Bank urged the Government to undertake a regulatory impact assessment,
analyzing how laws are developed and drafted, how policy becomes law, and how
to assess the fiscal implications. After initially supporting the assessment, the
Government ultimately decided that the assessment would involve the Bank too
closely in Russian political affairs. The initiative was abandoned, following nine
months of discussions on the tender package.

Two further studies failed to proceed, despite initial support. A study of legislative
drafting failed after two rounds of tendering. (The Bank objected to the first
tender result. The second tender resulted in misprocurement, as Board of Trustees
of the RFLR did not proceed to contract with a consultancy whose selection was
previously approved by the Board.) An anticorruption study failed to proceed due
to a lack of support by the Ministry of Justice and the Government, despite
strenuous efforts by the RFLR and the Bank team.

A study on the gaps in the federal regulations governing economic reforms was
submitted to the Ministry of Justice in 2002. It is not clear to what extent the
study results were utilized.

Training for sixty local legislative drafters, including lawyers and the staff of the
regional legislative body in Sverdlosk and Orel, was completed in 2001. In the
absence of post-training review of legislative quality, it is not possible to assess the
efficacy of the activity.

Other component activities include two conferences on Internet law and



                                  - 8 -

       legislation, and the publication of twelve manuals dealing with law drafting and the
       legislative framework.

       In December 2005, a conference on the draft Administrative Procedure Code (for
       the courts) was held in Moscow, with international expert participation, and
       broadcast to a number of cities. The draft code is expected to be presented to the
       Parliament during the Spring session 2006.

       Also, in late 2005 the project financed an assignment to draft laws and regulations
       related to the provision of housing to federal civil servants (via the Other Priority
       Activities Component). The assignment helped address the many gaps in the
       norms and approaches used to compensate civil servants. The high level of public
       ownership of housing remains a persistent legacy of the Soviet period. Housing
       benefits remain one of most widespread, nontransparent, and abused elements of
       public administration.

       Overall the Legal Drafting Component is rated Unsatisfactory.

Legal Information Component (Appraised: US$24 million, total base cost ­ Actual:
US$6.62 million) ­ Moderately Satisfactory.

       A consultant ­ working closely with the GPU and the RFLR, leading government
       representatives, academics and lawyers ­ produced a classification scheme for
       Russian law. The purpose was to make the laws easily accessed via library
       research or database searches. The scheme was adopted by presidential decree in
       2000. It is utilized by librarians and database developers. As a result, laws are
       more rationally organized and more accessible to users, such as judges, lawyers,
       and the public.

       The sub-national legal and legislative environment was addressed by a feasibility
       study for a mechanism to collect all the laws, decrees, and judicial decisions that
       are in force for that region, and to make them available to the public. However,
       the planned pilot of a database and web-based access to official texts of the laws
       and regulations and judicial decisions in Moscow, Tula, and Tambov was aborted,
       due to contractual problems. These were compounded by the loss of adequate
       budgetary status of the RFLR (and the two year hiatus before the FCPF was able
       to resume project activities). The intermittent support from the Ministry of Justice
       and the Federal Agency of Government Communications and Information (which
       was liquidated in spring 2003) led the Project Coordination Council, in 2004, to
       end project support to the initiative. However, Tula and Tambov regions, under
       the influence of the study, started to develop their own information infrastructure
       and specialized software to create databases of regional decisions.

       Two sub-projects in the area of Legal Information were added during project
       execution.



                                         - 9 -

The first sub-project established Public Legal Information Centers throughout
Russia ­ in partnership with Ministry of Culture and Federal Agency of
Government Communications and Information (FAPSY). The project financed
about US$10,000 in computers, other equipment, and educational materials
relating to the law to establish each center (mostly in public libraries) around the
country. Typically, the Culture Ministry provided space and the FAPSY provided
telecommunications. In some locations, the information resources are
complemented by assistance from law students, who help citizens find materials
and explain the law. As of end of 2005, forty-four centers have been established in
eighteen regions. An estimated fifty thousand citizens have utilized their services.
About sixty further PLICs have been established in various regions using
own-budgetary means.

The second sub-project was: "The Development and Introduction of Methodology
for the Automated Collection, Analysis, and Summary of All Judicial Practices for
the Entire St. Petersburg Region." The pilot project followed from a proposal of
St. Petersburg State Law School. It built on work by some of its students to
monitor and collect important local judicial decisions. This sub-project
experienced significant delays, due to conflicts between the courts and the Law
School, arising, in part, due to the absence of a legal basis for the publication of
court decisions. During 2005, however, the technical and political disputes were
largely resolved. Towards the end of 2005, a highly functional web site was made
operational. This provides the collection of and public access to information on
the activities of over two dozen general jurisdiction courts in the Leningrad region
­ including, in a number of instances, court decisions. Expansion of the coverage
of court decisions would continue during 2006 (based on a November 2005
memorandum of understanding between the Judicial Department of St. Petersburg,
St. Petersburg City Court, St. Petersburg Law School, and the St. Petersburg
Council of Judges, which also provides for the eventual custodianship of the web
portal by the Judicial Department).

An important contribution of the St. Petersburg pilot has been to support the
embrace by the Courts of General Jurisdiction of the need for public disclosure of
court decisions ­ starting with those in St. Petersburg. An interesting aspect of the
St. Petersburg initiative was that it was ­ and continues to be - championed by the
Military Court and then extended to the other Courts of General Jurisdiction. The
Chairman of the Military Court, who is also the President of the Council of
Chairmen of the courts of St. Petersburg, established the Council's policy for
publication of court decisions, which is still being followed. Whereas the
Arbitrazhcourts embraced this more quickly, in part reflecting the nature of
commercial adjudication, the Courts of General Jurisdiction remained more
skeptical of the need and more hamstrung by the lack of an enabling
legal/regulatory framework. As painful and drawn out as this process has been,
the efforts in St. Petersburg to advocate for and implement this mode of judicial



                                  - 10 -

       accountability has been crucial in achieving acceptance of the need for such
       facilities ­ including, most notably, from the most senior members of the Supreme
       Court. This acceptance is manifest in, among other things, the current progress in
       preparing the proposed Judicial Reform Support Project that includes investments
       to widely implement disclosure of decisions.

       The Legal Reform Project also funded a number of activities in support of public
       access to judicial decisions (some of which overlap the Judicial Reform
       Component). In particular, a 2005 study of the technological needs for the
       capture, storage, transmission, and electronic publication of Abritrazh Court
       decisions informed project-financed investments to implement this capacity in 34
       regions (with a federal and four regional processing centers). The proposed JRSP
       will enhance the territorial and systemic coverage of this system, with full
       integration into case and court management systems. In 2005, the project also
       financed an analysis of the required legal and regulatory basis for the publication of
       decisions within the courts of general jurisdiction. The lack of a clear legal basis
       for what must ­ and may not ­ be made public has been a key stumbling block for
       improving accountability of the courts of general jurisdiction through public
       disclosure. The legal and technical implementation of these functions will be a
       core element of the JRSP (as well as the related initiatives under the current and
       upcoming Federally Targeted Program for 2007-2011). In the medium term, these
       project outputs and impacts appear to be the most significant.

       Overall, the Legal Information Component is rated Moderately Satisfactory. In
       large measure, this is due to the strong positive effect of the legal information
       activity, and positive ­ albeit delayed ­ effect of the judicial information activity. It
       is noteworthy that the two most positive outcomes arose from activities added to
       the project during implementation, via the Other High Priority Activities
       Component.

Legal Education and Public Education Component (Appraised: US$24 million, total base
cost ­ Actual: US$22.6 million) - Satisfactory.

       The Legal Grants Subcomponent provided competitively-awarded grants to eight
       law schools to develop innovative teaching methodologies and materials. Between
       1998 and 2003, examples of activities approved by the review panel included
       grants for:
       ·        Junior law professors for study tours to Western European universities -
                the information gathered during these study tours was incorporated into the
                courses that the professors taught at their home institutions;
       ·        Professors to develop new courses and materials on business, commercial
                and financial law; social security, labor, and tax law; copyright law; family
                law; international law; environmental law; insurance law; civil procedure;
                and arbitration law and procedure;
       ·        Computer and other equipment and materials for participating law schools;



                                         - 11 -

·       Schools for library equipment and books, introducing anonymous written
        examinations, creating new departments and legal clinics, establishing
        publishing and information centers, and conferences. Over ninety
        thousand volumes were acquired, and additional materials were obtained in
        electronic format;
·       Disseminating new courses and materials to four hundred other law schools
        throughout Russia, culminating in a conference for one hundred and forty
        professors and lawyers at the Urals State Law Academy to share the results
        of the grants program;
·       New or existing law school clinics, with training for clinical supervisors,
        acquisition of computers and books, and other financial assistance. Some
        five hundred students participated in these clinics, and advice was provided
        to over seven thousand clients; and
·       Legal olympiads (a national moot court competition for law school
        students).

The Public Education Campaign through Russian Secondary Schools
Subcomponent sought to instruct high school students on the importance of law in
a free market economy. A broader goal was to develop a course that would
replace the course taught during the Soviet period: "The Basics of Soviet State
and Law."     During 1997 ­ 1999, the RFLR, its contractor, and the Ministry of
Education developed courses and materials and to train teachers for grades 7 ­ 11
(students aged 14 ­ 18). Three courses were developed:
·       For grade 7, "Right and Left," presented basic moral issues, questions of
        law and justice, rights of teenagers, etc.
·       For grades 8 ­ 9, "Basics of Law and Knowledge" explored in more detail
        the relationship between the law and the individual, and the law and the
        state. It included the creation of a short instructional film.
·       For grades 10 ­ 11, "Law and Economics" focused more on commercial
        and economic law, including issues relating to property ownership, and the
        fundamentals of organizing and running a business.

Initially, these courses were planned to be piloted in fifteen to twenty schools. The
pilot was expanded to forty schools based on demand.
During 2000 ­ 2003, a local NGO, the Institute of Law and Public Policy (ILPP)
developed an integrated set of teaching methodological materials on law for
Grades 5-11. All the textbooks passed the Federal Expert Council and received
official endorsement from the Ministry of Education. The textbook "Fundamentals
of Legal Knowledge" won a national competition for the new generation
textbooks in the "Law" nomination category. The ILPP also analyzed and
disseminated best practices in applying and expanding legal knowledge outside the
regular classroom activities (i.e. through plays, extra-curriculum projects,
upgrading the governance of student organizations). The ILPP also published a
specialized journal "Law at School" and conducted four legal olympiads for school
children.



                                 - 12 -

The impact of the subcomponent has been significant. An estimated sixteen
hundred schools in sixty-two regions participated in the Project. Approximately
sixty conferences and training programs were conducted. Over eighteen hundred
teachers have been trained to teach law with materials developed under the
Project. Over four hundred and fifty thousand copies of new textbooks and
thousands of teacher's manuals and other materials have been published. Through
interviewing teachers and students, independent evaluators (including from the
Eurasia Foundation and Harvard University) rated the quality of the materials as
very high. According to a survey conducted by the Public Opinion Foundation of
the level of legal knowledge of schoolchildren, the effectiveness of the teaching
methodology developed under the Project was high. A subsequent study
conducted by an individual consultant who visited all the pilot schools,
corroborated the survey findings.

The project's demonstration effect has also been significant. A number of
textbooks were published with the publisher's own financing and subsequently
purchased by schools outside of the project scope. The Moscow Government is
using the materials in all city schools, for which some three hundred thousand
copies of the materials were printed. More than sixteen hundred high schools in
sixty-two regions introduced law courses as a training subject. All the regional
training seminars conducted in 2000-2003 were co-financed by the regions.

The Public Education Campaign through Russian Mass Media Subcomponent
sought to (a) improve the understanding of law and legal matters by journalists;
and (b) improve the general public's understanding of law and legal matters.
Between 1997 and 2003, an illustrative list of activities supported by the
subcomponent comprised:
·      A methodology/training manual and training for journalists on juridical
       topics. Some two hundred and fifty journalists received training on how to
       cover legal affairs. The journalists selected for training, which was done in
       conjunction with the Glasnost Association, mostly represented business
       publications. The methodology/training manual was also adapted for use
       by universities;
·      A resource base (or press center), usually housed at one of the partnering
       NGOs, for local journalists. Each of these NGOs was pre-existing and
       continues its work; they include the Public Press Center of Novisibirsk, the
       Volgograd Association to Support Legal Reform, and the Krasnoyarsk
       Center for Law and Mass Media;
·      A nationally broadcast talk show on legal issues hosted by the well known
       commentator Vladimir Posner, as well as another talk show which
       compared Russian and foreign legal experiences. However, neither show
       was commercially viable, and production had to be suspended after six
       programs;
·      A more popular program: "Household Lawyer", which discussed real-life



                                  - 13 -

      issues such as inheritance law, housing, etc. This ran for forty-six episodes.
      The success of this program has prompted the Judicial Department to
      request the Bank to support a similar program, financed either through the
      proposed JRSP or through grant funding;
·     Ten 30-second public service announcements, using animation and humor,
      highlighted the rights and responsibilities of those living in a law-based
      society. Although lawyers and judges found these PSAs to be simplistic,
      they won international awards, ran for almost four years on the central
      channels, and are still being run in the regions. The proposed JRSP is
      examining the possibility of replicating this successful initiative;
·     A website, "Legal Information Bureau," which provides up-to-date
      information on legislative developments. It has proven to be very popular,
      receiving eight to ten thousand hits per day.

During 2005, the project financed a survey of public perceptions of the judiciary.
A survey, using structured interview based on combined sampling model of
twenty-five hundred persons in twenty-two regions, indicated that:
·     Socioeconomic status critically influences attitudes toward the role of law
      ­ and these vary substantially. Nevertheless, public knowledge of laws and
      rights are generally seen as an essential part of a modern environment.
·     The public is generally familiar with key structural reforms (e.g., jury trial,
      justices of the peace, consumer rights protection, protection against
      wrongful actions of government officials, transfer of the arrest warrant
      function from the Procuracy to the courts, etc.). Notably, the system of
      justices of the peace is well understood. It is perceived markedly better
      than the courts.
·     Awareness of court procedures is mixed, despite the popularity of several
      dramatized court proceeding TV programs (e.g., "One Hour in Court with
      Pavel Astakhov" and "One Hour in Court. Family Matters" with E.
      Dmitrieva on RENtv Channel, "Federal Judge" with Sergei Pashin on the
      First Channel, "All Rise! The Court Is In Session" on the "Russia"
      Channel).
·     The credibility of the courts is low. Among other things, this may have led
      to a cautious approach to court adjudication.
·     Attitudes towards the courts are critically shaped by direct personal
      experience. Public access to judicial information and actual court
      performance influences attitudes more strongly than public discourse on the
      independence of the court. Yet, among those with direct experience of the
      courts, prior knowledge of the court systems did not translate into an
      appreciable effect on the course of court proceedings. That said, thirty
      percent of those surveyed had occasion to review court decisions that
      affected themselves, family members, friends, etc.
·     The lack of timeliness of completing court proceedings singularly degrades
      popular attitudes toward the courts.
·     Corruption in courts is widely perceived as generalized. The overwhelming


                                - 14 -

                body of "evidence" is derived from media reporting and the widely held
                view that corruption is universal among individuals wielding power. The
                initiative for corrupt judicial practices arises from many quarters. Payments
                to avoid court procedures are widely perceived as "understandable".

       These results, combined with surveys performed by the Bureau of Economic
       Analysis, provide a rich set of observations to work with in the preparation and
       implementation of the proposed JRSP. Further institutionalization of such survey
       work in the proposed JRSP is envisaged as an important element in the continuing
       reform of the judicial system.

       Overall, the Legal Education and Public Education Component is rated
       Satisfactory. The Legal Grants Subcomponent and the Public Education
       Campaign through Russian Secondary Schools Subcomponent both exceeded
       expectations. However, the Public Education Campaign through Russian Mass
       Media Subcomponent did not meet expectations.

Judicial Reform and Alternative Dispute Resolution Component (Appraised: US$10
million, total base cost ­ Actual: US$8.49 million) ­ Moderately Satisfactory

       The Judicial Reform Subcomponent was arguably the project's most challenging.
       It was the one most subject to the vicissitudes of inter-branch cooperation and
       rivalry. Moreover, courts are among the most conservative and insular institutions
       in most societies. In the Russian Federation that conservatism included strong
       attachments to Soviet era practices and attitudes. The original project design was,
       in no small measure, an attempt by reformers in the Presidential Administration and
       the Government to foster change in the judicial system. As a result, many of the
       project activities were aimed at developing specific concepts of reform and to
       extend them beyond a core of reform-minded members of the judiciary. However,
       "outside-in" institutional reforms are invariably fraught with difficulties, especially
       if they involve the judiciary. In Russia, they were doubly challenged, given the
       critical need to also establish the judiciary's independence from the other branches
       of the state.

       The 1998 establishment of the Judicial Department (under the Supreme Court) was
       one element of this process. This took from the Ministry of Justice the
       responsibilities to manage and materially support the courts. This shift of
       responsibilities slowed the development of the Subcomponent. However,
       assessing this development some years later, this move has considerably helped the
       government to move significant resources through the Federal Targeted Program
       to improve the physical facilities of the judiciary across Russia ­ this process is
       expected to continue in the upcoming Federal Targeted Program for 2007-2011.

       During 1996-1998, project activities were limited to seven conferences on judicial
       reform and matters relating to procedural codes. In 1999, no subcomponent



                                          - 15 -

activities were undertaken. The deep suspicion of the project by the courts,
including accusations of mismanagement/misappropriation of project resources, led
to the establishment of a Coordinating Council in early 2000. The Council
included representatives of the Supreme Court, the Supreme Arbitrazh Court, the
Council of Judges, the Judicial Department, the Academy of Justice, the Ministry
of Justice, and the RFLR. However imperfect, the advent of the Coordinating
Council led to the gradual resumption of subcomponent activities. Illustrative
examples include:

Knowledge Sharing and Consensus Building Activities:
·       Regional seminars and one national conference on court financing issues,
        including budget planning, financial management of courts, and accounting
        [2000]; seminars for newly appointed public information officers of the
        regional branches of the Judicial Department (in connection with the mass
        media subcomponent) [2000]; a conference for all chairmen of Regional
        Judicial Councils [2000]; and support for the fifth Congress of Judges
        meeting [2000].
·       Publication of "The Collected Normative Acts on the Courts and the Status
        of a Judge" [2000]; and of a handbook for Justices of the Peace;
·       Study tours to the United States for representatives of the Council of
        Judges, the Arbitrazh Courts and the Judicial Department, to review the
        relationship between judges and administrators and study court
        administration techniques[2000]; to the European Court of Human Rights
        in Strasburg for members of the Council of Judges, chairmen and deputy
        chairmen of regional courts and the Judicial Department [2002]; and to the
        Netherlands, for the staff of the Judicial Department and the newly
        appointed court administrators [2003].
·       A pilot website for communication between the Russian and American
        lawyers [2001].
·       The first comprehensive diagnostic review of the court system (conducted
        by Russian retired judges in cooperation with European experts
        recommended by the Council of Europe and World Bank staff) [2002],
        followed by a roundtable in Moscow on the findings of the diagnostic
        review, attended by legal practitioners and legal scholars (well received by
        representatives of the judiciary) [2003].

Capacity Building Activities
·       Studies of the computerization needs of the Judicial Department and its
        regional branches [2000]; the computerization needs of the Arbitrazh
        Courts [2000]; the technological needs of the Russian Academy of Justice
        (the primary training center for judges in Russia) [2001]
·       Feasibility studies for court recording in the Courts of General Jurisdiction
        and the Arbitrazh Courts [2000]; for case management systems in the
        AbritrazhCourts [2002].
·       A pilot automated case management system in three courts of general



                                 - 16 -

        jurisdiction in Kurgan (two district and regional), the regional branch of the
        Judicial Department, and the Moscow Oblast and St. Petersburg City
        Arbitrazhcourts [2003].
·       A manual for court administrators, prepared by the Judicial Department
        and the Supreme Court [2003].
·       Digital sound recording equipment for two hundred twenty-four Courts of
        General Jurisdiction, including all oblast level courts, as well as
        eighty-seven ArbitrazhCourts, including the newly created Arbitrazh
        Appellate Courts [2005].
·       Video conference facilities linking the Supreme Court, thirty-six regional
        (appeals) courts and fifty-two confinement facilities within these regions
        [2005].

Also, as described in the Legal Information Subcomponent, the project financed
(a) the completion of the St. Petersburg pilot court information network,
encompassing twenty seven general courts, and web-access to court information,
including decisions [2005]; (b) a study of the technological needs for the capture,
storage, transmission, and electronic publication of ArbitrazhCourt decisions
[2005]; (c) an electronic decision capture and publication system in thirty-four
regions (with a federal and four regional processing centers) [2005]; and (d) an
analysis of the legal and regulatory basis for the publication of decisions within the
courts of general jurisdiction [2005].

The Judicial Reform Subcomponent focused on analysis, knowledge-sharing, and
demonstrations ­ reflecting the initial conditions of the mid 1990s. Towards the
end of the project, the component supported capacity building in some selected
areas (e.g., court information, audio and video recording of court hearings). In
large measure, the capacity building work was the fruit of the earlier component
activities. The cumulative effects of study tours and international and domestic
knowledge sharing activities, gradually increased the constituency for judicial
reform. Also, the feasibility studies and experiments in capacity building had
demonstration effects, setting the stage for national roll-out of the innovations.
These include (i) computer-assisted audio recording of court hearings ­
substantially raising the accountability of judges and the efficiency of court
hearings; (ii) computer-supported case management systems ­ providing
significant improvements in court scheduling and, most critically, in the
management of the documents and correspondence that lies at the heart of court
procedures; (iii) the use of internet technologies to provide public access to court
information/decisions ­ enabling court accountability to counterbalance court
independence; (iv) the use of video conference technologies to support the appeals
of incarcerated persons ­ mitigating the prominent human rights problems of
transporting physically restrained prisoners across the vastness of the Russian
Federation; (v) the use of video conference technologies to provide large-screen
projection of documents and evidence in court hearing ­ substantially increasing
the uniformity and efficiency of the presentation of evidence and testimony; and



                                 - 17 -

       (vi) the integration of the above technologies and procedures into a
       comprehensive, accessible and transparent case management and court
       administration system.

       Alternative Dispute Resolution Subcomponentsought to foster the use of dispute
       resolution mechanisms that are alternatives to court adjudication. When well
       implemented, ADR can provide disputatious parties a more time and resource
       efficient mechanism to resolve disputes. ADR also offer the prospect for
       substantially lightening court case load, in turn improving court performance. The
       subcomponent was active during 1999-2000. In anticipation of self-sustaining
       ADR mechanisms, the subcomponent supported training and other modes of
       knowledge sharing, including (a) an inception report by a Canadian law firm
       assessed prospects for ADR in Russia and identified potential partners; (b) pilot
       training program, including interactive materials; (c) an intensive, six-week,
       train-the-trainers program for twenty-three arbitrator, mediators, and lawyers from
       around Russia, many of them connected with their local Chamber of Commerce;
       (d) three regional seminars, in which the trainers trained approximately three
       hundred forty potential arbitrators; and (e) a national conference on ADR, held in
       Moscow in May 2000 supported by the Russian Center for Arbitration Support
       (NGO).

       Evidence for impact of the ADR Subcomponent is scarce and relatively weak. The
       knock-on effects of training three hundred forty arbitrators may well be seen in the
       existence of four hundred eighteen arbitration panels in sixty-two regions. On the
       other hand, the Russian Center for Arbitration Support continues with a static
       membership of only about twenty and has attracted only limited donor support.

       Overall, as measured against the state goals: "To improve the quality of judicial
       training for Courts of General Jurisdiction and Arbitrazh Courts . ... analyze
       impediments to effective court administration and case management ... broad
       based consensus for necessary structural reform ... promote the development of
       ADR in Russia" the Judicial Reform and ADR Component is rated Moderately
       Satisfactory.

Other High Priority Activities Component (Appraised: US$3 million, total base cost ­
Actual: US$10.64 million)

       Each of the activities that fell under the "Other High Priority Activities
       Component" has been described above under the component in which they most
       naturally fit. These include the establishment of Public Legal Information Centers;
       a study of the technological needs of the Russian Academy of Justice; the St.
       Petersburg region pilots; sound recording and video conference/presentation
       facilities; a study of the technological needs for the capture, storage, transmission,
       and electronic publication of Arbitrazh Court decisions; analysis of the legal and
       regulatory basis for the publication of decisions within the Courts of General



                                         - 18 -

                Jurisdiction; and an electronic capture and publication system for ArbitrazhCourt
                decisions in thirty four regions (with a federal and four regional processing
                centers).

                Although it is somewhat difficult to rate a component that was established to
                facilitate emerging needs (other than Satisfactory), it is notable that many of the
                most successful project activities emerged during the course of the project. Put
                somewhat differently, the most telling lesson of the LRP may well be that the
                "design on the fly" component was its most successful component. Given the
                conditions in 1995/6 of the Russian Federation, and of the Bank's preparedness to
                undertake a major operation in the reform of the Russian legal system, this is not
                all that surprising. It also underscores the value of having an instrument like the
                APL to contain the uncertainty, while providing an impetus to the overall reform
                agenda through the (conditional) availability of substantial resources.

        Project Management Component (Appraised: US$6 million, total base cost ­ Actual:
        US$10.02 million) ­ Moderately Unsatisfactory

                In many ways, the outcome of Project Management Component is the least
                satisfactory of all the project components. The mid project demise of the project
                implementation agency, the Russian Foundation for Legal Reform, and the nearly
                two year hiatus until the Federal Center for Project Finance took up the reigns of
                the project is testament to fluctuating government commitment to the project and
                to the fluid state of inter-branch and inter-agency political alignments in Russia
                during the period.

                In this context, the RFLR never managed to achieve a leadership role in the reform
                of the legal system, commensurate with the resources it managed. It tended to
                manage the project components in a compartmentalized fashion, leading to some
                loss of synergies. Whereas an active leading role in legal reform may well have
                been unrealistic in the first place, the RFLR tended to maintain some distance from
                the project beneficiaries. This limited its impact and left it vulnerable to the loss of
                political support.

                However, judged more narrowly, in terms of contracts, payments, logistics,
                reporting, etc., the RFLR and the FCPF were considerably more successful
                (especially during 2005, when the FCPF successfully procured sixteen separate
                contracts for goods and services totally approximately US$11 million). In total,
                the project financed four hundred and forty-one contracts of widely varying scope
                and content. This is a testament to the efforts of the staff of the RFLR and the
                FCPF.

                Overall the Project Management Component is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory.


4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:



                                                  - 19 -

        Not applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
        Not Applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
        The institutional development impact of the LRP is Modest. The activities under each
        component and subcomponents either set the ground work for or implemented
        institutional reforms (i.e., changes in institutional arrangements and/or practices). These
        were realized through a number of channels:
        ·         specific project-supported legislative acts;
        ·         methods which legislators and legal professionals prepare and analyze legislation;
        ·         innovations in how legal matters are taught;
        ·         public understanding of how to interact with the legal and judicial system;
        ·         mechanisms that the legal and judicial systems use to inform and respond to the
                  public;
        ·         methods and mechanisms that the courts use manage their resources and
                  procedures;
        ·         innovations in judicial procedures; and
        ·         non-court mechanisms for dispute resolution.

        That said, the wide range of relatively shallow project interventions (vis-à-vis the needs)
        somewhat blunt the overall institutional development impact. On the other hand, the
        impact of the innovations in court information systems and on legal instruction has
        certainly been substantial, especially given the proposed JRSP and the billion-dollar
        Federal Targeted Programs.

        Overall, the sustainability of the institutional impact is Likely.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
       Given the involvement of the Presidential Administration, the Government, the Parliament,
       and the Judicial System it is somewhat hard to define the "government's control".
       However, taken together as the "state", very little remains outside its collective control ­
       save the inherent limits on the speed of the sweeping social transformation under way in
       post-Soviet Russia.


5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
        Inter-branch disputes, shifting politics and changing institutional arrangements negatively
        influenced project implementation.

        When the loan was first negotiated, the State Legal Department of the Office of the
        President (GPU) was led by a set of dedicated reformers. The GPU very much wanted the
        loan. Others in the political and legal community were skeptical or even hostile. Some of
        the leaders of the judiciary thought that the control over the funding relating to judicial


                                                     - 20 -

programs should have been given directly to the judiciary, rather than to the GPU and the
RFLR. Some Duma and ministerial representatives were unconvinced of the need for
international assistance in legislative drafting. They also worried that the loan would lead
to greater presidential control over the legislative agenda. Even the support and
engagement of the Presidential Administration waned in the latter years of the Yeltsin
administration. This did not reverse itself until the Putin Presidency began in 2000 (with
the benefit of a strong parliamentary majority).

The uneven political commitment to the loan affected some components more than others.
Where the activities did not involve high profile political maneuvering with government
agencies, the work proceeded apace (e.g., training journalists, mediators, law professors,
and school teachers). In contrast, important initiatives with the Duma, such as the legal
drafting component, or with the judiciary, such as the publication of court decisions, were
exceedingly difficult.

The multiplicity of project beneficiaries and stakeholders also prevented the emergence of
an effective project champion. Initially, the GPU seemed to be the primary partner. In
September 1997, however, the Government established the Council for Legislative
Priorities in the Economic Sphere (CLPES) to identify which legislation the RFLR was to
work on. The CLPES proved ineffective and was reconstituted in 1999. In February
2001, the Commission on Legal Drafting Initiatives, within the Government's Department
for Cooperation with the Federal Assembly, became the new lead partner in the legislative
area. However, the Commission was not always able to overcome resistance by various
ministries to yield responsibilities for legislative drafting. Even when the RFLR succeeded
in preparing draft laws ­ which the Government almost always took on board ­ the drafts
did not always survive the political give-and-take in the Duma. Greater upstream
consultation with the parliament in the drafting process was probably needed to improve
the chances for the legislative program.

Poor and uneven support of the Project Implementing Agency also impacted the project
quite negatively. Neither the President nor the Board of the RFLR was in place until
mid-1997 (over a year after its formal establishment in February 1996). Moreover, the
Board contained no representatives of the judiciary, the legal community, such as the bar
or the Procuracy, or civil society. In September 2003, the Government stopped the
project activities on the basis of the RFLR's non-governmental status and its ineligibility
to be (or to be subordinate to) a "Main Budget Executor" for the project. In March 2004,
the MOF and the Bank agreed to transfer Implementation Agency responsibilities from the
RFLR to the Federal Center for Project Finance (FCPF), under the MOF. Whereas this
resolved the legal issue, funding issues hamstrung the project during 2004. Thirty-one
contracts, where suppliers had been selected, went unfunded and were allowed to lapse.

In March 2005, the Bank agreed to a fifth and final extension of the project to December
31, 2005. During this period the FCPF executed sixteen procurement actions with a total
value of $11 million. This impressive performance included a number of key activities in
support of the Judicial Reform Subcomponent (upon which the proposed Judicial Reform



                                          - 21 -

        Support Project is being constructed).


5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
        The dedication of a handful of the RFLR and FCPF staff contributed substantially to the
        successes of the project. On the other hand, a high level of management turnover in the
        RFLR hindered project progress. Additionally, the RFLR had to overcome a lack of
        experience with the intricacies of managing a World Bank financed project. External
        assistance was obtained on procurement in 1996 and 1997. However, this was somewhat
        disjointed. On balance, it was insufficiently intensive to bring the staff up to speed
        quickly.

        The RFLR never managed to achieve a leadership role in the reform of the legal system,
        commensurate with the resources it managed. By adopting a more limited, supporting
        role, the FCPF was later more successful at building bridges to the beneficiaries.

5.4 Costs and financing:
        The appraised and actual costs of the components diverge substantially. Similarly, the
        appraised four year implementation period substantially diverges from the nine years of
        actual implementation (1997-2005). In part, these divergences reflect the rapid
        development of a large project, without the benefit of an extended period of
        country-specific sector engagement and analysis. In part, they reflect the rather poorly
        understood mechanics of institutional development (especially in legal and judicial
        systems). Finally, they also reflect the project's opportunistic/introductory interventions in
        broad areas, each of which could productively absorb many multiples of the loan amount.

        Overall, the mixed performance of the project led to cancellations of approximately
        US$8.7 million of the US$58 million original loan amount during implementation, of
        which an additional US$2.3 million remained undisbursed at closing and was subsequently
        cancelled.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
        Overall project sustainability is rated Likely, with some variation among components.

        ·        The sustainability of the Legal Drafting Component is rated (moderately) Unlikely.
                 The laws drafted and passed with the support of the project are likely to be
                 sustained (although one of the eleven laws has been largely superseded). The
                 individual skills and experiences developed by the participants are likely to be
                 sustained. However, an institutionalized capacity for improved legislative drafting
                 was not achieved by the project.

        ·        The sustainability of the Legal Information Component is rated Likely. The new
                 classification system has been institutionalized and is in widespread use. The
                 Public Legal Information Centers appear to meet clear public demand and likely to
                 be sustained ­ as witnessed by PLIC being established by regions using there own


                                                    - 22 -

                 budget funding. The public access to court information and decisions appears to
                 be gaining acceptance by the courts and is the focus of a follow-on Bank project,
                 as well as the current and planned Federally Target Programs.

       ·         The sustainability of the Legal and Public Education Component is rated Likely.
                 The innovations in legal education have been well received and are spreading on
                 the basis of non-project financing. The public education investments in mass
                 media are of mixed and somewhat unlikely to be sustained.

       ·         The sustainability of the Judicial Reform and ADR Component is rated Likely.
                 Despite the slow uptake, the investments in reform analysis and knowledge sharing
                 are showing up in a growing consensus on the need for and direction of judicial
                 reform. The "demonstration" investments in court information systems are highly
                 likely be sustained and expanded by the courts systems (through the proposed
                 follow-on operation and the Federally Targeted Programs). The modest ADR
                 investments in training seem to have a correspondingly modest effect in the spread
                 of ADR. While they certainly are not dying out, the investments have not jump
                 started a widespread implementation of ADR mechanisms.


6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
       Given the nature of the project investments in promoting institutional reform, the
       transition to regular operations is not a significant issue. The investments in equipment for
       legal information and courts operations are expected to remain in use and their impact will
       spread (as assessed above). The most financially and technically demanding project
       investments during the operational period are the court information systems. At this
       juncture, overall court funding continues to improve. Large scale further investments in
       court information systems are planned. Moreover, information systems are rapidly
       becoming essential core elements for court operations and, thus, reasonably high priority
       for operational funding. As with all state structures, the courts must compete for IT skills.
       Fortunately, Russia is well endowed with such skills, and the courts are generally
       respected employers (or contractual partners).

       Going forward, public and professional surveys to be conducted under the proposed
       Judicial Reform Support Project should provide some vantage on the impact of the project
       investments (albeit highly intermediated).

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
       The Bank's performance in the identification of the project was Satisfactory (or
       Moderately Satisfactory on a six point scale). The project responded to a high and urgent
       priority of the authorities, and was consistent with the new CAS. The project design
       established a reasonably robust and flexible framework of important interventions ­
       formulated under severe time and information constraints. Given the breath of the
       interventions and the number of distinct project beneficiaries/stakeholders, any


                                                  - 23 -

       implementation arrangements were going to be severely tested.

       In retrospect, Bank Management should have been more firm in narrowing the broad
       scope of the project and insisting on more realism in the implementation time table
       (possibly through a sequence of operations). Also, the technical design of the project
       should have included more efforts to strengthen the implementation arrangements and to
       develop of risk mitigation strategies for changes in the source and strength of reform
       impetus. In particular, the project design would have benefited from plans (and earmarked
       resources) to engage the more skeptical beneficiaries.


7.2 Supervision:
       Bank supervision was Satisfactory (or Moderately Satisfactory on a six point scale). The
       supervision plan in the Technical Annex to the MOP envisioned three supervision missions
       per year during FY97 to FY00. Actual supervision missions were four in FY97, three in
       FY98, two in FY99, two in FY00, two in FY01, three in FY02, three in FY03, three in
       FY04, one in FY05, and one in FY06

       Initially, supervision effectiveness was somewhat mixed. This reflected a number of
       factors: (a) turnover in the Bank teams ­ between 1996 and 1999, three different teams
       were responsible for supervision; (b) the acute need to build implementation capacity in
       the RFLR; (c) the large number and variety of project activities and counterparts; (d)
       skepticism on the part of some project stakeholders; and (e) the general novelty of legal
       and judicial reform in post-Soviet transitional states. Among other things, these factors
       negatively affected the Bank's ability to build bridges to the parliament and the judiciary.
       The initial weakness in the RFLR ­ combined with high turnover of team members on the
       Bank side ­ was manifested in turnaround times for no-objection letters of 4-6 months.
       This especially hindered the legal drafting component, where the authorities sought quick
       assistance.

       During 2000-2005, supervision was more effective (notwithstanding the project hiatus
       during 2004). This reflected: (a) capacities built in the RFLR; (b) stability in the Bank
       team ­ including a single team leader from the Bank's Legal Department; (c) effective
       working relations established with a number of project beneficiaries and improving
       relations with the judiciary; and (d) the participation of a senior project officer from the
       Bank's Moscow Office starting in July 1998.

       In retrospect, the project could have greatly benefited from a Moscow-based, full time
       project manager with a strong background in legal and judicial reform. Relationship
       building, counterpart engagement (outside of Moscow and St. Petersburg), and
       substantive dialog were all clearly handicapped by the lack of proximity. Moreover, the
       project's periodic reporting and monitoring mechanisms were not sufficiently well
       developed to mitigate this distance.

       More generally, complex and technically ambitious projects in difficult institutional and
       political environments simply cannot be treated as "standard" projects, especially when


                                                - 24 -

       they are undertaken with little preparation or limited track-records -- due to an exceptional
       imperative for Bank engagement. Such projects demand resources commensurate with
       the need for continuous, in-country based project management by a senior area expert and
       for intensive supervision by a variety of technical specialists. Such projects also demand
       direct and frequent engagement by Bank management (country and sector) in monitoring
       project progress and in problem solving especially with respect to inter-branch and/or
       inter-agency bottlenecks.

       The Quality of Supervision Assessment (QSA6) conducted in 2004 criticized the Bank
       Management's lack of strong intervention on the financing problems that led to the demise
       of the RFLR and related procurement issues. In retrospect, the relative success of the
       2005 project activities, the Bank's intensive engagement with all elements of the judicial
       system (the Supreme Court, the Supreme Arbitrazh Court, the Constitutional Court and
       ther Judicial Department) as part of the preparation of the proposed follow-on Judicial
       Reform Support Project and the request from the authorities for other inputs (e.g.
       comments on the publication of decisions, and on the enforcement of judicial decisions)
       and support (e.g. through a multi-donor Trust Fund) from the Bank on different aspects of
       the justice sector reform agenda appear to have vindicated the patient stance of Bank
       Management. However, project termination in 2003/4 would probably not have been
       warranted in spite of the weak performance of the Legal Drafting and the Judicial Reform
       Components. The Bank's perseverance in staying the course in challenging country
       circumstances may have been a key factor in building trust and credibility with the
       authorities, and in making it possible to successfully re-engage on the JRSP.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
       Overall the Bank's performance was Satisfactory (or Moderately Satisfactory on a six
       point scale). The preparation team responded to authorities' urgent request for Bank
       support with a reasonable project design within the short time allotted ­ albeit a design
       that was highly vulnerable to shifting political alignments and dependent on "winning
       over" key beneficiaries. Supervision was mixed, with turnover and distance hindering the
       Bank's ability to overcome the risks inherent in the design. That said, the project did
       achieve a number of valued outcomes ­ including, significantly, the gradual engagement of
       the judiciary. The project design and the supervision effort both contributed to this
       important outcome ­ as did the patience of Bank Management.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
       The Borrower's preparation for the project was Unsatisfactory (or Mostly Unsatisfactory
       on a six point scale). This reflected a number of factors. The first factor is simply the
       profoundly unsettled conditions in the Russian Federation in late 1995/early 1996 ­ merely
       four years since the comprehensive collapse of the Soviet system. Secondly, legal and
       judicial reform spans all branches of the state and does not admit a single focus of reform
       leadership. In this case, the Russian authorities tried to use the RFLR to channel the
       reform impetus. However, it was not until well after project preparation that the RFLR
       was operational (being fully staffed only in mid 1997). Moreover, the Duma and the
       courts were not successfully engaged during project preparation. A third factor was the



                                                - 25 -

       lack of experience in legal and judicial reform ­ notwithstanding the presence of keen
       reformers in key positions. This left the Russian authorities substantially dependent on
       Bank assistance in project formulation. The lack of experience in the intricacies of Bank
       financed projects (development and implementation) exacerbated this dependence.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
       The Borrower's performance during implementation was Unsatisfactory (or Mostly
       Unsatisfactory on a six point scale). Clearly, a number of project participants performed
       quite well, as witnessed by a variety of successful, and even highly successful, activities
       (e.g., the Ministry of Education's role in the legal education component). However, the
       uneven support provided to the RFLR, leading to its collapse in 2003, reflected an
       inability or unwillingness on the part of the authorities to resolve the technical and
       financial problems that undermined it. Moreover, the authorities who were supporting the
       project were unable or unwilling to resolve the political disputes that alienated the
       parliamentarians and judiciary. In short, the project was left to effect reforms which are
       inherently political (and not reliably influenced by with technical inputs that available under
       an investment operation).

7.6 Implementing Agency:
       The performance of the RFLR and the FCPF was Satisfactory (or Moderately Satisfactory
       under a six point scale). Although the RFLR never achieved the planned leadership role
       (which may well have been unrealistic), in relation to project administration and
       coordination, the implementation agencies performed commendably (as indicated by the
       number of satisfactory project outcomes and four hundred forty-one contracts for
       loan-financed goods and services in the wide range of areas).

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
       Overall Borrower performance was Unsatisfactory (or Mostly Unsatisfactory on a six
       point scale) on the basis of a weak contribution to the project design, weak performance in
       addressing the political determinants of project success, and the uneven support to the
       RFLR and the FCPF.

8. Lessons Learned

       In the decade since the LRP was appraised, the Bank has increasingly emphasized a
       number of good practices in project design and implementation. These include:
       ·        Participatory design and implementation mechanisms;
       ·        Institutional analyses;
       ·        Results-oriented project design, the Logical Framework, the Key Performance
                Indicators, and more broadly greater emphasis on monitoring and evaluation; and
       ·        The use of country systems.

       The short-comings of the LRP clearly underscore the logic behind these good practices.

       Good practices are not magic bullets, however, and their efficacy is context-dependent. In
       the case of the LRP, the context included acute constraints in capacity, information and
       time. These reflect the imperative to provide timely and significant support in the wake of


                                                 - 26 -

a major political/economic disjuncture (of which post-Soviet Russia circa 1995/6 is an
example par excellence). Thus, important lessons from the LRP need to relate to the
provision of quick and substantial support in areas of vast needs, rapidly evolving political,
institutional and/or material circumstances, and weak/uncertain implementation capacities.
These include:

·        Reforming complex political, institutional and economic systems (such as the
         legal/judicial system) require a broad framework, to carry out interventions in a
         flexible and exploratory manner. Focused interventions may improve the chances
         of technical success. However they do at the expense of impact, by leaving many
         necessary conditions/controlling factors of reform outside of the project scope. On
         the other hand, broadly-focused interventions may encompass more necessary
         conditions for reform impact; but they are unlikely to advance on all fronts. Thus,
         a reform support framework needs to balance focused interventions (for success)
         with breath (for impact), while retaining substantial flexibility (to accommodate
         changing circumstances and evolving understandings).

·        The framework need not be a single operation. However, the prospects for
         continued and substantial support/resources need to be credible at the outset (to
         "arm" the reformers and help persuade the skeptics).

·        Whereas the framework needs to be multi-year and multi-faceted, it also must
         quickly build the technical and managerial capacity to implement the reforms,
         demonstrate successes, and thus build the credibility of the reformers.

·        In the absence of a demonstrated implementation capacity ­ and in the presence of
         weakly committed and skeptical stakeholders ­ a "platform" for reform support
         may need to be built prior to direct intervention in institutional arrangements and
         practices. A quick demonstration to the uncommitted and skeptical stakeholders
         of the relevance of the project/program may well be necessary for these
         stakeholders to give audience to the reform messages. These may include
         project-financed international knowledge sharing, public/professional outreach,
         diagnostic and feasibility studies, technical designs and plans, etc.

·        In especially challenging sector or country contexts, it may be necessary to
         program a sequence of operations, starting with a short 2-3 year project that
         expressly focuses on building implementation capacity and demonstrating
         short-term results (typically, by addressing widely-perceived resource gaps within
         the "unreformed" setting). Direct action on institutional and practice reforms may
         need to programmed into follow-up operations. Follow-up funding should be
         triggered by a demonstration of a basic capacity to implement. In other words, a
         program that strongly ­ but conditionally ­ commits support to major reforms may
         be needed to mobilize and sustain the reformers, while simultaneously contain the
         risks of unproven implementation capacity and reform absorption.




                                          - 27 -

        ·       In addition, to minimize the risk of the reform momentum being lost in the initial
                stages of capacity building, the Bank may need to find additional mechanisms to
                keep the spotlight on reform (and to channel material support to the reformists and
                strengthen their credibility). These include policy work, linkages to development
                policy lending, coordination of donors, and the mobilization of grants. It may also
                include becoming an active player on the ground via a residential advisor/program
                advisor. In short, the imperative for the Bank to engage in exceptional
                circumstances, should warrant exceptional resource allocations.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
           Outcomes of the Legal Report Project Implementation (IBRD Loan #4035-RU)

        I.      Goals, Objectives and Structure of the Project

        The Legal Reform Project (hereinafter referred to as the LRP), aimed at the improvement
        of the legal system in the Russian Federation during the transition period to the market
        economy and rule of law, was under implementation in Russia since 1996. The key goal
        of the LRP was to create the legal framework for the market-based economy. The LRP
        was expected to promote the effectiveness and quality improvement of activities in the
        main areas of the national legal system.

        The Project comprised the following components:
        A.      Legal drafting
        B.      Legal information systems
        C.      Education and training in law
        D.      Judicial reform and alternative methods for dispute resolution
        E.      Priority projects (implementation of other high priority activities related to legal
                reform and implementation of activities on project preparation under the
                subprojects as agreed with the Bank Since the content of the activities undertaken
                as part of this component related to A-D components of the project, their
                description is provided in the context of the appropriate components).

        II.     Main Issues Identified in the Course of the Project Implementation and
        Measures on Their Resolution

        Project goals and objectives were developed properly from the very start. The only but
        significant drawback at the initial stage of LRP implementation was the way the goals and
        objective were worded ­ in very generic terms, without appropriate level of detail, while
        the pre-project studies were undertaken in the very course of LRP implementation. This
        fact impeded the effective disbursement of loan funds on some of the LRP components at
        the most initial stages, since it took a long time to get agreement from the IBRD for some
        activities proposed by the Borrower representatives, which was especially obvious in the
        case with procurement and installation of equipment.



                                                  - 28 -

In addition, it is worth mentioning that the above period was characterized by less than
productive interaction with the IBRD. In accordance with Resolution #3 of the Council of
Judges of the Russian Federation of April 2, 1999, On Measures to Improve the
Effectiveness of the International Financial Institutions Involvement in the Legal and
Judicial Reform in Russia, a special note was made of the fact that participation of some
international financial institutions in the legal reforms is not always effective in Russia. In
particular, activities and programs undertaken by the project are not in line with the
proposals made by the Judicial Department and the RF Council of Judges.

This was the situation in which the Bank team was changed in Washington D.C. The new
team leader was Mr. Peloschek. Changes were made to the Project implementation unit
(hereinafter referred to as PIU). In this context it is necessary to mention the constructive
position and efficiency of the new Bank project team.

Further on a general wording of goals and objectives of the Project worked to the
Project's benefit, taking into account the fact that the loan closure date was extended
three times, as it allowed to modify the project based on the needs of the current situation.
However, it should not preclude us from learning a lesson that in the future when loans are
processed all preparatory activities and preliminary studies should be done with a higher
level of care and thoroughness.
Delays with LRP implementation were also caused by the failure to identify administrator
for loan proceeds and co-financing resources from the federal budget (further referred to
as the chief administrator), required by the Budget Code of the Russian Federation. There
was no chief administrator in place until 2001. It is also necessary to point out that the
Russian Federation President's Office of Affairs, appointed to be the chief administrator
since 2001 could not implement the chief administrator functions in full, due to a number
of reasons.

In 2004 the organizational issues were resolved and the Ministry of Finance was appointed
the chief administrator for the LRP. The Loan Agreement was amended accordingly, and
the PIU functions were transferred to the Joint Stock Company "Federal Center for
Project Financing (hereinafter referred to as the FCPF). The RF Ministry of Finance and
the FCPF signed an agreement on March 11, 2004 on implementation of the Legal Reform
Project #01-01-06-/26-23. An effective mechanism for cooperation with the Project
beneficiaries was established. The Coordination Committee was set up, comprising
officials from the Ministry of Finance, Supreme and Higher Arbitrazh Court, the Ministry
of Economic Development and Trade (MEDT), and other relevant government
authorities. Mr. Kropachev, dean of the legal department of the St. Petersburg State
University was appointed the chairman of the Coordination Committee.

That was the time when finalization activities were underway for the contract active as of
that period. The Supreme Court, the Higher Arbitrazh Court and the Judicial Department
at the Supreme Court of Russia were taking all measures required for the successful
implementation of the project.



                                          - 29 -

Approval of the Federal Law on amendments to the federal budget of 2004 on November
10, 2004, made it possible to sign new contracts under the project.

The project was refocused on the activities important for the judicial authorities of the
Russian Federation. Several earlier made decisions were backtracked, regarding study
tours, additional expenditures for such subcomponents as Grant Program, Legal
Education in Schools, which have already produced expected results by that time.

The Russian side also refused from some of the consulting tasks, as well as a project on
equipping the Russian Judicial Academy, which have been questioned multiple times
before by the MEDT, all that resulting in significant reduction of the level of borrowings
(by US$6.778 million).

The new procurement schedule was agreed preliminarily with the World Bank and at the
appropriate request from the Ministry of Finance a later date for loan closure was quoted
as December 31, 2005. Very soon the FCPF was instructed by the Procurement Division
of the World Bank Moscow Office to announce the repetitive tenders for all the activities
scheduled for 2005. It complicated the preparation significantly, but allowed to go back
to earlier decisions on allocation of funds for some components. The IBRD provided its
final approval for the procurement plan as late as March 2005, causing the need to do all
the work within an extremely tight schedule.

III.    Results Achieved in the Course of the Project Implementation

Due to the changes in the project management structure in 2004 (change of the chief
administrator and PIU), project results are described as related to the 1996-2004 (section
III-a) and between 2004 and 2005 (section III-b).

            III-a. Outcomes of Activities Undertaken between 1996 ­ 2004
                                Legal Drafting Component

The following 13 legal drafts were prepared:

l Federal Law On Limited Liability Companies
l Federal Law On State and Municipal Unitary Enterprises
l Federal Law On Licensing of Some Types of Activities
l Civil Procedural Code
l Arbitration Procedural Code
l Federal Law On Arbitration Courts in the Russian Federation
l Federal Law On State and Municipal Land
l Federal Law On Organization of the Use of Land
l Federal Law On State Registration of Legal Entities
l Federal Law On State Immunity
l Federal Law On Responsibility of the Russian Federation, Subjects of the Russian




                                         - 30 -

    Federation and Municipalities on Liabilities Arising from their Participation in the Civil
    Legal Relationships
l Federal Law On Prejudicial Regulation of Labor Disputes

Out of the above list 9 legal drafts have passed through all stages of review at the Federal
Assembly of the Russian Federation and became federal laws. One legal draft was turned
down, and three were endorsed by the customers although they have not been submitted
to the State Duma of the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation.

The project on improvement of regional legal framework was implemented in
Sverdlovskaya and Orlovskaya Oblasts, and technical assistance was provided in
development of regional legislation. The above regions received assistance in training of
specialists in organization of legislation process and in legal techniques. Required training
materials were published.

In addition, a research was undertaken to identify the gaps and inconsistencies in the
federal legislation related to the implementation of economic reforms in the Russian
Federation and proposals were developed on how to eliminate them. The study outcomes
were approved by the customer of the research ­ the Ministry of Justice of Russia.

It is worth mentioning the failure of research on coordination of legal drafting process.
The Board of Trustees denounced the tender results on the ground that the procedure for
tender was too long and in the course of it the situation for study has changed
dramatically, and its goals required a thorough review.

The above resulted in the cancellation of US$495,940 out of Loan #4035-RU by the
Bank, originally meant for the study in question.

Conferences were held on Law and Internet: Electronic Digital Signature, and Law and
Internet: e-Commerce, electronic document flow and foreign economic activities.

This project component supported the development of a technology for legal drafting on
the basis of terms of reference and concept of a law, involving officials and experts from
various branches of law and economy, as well as foreign specialists. This technology was
used by the Legal Drafting Commission of the RF Government, e.g., on August 2, 2001
the Government issued Resolution #576 On Approval of Main Requirements to the
Concept and Development of Federal Legal Drafts.

                          Legal Information System Component
The project was implemented on Development of Main Principles of Classification and
Codification of the Russian Legislation. The activities resulted in the preparation and
publication of the Presidential Decree dated March 15, 2000 #511 On Legal Document
Classifier, which approved the proposed classifier, and recommended it for further use by
the federal authorities, and authorities at the level of a subject of the Russian Federation,
prosecutors' offices and local self-governments.



                                         - 31 -

Pre-project research of the pilot territories was undertaken (Moscow City, Tula and
Tambov regions were selected for a pilot), to study the development and test the effective
technologies in collection of legal information, develop different options for access to this
information for government structures, entities of various types and public in general,
optimization of government activities in this sector. Delivery and installation of
information infrastructure for pilot legal information program was not done, testifying, in
its turn, to the high level of risks involved in the expensive consulting projects.

Another project was also implemented: Development and Implementation of the
Methodology for Automatic Collection and Analysis of the Decisions Made by the Courts
in St. Petersburg. The project is described in Section III-b.

In the course of work related to the program of creation and development of the network
for public centers of legal information (PCLI) on the basis of the publicly accessed
libraries equipment was purchased to cover computer, networking and office needs of 53
public centers and subscriber points of the legal information in 15 regions of the Russian
Federation. Expert: Library and Law Information System was released on a CD. A
course and training materials were developed for a new specialty Library and Information
Support in law to train experts. The course passed a successful review at the Ministry of
Culture of the Russian Federation and was recommended for teaching in the library
training institutions. A public information campaign was conducted to make the public
aware of opportunities in getting access to the legal information and qualified free legal
counseling advice. The public centers for legal information component supported the
Russian forum at the national level on Power and Society: Problems of Public Access to
Official Information in the Russian Federation.

                        Legal Education and Training Component

                           Program of Grants for Schools of Law

Eight universities (schools) of law successfully implemented 270 grants for improvement
of education process and infrastructure. The grant funds financed 2 series of training
manuals of a new type ­ 51 textbooks for students (bachelors) and 27 textbooks for
training the masters of law. The best training courses were distributed to more than 100
Russian higher education institutions and 90 regional libraries ­ more than 40,000 volumes
were sent to 402 destinations. The participating higher education institutions received
about 100,000 textbooks.

Libraries of the participating institutions were fully computerized and moved from a
traditional hard copy technology to the parallel electronic and hard copy maintenance
processes sharing the electronic directories (catalogues).

Grant resources were used to create and support 10 legal clinics at the universities.




                                          - 32 -

Three national level conferences were held. Faculty members of higher education
institutions made a large number of study tours to schools of law at the universities in
Great Britain, Germany, France, Switzerland, etc.
Three contests among students in the issues of law took place at the national level under
the aegis of the RF President.

          Legal Awareness of the Public through Mass Media Subcomponent
The program for cooperation between the Project and the central electronic mass media
was implemented. The project supported a number of TV educational programs for
general public, including 6 releases of We program on legal issues (with Vladimir Pozner
as anchor), 46 releases of Home Lawyer on Channel 1, a number of other shows on the
federal and regional TV channels. Social advertising was performed in the form of 10
animated cartoons, developed and shown on TV. Radio programs for Radio Russia were
developed on legal issues, and their broadcasting was done on the non-commercial basis.
Creation of Bureau of Legal Information website was supported.

Six columns on law issues were organized jointly with leading Russian newspapers ­ Trud,
Izvestiya, Vremya MN, Komsomolskaya Pravda.

The professional qualification improvement program for press secretaries of the courts
was developed and implemented in the regions.

The legal education program for journalists outreached 23 regions of the Russian
Federation. Cycles of 6 workshops were delivered in every pilot regions of the project.
About 400 journalists specializing in the law issues were trained.

Activities related to interaction between the regional mass media and judicial authorities,
as well as other government authorities and self-government bodies were held in 15
regions on the basis of not-for-profit organizations.

Information support was provided to the negotiations process on accession of Russia to
the WTO, jointly with the MEDT. It included 45 round table discussions for the oblast
and krai (regional) administrations, business community representatives, and members of
the negotiating team. Information and analytical newsletter was prepared on the problems
of the Russian integration in the WTO, including cycle of TV publicist films Russia in the
Global World. Payment for the Entry, shown on the NTV channel.

 Public Information Campaign regarding the Role of Law in the Market Economy,
           as Implemented in the Russian Secondary Schools Subcomponent
                           (Legal Education at Schools Project)

A single line of training materials on law was prepared for the 5-11th grades of schools
(18 items). All textbooks passed the Federal Experts' Council and received a no objection
from the Ministry of Education of Russia. The basic textbook Fundamentals of the Legal
Knowledge for the 8-9th grades was awarded victory at the nationwide contest of



                                         - 33 -

textbooks of the new generation in the Law section.

About 60 conferences and workshops were organized on the problems of legal education
at schools.

Approximately 1,800 teachers in science of law from 62 subjects of the Russian
Federation were retrained. A series of methodological guidelines for teachers was
developed and published, including audiotapes, videos, in addition to textbooks, regarding
organization of mandatory and optional training courses in law, to allow implementation
of training courses for the teachers of law on the basis of the existing regional institutes
for qualifications upgrade.
The project organized four nationwide contests (Olympiads) in law for schoolchildren,
where 56 subjects f the Russia Federation sought participation.

A large number of law textbooks and other training materials were replicated and provided
to the schools free of charge at their request (around 600 schools from 42 regions). In
general 450,000 copies of various textbooks were issued and distributed, including those
issued with financial support from the publishing houses.

Law in School specialized magazine was created and prepared for publication.

                                 Judicial Reform Component

Reform envisaged to be implemented under this component was aimed primarily at the
courts of general jurisdiction and the system of arbitrazh courts regarding review of civil
disputes, as well the use of alternative methods for dispute resolution (arbitration), widely
practiced in the Western countries. Later on the content of the component was expanded
and refocused to support infrastructure of the judicial system as a whole.

The following activities were conducted in the course of the project implementation:

Support was provided to the conference of chairpersons of the Council of Judges of the
RF subjects, to the 4th and 5th National Congresses of the RF Judges.

Measures were taken to facilitate the discussion of key principles of the Russian judicial
system at the level of chairpersons of qualifications boards of the judges of the subjects of
federation and their deputies, as stipulated in the law On the Judicial System of the
Russian Federation.

-       Training was provided to the court bailiffs within the system of the Ministry of
        Justice, a series of training materials was developed;
-       Training methodology was developed for the judiciary ­ a study of training needs
        was undertaken and training methods were proposed for staff qualification
        improvement;
-       Chief accountants of the courts of general jurisdiction, heads, deputy heads and



                                         - 34 -

   chief accountants of the divisions (units) of the Judicial Department at the
   Supreme Court of the Russian Federation were retrained during a cycle of three
   workshops and a nation-wide conference;
-  Three training workshops were conducted for the newly appointed
   press-secretaries of the divisions (units) of the Judicial Department at the Supreme
   Court of the Russian Federation;
-  The First All-Russian conference of arbitration judges was held;
-  Training methodology was developed and training was conducted for the
   arbitrators and conciliators, trainers were trained in these subjects. Training
   materials were developed and they are currently used very extensively, the Russian
   Arbitration Promotion Center was established;
-  The studies were undertaken to identify the needs in a unified information system
   of the Judicial Department at the Supreme Court of the Russian Federation and the
   courts of general jurisdiction the system of arbitrazh courts and the Russian
   Academy of Justice;
-  The study was undertaken to identify adequate forms and methods for keeping
   records of the judicial processes in the courts of general jurisdiction and arbitrazh
   courts;
-  The draft Arbitrazh Procedural Code was discussed among the judges of arbitrazh
   courts and academic lawyers in the course of three workshops;
-  Computer and office equipment was purchased to facilitate workshops conducted
   by the Judicial Department at the Supreme Court of the Russian Federation and
   the Council of Judges of the Russian Federation;
-  At the request of Deputy Chief of Staff of the Presidential Office of the Russian
   Federation, Mr. Kozak, a research was undertaken to identify the main problems in
   the judicial system operations and methods of their resolution. The results were
   discussed in a five-day workshop;
-  A study was conducted in the area of implementation of case flow management
   system in the arbitrazh courts of the Russian Federation;
-  A large number of study tours were financed for the judges, Judicial Department
   officials to the U.S., Great Britain, the Netherlands, and France;
-  Supprt was provided for the participation of the Chairman of the Supreme Court
   of the Russian Federation V.M. Lebedev and Chairman of the Higher Arbitrazh
   Court of the Russian Federation V.F. Yakovlev in the 10th conference of the chief
   justices in Strasbourg (France) and 11th conference of the chief justices in
   Washington D.C.
-  A pilot fragment of the automated system of the Judicial Department was created
   using 2 raion courts and an oblast court in Kurganskaya oblast as an example,
   including the Judicial Department office in Kurgan as well;
-  A pilot fragment of the automated system for the arbitrazh courts was created
   using the arbitrazh court of Moscow oblast and arbitrazh court of St. Petersburg
   and Leningrad oblast as examples;
-  A collection of articles was published under the title Arbitrazh Practices in
   1996-98, collections of presentations at the All-Russian Conference of the
   Financial Staff of the Courts and the conference Administrative Justice in Russia,



                                     - 35 -

       as well as other publications: Collection of Regulations on Court and Status of
       Judges in the Russian Federation, A Handbook of a Justice of Peace, Handbook of
       Administrator of a Court of General Jurisdiction".
-      Full or partial support was also provided to a number of other activities under this
       component: conferences, workshops, and round table discussions.

                     III-b Outcomes of Activities between 2004-05

The following 16 contracts were implemented at the cost of US$9,450,544.

1.     Purchase and delivery of equipment to publish all judicial decisions of the arbitrazh
       courts (including publication of them in the Internet) in pilot regions.

       The project helped achieve the goal of justice transparency in the pilot regions of
       the Russian Federation through provision of access to judicial decisions of
       arbitrazh courts for all stakeholders.

       Equipment was delivered and associated services were provided to create the pilot
       system for publishing the electronic images of arbitrazh court decisions in the four
       pilot arbitrazh districts of the Russian Federation. In compliance with the system
       designed by the Higher Arbitrazh Court specialists one federal and four regional
       data processing centers were established, as well as 34 points for data preparation
       and entry, one in each court within the pilot.

       The pilot system is a three-tier database. The technology for data preparation
       envisages scanning of judicial decision images at the place of their generation (i.e.
       in the court which made those decisions) and assigning of attributes to them as
       taken from the reporting form on the case.

       The regional data processing center is the place where the regional data base of
       images of judicial decisions is generated. It includes the district (okrug) court
       decisions and all the decisions made by the courts within the district. The
       decisions entered in the data base shall be sent to the regional center automatically
       using the telecommunications channels.

       The combined federal database is developed at the federal data processing center
       at the Higher Arbitrazh Court of the Russian Federation.

       The project covers 34 arbitrazh courts total.

       Public access via Internet will be arranged for the shared database will in the near
       future, to enable the Russian citizens to have a direct access to the arbitrazh court
       rulings.

2-4.   Development and Implementation of the Automated Collection and Analysis of



                                         - 36 -

    Decisions of the St. Petersburg Courts (3 contracts were signed under this
    project).
    The project was under implementation in 2000. During previous stages (2000-03)
    information infrastructure was built in St. Petersburg to enable automatic
    collection of court decisions. The infrastructure encompasses the City Court, 23
    raion courts, and the Judicial Department office in St. Petersburg. All these sites
    have local area networks connecting practically all judges and court staff in one
    network to share the telecommunications environment. The networks are
    connected into a unified system via a central node located at the Judicial
    Department office.

    In 2005 the Legal Department of the St. Petersburg State University built a
    web-portal of the judicial system under the project to complete the system. When
    the layouts of the system were designed, Voskhod R&D Institute developments
    were taken into account as used in the Pravosudiye system. Specifically, access to
    judicial decisions was provided using the approaches designed by the Legal
    Department and by the Voskhod R&D Institute, to compare the efficiency level of
    both.

    The portal will be open for public access in the near future.

5.  Research of the arbitrazh court needs in computer and specialiazed software to
    organize collection and publication of court decision, including Internet
    publication.

    The project supported detailed survey of the information infrastructure of arbitrazh
    courts, including their equipment needs, performance of organizational structure
    for information technology support of the arbitrazh judicial system.

    Based on the approved Concept for unified automated information and
    communications system of the arbitrazh courts of the Russian Federation the
    computer and software needs of the arbitrazh judicial system were evaluated with a
    view of their sufficiency for implementation of every subsystem identified in the
    concept (more than 30 subsystems).

    Implementation schedules and costs were assessed for every subsystem and high
    level plans were developed.

    The results of this evaluation will facilitate cost effective development of ICT
    requirements for the arbitrazh judicial system.

6.  Study of the current legal framework regulating access to judicial decisions,
    including via Internet, as applied to the courts of general jurisdiction.

    Gaps and inconsistencies were identified in the Russian legislation regulating the



                                     - 37 -

    information openness of the judicial activities in the Russian Federation, and the
    sociological survey established the needs of judicial system and its users in the
    relevant legal regulation, guidelines were developed for improvement of the
    legislation in this area through presentation of a legal draft supported by the
    Supreme Court of the Russian Federation, planned for submission to the State
    Duma during the spring session.

    The research was aimed at the preparation for implementation of the project for
    placement of decisions made by the courts of general jurisdiction in the Internet,
    available for public access.

7.  Purchase and installation of sound recording equipment and special software on
    the courts of general jurisdiction.

    Court session rooms (from one to two) in 224 courts of general jurisdiction were
    equipped with modern voice recording equipment, including all courts of republics,
    oblasts, autonomous regions and one autonomous krai (the work included delivery
    and installation f the required equipment, and training of personnel of the courts in
    its operation). This work is expected to promote efficiency of legal procedures, to
    contribute to higher quality and timeliness in production of court session records,
    compliance with the regulatory requirements regarding reflection of all substantial
    circumstances of the case in court session records, reduction of the time for
    judicial investigation, improvement of quality of contributions made by all
    participants of a legal process. Voice recording of a court session will also
    facilitate and expedite the issue of court records to the litigants and other relevant
    parties.

8.  Delivery and installation of sound recording equipment in the arbitrazh courts

    Sound recording equipment sets were provided for court session rooms in 81
    arbitrazh court houses of the Russian Federation (the equipment was delivered and
    installed, while the staff was trained to operate it). Technology supports the
    record keeping function of court sessions. The voice recording equipment will
    promote efficiency of court operations, it will enhance the culture of legal
    proceedings, quality of presentations made by all participants of a legal procedure.
    It will provide additional conditions for the quality and timeliness of court sessions
    records preparation and will ensure compliance with the regulatory requirements
    regarding reflection of all substantial circumstances of the case in court session
    records.

9.  Purchase and installation of video conferencing equipment in the courts of general
    jurisdiction.

    The Supreme Court of the Russian Federation, 36 courts of oblast (regional) level
    and 52 investigation detention places in relevant regions were equipped with the



                                     - 38 -

    video conferencing equipment. Security and safety levels were increased
    significantly and the risk of security violations related to the delivery of the
    accused to the court has dropped noticeably. This project has also crated the
    prerequisites for meeting the requirements of the Russian Constitution and federal
    laws, for implementation of obligations, voluntarily undertaken by the Russian
    Federation under the international agreements and treaties regarding the time for
    reviewing the appeals of the convicted, having expedited the time for review of
    cases with participation of the convicted. Videoconference link helps save the
    budget resources used before for escort of the convicts.

10  Provision of overhead projecting equipment for court session rooms of the
    Leningrad oblast court house.
    The equipment was purchased for Leningrad oblast court house to demonstrate
    evidence to ensure efficient review of criminal cases with participation of the jury

11. Provision of equipment for the rooms of anonymous interrogation of witnesses in
    the Leningrad oblast court and a number of raion courts of the Leningrad oblast.

    Equipment was purchased for Leningrad oblast court and a number of raion courts
    of the Leningrad oblast to equip several rooms for anonymous interrogation of
    witnesses to ensure the efficient review of criminal cases by jury.

12. Seminar for the judges of oblast courts in the North-Western Federal Okrug on the
    peculiarities of legal procedures in the courts with jury participation.

    The seminar discussed issues arising in the process of jury formation, when a juror
    discontinues the jury membership, when a juror is replaced, when a jury is
    dissolved, problems pertained to the way questions are worded to the jury,
    evaluation of the actions of the accused based on the jury's verdict, and
    psychological aspects of the review of case with the participation of a jury. The
    judges of the Supreme Court, prominent scientists and practicing legal experts
    took part in the seminar.

13. Implementation of a sociologic survey of public attitude to the judicial system as
    applied to the courts of general jurisdiction

    The survey resulted in getting the detailed empiric information which allows to
    identify the place of law in the system of values of various social and demographic
    groups of the people, evaluate the role played by the modern judicial system in the
    life of citizens, to study the principles and build the index of trust of the public to
    the judicial authorities, identify the level of trust (lack of trust) to the judicial
    authorities and circumstances influencing the character of their attitude to the
    judicial authorities, determine the level of demand in the use of judicial mechanisms
    to protect the citizens' rights.




                                      - 39 -

        Courts of general jurisdiction received the data enabling them to identify the
        factors influencing the perception of judicial power by the public and develop
        recommendations on how to improve the level of trust of the public to the judicial
        system.

14.     Training of court administrators (4 workshops) for the Siberian and Urals Federal
        Okrugs

        Training covered organizational support to the court activities, preparation for and
        implementation of the court sessions, interaction with law enforcement and other
        government authorities in the area of support of judges, provision of logistical
        support to judges and other judicial staff in the office and at home; heath and spa
        services for judges and other judicial staff; provision of laws, regulations, legal
        books and manuals, information books, computer and information services to the
        courts, organization of judicial statistics collection and maintenance, document
        flow management and operations of the archives, organization of the security
        services for the court building and other property during the non-working hours,
        provision of continuous operation of transportation and communications services,
        work of janitors and other technical staff, organization of construction,
        refurbishment and installation of equipment in the court houses. The workshops
        were held in Yekaterinburg, Krasnoyarsk, Novosibirsk, and Khabarovsk and
        outreached 240 administrators of the courts of general jurisdiction.

15.     Conference on Administrative Procedural Code

        The conference discussed the draft Administrative Procedural Code including the
        issues like prospects for institutionalization of administrative justice, foreign
        experiences of this type of justice delivery. Representatives of various government
        authorities, leading jurists, foreign experts, and representatives from the Council of
        Europe took part in the conference.

16.     Development of the legal drafts regarding the procedure for provision of housing
        to the federal government civil servants.

        The project funded consulting services on development and follow-up in the
        government structures for a draft federal law On the procedure for provision of
        housing to the federal government civil servants and a draft resolution of the RF
        Government On procedure for provision of lump sum subsidies to the federal
        government civil servants.

IV.     Conclusion

In the course of the IBRD Legal Reform Project, Loan #4035RU, the amount of
US$46,998,000 was disbursed.




                                          - 40 -

        The completion stage of the Project was implemented with a focus on the judicial reform
        in Russia to be aimed at the improvement of quality of legal procedures and provision of
        public access to justice delivery process. Significant steps were taken to address the issue
        of providing public with access to judicial decisions via Internet. The decisions made by
        the Coordination Committee on Project Implementation played an important role,
        especially in the case with refusal from expensive consulting jobs, while major efforts were
        focused on the equipment purchase activities.

        The efforts undertaken in 2004-05 allowed the whole set of activities as implemented since
        1996 under the Legal Reform Project to acquire a complete and systematic character.

(b) Cofinanciers:
        none.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
        none.

10. Additional Information




                                                - 41 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix



The Legal Reform Project pre-dates the use of the Logframe model and Key Performance Indicators. At
appraisal most of the impacts were indicated as hard to measure. The few surveys indicated in the
appraisal documents were not undertaken.

Sections 4.1 and 4.2 of this report provide descriptive information on project outcomes and some evidence
of project impact.




                                                     - 42 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                              Appraisal       Actual/Latest     Percentage of
                                                              Estimate          Estimate          Appraisal
                        Component                            US$ million       US$ million
Legal Drafting                                                  23.11               5.51                 27
Legal Information                                               26.83               6.62                 27
Legal Education and Training                                    24.82              22.65                113
Judicial Reform                                                 12.23               8.34                 82
Project Management                                               7.55               9.65                173
High Priority Activities                                         3.77              10.53                355

Total Baseline Cost                                             98.31              63.30
 Physical Contingencies                                          0.00               0.00
 Price Contingencies                                             6.16               0.00
                         Total Project Costs                   104.47              63.30
                  Total Financing Required                     104.47              63.30


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)

                                                Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB            NCB                    2          N.B.F.        Total Cost
                                                                   Other
1. Works                            0.00            0.00             0.53            0.13             0.66
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)           (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)
2. Goods                            0.00            0.00             0.87            0.22             1.09
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)           (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00            53.99            40.33           94.32
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)           (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)
4. Recurrent Costs                  0.00            0.00             2.54            5.83             8.37
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)           (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)
5. Other                            0.00            0.00             0.00            0.00             0.00
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)           (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)
   Total                            0.00            0.00            57.93            46.51           104.44
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)           (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)
No estimates were provided in the Technical Annex (Table 5.1 in page 26) for the amounts to be financed
by the
Bank Loan by procurement method.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)

                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB            NCB                    2         N.B.F.        Total Cost
                                                                   Other
1. Works                            0.00           0.00              0.03            0.00            0.03
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)             ()            (0.00)          (0.00)
2. Goods                           12.99           0.54              5.07            0.00           18.60
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)



                                                - 43 -

  3. Services                              0.00               0.00             26.86             0.00             26.86
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
  4. Recurrent Costs                       0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
  5. Other                                 0.00               0.00              0.00             17.81            17.81
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                               12.99              0.54             31.96             17.81            63.30
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
  No estimates of Loan financing by procurement method are available prior to SAP in 1998.
    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Legal Drafting                12.93        11.05         0.82        2.48         0.40       2.62       19.2      3.6     319.5
Legal Information              8.40        19.71         1.07        4.35         1.02       1.25       51.8      5.2     116.8
Legal Education               20.33         5.08         0.00       18.96         3.02       0.68       93.3      59.4      0.0
Judicial Reform                8.04         5.02         0.00        6.78         1.40       0.16       84.3      27.9      0.0
Project Management             5.02         1.80         1.15        5.96         0.63       3.06       118.7     35.0    266.1
High-Prioirity Activities      3.23         0.81         0.00        8.48         1.92       0.14       262.5    237.0      0.0
TOTAL                         57.95        43.48         3.04       47.00         8.39       7.91       81.1      19.3    260.2




                                                          - 44 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not meaningfully quantifiable.




                                      - 45 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              10/95


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              05/96


 Supervision

              07/05/1996                9    TASK MANAGER (1); LEGAL          S               S
                                             COUNSEL (2); DEPUTY TASK
                                             MANAGER (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); PROJECT ASSISTANT (1);
                                             OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                                             ECONOMIST (1); LEGAL
                                             EDUC. SPECIALIST (1)
              10/20/1996                4    DEPUTY TASK MANAGER              S               S
                                             (1); OPERATIONS ANALYST
                                             (1); LEGAL COUNSEL (1);
                                             ECONOMIST (1)
              05/15/1997                2    OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);          S               S
                                             DEPUTY TASK MANAGER (1)
              04/17/1997                3    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                                             LEGAL COUNSEL (1);
              06/13/1997                2    OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);          S               S
                                             DEPUTY TASK MANAGER (1)
              09/30/1997                4    ASST. GEN. COUNSEL (1);          S               S
                                             PUBL. ADM. SPECIALIST (1);
                                             SR. COUNSEL (1);
                                             ECONOMIST (1)
              02/22/1998                4    DEP. PROJ. TEAM LEADER           S               S
                                             (1); PUBL. ADM. SPECIALIST
                                             (1); ECONOMIST (1); NEW
                                             DEP. TEAM LEADER (1)
              07/04/1998                5    MISSION LEADER (1); DEP.         S               S
                                             MISSION LEADER (1); PUBL.
                                             ADM. SPECIALIST (1);
                                             ECONOMIST (1); PROCUREM.
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              12/12/1998                4    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                             LEG&INST'L REFORM SP'T
                                             (1); PROJECT OFFICER (1);
                                             PUBLIC ADMINISTR. SP'T (1)
              11/01/1999                9    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);



                                              - 46 -

                 DEPUTY TASK TEAM LEADE
                 (1); COUNSEL (1); EXTERNAL
                 AFFAIRS (1); OPERATIONS
                 ANALYST (1); OPERATIONS
                 OFFICER (1); PROCUREMENT
                 (2); CONSULTANT (1)
03/07/2000    10 TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                 DEPUTY TASK TEAM LEADE
                 (1); COUNSEL (1); EXTERNAL
                 AFFAIRS (1); OPERATIONS
                 ANALYST (1); OPERATIONS
                 OFFICER (1); PROCUREMENT
                 (2); ECONOMIST (1);
                 CONSULTANT (1)
11/17/2000    8  TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S    S
                 DEPUTY TASK TEAM LEADE
                 (1); COUNSEL (1); EXTERNAL
                 AFFAIRS (1); OPERATIONS
                 ANALYST (1); OPERATIONS
                 OFFICER (1); PROCUREMENT
                 (2)
02/24/2001    8  TASK TEAM LEADER (1); SR         S    S
                 FINANCIAL SECTOR SP (1);
                 SENIOR COUNSEL (1);
                 OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                 COMMUNICATIONS ASSOC
                 (1); OPERATIONS OFFICER
                 (1); PROCUREMENT (2)
07/20/2001    8  TASK TEAM LEADER (1); SR
                 FINANCIAL SECTOR SP (1);
                 SENIOR COUNSEL (1);
                 OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                 COMMUNICATIONS ASSOC
                 (1); OPERATIONS OFFICER
                 (2); PROCUREMENT (1)
12/18/2001    9  TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S    S
                 EXTERNAL AFFAIRS (2); SR
                 FINANCIAL SECTOR SP (1);
                 OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                 PROCUREMENT (2); SENIOR
                 COUNSEL (1); COUNSEL (1)
05/08/2002    4  TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S    S
                 EXTERNAL AFFAIRS (1); SR,
                 FIN'L SECTOR SPEC. (1);
                 PROJECT OFFICER (1)
09/17/2002    7  TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S    S
                 OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                 COMMUNICATIONS OFFICER
                 (1); SR. FIN. SEC. SPEC. (1);
                 CONSULTANT (2); PROJECTS
                 OFFICER (1)
02/26/2003    7  TEAM LEADER (1);                 U    S
                 COMPONENT MANAGER (1);



                 - 47 -

                                                   ICT SPECIALIST (1); INSTIT'L
                                                   REFORM SPEC'T (1);
                                                   CONSULTANT (1); PROJECTS
                                                   OFFICER (1); EXTERNAL
                                                   AFFAIRS (1);
               03/31/2003                     7    TEAM LEADER (1);                      S            S
                                                   COMPONENT MANAGER (1);
                                                   ICT SPECIALIST (1); INSTIT'L
                                                   REFORM SPEC'T (1);
                                                   CONSULTANT (1); PROJECTS
                                                   OFFICER (1); EXTERNAL
                                                   AFFAIRS (1);
               07/21/2003                     7    TEAM LEADER (1);
                                                   COMPONENT MANAGER (1);
                                                   ICT SPECIALIST (1); INSTIT'L
                                                   REFORM SPEC'T (1);
                                                   CONSULTANT (1); PROJECTS
                                                   OFFICER (1); EXTERNAL
                                                   AFFAIRS (1);
               09/27/2003                     4    TEAM LEADER (1);                      U            S
                                                   CONSULTANT (1); PROJECTS
                                                   OFFICER (1); OPERATIONS
                                                   ASSISTANT (1)
               03/05/2004                     6    TEAM LEADER (1);                      U            S
                                                   CONSULTANT (1); PROJECTS
                                                   OFFICER (1); OPERATIONS
                                                   ASSISTANT (1); ICT
                                                   SPECIALIST (1); INSTIT'L
                                                   REFORM SPEC'T (1);
               03/15/2005                     5    TEAM LEADER (1);                      S            S
                                                   COMPONENT MANAGER (1);
                                                   PROJECTS OFFICER (1);
                                                   OPERATIONS ASSISTANT (1);
                                                   ICT SPECIALIST (1);
               12/15/2005                     4    TEAM LEADER (1);                      S            S
                                                   COMPONENT MANAGER (1);
                                                   PROJECTS OFFICER (1);
                                                   OPERATIONS ASSISTANT (1);

 ICR


Note: The ratings after the last two supervision missions were "Moderately Satisfactory" under the new
ISR system.

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                       Actual/Latest Estimate
                                        No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                    N/A                           N/A
  Appraisal/Negotiation                         N/A                         543.4
  Supervision                                 129.8*                      1,351.1
  ICR                                            5.0                          24.1




                                                   - 48 -

  Total                                     1,34.8*                         1,918.6
Data quality and completeness problems associated with pre-1999 SAP data prevent an accounting of total
staff weeks or a breakdown of cost of the project between Identification/Preparation and
Appraisal/Negotiation.
*Number of staff weeks for supervision are for FY01-06 only..




                                                   - 49 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
   Macro policies                       H        SU    M       N     NA
   Sector Policies                      H        SU    M       N     NA
   Physical                             H        SU    M       N     NA
   Financial                            H        SU    M       N     NA
   Institutional Development            H        SU    M       N     NA
   Environmental                        H        SU    M       N     NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction           H        SU    M       N     NA
            Gender                      H        SU    M       N     NA
            Other (Please specify)      H        SU    M       N     NA
   Private sector development           H        SU    M       N     NA
   Public sector management             H        SU    M       N     NA
   Other (Please specify)               H        SU    M       N     NA
The "Modest" ratings largely reflect the mixed results of the project, including: the limited impact of the
legal drafting component; the strong impact of the legal education component; and the promising impact of
the judicial reform component (especially in 2005, which reflects the long and difficutl gestation of the
reform consensus building theme of the component).




                                                    - 50 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU
On the new six-point scale: Bank lending, supervision and overall performance was "Moderately
Satisfactory". Borrower preparation and implementation performance was "Mostly Unsatisfactory". The
Implementing Agency performance was "Moderately Satisfactory". (See Section 7.)




                                                    - 51 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. Project Preparation and Appraisal Documents
2. Loan Agreement
3. Project Mission Reports, Aide Memoires
4. Project Status Reports and Implementation Status Reports
5.Audit Reports




                                                 - 52 -

- 53 -

