Page  1
                                                      CONFORMED COPY
                                                 LOAN NUMBER 4035 RU
                          Project Agreement
                       (Legal Reform Project)
                               between
                 INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                           AND DEVELOPMENT
                                 and
               RUSSIAN FOUNDATION FOR LEGAL REFORM
                       Dated June 21, 1996
                                               LOAN NUMBER 4035 RU
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated June 21. 1996, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and RUSSIAN FOUNDATION FOR
LEGAL REFORM (the RFLR).
      WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the
Russian Federation (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to
make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent
to fifty eight million dollars ($58,000,000), on the terms and conditions
set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the RFLR
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in
this Agreement; and
      WHEREAS the RFLR, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations
set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
      Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and
Page  2
the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings
therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 2.01. (a) The RFLR declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to
this end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, and business
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and except as the Bank and the RFLR shall otherwise agree,
the RFLR shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation
Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement
of the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by
the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. (a) The RFLR shall carry out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Condi-
tions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and
schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition,
respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section, the RFLR shall:
             (i)    prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
                    Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6)
                    months after the Closing Date or such later date as
                    may be agreed for this purpose between the Bank and
                    the RFLR, a plan for the future operation of the
                    Project;
            (ii)    afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange
                    views with the RFLR on said plan; and
            (iii)   thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence
                    and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate
                    practices, taking into account the Bank's comments
                    thereon.
      Section 2.04. (a) The RFLR shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to progress of the Project, the
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Loan.
      (b)   The RFLR shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the
accomplishment of the purposes of Loan, or the performance by the RFLR of
its obligations under this Agreement.
                             ARTICLE III
               Management and Operations of the RFLR
      Section 3.01. The RFLR shall carry on its operations and conduct its
affairs in accordance with sound administrative and financial practices
under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by
competent staff in adequate numbers.
      Section 3.02. The RFLR shall at all times operate and maintain its
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed,
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with
sound engineering, financial and business practices.
Page  3
      Section 3.03. The RFLR shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with
appropriate practice.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The RFLR shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its
operations and financial condition.
      (b)   The RFLR shall:
            (i)   have its records, accounts and financial statements
                  (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
                  related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
                  accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                  consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable
                  to the Bank;
           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
                  case not later than six (6) months after the end of each
                  such year: (A) certified copies of its financial
                  statements for such year as so audited; and (B) the
                  report of such audit by said auditors of such scope and
                  in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested;
                  and
          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said
                  records, accounts and financial statements as well as the
                  audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.
                                   ARTICLE V
                         Effective Date; Termination;
                         Cancellation and Suspension
      Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on
the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
      Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and
of the RFLR thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan
Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank
shall promptly notify the RFLR thereof.
      Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue
in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension
under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
      Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be
given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties
contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or
request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be
delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the
party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such
party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
Page  4
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
                  Cable address:          Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD                  197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA),
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                              82987 (FTCC)
      For the RFLR:
            Russian Foundation for
               Legal Reform
            Kotelnicheskaya Naberezhnaya
            Dom 17
            Moscow, Russian Federation
      Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
document required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on
behalf of the RFLR may be taken or executed by its President or such other
person or persons as such President shall designate in writing, and such
President shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority
and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
      Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts,
each of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                  By /s/ Yukon Huang
                                       Acting Regional Vice President
                                              Europe and Central Asia
                  RUSSIAN FOUNDATION FOR
                     LEGAL REFORM
                  By /s/ Vassily Beliukin
                                           Authorized Representative
                             SCHEDULE 1
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     General
      Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section
I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in January 1996 (the Guidelines), and the following
provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:   International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.    The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under
Page  5
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Part B:
      (a)   Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
            The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines
            and Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in
            the territory of the Borrower.
      (b)   Notification and Advertising
            The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract
            estimated to cost $10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be
            advertised in accordance with the procedures applicable to
            large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.    International Shopping
      Office equipment, including telephone exchanges, copiers, fax
machines, and microcomputers, estimated to cost more than $50,000, but
$300,000 equivalent or less per contract, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
2.    National Shopping
      Telephones, local area networks wiring, library supplies, and office
supplies, estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or less per contract and
$900,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate (which aggregate shall not
apply in the case of goods financed under Part E of the Project), may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of
the Guidelines.
3.    Procurement of Small Works
      Eligible works estimated not to exceed $75,000 equivalent per
contract, and not to exceed $600,000 in the aggregate, shall be procured
and awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic
specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement
acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The
award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price
quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources
to successfully complete the contract.
Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Procurement Planning
      Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding
or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project
shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with
the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.    Prior Review
      With respect to: (a) the first two contracts under Parts C.1 and
C.2 hereof; and (b) each contract under Parts B and C.3 hereof, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply.
3.    Post Review
      With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Page  6
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.    Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be based on the
standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank,
with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no
relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other
standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply
to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost
less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the employment
of individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each.
However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the
terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of
consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably
determined by the Bank; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of
consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or
above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual
consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                      Implementation Program
I.    Organization and Management of the RFLR
1.    The RFLR shall prepare not later than October 1 of each year an
organization and staffing plan for the following year, which shall be
acceptable to the Bank.
2.    The RFLR shall have core management including a president, a
financial officer, an operations director and a procurement coordinator.
3.    The management of the RFLR, under the direction of its President
and with the input of its Council of Trustees, shall be responsible for
ensuring overall coordination, management and monitoring of the Project,
including the carrying out of any procurement and disbursement functions
for the Project.
4.    In coordinating the Project, the RFLR shall work closely with
other relevant agencies, entities and branches of the Borrower to ensure
effective implementation.
II.   Annual Work Program and Mid-term Review
1.    The RFLR shall present the Bank by October 1 of each year with a
proposed work program under the Project for the following year, involving
details on implementation and financing (including the increasing
counterpart contribution to operating costs), and shall carry out the
program as agreed with the Bank (the Annual Work Program).
2.    The RFLR shall cooperate with the Borrower in carrying out the
obligations referred to in Section 3.04 of the Loan Agreement.
III.  Part A of the Project
1.    In carrying out Part A.1, the RFLR shall present as part of the
Annual Work Program a list of proposed legal enactments which shall meet
the following criteria:
      a.    The proposed enactments shall be of high priority to the
      Borrower and consistent with the Borrower's economic reform program.
Page  7
      b.    The proposal for technical assistance shall avoid duplicating
      work already undertaken, or funded, by other donor agencies.
      c.    The proposal shall identify appropriate estimated costing,
      required inputs and other information requested by the Bank.
2.    Pilot areas selected under Part A.4 shall consist of Orel Oblast
and Sverdlovsk Oblast, or such other areas agreed with the Bank, and the
activities therein shall be carried out in accordance with arrangements
acceptable to the Bank.
3.    Studies under Parts A.2 and 3 shall be carried out under terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank.
IV.   Part B of the Project
      The study and needs assessment under Parts B.1 and 2 shall be
carried out under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.
V.    Part C of the Project
      Programs and activities under Part C shall be carried out in
accordance with criteria acceptable to the Bank.
VI.   Part D of the Project
1.    The needs assessment referred to in Part D.1 shall be carried out
under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.
2.    Training and other programs under Parts D.2 and 3 shall be carried
out under criteria acceptable to the Bank.
3.    Workshops under Part D.4 shall be carried out under programs
acceptable to the Bank.
VII.  Part E of the Project
      Sub-projects shall consist of high priority legal reform activities
and project preparation actions which are accepted by the Bank and are
consistent with the Project objectives.  Such Sub-projects shall be
submitted to the Bank for approval along with the following information:
      (i)   a description of the proposed Sub-project, including a time
            schedule for, the purposes and objectives of, and the benefits
            expected from such Sub-project;
      (ii)  a description of the role of the department, agency or entity
            benefiting from or responsible for the implementation of the
            proposed Sub-project;
      (iii) a description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out
            of the proceeds of the Loan, including an estimate of the
            foreign and local costs of the proposed Sub-project broken
            down by major items and showing amounts to be financed out
            of the proceeds of the Loan, respectively, and an estimated
            disbursement schedule;
      (iv)  the proposed selection procedures, qualifications, terms of
            reference and duration of service for any consultants to be
            engaged for the purposes of the proposed Sub-project or any
            goods provided therefor; and
      (v)   such other information as the Bank may reasonably request.
