FILE COPY
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. 220 ME
APPRAISAL OF
THE LAS TRUCHAS STEEL PROJECT
MEXICO
August 10, 1973
Industrial Projects Department
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS                     WEIGHTS AN-D MEASURES
Except where otherwise indicated, all          1 Metric Ton        = 1,00  Kilograms (kg)
figures are quoted in Mexican Pesos (M$)      1I Metric Ton        3' 2,205 poitds
and U.S. dollars (US$) of June 1973            1 Kilometer         = 0.62: miles
1 Meter (m.)       - 39.3 inches
M$1.00          =  us$o.08o
M$12.50         =  US$1.00
M$1 ,OO,O000    =  US$80,000
ABBREVIATIONS AND: ACRONYMS
AHMSA         Altos Hornos de Mexico, S.A. (Gevernment-oined' steel company>
AISI          American Iron and Steel Institute (U.S.),
B.O.F.        Basic Oxygen Furnace
BSC           British Steel Corporatvon
C & F         Cost and Freight
CIF           Cost, Insurance, Freight
CNIHA         Camera Nacional de la Industria del Hierro y Acero (.Tron and Steel
Manufacturers Association)-
db            Decibel
Di{T          Dead Wieight Tons
EC            European Community
Fe            Iron
FOB           Free on Board
Fundidora     Fundidora de Fierro y Acero, S.A. (Private steel company)
GDP           Gross Domestic Product
GFCF          Gross Fixed Capital Forzation
HYISA         Hojalata y Lamina, S.A. (Private steel company)
IDB           Inter-American Development Bank
Ilsi          International Iron and Steel Institute
JISF          Japan Iron and SteeJ. Federation-
Marina        Secretaria de la Marina (Navy Min.Lstry)
NAFINSA       NacionaL Rinanciera., S .A. (Nati-onal development bank)
ODA           Overseas Development Administration (U0K0)
SiCARTSA      Siderurgica Lazaro Cardenas - Las Trucnas, S.A. (Projett CGompaniy)
SITC          Standard Industrial Trade Classification
TAINISA       Tubos de Acero de Mexico, S.A. (Privatea steel company)



MEXICO
APPRAISAL OF T?E LAS TRUCHAS STEEL PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS .................... ............ i - iii
I .    INTRtOD:UCTJTON ..... v    ...............
II.    THE COMPANY ...          ............ . .....,.,..           2
A. History *..*......................................e.  2
B   Capital Structure . ....... . . ..     .      . .. .    2
III.   THE MEXICAN STEEL INDUSTRY, MARKET AND PRICES ............    3
A.  Existing Producers     .. . .. ......................*    3
B. Historical Consumption ............................. . .   3
C. Projected Demand .      ....................... ....    4
D. Estimated Market for SICARTSA           .....    4
E. Steel Prices .......           ..     ......... .. . .     5
F,  Comparison of Mexican and World Prices       ..... 5
G. Future Steel Development Policy ..................... .    6
IV.    THE PROJECT AND ITS EXECUTION . ...........................   7
A. Technical Description         ..                           7
B. The Port of Lazaro Cardenas    .       .. .......          9
C5  Transport of Finished Products ..... ....4. *........     9
D. The City of Lazaro Cardenas .....................         10
E. Environmental Protection ...............  10
F.  Project Organization and Management .................   11
G. Employment and Training .................... .. ...    .  12
H. Project Schedule .......  ..... .............  ... a.*    12
V.     CAPITAL COST FINANCING PLAN AND PROCUREMENT ..               13
A.  Capital Cost ...............     ... ......  ....  13
B. Adequacy of Capital Cost by World Standards ......  14
C. Financing Plan ...  ....   ................ ..........   14
D. Procurement and Disbursement under the
Bank and IDB Loans .................. ,.              16
E. Other Procurement ....................................  17
This report has been prepared by Messrs. Pigossi9 Jaffe, Thadani and Parker
of the Industrial Projects Department and Mr. Hutcheson of the Mexico Division,
Latin American and Caribbean Region.



Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
VI.    FINANCIAL ANALYSIS ................            . . . . .                 17
A.  Projected Revenues . ....                                           17
B.  Operating Costs ....., ,.,....* .... ..            .              18
C.  Transport Costs .= ...5,5.   a ................. ..                 18
D.  Escalation in the Financial Projections                             19.... ,,*    19
E.  Future Profitability    .............................. go.   19
F.  Financial PosLtion .. ...0 ....................... .               20
C.  Sensite4vity Analysis .............................    21
H.  General Project Risks and Sensitivity Implications ...   22
19  Further Expansion (Stage II) .........................   22
V7I.   ECONOMI0,   JUSTIFICATION OF THE PROJECT.....    23
Ah  LEa  Truchas Versus Alternative Steel Expansions                    23
,.  Economic Return ,          e      * .    *   .. . * ,  . .   .. * , *.*   23
C.  Foreign Exchange Savings .......................... oo     24
D.  Regional Impact of the Project .......................   24
VIII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED DJRING NEGOTIATIONS *.**.*.*.  O***v*    24
Steel Development Policy ........ ................    s.,,0** @        25
Infrastructure    ............ ,;,     ............. ....,, 0.0        25
Organization .......... ...............................  25
Financial .  ........ .. .25
Ecology ................................................                26
General       ..............................................   26



Table of Contents (Continued)
AYNNS
1. The Market and Prices for Steel in Mexico.
2. World Steel Trends and Prices.
3. The Steel Commission.
4. Technical Description.
5. The Port of Lazaro Cardenas.
6. Transport of Finished Products.
7. The New City of Lazaro Cardenas.
8. Environmental Protection in Plant Design.
9. SICARTSA Organization During Construction Period.
10, Training Program.
11. Project Implementation Schedule.
12. Capital Cost and Procurement.
13. Production and Revenue Buildup.
14. Operating Costs for One Million Tons Finished Products
per Annum Output.
15. Financial Analysis.
16, Economic Evaluation.
17. Regional Impact of the Project.
MAPS
1.   Major Steel Production Centers.
2.   Michoacan - Guerrero Development Region.
3.   General Location Map.






MEXICO
APPRAISAL OF THE LAS TRUCHAS STEEL PROJECT
SUMiARY AND CONCLUSIONS
(i)   A Bank loan of US$70 million equivalent has been requested to
help finance an integrated iron and steel works on Mexico's Pacific coast,
with Nacional Financiera, S.A. (NAFINSA), the Government development bank,
and Siderurgica Lazaro Cardenas-Las Truchas, S.A. (SICARTSA), a Government-
owned company, as joint borrowers and the Government as guarantor.  In its
first stage, to which the Bank loan would apply, the works will have an
annual capacity conservatively rated at one million tons of light non-flat
finished steel products, with provision made for later expansions to over
5 million annual tons.  Construction is now beginning and the completion
target for Stage I is mid-1976. The works will be located near iron ore
reserves sufficient for at least 25 years of steel production at thie Stage r
level.  Coal supplies will be imported through an adjacent deep-water port
that is being financed and constructed separately by the Government. A new
city to house SICARTSA's employees similarly is being conqstructed by a
Government trust fund.
(ii)   The Government's objectives for the project are twofold:
first, to meet projected increases in domestic non-flat steel demand with a
modern steel works that later can be expanded to produce a full range of
steel products at costs competitive wlth world standards; and secondly, to
further the goal of directing public investment towards under-developed areas
of Mexico and away from the concentrated wealth and economic activity of the
nation's center.  These have proven to be compatible objectives.  Even without
the inclusion of regional benefits or the economies to be expected with later
expansions, the project's viability can be demonstrated, and the Bank's
analysis has been carried out from this perspective.  Neverthel ess, institutional
aspects of the steel industry's growth and its relationship to the Las Truchas
project, as well as regional planning needs, have been central to the Bank's
discussions with the company and Goverrnmert throughout this appraisal, The
Bank's ±nvolvement also has led to improvements in project desIgn anid planni.ng
and has provided a basis for Mexican equipment suppliers to partic1pate in
procurem.ent under internatlonal competitive bidding.
(iii)  Total financing requlired for the project is an estimated
US$679 million, comprising US$636 milion for the iron ore mine, steel works,
and related facilities, US$32 million for interest during construetion, and
US$11 million to cover initial operating cash losses.  It is proposed that
the total be met by US$300 million ifn equity from the major shareholders
(the Government, NAPNSA, and Altos Rornos de Mexico, another Government
steel company), the US$70 million Bank loan, a parallel loan o1 US$54 million
from the Inter-American Development Bank (with which the Bank's ap?raisal has
been closely coordinated), parallel credits totalling about US$180 from the
bilateral financing agencies of nine industrial countries (Austria, Belgium,
Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the United Kingdom and the United
States), and residual loans totalling about US$75 million. from yet-unidentified



- iin 
soZeces,  Th e iCovernment has guaranteed provision of the residual loans, as
well as any additional financing needed to guarantee project completion or to
coer- cost overruns,
(iv)  The project has been designed by SICARTSAts Operating and
Technical Adviser, Brit-sh Steel Corporation (BSC), and comprises facilities
for mining, ore beneficiation and pelletizing, blast furnace iron making,
basic oxygen steel mak±ng, and finished product rolling. Thte latest pollution
control technology has been, incorporatedy and SICARTSA .as shown a cortend-
a* le attitude towards etvironmerta: protection issues.  BSC staff have been
plaecd at various managment and snecialist levels throughout the organiza-
tion and in maxy cases fill functional nositions due to the comparative
ineanerience ofE most of SICARTSA's engineers. The arrangement is running
smoothly and a good project team has beeri assembled.
(,vr)   ICA-RTSA steel products will hae transported primarily by rail,
and a niew railway link w-ill5  be con.structed betvween the p-l ant site and tueva
Italia, where it Ulil  connect with tee ntiational railway system,  Because
thias 1ink will not be completed until 1298, road transport will be used during
the early operating pertlod and addiji onal resources wil'L be committed by the
Government to upgrade t .e existing road infrastructure.
('vi    Mexlno's consumption of finished steel o0roducts has grown at
a-n anrnual rate of 8.3 percsar-t over the past decade, reaehing 3.1 million
tons in 1972.  Appare'nt con-sumptIon of night non-fiat products was 1 2
milljion tons in 1972. reDresenting a 6.8 percent annmial growth rate over the
previaous decade,  BRy 19380  %e-mandi for these products is expected to grow
at a faster 9 i)ercent rate and reach 2.8 aillion tons, of which SICARTSA
will supply just over a third.  ExDorts b.y STCARTSA are not contemplated,
and imports plav on,l  a aineo -role in the nion-flat market   P rtces are subject
to GQovernment aenlincs. ad the Bank's financial projections therefore have
assuled conservativel4y that real prices in 1976, when SIC.ARTSA co-rmes into
produzi-:ènn, w:.l;  rmn ln    ) .ate_-972 levels an-td will- dinlin e thereafrer at
1  ezceiit -oer an-aun.  On toKs basis the p-rojqect still sh ows a financial
return of "1 nercent.
(Vil)  Thz-     ,      Projected long-te  financial position is strong,
bun liqiuidity p<o'''-; oibe encoavntored during the first year or two of
otecat tonss             -   fties begin to fall due before full production is
reRe .-- - º                       * -nd will he coverad adequately
'by _-ue rorpletiiLun  " osr overrun guarantees given by the Government.
Loa-, r,sx:   S. P<:i' V        r- 0-- , additit-ir11 ".orrowings and new investment
abovg cernL.,- 2U2       evu .'S wili provide adequate long--te-n  security with-
out irmp uging u po  effect"I e management of the company.  Cumulative cash
generation after deebt   s.rvice and dvidends through 1985, the tenth year
of op,aèations, is pn-s_   at7U US$325 nlillon, providing a substantial ifnput
to newf< investment an-I et paLsion.
kvi-ellY)  part   tt--`    appraisal; a 'carla steel study was conducted
by CO_,V.SilfUS"riOh !anm. projectt--es made of future world steel price
trends.  tt has' eef7 Cf :ded from this work that SICARTSA will be able to
nraidac-.e Ff     eroorrrni 9e T'1 Tg- hout prc'-oct-on from imports.  The project 7s



- iii -
economic return is projected at 12-13 percent based on the projected cost
of imported steel to Mexico over the 1976-91 period. The return is not
greatly sensitive to possible transport cost variation or to the rate of
production and sales buildup. It is most sensitive to possible increases in
production costs or a startup delay and cost overrun.  In no case, howaver,
does the return drop below 8 percent for the projected range of possibilities,
and even that level would resu'lt only from a combination of unlikely events.
An atceptable economic return exceeding 10 percent therefore is very probable.
Net foreign exchange savings are projected at a minimum of US$111 million per
year, so that the foreign exchange component of capital costs will be covered
in less than three years of full operation.
(ix)   The.Las Truchas project is judged the best of various alternatives
for the next step in Mexico's steel expansion program, but its maximum value
to the economy will be achieved only when the project moves into its second
stage, which will roughly double product capacity and show considerable econ-
omies of scale, as soon as market growth allows. This implies a need for
industry-wide planning that is only beginning in Mexico and has yet to be
firmly established.  A national steel coordinating Commission was formed by
the Government late in 1972 and has authorized a study of the industry now
being carried out by a foreign consulting firm, with results due in late
1973. Subsequently, a Government strategy for steel development is needed.
The Govern=ent has given the Bank assurances that it will take all reasonable
action to coordinate expansion in the inddustry and that it will neither
approve nor support future expansions or new steel works until market demand
and economic justification have been considered -- with the effect on
SICARTSA's second stage included in such consideration. Furthermore, the
Government has agreed to review steel prices in Mexico from time to time and
use its best efforts to maintain them at l.evels reasonable related to produc-
tion costs and world prices, while sharing increased productiorn efficiency
with steel consumers through lower -prices to the extent possible.
(x)   The project provides a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$70
milion equivalent for a term of 15 years, includin-g 5 years of grace.
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~






. INTRODUCTION
1.01       The Mexican Government development bank, Nacional Financiera,
S,A. (NAFINSA), and Siderurgica Lazaro Cardenas - Las Truchas, S.A.
(SICARTSA), a Goverment-owned company, have applied to the Bank for a
loan of US$70 million equivalent to help fina.nce the construction of the
first stage of an integrated iron and steel works and associated iron ore
mine on the nation's Pacific coast. The loan will be guaranteed by the
Mexican Government. The Las Truchas project, as it is commorn.y known
will be carried out in several stages likely to stretch over 15-20 years;
the first comprising plant and infrastructure needed to produce and ship
one million tons 1/ of light non-flat steel products (wire rods and light
bars and shapes). ?rovision has been made in planning for a technically-
matched second stage to produce steel plate, beginning perhaps 4-5 years
after Stage I startup in 1976. Later expansions into other flat steel
products (coil, sheet, etc.) will yield an ultimate capacity exceeding
1ive million tons of raw steel 2/ per annum.
1 .02      The Bank's appraisal has been predicated upon the need to
demonstrate the techrnical, financial, and economic viab±lity of the initial
stage alone. Nevertheless, because the later expansions will need to be
planned carefully as part of a rational strategy for growth of the entire
Mexican steel industry, one of the primary objectives of the Bank's involve-
ment has been, and should continue to be, to encourage the Government to
establish such a strategy.  Bank participation also has led to improvements
in project design and planning, and will facilitate a wider participation
of Mexican equipment suppliers   .nprocurement than otherwise would be
possible.
1.03       The appraisal has been carried out in close cooperation with the
Inter-American Developmert Bank (IDB), which is preparing a parallel loan
to SICARTSA for US$54 million equivalent. The project has been discussed
with the two banks  or several years, but formal applications £or Fijnancii g
were not made until late-1971. Several project preparation missions visited
Mexico between December 1971 and August 1972, followed by appraisal missions
in November 1972 and April and June 1973.
1.04       The appraisa<; was corducted and this report prepared by Messrs.
Pigossi, Jaffe, Thadani, and Parker of the Industrial Projects Department
and Mr. Futcheson of the Mexico Division  Latin American and CaribDean
Region.
1/   Metric tons are used thrlou-ghout.
2/   "Raw' or "crude" steel is defined as steel in the first solid state
after melting and Irncludes ingots aid continuously cast semi-fiaishe&
products -  the latter applying to Las Truchas.



2 
IT i  h--E  C'YEPPN
2.01       Ia 19409 a Mexican Government: commission began to study the
po8sible cons2;truction of an integrated steel works that would exploit the
iron ore depos-ts of Las Truchas, adjacent to the Balsas River delta on
the Pacific ooast Csee mapE)   A project based on direct reduction of the
ore and e-eet-   Cn frnace steelmFking was developed in the 1950's but never
cavraied out, and litte fartaer p'Zog-ess was made until 1969, when SICARTSA
was created by the Govermnevt and charged wLth formulating a specific plan
for a modern, steel  dant     v Cerseas consu].tants were hired and a detailed
f-easibility study r-,as prodtce6 in 1971.  T'he project, as defined therein,
was formally approv7ed by zlh.e President of Mexico in September 1971, and the
present p Zoi er  has evol-vsa6 therefrol,.
2.02'      SICIZiIrI'Dh Si constited as a "Sociadad Anonima" under Mexican
i    i. The conmpany'e sau hor zed ca?ital as of April 1, 1973, was IMA$500 rAilhioz
(US$40 million) ane, wi1' '.I3@ inc-reased to a m:inimum of 1$3,750 by Deceber 3b,
1097,  (US$300 millicjno    o p:Oa-rovid  a sound eqi.ty base for the prr'ject.  All
but a small percent age ;f t.e ;h;qes are h^e'd by the Government and Goverunment
age_nces and campani,es  wf.th the present and, likely future ownership split as
f O_lows -
Present           "uture
US$ million  %   US$ million  %
Federal Government of Hexl.cc                      20.4       51.0    3f3.0    51.0
Naci.onal  inanciera, S.A. (NAIFiSA)                10.0      25.0      7-5.0    25.0
Altos r Hor-noz da Mexi_`co, S.,. (iA3A)/1           4.8      12e0      36,0    12.0
Federal Government - Trust Fund                     4.3       10.8      35.5    I.8
Mr. Berna&rdo  uinta&2a <-Ar7tZte tordustrialist)    0.5        1.2    _ 0.5      0,2
40,0     100.0    300.0   100.0
g    Half' of these ah.zrea are '7laId 'Ly? '>Ximas de Hierrc La PerLa, S.A., a
wholly-owned :m-Aaing oubs'idiary of AShSA.
2, Q3      The shares ieled ty the Government are not tranisferable, guarantee-
ing its continued majority ownership.  The NAFINSA shares can be subscribed
by other Mexican parties, but no plans exist for any to be sold off.  in-
stead, 't is intend;ed ihat the Trust Fund shares -- which NAFINSA holds on
behaif of the Gover.=ant -- w1il be offered to the general public at some
future data,  AccordinO  to SICARTSA's by-laws, A DMA, the existing Govern-
ment-owned steel cc.apay, a-ad its mning subsidiary together must subscribe



- 3 -
12% of SICARTSA's authorized capital.  Since it was not possible to examine
the financial condition of either of these companies during the appraisal,
agreement was reached during negotiations that the Government would guarantee
the obligations of all shareholders to subscribe and pay in capital as re-
quired by SICARTSA.
III. THE MEXICAN STEEL 12OUSTR, MARKET &VD PRICES
3.01       A detailed a-nalysis of Mexican steel supply, demand, and prices is
contained in Annex 1,
A.    Existing Producers
3.02       Over 80% of Mexico's present crude steel capacity i-s confined to
three fully-integrated producers: AHMSA in Monclova, Fundidora de Fierro y
Acero, S.A. (Fundidora) in Monterrey -- a private company with Government
and 1FC participatior. -- and Fojalata y Lamina, S.A. (HYLSA) -- a private
company with plants in 24onterrey and Puebla. The balance of production
is split amongst a small integrated seamless pipe producer in Veracruz ancd
six semi-integrated plants located mainly in Mexico City.  The industry's
total raw steel capacity is about 5.2 million annual tons and will rise to
5.7 million tons when Fundidora completes an expansion planned to precede
SICARTSA start-up. Historical data of capacity utilization, however, ir-
dicate that the above nominal capacity will yield only about 4.6 mil+ lion
tons of actual o-atput due to technical limitations.  The effective rolling
capacity of the Mexican industry substantially exceeds current steel making
capacity and is estimated at about 5.0 mil'lion tons of finished steel pro-
ducts (2.4 million tons of flat and 2.6 million tons of non-flat).  To fully
utilize this capacity would require about 6.7 milliorn tons of raw steel
input so that the industry still will be short, in nominal terms, by about
onp million tons of raw steel following Fundidora's expansior.
B.    Historical ConsMption
3.03       Apparent censumption 1/ of steel products In Mexico has increased
at an average annual rate of abo7ut 7.2% over the past 20 years and 3.3%
over the past decade, reaching an estimated 3.1 mil ion tons in  g97' --
equivalent to 4.2 million raw steel tons. The product split for 1972 was
as follows:
APPARAlT DOMESTIC STEZI PRODUCT CONSU1ThTION i    ,i 72
Product Tyge                       000 To.s
Liglht Non-Flats                                    39gS2  39
Heavy Structurals and Rails               130       4
Seamless Pipe                              11       6
Flats                                    5552      51
Total               3055      0c0
17  Domestic productior. plus imports minus exports,



ér;'c. zBtt ategc2--Y o!y  t 'rimary irtezest to SICARTSA is light non-flats
"aY% ©t to&Qthur Wiih bearvy strdcturali grew at an average annual rate of
'J~  Ste  i7z 1962 LZ- 1972.
3 a0Gi4    \n>%i<troW~ r?ojectic2or of domestic steel demand have been prepared
IM recent ye?ers,       b,y  the Bank off .itzico, NAFINSA, and the iron and
3Th.a@ Suf<aet 2 rs.rg  Lss6AacctEationg.   and subsequently by SICARTSA, which
Aaa ta3&ken tt1 ar C    -c ark in-o ac cout bot concen-rated on the products
o:f telha prootpasd pz.t;jeact,  Thl  e Z12f43TA projection has been based on assumed
gA=Wt5;a Pzzta:n3s tu_. VL-rioLs sectaors of te economy using estimated 1972
cotuenrrptioon. f:gur _6-i    tlthb ?rofeation baseQ  Total product demand is pro-
ect-d to :nacase to 6s7 milltn tose by 19S0, or an average growth rate
of 10.4% Zrom, the 372? base 3 and azon-flat demand to grow at an average rate
9' to, 223  flZ>t  to a in O9S&7  3é'ecteed buoyancy in the construction
ii: uzryIs the p zr -uz-y reson ;fr i-     r er proected increase in the non-flat
ffrYth h rate 2iv:Om t   J .8" tVart 'p trevaild duraing the previous decade. This
-Iabasee or. anpeertLi   that  e  Governnent will continue the very substar.-
Ut.3 <brIouzit:3 and Lit 7c norkz 'proqro-z   t1ia. began whea the present adminis-
ato  CD ar-;g4gta 3 nt  C l>eT9U.t
car anted Mée
;D  4                   e"ed Pi9aptcf-zt e. active rc"`z- capacity for light non-fiat products
za eat"i-nata  at. I          tauto  ton  per acnn.; this possibly will rise to 2.1
ion;3.,4 tena 4tV Wf0  Pesent Sapply7I howeaver, is at a rate of only about
66kc2 a- ea  zve j,act,@     angd it Is  zxpec:ed that expansions wll bse imple-
vtaeatnd as mach to stisv;. rationraalizatffLoo, of existi-ng facilities as to in-
C s4?(aaqa r0114.lig capcit, X;y  ltselif.  Assumr  (ls  that hmal  of the expansions
Will be fIn ?zce a;. 'itg76 ens the balance Dv '80, and (-Ii) that capacity
t-Pl.iation. will lnariease from 662 in 1972 to 85% by 1976 and 90% by 1980,
a proiecticn of dfaa/spply balanLe  for Lhe 1976/SO period has ieer. made
as foilows:      
PROCTE K DEMS1D8Y P?PLY BALANCE
>2R. f10T :oV.`AM2 >RO2DUCTS:  1976-80
∂972   I976 1,977   1978   1979  1`980
(ac tual)
ffrcjecfiteci £fS  g,. fad,2 AS       r2     lOl 2022   2251   2506   2791
P,rfoj actead Su?PIly w tttbcut
El CRTf s M.A1162   7340   3690   1 725   1775  1i850
3lC-,AUTSA Suiotsv               -    150    500    800   1000/1 1000/7
7 f91l Sw,plvy (2)            1162   1790   2190   2525   2775   2850
Exc-ss weLcat) (23)  -    (26>   758    274    269                     59



The excess supply shown for 1978-79 represents about one yearVs growth in
consumption at that time. Given the conservative assumption of increased
capacity utilization in the existing industry, as veil as the tnrginal
nature of some of the existing rerollers (accounting for about 270,000 tons
of capacity), the projected phasing of SICARTSA's entry into the market is
justified, and SICARTSA's sales growth should not be limited by market
siz%. 1/ This, of course, will require ani effective marketing program.
E.    Steel Prices
3.06       Prices of steel products in Mexico are sutbject to G4overrnment
ceilings wLhich, for non-flat products, have not been raised since 1956.
Actual market prices have been below ceiling levels until comparatively
recently; but, because of recent production cost increases, substantial
pressures now exist for raising the ceilings. It has been assumed for
this appraisal that some increase will be allowed before SICARTSS begins
produttion in 1976 and t1hat real (uninflated) prices at that time will
be about 2-3% above present price levels - which are virtually at the
ceilings. On this basis, the average price (in 1973 currency) for the
assumed SICARTSA product mix will be about US$186 per ton delivered Mexico
City. The price assumptions beyond 1976 are discussed in para 6.05.
3.07       During negotiations, agreseart was reached that tne Gcvernment
would review steel prices in. Memico from time to time and use its best
efforts to maintain prices at levels that (i) are reasonably related to
Mexican production costs and world price levels and 1ii) are ouch as to
allow steel consumers in Mexico to share in any declz.ne in production
costs through reductions in steel prices.
PF    Comarison of Mexican ane World Prices
3,08       A world steel study was carried out by consultants to the Ban.k
early in 1973 in part to determine the likely level of delivered prices
that Mexico would have to pay If it chose to import steel instead oZ pro-
ducing it at Las Truchas. An abridged version of the consultants' study,
together with the Bank's conclusions, is contained in Annex 2.  uropean
export prices have been taken as the primry future influence on. world
prices, as they have been in the past, and a projection of the i'ceLy real
levels they might reach in 1985 has been made, based or, ?rojections of
real production cost increases that the !uropean prod¢ieers wiil 1Lsave to
bear by that time,  It has been concluded that she alverage list grica that
prevailed in Europe durirg 1970/171 for a product mix a>imllar 2o that of
SICARTSA would be the minimum long-term European export price g  3O.B.) that
1/   Imports and exports of the types of products SICXRTSA wi 1 produce havk
been negligible in the past, and no change is ex,ected for  -a -uture,
Hance, they have be-en ignored in the supply/demand projections.



=6 
cou<d be e:gYJected. to xreva-nr 9n real terms over the 1976-91 SICARTSA
ProjectLO1 perlod,  This iS a conservative judgment, based (i) on the fact
thot this average   ie yielded low profits to European producers under the
co3t structure dur-ing 1970/71 and (ii) evidence that long-term real costs
wil1 rise, not fall so S as to erode that low profitability even further if
roal prsces do not increase. For th^e maximum long-term price, projected
reaz- prouaction cost increases up to 1985 have been superimposed on the
19,v7CA/71 price lever to yield an average price that would approximate the
Europeans' desired avarage price I-evel at that time (based on full-cost
pricing). The range of orces that results, following the above logic,
is US$15i-19i per ton FO.EO Zuro-pe, expressed in constant 1973 dollars
as; based onr early 1973  exchange rates. For purposes of the Bank's economic
ano.lysis) hcrvever, it has beern assumed more conservatively that the most
lLkely average Euz:o'mean F.C.B.  rice over the 1976-91 period -- and there-
Loize the average pzi-ia that Meico ACourd have to pay for large volumes of
io,ports oE a continuing basis -- would fall within the lower third of this
=S;gze  or US41 56 -13er  Ton     o thesa prices must be added US$32 per ton
for tranzlport-ng the steel  -2OV Europe to the primary market, Mexico City,
gtving a porobaoble nave-zags deive:reGd prce of US$188-200 per ton (1973 prices
anc exc.hange rates)   Ths rarge exceeds the average present Mexican price
[&Lings for SMCA   SAs .,rcedu:t mix by 3-0%. Hence, it can be concluded
that a fair economic retu-rn bg$ed on these prices implies the Las Truchas
s>-roSe's  biLi-ty to -IrOauce   stee  economically without import protection.
will be seen 5'-D .Je Z%e .aae ig   n pa-ra. 7.02.
FtJ u.we SteeL-m            poly'ic
3.0;       D-a r ing      anCo fo`CboZowin, extended dlscussions with the Bank,
t1' Xexi^ao Oovsl.ant fomed an lron and Steel Coordinating Coanission
to ,'Lan for 4 re 2   :erx devereoment _5of the steel industry. A transla-
t-"rn of the decree esrabl-_:hing the .Co.mmission is conta-ined in Amnex 3-1.
T.h.e Commission's -)r$iary function is to serve as an advisory body to the
Cevernment in the oruaulation of production programs and expansion plans
ftoo tahe steel eut4rrrses  n vnic^h the Government participates.  It does
Zota however, have CX1aecut_ve  wer, except through the various Ooverament
m`nisters ,ho make r-) its menbershaip. A Technical _ormittee comprising
rszresentativas of the industry, serves in an, advisory capacity to the
ra>Ss o  and a t         alz  0 stafff' h,as been formed to carry out the Commis-
aSio a worlIc.
3e:0       It is ato5lL too early to assess the Comission's effectiveness
4i_ ikely long-tear  impact on indZustry plaanning and decision-mIaking. It
ha3, however, taken the ma_jor step of hiring Battelle Institute of the
U.3  to carry out a Cmpreaensive study of thrie industry and recommend a
pLaan for future capae  ty expansions and pric6 structures.  The Terms of
Reefrence 'or the study, vwhich I's schedu'Ied for completion in late 1973,
ay,r contaired in Anne bX. 3-2,



-7-
3,11       It is imperative that the Commission's work not stop wita the
Battelle study and that an actual Government strategy for steel evolve
from it. Without this, there is no guarantee that new or expansion projects
will not be undertaken unilaterally and that the industry will not be faced
with overcapacity in the late 1970's. Pursuant to this objective, agreement
was reached during negotiations that the Government (1) would take all rea-
sonable action required for coordinating the expansion of steel production
capacity in Mexico and (ii) that before approving or supporting the further
expansion of existing steel companies or the establishment of new steel
compantes, it would consider the market demand and economic justification
foi each, as yell as the impact on the second stage of the project.
IV,  THE PROJECT AND ITS EXECUTION
A.   Technical Description
4.01       A detailed technical description of Stage I of the project is
contained 4-n Annex 4-1 and of Stage II in Annex 4-2,
Technical Concept for Staze I
4.02       The project comprises the establishment and operat-lon of a rnon-
flat steel products plant with an initi-al capacity of about 1 .1 million
tons of raw steel per annum and I . million. tons of finished products.
The plant has been designed by SICARTSA's Operating and Technical Advisor,
British Steel Corporation (BSC), oa the basis of a detailed project review
carried out between May and September 1972. All facilities h.ave beeni laid
out (see Annexes 4-3 and 4-4) in a manner that will permit easy expansion
and diversification of production capacity to more than 5 millio . raw steel
tons per annum, The process route adopted for Las Truchas is based orn the
most modern technology available and is considered appropriate. The main
elements will be:
(i)  Mining and beneficiatLon of the Las Truchas iron ore works,,
with transport of concentrate by slurry pipeline to the steel
works;
(ii)  Agglomeration of the iron ore fines to form self-fluxi-g
pellets;
(iii)  Conventional coke making based on imported coals;
(iv)  Blast furnace iron making;
(v)  Basic oxygen (B.O.F.) steelmaking;
(vi)  Continuous casting of' billets;
(vii)  Rollirng of rod, bar and light sections  n two firishing
mills.



"he iron and steal mking facilities, comprising 64 coke ovens,
s 3gO  toLns-per tay blast furnace, two B.O,F. vessels, three six-strand
-tIt u    Z cas;tin  tcaines  and theIr ancillary facilities, have been
me&-hed in size to .meet the billet requirements of 1.1 million tons per
yr into the.two rolling mills, each of which is rated at 500,000 tons
<!=al capacity -- t'he maximum economic size for such mills by world
st-andards.  The  nsegn has been conservative, however, to ensure reliability
xn thle  exicar coratzx; and, as experience is gained, it should be possible
-Increase crude sae~  5bililey) oua ptt to about 1.3 million annual tons.
Thrr  --uld o<llw     rm2t 0a,0 at -ear  £jOO  tons of billets to rerollers
/ i:egiCo Or  @lsawre      a possibilityV that has not been taken into consider-
atiaa in tcr'e Bank's Hunancial project-ions for the comnpany. The rolling
alls have been caSΩrned to allow sufficient flexibil-ity for the product
mam  to bse maefit.  to meet t1he fulll range of 14.kely market requirements.
444        Ter        aat-t.?a plans 9for Stage II envisage the duplication of the
Singe I coke ovens3 -pQiLetizing plant, and bl2ast furnace, and the addition
Z. a ahird 34C,F. v2sei and a hazv'y  Jate  mill matched to the doubled
st eeImaking capacb'qy. P?relimiaary technical and financial studies have
2e' 2caTried out, I; 'i2niz pr>inary ?urpose has been to aid the design
.son Ore
4X5        The Laf Cro-h2S Iron are 'Lo located in three primary deposits
'Farrotet3ec, El Val-c-an aned 21 Mango) and a number of smaller ones, all in
clesWe proxiLni2y  at. ro ughly 20 'i2n from the p3ant site (see map). The
pz2 im.ry Ores. ar  nometite (Fe3043), but the northern deposits have been
w*eathered and exposed to variabble de?ths, the effect of which has been to
convert much of the zo-ngnetite in4 the   per 3ayers to hematite  (Feéy.  The
iron ore explorati-on program hs not yet  seen crompleted-, but, as of the
end of July, ß973, 76 rillion tons o: "measured" and 12 million torns o-F
"ind-Fcated" reserves had been verIfied 1/,  These are estimates of geological,
bot econmically resvernble reserves, but there is ample indication tflat
noet of the geolog,cal reserves will be recoverable within the range of
coots that have bZ:G  -sBec ia financlial planning.  This would be sufficient
t6  aover 30 years vf Stage Z operat ion, or, alternatively, would allow a
signIfic,ant aprtion o' Stage 1I Production to be based on Las Truchas iron
ore. Chezle-at' anc asces of the ora have shown an average solub.le iron (Fe)
content of about  4' The  aia  "mpoar'ties are iron and copper suiphides,
sbzz. lazrgey disea', near z.n the beaeficiation process  o yield a high quality
concentrate ao£ 67 682 ie content.   his in turn has been shown in semi-industrial
tests to :is'%c a  r.Zh qucality pellet.  Overall, the iron ore picture is very
saciefctory  and 2i  os ontLcipalad tchat recoverable reserves will increase
cco as muc  .aL 100 million tts  by tae end of the exploration program.
4.1   See Annes 4-! 5ir definitions



-9
Other IRaw Materials
4.06       Coal will be entirely imported since no suitable coking coals are
available in the vicinity of the project, and transporting Mexico's relatively
low-quality coals from the northern part of the country would be uneconomic.
BSCis assisting SICARTSA in the selection of long-term overseas coal sources
(mo't likely Australia and/or Canada), and no supply problems are anticipated.
Limestone will be obtained from quarries within 50 km of the plant and,
although no firm decisions have been made as to the final loca:ion, problems.
are not anticipated.  Manganese ore, bentonite, and minor raw materials will
be purchased from Mexican sources and no difficulties are foreseen as to their
quality or availability.
B,    The Port of Lazaro Cardenas
4.07       The port, described in detail in Annex 5, is being constructed
by the Ministry of the Navy (Marina) at the mouth of the Balsas River and
comprises a dredged chiannel of 14 meters depth to accommodate 50-80,000 DWT
bulk coal vessels, deep water berths, and ancillary facilities. The Gov-
ement intends this to become a general purpose port and plans to construct
600 meters of quay in the first phase, of which 200 meters are required for
handling initial SICARTSA traffic -- imports of plant and equipment during
the construction phase and coal from 1976 onwards, and outward movement of
roughly 10% of steel product output for coastwise shipment to the north and
south of Mexico. The port plans have been reviewed by the Bank and are
considered technically and economically sound. Construction is well underway
and expected to be completed in time to meet SICARTSA's needs.
C.   Transport of Finished Products
4.08       About 90% of SICARTSA's output, or 900,000 tons per year beginning
in 1979, will need to be moved inland to the principal markets of Mexico
City, Guadalajara and elsewhere. A number of road, rail and sea alterna-
tives exist, requiring varying levels of investment for new facilities or
improvements to existing infrastructure (see Annex 6). Followimg a study
undertaken by consultants to SICARTSA, the Government has decided to construct
a railway link from the plant site to Nueva Italia, where it will connect
with the national railway system and give SICARTSA access by t",is mode to
most of its major markets. Because the link will aet be completed until
1978w however, road transport will be utilized for t.e first two years of
SICARTSA's production - unless studies still in progress demonstrate that it is
preferable to ship part of the steel by sea to Manzanillo during this pericd for
onward transport by rail,  No technical problems are foreseen. and the Govern-
ment has given the Bank appropriate assurances that resources will be commt-
ted as needed to upgrade the road to Nueva Italia and to complete the railway
link at the earliest possible date. SICARTSA alsa has committed itself to sub-
mit to the Bank for comment by September 1974 its onm detailec plbns for steel
product transport, including organizationa<1 arrangements.



ice2 Ci:y a: ;      '~;OCardeinas
A new City, described In detail in Annex 7, will be constructed
-;o provide resldential and commercial facilities for SICARTSA's 4,000-man
Stage I workforce and their families and, later, to serve as the urban
coT:e for a poassibl  90>000 persons who will populate the Las Truchas area
by the year 2000 Kr,nnax '7). Planning for and construction of the city,
o be locatad on 0S6 hectares adjacenz to the steel works, are under the
su-ervision of a u Jvernmai=t Trust Fund tormed for this purpose.  SICARTSA
'aresentcc oT    2u muAts Bard o' DiTectors, but will have no financial
obligation to t'he eity.  Detailed construction plans for housirng and
itn:rastructr.e are -ot yet complete&ee, but the Bank has reviewed the general
seh,za  and found    satisfactory. The implementation schedule, however,
i  cight@.  T, c     nt tainaed tha Governent's assurances during negotiations
Aa-t adequate sup-Ztr wotel be given to the city's construction program.
E.    Er   or~~~~~en~~tl~~% t.on'
4- . 06 0   Me stecc aoeiarz Laken by SICARTSA to minimize the adverse effects
of th  mi:ne ann scc    0-s aon the surrotnding enviLronment are above
tverage for a proßeze   sf s- ta pe, aend tne company's positive attitude
wards this subMec 73hould be comerded.  `lant design has been directed
at- restric tna aQr3zgate lvels of water, air and noise pollution from the
main problem areas      ne n-ne, pe'Let olant, blast furnace, steel plant,
rolling miils, powa-z plant, and oxygen plant -- and the works layout will
reduce the impact o.-Z rasidual pollutants remalning after cleaning and con-
trol measures.  Was   al :Ltion  is of the greatest concern, given the coastal
location of thae preat a d t-he racreational and corurercial potential of
neaaby beachaes and o9ef-shoore waters.  To mrinimize discharge problems, most
process water -will- ;% ecirru2.a:ed, limiting --the plant offtake to less than
1% of Balsas River ,low past the plant. The seas proximity also will
st.ulify drainage ar4d redewce the cost ofr effective disposal of treated.
effIluents.  DeszrioJ-oas oa  t1he specific pollution control devices being
incorporated into &e steel works are contai;ned in Annex 4-1; and the
general objectives fot pollution controa are outlined in Annex 8. The
total capital cost of Identiflable pollution control steps is estimated
dt US$15 million a t &ie adcitior to operating costs at about US$2 per
to:, af steel producc.
During -cozSiatzGfonl  SICARTSLA gave assurances to the Bank that
it would cortiLnul  o carry cut the project with due regard to environmeantal
4.d12      tore general environmental problems are associated with develop-
Ma-t of the pport, new cty,, and regional Infrastructure. These are beyond
the direct control co SICSaTSA and are effected by a var-iety of Government
and private agenciec tnv&.ved in Sheir development.  A consulting ecologist
vtz-ted the project regsion for the Bank in August 1972, and conducted a
areral survey of C.s problemas presented by the above infrastructure devel-
qpnant, as we:: as the general ecological effects of building a huge steel
wxks tn this heret_ofore undeveloped area. From his report, it can be
;9n4u4$ tha't there it 1ixttle chance of any adverse effect on the Zihua-



- 11 -
tan,jo tourism project, 100 km down the coast, which the Bank is helDing to
finance. In the project area, however, the consultant identified a number
of,possible hazards, including the destruction of mangrove estuaries through
land-fill operations, upsetting certain natural systems that provide natural
waste treatment and nutrients."foa off-shore marine life, and possible eutro-
phication of the waters withia the new port because of inhibited natural
flusking. action.
4e13       The latter problem seems now to have been resolved through
changes in the port design, but others will remain. Longer-range planning
is needed, and the Bank therefore will encourage the Governrment to prepare
a master land-use plan for the Michoacan/Guerrero coastal region. Insofar
as the Bank is involved in the Las Truchas project and Zihuatanejo tourism
development, and possibly will participate in a proposed forestry project
in Guerrero, a Bank offer of assistance to the Government in drawing up this
plan will be forthcoming.
Pto ect Orga~nizatior. and M4anagement
4.14       Responsibility for project execution rests with SICARTSA, under
its Director General, former cabinet member Ing. Adolfo Orive Alba, and
Project Manager Ing. Carlos Molina, a man with many years of experience
in the Nexican zonstruction industry.  (A chart of SICARTSA's present organ-
ization for the construction period is shown in Annex 9,) They are receiving
substantial assistance from BSC in all technical, financ7al, marketing and
organizational aspects of the project. 1/ BSC at present has about 65 resident
specialists in Mexico, and will continue at this general level of assistance
th,roughout the construction period and into the initial period of operations.
BSC counterpart staff are assigned at various levels throughout the organiza-
t_on, including the general management of the company, and most technical.
areas henve BSC staff in functional, not merely advisory capacities, The
arrangtement appears to be running smoothly and a good technical tearn has been
put togeth.er 
4,15       Overall, SICARTSA's organizational arrangements are considered
eaproptiate to the company's needs, The major weakness has been that the
important financial planning and marketing functions have been contained in
the Economics and Finance Division, where they have not received adequate
attention as comercial (versus economic) subjects.  tDuring negotiations,
howsver, SICARTSA informed the Bank that this division would be split into
separate economic planning, financial planning/control, and sales divisions,
with the latter two headed by qualified executives. These arrangements are
considered satisfactory, as are the procedures SICARTSA has indicated it will
follow to inform the Bank of the professional qualifications of appointees to
these posts, and other executive positions.
I/ The BSC group includes sub-contracted staff from W.S. Atkins & Partners
and 1icLeltan and Partners, both of the United Kingdom. Specialized assistance
in pelletizing has been sub-contracted to Koninklijke NederLandsche Floogovens
en Staalfabricken NV of the Netherlands, and in iron ore exploration and mine
planning to Societe Francaise DtEtudes Minieres (SOFREINES) of France,



-  12
C. Emplym nt a "iraining
Labor Force
4.26       By the end of 1973, approximately 1,750 persons will be working
on construction of the steel works. The work force will increase to about
7,000 by the end of 1974 and peak at 9,300 in 1975. The operational labor
force will total about 3,700 persons, excluding head office and sales per-
sonnel (Annex 10).  Of these, about 7% will be associated with the iron ore
mine and related ore processing and transport facilities. Operating labor
will comprise toughly half of the labor force and maintenance employees a
third. The balance will be supervisory, administrative, ard other salaried
staff.  The total implies a labor productivity of about 8 man-hours per ton
of finished product-  hich is very good by world standards for plants of
this type.
Trafining
4017       Training of the above labor force will be carried out by a new
Training and Development Department as outlined in Annex 10. The program
has been discussed in detail with the Bank and is considered consistent with
tha goal of facil'itating successful start-up and initial operatior. of the
plant. A new training center wlll be financed in part by a grant of
US$500,000 equivalant from the British Overseas Development Administration
(ODA), which also will be applied tovards the cost of training senior
Nexican personnel iv U.2 steel works.
PI    Pros-ceost   .e
4.18       ?roject completion is planned for mid-1976 in accordance with
tt'e schedule shok-n in Annex 11.  Tbia schedule is tight but achievable if
the momentum estabiished over the pas-- year can be maintained.  This will
require Government cooperation i4 expediting the registration of purchase
contracts and issuace of import licanses, and appropriate assurarnces in
this respect were oiven by the Gpvern-ment during negotiations.  Civil works
are already underway and ini tial letters of intent to place orders for major
equipment packages are beginning to go out. It is expected that the first
firm orders (withi escape clauses) for items the Bank has been asked to
finance (para. 5210) will be placed prior to consideration of the project
b- the 3ank's Board.  In view of the necessity to maintain project schedules,
the Bank has agread to recommend to t"ae Executive Directors retroactive
£inancing of up tD US$3 million (4.3% of the loan) to cover the maximum
projected expenditures <-ior to Loan signing.



- 13 -
V. CAPITAL COST FINANCING PLAN AND PROCURMENT
A.    Capital Cost
5.01       The project cost estimate is detailed in Annex 12-1 and.summarized
below:
CAPITAL COST OF THE PROJECT
M$ Million                  US$ Million
Foreig  1/Local Total      Forei&n 1/Local Total  %
Plant, Equipment
and Spares              2060      949   3009       164.8    75.9   240,7 37.9
Services                    57      104    161         4.6      8.3    12.9  2h0
Freight and Insurance      153       63    215        12.2      500    17`2  2,27
Erection & Commissioning  123       666    789         9.8    53.3    63.1  9.9
Civil Works                 -       995    995         -       79.6    79,6 12,5
Structures                 100       210    310        8.0    16.8    24,8  399
Design & Engineering      11        225    336        8.9    13,0    26.9  4,2
Physical Contingencies    192        234    426       15.4    18.7    34.1  5.4
Total Fixed Assets      2796     3445   6241       223e7   275.6   499.3 7-8'6
Pre-Operating Expenses    247        628    875        19.8    50.2    70iD 11,0
Initial Working Capital   100       250    350         8.0    20.0    28.0  4,4
Price Contingencies        195       284    479      1lS6    22 7    38.3  6.0
TOTAL PROJECT COST      3339     4606   7945       267.1   368,5   635.6 100,0
Financial Charges During
Construction             399       -      399       31.9      -      31e9
Refinancing of Early Debt
Maturities & Operating
Interest                 138       -      138       11,.0            11,0
TOTAL FINANCING
REQUIED                 4264     4217   8481       341,1   337.4   678.5
5.02       The equipment estimates were prepared by 3SC in August 1972, based
on budget quotations from suppliers; modified in March 1973 to reflect the
effects of currency realignments In February; and totally revied in June
1/   Direct foreign exchange component.



C73 to obta.i: thea  ova figures, w1hich are  bo be used for project cost
=atrol OuaoSas2  Ciil works and structaures have been based on quantities
iza. d from desig  drawings, swppleented by BSC's experience on similar
y'ctc and4 unit rates quoted by Mexican contractors. Physical contingen-
eg-w to cover unfo  seen needs duriag construction have been taken at 7.5%
x fixed capital, bl ed on BSC's experience with similar projects.  Pre-
cerat4ng aapanses include trainin   costs and BSC fees, as well as the
cezistrative costs prcje$ted for the pre-operating period.  Price contin-
Zgecies have been  .ate=tnedl ai tae basis of expected price escalation at
62 r.  an   for i5 rrnaZ y-b-d equipment and related items and 5%
,a. for civil vorhs, jtraureso dasiSn and engineering, and pre-operating
C03t3-  a composita releotion of recent Mexican price trends.  Approximately
U84$`5 Million in 1           for whirch fixed price bids already have been
raceivead by S C 3fi,= are sxcluead from the price contingency calculation.
T'h  inittia  workrt  cipta: estit te is t:at portion of total working capital
*t"ha  Cannot be f t med by interr L c&sh flow, i.e., through the end of 1977,
<ZtS wonthz aft-er v~W ded       -     Overall estimating methods have been
co-s_ervative &nd the! aasu ic as ma6e are considered reasonable.
5G.03      The diract Zoreign exchange component of total project costs
(a._.luding f.-nanciila- gargg  is iest maed at 42%, based on BSC's assess-
meat of the lkely cc petitiveness cf Mexican equipment suppliers.
B.    Adegu?c  o.f Ca itil CosZldisra San&erds-
5. 04      Tbis issue 'a    dresed fuly i-r Annex 12-2.  If the unescalated
'project cost est i :c-&e IS aidjuestd ;o eliniinate the iron ore mining and
processing comporNats, the- eby mzkn=g it more comparabLe with published
international ftgu~es, the  cdifiec total implies a capital cost for Las
Truchas of about V 0;S5 pzr achievab]e annual tonI of raw steel, in. 1973
;iollars,  This c¢  ares favorably with world standards for non-flat steel
S;ants (which do FLot lend thezzselves as easi'ly to the great economies of
s.cale possible wit% flit products plants of the type now being constructed
;s japan and Zuropo).
C.    Financn
50405      The table 4in para. 5.01 shows a total project financing require-
tZnt of US$W78.5 rd `11cn eq4uivalent, c  which 46% is foreign exchange.
Fe total iacludes  mS %. eS million for interest and financing charges dur-
irzg construction, a-nd' '$1.o million to refinance debt maturities and
itnzterest due betwecrx>the start of operations and 1978, when the company is
empected to begin showing a positive net cash flow (see para. 6.06).  The
financial i. an is as fo.lows:



- s5 -
FINANCING PLAN
Source                                Amount      %
IBRD Loan                              70.0      10.3
IDB Loan                                54.0      8.0
Foreign Bilateral Credits              178.6     26.3
Other Loans                             75.4     11.1
Total Long-Term Debt                378.0      55.7
U.K. Grant (O.D.A.)                      0.5      0.1
Equity                                 300.0     44.2
Total Financing                      678.5    100.0
5.06       The Bank, IDB and Bilateral loans and credits together constitute
a parallel financing scheme, in which each lender finances separate lists
of goods and services and disbursements are handled independently.  T&-
gether, the Bank and IDB have been asked to provide almost a third of external
financing, and this has been sufficient to give the two institutions a
key role in project planning,
5.07       The Bank loan would be for 15 years, including 5 years of grace,
at the prevailing interest rate of 7-1/4% plus a NAEINSA guarantee fee of
1-3/4%, bringing the total cost to the company to 9%. The IDEB loan would
be on similar terms, but at 8% interest with a single 3/8% payment made
to NAFINSA as a service fee.  Bilateral credit agreements have been final-
ized or are being negotiated with Austria, Belgium, Canada, France, Germany,
Italy, Japan, the United Kingdom, and the United States on the basis of
preliminary commitments made in 1971/72. There is no danger that adequate
bilateral f:inancing will not be available. The terms vary somewhat, but on
average provide for the credits to cover 90% of the c & f value of equipment
from suppliers in the respective countries, plus 15% of this value for Mexican
currency expenditures, for an average of 15 years with 4 years of grace (or
11 years repayment beginning 12-18 months after commissioning of the equip-
ment) at an average cost to SICARTSA of 7%. The company's equity requiremaent
of US$300 million will be met in Mexican currency by the existing shareholders
as described in paragraph 2.03. The equity will be made available during
the construction period, according to a schedule agreed with the Bank during
negotiations.  Together with the above loans and credits, this yields total
financing of US$603.1 million, or US$75.4 million short of total require-
ments,through the construction and initial operating periods. The residual
amount will not be needed until 1976 and 1977, as the financial projections
in Annex 16 indicate, and the source of this financing has not yet been
identified.  Its provision will be adequately covered by the Government's
completion and overrun commitments described below.



5,03       ufriag                cztatiR &   tiie Bank obtained an unlimited Goverment
garatee to providse pr>ject copletion and cost overrun financing, on terms
sIafactory to the 3ena'ik so as to ensure project start-up under any even-
tual.ty (sub -ect to  a      =60/40 debt/equity ratio). This includes
cove4age of SI  RTSA's wrking capital position (minimum current ratio of
Ic5 'u).  ntil production and sales over six continuous months at 90% of
ratf  eaapacity Iave  Xaaa  achieved.
D     Pro¢..3at&-ad  `fsemeat Pro32T t'rhe Bank and IDB Loans
g                                         -j jafnc e  *  a p tenoax .o Fi-s a o ately $62 million
(fo't & i cozt2   gt oa r aTt parts and building structures acquired
thZug  iternatoi    izompative '4deig, in accordance with the Bank's
guidelines, and abcJ: U3$8          ofi  o$   terZet durisng cornstruction thereon.
A t wo-stage bidding ?rocesa Ctecr.ncai proposals followed by separate
price  roprosals)si`LXa.z ta tt usea  Wi    t he Brazilian Steel Projects
is beirg followed.  "Zie Selection of items  or Bank finance and specific
pre aueent   oedu     v& a ba Za e a  a    t kie desire (i) to broaden SICARTSA's
supply base beyond t%-- awt jO    1 GaE   bilateral fiuancing so as to increase
cowmCtition' .a (an i'-    e a.        ar maanufacturers to participate in
equipment au?ply or, = -otzatiez2tit-ve basis beyond the Lè-aits
of local fancinsg aailbl  t1reng bUatera'.1 lenders. In meeting these
objct-ives, a   ddia  wad  £ i:tef ce s'ytem hiae been adopted whi4h recognizes
thazt. such of pzrocuzgmz, £tfo  t2ha  isprojzct unaszt aece sarily comprise large
pae=gso        r gta                       il wi slsgLa ....t...........ly -  i,e. the- blast furnace,
pel.at plant, etcl         aa Dieroa!cwn   cliould meet prequialification
crvatria,a for  tua ho&ii a                 an ime=tiwe to use MaxIcan re-
sou-rcew   is, 8in   tc  1é' z?6           y wm  of a 1 SZ- margin of pref erence t 
or. cz. a elaa-rly lldenvi&0s Z   Icam         of no-Mexican bids, For this
3Purposa  a ccapanen i zc uefinedr@. a2 bo i Ag, o  Xaicaa origin. (i) whlen supplied
by a ccany iMrpi - ' std .4n at@      gp4 (Ul4) w en the costs of local ma-Ze¢rialE,
labonr and swrviaes z2zd in its *4;;g tura are not less than 50Z of the .total
Valzea of t    ga coap a     t  a- tose caas whre Ziexican companiee can pre-
qualiy to bid dire tc1y, and nIot simply aa sub-supplier.s, their bids are
conQsdered en.tirely   oiayn wh-neic&2 value added reaches 50Z;  Procurxeat
undcz the IDX loan u2l folow-q. 1imlar, principles.
5,I        A list Of `Ih  ina ; oose  for financing by the Bank is contained
in                                                       agr.z2:-5   Azs=iv S -   2- =ig  emchange componet for    ds originating
i- ,±Vlco, the ilk Z         .-tl   aatior. of' the Bank's loan is as follows:
,,.S,       P.2xeC  ?wi NwCS L0a
6                        L
u   :UJ.ion           Z of Total
FcoreignL SUitSti. ~.   po24ap s a=d Spares  33                 47
Xexiara  tuvt'D  Spaire and
S Muie L s                             29                  42
ntereot !rui   cca tt:                       8                  1 1!
Total Bant I'?an                       70                 100
I/   Or the pravaili  xport duty in Mexico, if lower than 15%.



-17-
The Bank will disburse the full c & f cost of equipment for all items, irre-
Mpeitive of the origin of the goods (excluding non-Batk mmbers),
5.11       The loan is expected to be fully disbursed by the end of 1977
accor4ing to the schedule shown in Annex 12-4.
B    Other Procurement
5.12       Bilaterally-financed equipment items are being procured under
the same general principles of international competitive bidding as those
followed for the Bank and 1DB' lists, except that credit terms are taken
into consideration during bid evaluations. Mexican sub-suppliers are re-
coiving a similar 152 margin of preference in bid evaluation to encourage
bilateral lenders to allow suppliers in their respective countries to maximize
the use of iMexican resources. About US$30 million of additional equipment
has been reserved for procurement in Mexico. These are sma£ler items,
such as cranes, motors, spumps etc. for which adequate competition can
be pbtained in Mexico, and the arrangements are judged satisfactory. Civil
works and all structures, except for the large rolling mill buildings
contained in the Bank list, are being procured competitively in Mexico
and, like the Mexican equipment, are being financed by equity and the local
components of bilateral credits. The same is true for most of the erection
and commissioning contracts. The lack of international competitive bidding
is not judged likely to raise prices artificially for any of these items.
The Mexican construction Industry is large enough to absorb the project
without overheating, andno problems are anticipated ini obtaineing necessary
labor skills.
VI,  FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A.   Projected Revenues
6.o1       The assumed buildup of revenues is shown in Anneax 13 and is
aMsed on SICARTSA's projected commissioning period of 2-1/27years from
startup in mid-1976 to full poduction in 1979. This is considered realistic
for a plant of this type and is achievable if the training and commission-
ing progrms are carried out as planned. In accordance with the conclu-
sions in para. 3.06, the average sales price delivered Mexico City is
US$185,5 per ton of steel product (in constant 1973 currency). After
sales costs, taxes, and discounts, the average net yield to SICARTSA
betomes US$176.3 per ton. Escalation is then applied as show. in
">:ar  6,05.



18
6.02       Operatingn costs have been estimated on the basis of BSC estimates
of fixed and varicbLe consumptions of raw materials, labor, fuel and energy,
ctableso, main taace materials and sundries for each cost center.  Labor
costs have been based on detailed manning schedules, projected minimum wage
ratvs ln t -.e ,roje st area following plant completion  and analyses of the
pa:roll cost structuras oa other steal companies in Mexico. Materials and
mergy prces hava been taken at preiacling unit rates in Mexico and ad-
,--s*tad gor possil   a6nes prror to start'-up - except for the assumed coal
.M-wort prie a  : 0-U%22 ?er ton C7 (0973 currency) which is based on a world-
70:6e      02 f lo - ftce eoal_ priCs con ducted in early 1973. The estimating
tae$hods have been  i:c awad by the Bank &ad are considered acceptable.
6,03       Total oterating costs, excludino depreciation, interest, and
fiAnshed prod-ct C:ram rort, are estimted at US$590.1 per ton of finished
product, of which .iLd costs constit-ate US$15.6 per ton (27%) and variable
costs US$4b.5 per !=  (73%), These a2lso are subjected to escalation as
whn In parao 6 .0, A  ull breagkdown is shown in Annex 14 and summarized
WV  WEPA-2UG CO "1S AT ~'ULL PRODUCTION
1973 US$ per       % of
'Zon of Product      Total
agaes and sa`. rI±PI                          12.7             22
Raw  ate-rialo - <oa".                        15.6             26
ot, h t ^        _a lG         5.              9<3aw 1 S  6
Fuel aad Ener-s                                 3.8             6
Mairnte-nance Hrterials                        12.1            21
Conesumsalesf/Vm aies                          8.4             14
Plant Insurance                                 1,               2
Total                                    59.1            100
The tota. is low by .orle standards, but is considered realistic in view of
the savings to be o& anied by basing the project on local iron ore.  The
projected fuZl cost & firon ore pellets into SICARTSAgs blast furnace is
about US$10 per toa  whi; is at least US$7 below comparable costs to
European and Japanase --oMducers. This implies a total operating cost sav-
inJg  of 'S$11-1'2 pr t'o- of finiahed product, ot about 17% of what total
unit operating cast$3 might be if SiaGTSA had to import iron ore.
C,    Tr2ans ft Ccz--Li
6 04       't- haz bec assed for the financial analysis that road transport
qit: be used to all markets -- the most conservative alternative cost-wise.
Tht cost fron Las Truchsas to 'Mexico City is estimated at US$13.6 per ton and
Is considered an appropriate average based on prevailing rates in Mexico.
Since SICARTSA needs to absorb transport costs for only the 60% of its output
act-ally destined 5= ':Axico City (Annex 1), its true road transport cost would
tS otly US$8.2 per ton of total plant output.



- 19 -
D.   Escalation in the Financial Projections
6.05       To provide a reasonably accurate picture of SICARTSA's liquidity
position during the early years of operation, the Bank's financial projec-
tions have been based on operating costs escalated at 3% per annum, repre-
senting a composite of expected rates of increase for the various plant
inputs. With prices it has been assumed that 1976 levels in real (unin-
flated) terms would be about 2-3% above those prevailing in mid-1973 and -that,
subsequently, current prices would increase about 2% per annum, or roughly
1% below the rate of increase for operating costs. Depreciation and finan-
cial charges are not escalated esice they relate to capital costs that re-
main on the books at historical values. The price assumption is conserva-
tive and is intended to demonstrate (i) that SICARTSA can remain financially
viable even if its prices rise at a lower rate than the general rate of in-
flation in Mexico anud (ii) that SICARTSA thereby can be expected to exert
a positive restraining influence on future Mexican steel price increases
under competitive conditions.
E.   Future Profitability
6.06       Detailed income and cash flow forecasts for the first 10 years of
operation are shown in Aiinexes 15-1 and 15-2, and selected items are
summarized below:
SELECTED PROFITABILITY INDICATORS
(11S$ million)
1976    1977    1978    1979    1982    1985
Sales Volume (000 tons)        150      500     800    1000    1000    1000
Net Revenues                     30     101     165     210     223      236
Operating Profit               (14)       9      55      86      91      97
% of Revenues                 (47)      9      33      41      41      41
Net Income after Taxes          (25)    (22)     24      58      90       57
% of Revenues                (83)    (22)      15      28      40      24
% of Equity                   (9)    (9)        9      17      19      tO
Cumulative Net Income           (25)    (47)    (23)     35     276     465
Net Cash Generation             -        -       16      61      61       28
Cumulative Net Cash Generation  -        -       16      77     219     325
The projections show losses for the first 18 months of operation, followed
by a profit of US$24 milliout or 9% of shareholders equity, in 1978. From
1979 through 1983, anmual net income is a very adequate 15-19% of share-
holders equity, but it drops subsequently to about 10% after income
taxes come into full effect in 1984. Prior thereto, SICARTSA will have the
benefit of accelerated tax depreciation given to new enterprises in
specially-designated development regions, the effect of which is to enable
the company to avoid paying taxes until its assets are fully depreciated
on the tax books. Cumulative losses are covered by 1979 and cumulative



- 20
zojitr_s%a U- S bΩ,3 Uic-M, &t t.ae end of 1985, the tenth year of
,eratio,n  Net cczh gaveration after deat service and assumed dividends
ZvoG3 za:Ldy aftue  '.977, and cmrulatAve net cash generation is projected
a%  3$4S25 mil lion  ver ^w    1976-85 ieriod, providing a substantial -input
Tn mm 1ar sment =4 aepansion.  Tae financial rate of return on total
ptal. usin  contant pwices (net of assumed inflation) is about 11% and
z            1 M2ana.sLea  projections fer 1976-85 are contained in Annex 15-3
a  i   1f:L2znt :n1 ators are givea below:
~~~  E  CTC13 OY 711NAINCIAL POSTTION
M S    ulSion)                          
-  197  ' 977    1978    1979    1982    1985
Curret As3s f.                   34      53       79      81      87       93
Current 2ialitt&es               12               42      43      45       47
Ust Worhing Cap- UI j             )2     26       37      38      42       46
fCuirrent RE t:1 0soa9   "!e9                    1 .a9   1.99    1.;9     2.0
Q-_ick Rzt:-iotat                                1.4     t.0     1.0      ill
aig-Te=m Dbt/Eqit-,1 -/4   59/41   56/44   48/52   30170   13/87
Tin8 UDeb  S@r'v Cove2:d         3,6    ¢4       2,2          (over 2.2)
7∞   Excluding Spus Cash for Investmennt.
Stisfactory net u-re-3iun6 capital fig-res are shown for 1976 and 1977 only
because Jthe eomy A1. conti.nue to draw down long-term debt durinag the
f3rst  CS  =,the  0 i2  er tion, in pat to refinance maturities and interest
ott. earlier debt.  Pzcvn 1978 owrd a positive net cash flow is projected
,=d a sood eurr nz 2atio of 2v: or greater results, together with an
aqually healtzy vt!icik ratio of 1.41 or moree  The debt/equity ratio
Pzs5 52at 59k41 ia_1972 and drops below 50/50 in 1979, the first year of
^I prodtuct-on,  Thu_s ic coneidered adecuate, so the projected minimum
e>zu;1 ty base of U {3 C mf: Uion is acceptable. Debt service coverage during
f.ffice firat 6 z9ontr'.0  o,>;ra.ion iS l:w, consistent with SICARTSA's projected
aed for outside fn7-i=g during 1976 and 1977 and justifying the Bank's
( teneson of Its C-Tacs ?ericd to five years.  By 1977, the company begini
to cov(= its intorsst ane principal obligations and, subsequently, a
hsalthy coverage of tVo times or greater is projectid.



21 -
,, Sena$tiviy Anlysis
6.08       An analysis has been carried out to determine the sensitivities of
the projected rate of return and various indicators of SICARTSA's financial
position to changes in basic assumptions. Two sets of0 tests have been run,
the first pertaining to the projected production and sales buildup period
of 2-1/2 years (the "A"1 cases) and the second assuming an extended 5-1/2
year buildup period (the "B" cases) that could result if plant commission-
ing were not to proceed as fast or the market were to grow slower than
expected. The former is considered more probable and therefore was chosen
for the preceding financial projections. The results of the sensitivity
analysis are shown in Annex 15-5 and summarized below:
SENSITIVITY TESTS
Net Cash
Rate of    Debt Service Cover    Accum.
Return     1977   1978   1979   to.1980.
(Z)        (Times cover=ed    (US$million)
(1) Base cases                 A        11       1.2    1.8    2.0       118
B       10        0.8    1.7    1.9        67
(2) 1% slower price            A        10       1,2    1.8    1.9       108
increase                  B        9        0.8    1.6    1.8        57
(3) Capital Costs down         A        13       1.7    2.4    2,7       131
US$60 million             B        12       1.2    2.2    2.5        92
(4) Capital costs-up
US$60 million and         A         9       0.1    0.7    0.8        20
1 year startup delay      B        8        0.1    0.5    0,6         3
(5) Operating costs up         A         9       0.9    1.5    107        80
15%                       B        9        0.5    1.3    1.5        31
The primay effect of the slower buildup is to reduce surplus cash genera-
tion over the 1976-80 period, and, therefore, the internal resources that
would be available for Stage II expansion.  It does not greatly affect the
rate of return or the early liquidity picture, as shown by debt service
coverage in 1977-78. A further cost/price sqiueeze of 1t per annum (beyond
the 1% squeeze already implicit in the base cases) reduces the rate of re-
turn by about 1% and has a marginal effect on liquidity and cash accumula-
tion. A reduction in capital costs of US$60 million, or about 10%, would
yield significant benefits in all areas with the opposite true for an
equal increase in costs and a one-year startup delay. Operating costs are
important, but not found to be critical within the 15% range of error as-
sumed in Cases 5 A and B. This is considered the most probable of all the
sensitivity cases.



22 
6t20          Lb   2   ''15-6 shOaw  the sales plan lags behind the cash break-
eveL ales lavel tEnoizthae first 18 mnths of operation but the two
qoil=e fda by I     ar.  abzql2vmtly d- L e,vrs, with sales increasing and the
brq4it-even lavel ft     3. ,   .s98, the company could break even on cash
acc:nt at 532  of 'Pr-Peated sales.
H.  Senersl ?&ect: atsas =* & S   itivitv Implieations
S. l'o        T'he toc lusion to be drab from the above sections is that the
Cao   y's lon"g'tem fin   cia  posEtie. is strongS, but that the first year
or zwo of opewtioro present  iqu:dity problems having important implications
for lender s.earity. T+s 'ris  s h22M be covered adequately by the com-
DLefion anrad averz.  u&-zmatea tr pco=eded ir para. 5.08. Once the project
reaches full   ldton, $inncraa risks from a lender's viewpoint will be
l0  >Therefore, athox,q.e sglz it   be argued that Goverment ownership of
s:ZCPSA wouZl d st       cngo2oig ;-orling capital guarantee for the life of
the 3aI O&An  it -t 1      prafez:sbe 'to cut this direct link with Govern-
it   the $atrezt ofn anfini   a '"veal of financIal and commercial
6eipendeace for tho cCm*pey   lvertlheless, because the Goverment will
retain the  riht tC  contgrL,2 atecl price cei"ngs, the Goverment's agreement
to review. steae- pzcess froz timA to t:.me, as described in para. 3.07, is
vear   IpMStA' fr  t e               of   SSs future financial performance.
Mae agreed com ulta tova. cLau   ;.n ,th  Guarantee Agreement will allow the
Bank and the Gover:.~nt to            views In this regard as necessary.
6. I          It 7w/7  f uzt1ls@r agread during negotiations (i) that no dividends be
alowed untjl tche  < bjaeqfity rztio has dropped below 50/5.0 and/or if the
result there.of woul7 De to le'6w   the eu-rrent ratio below 1.5:1; (ii) that
C=,,2lative div\l.denUad  az aa  point In ='.ime bhe  restricted to one-half of
SC2SATS   cum ulat-vse  et i==c,a fror. the time of plant start-up; (Lii) that
SIC.RTSA be rIetricted. fro    t nd   aki5   any further long-term debt if the
result th ersof woulds risue the debt/equity ratio above 60/40; and (iv) that
cap. al -invea tact =  ,aedi; US  3' mlon -per annumn be allowed only after
pri-r agrewenaen bet,o-  t.B &m;  and SICAGTSA.
X., ~     a '-e _. F.*= :'L
6eat 1        As nMfed  rous2yo SIC&MISA plans to move into its second stage
of. d-elaso;ent soon aer successful start-up of Stage I.  Constructiorn
migj?ht be    ectWetad -: bcgin auoid 1978$ wit  the first production, about
'It9o  MTha. preJectead cpiltal cos3t of Stage II is US$400-450 million at 1973
rte2 -3  cins n : e>"si $ 3eip $kn-acg ca-pital and pre-operating expenses.
£ae iouy 7iCd -8   of thea wt-imated cost for Stage I, implying consider-
able econoz4s of s-alu. I- '.mioary estimates indicate an incremental
ffo:nciaturn ftomta the   s=on of 13-15%.



- 23 -
VII. ECONO,MIC JUSTIFTCATION OF THE PROJECT
A.   Las Truchas Versus Alternative Steel Expansions
7.01       This issue is addressed in detail in Annex 16-1,  The Las Truchas
project has been chosen from amongst seVeral alternatives for the next
major step in Mexico's steel expansion, among which have been (i) importa-
tion of semi-finished steel products for domestic rolling into finished
products; (ii) production of steel iin electric furnaces, based on sponge
iron and imported scrap; and (iii) fully-integrated steel production
schemes, either as expansions of existing Mexican plants or as new projects
adjacent thereto.  The first route would be impractical as a means of
meeting future demand growth insofar as supplies of semi-finished steel on
world markets would be difficult to obtain on a reliable, long-term basis
and, even if obtainable, would be expensive.  The secornd alternative also is
unattractive as a major production route given Mexico's position as a net
importer of scrap, the unreliability of imported scrap supplies and prices,
and the high opportunity cost of electricity in the country. The third
route implies a number of separate alternatives which basically are less
attractive than Las Truchas because of restraints imposed by their loca-
tions. SICARTSA's location adjacent to its iron ore supply and a deep
water port facility will give it raw material advantages unmatched at any
of the locations of the existing integrated producers. The coastal site is
in keeping with the world-wide pattern in recent years to place new steel
works at sites where they can utilize high-quality imported raw materials
transported from distant locations in large bulk carriers.  In the long run
I esico will need to import iron ore, and when the Las Truchas reserves are
depleted, SICARTSA rill be in a position to import it at far less cost
than the present inland producers.  SICARTSA also is about 30% closer to
the main Mexico City steel market than its major competitors; anad, although
the project will hasten the need for improvements irn tne regional. transport
system, the long-term economic costs of moving its finished products shouid
be lower than those of the existing producers.
B.   Economic Return
7.02       Steel import prices used in the economic return calculation are
those discussed in para. 3.11.  Costs have been based on the financial
estimates, with adjustments made for taxes and higher energy, port, and
transport costs, as shown in Annexes 16-2 and 16-3. Labor costs have
not been shadow-priced. All economic projections have been made on
a constant-price basis. A graphical representation of the economic
return calculations is found in Annex 16-4. The basic return is 12-13%
for the likely range of import prices, assuming the probable 2-1/2
year production buildup period, and from 11-12% for the slower 5-1/2
year buildup. At the maximum vossible long-term price, the return rises
to 15-16%. Increasing the assumed transport cost by 50% -- a level con-
sidered sufficient to take in virtually any transport cost contingency --



24 
lowers the enoromic retu-rin by only 1%, so that it can be concluded that
transport is not a serious economic i3sue.  Combining a 1 5% increase in
operating  and port costs with the above transport increase yields an economic
return range of 8-tt%, simlar to the 8-10% range that results from a
one year startup delay and capital cost overrun of US$60 million.  Trn no
case does the return drop below 8%, and even that level would result only
from a combination of un]ikely events.  If full shadow pricing had been
utilized, it is likkely that these retturns would have been higher, it
therefore is concIUded that the ?robability of an economic return exceeding
10% is very high, nig the project econonicaly viable in the Miexican
contexts
C,   fFor2ign Exchean&e Svigs
7.03       The direct foteign exchange (FE% effects of the project are shown
in Annex 16-5,  Indirect FE effects have been ignored.  Over the 1976-91
operating pei-iod, net FE savingn  are projected at US$1 ,714 million, or an
average savings of JS$111 millit per year, The annual figure implies that
the FE compoaent of capital investment in the project, US$292 million,
will be covered in less tha  three avetage years of operation. The a',ove
estimates are felt to oe conervAtive insofar as the benefit stream 1s
based on the ninimma steel itpcrt Zrice used in. the preceding economic
analysis and therefote reflecto the   rvmun  projected gross FE savinags to
Mexico through import substitution.
D.   Regional IM-DECt of the ?ro.E~it
7.04       Regional or secondary benefits of the project have not been taken
into account in the preceding ecanomxic analysis. Nevertheless, as described
in Annex 17, the project's impact on the surrounding re-ion should be
considerable,  The regional employment effect most likely will be through
SICARTSA's generation of deand for supplies and through the demand of its
employees for constmer goods and services -- so-called "backward` linkages.
"Forward" linkages to ner  industries in the area that will use SICAiTSA's
products are not likely to be larae, particularly in the first stage. An
analysis has been carrieC out of the actual impact the &MiSA steeL plant
hacl on the city of B,orclova following 4ts construction in the 1940's
and the results have been transferred to the Las Truchas case. If this is
any guide -- and there is reason to 'believe it is -- the urban populat iLon
in the Las Truchas area is likel  to rise from the present 15,000 persons
to over 90,000 by the end ofE the century. It could well be higher, given
the other resources ir. t'he regno.
V1112,  AGPEZYWTS  kACEED DURING NEGGO'IATIONS
8.01       Dring negotiations: , thfte !following princcipal agreements were
reached with the Gbverrment, KFi11SA3 and 7;he company:



- 25 --
(a) 7he Govermet wil take all reasonable action required for
coordinating steel expanion in Mexico, and will not approve
or support further epausion of ezistig steel plauto or nw
steel works without cosidering market de  d and eo    c
-ustification,D  including in the latter, cone±derati= of the
ct on the riablity of Stage I- of Las Trueb     sz(  !12
(b)  The Govert will review steel prices  n Mexico  f     time
to time  ae ue its best efforts to maintain price at levels
thIt (±) are reasonably related to Mexican y eduatica  Coast
world price levels  -d (ii) are such as to allo  steel
cowmars  Xn Mexico to share in anx decline In productiom
costs throgh reductioms in steel prices (para. 3.07);
(c) Mu Goverunent will provide the transport ftfrastructure
needed by SICA=SA and allocate the resources necea&7
towards thes objective (para. 4.08);
(d)  SICARSA will submit to the Bak for coemat by Sesp er 30,
1974, detailed plan  for steel product trawport, :-cZ.IW
organizational arrangaeats 'para. 4.08);
(e)  idequate Government support wisl be given to the erCo ttlom
pzogram for -Lazaro Cardzao City (para. 4.0);
ft  The connaay' s present Eoomcs and Finance Diviiefoa sK' be
reorganized into saparate economic planing, fina      l ane
sales functions, with the la-ttr two under cam e       y 
oriented managers (para. 4.15);
O)  The Bank will be informd as to t2he profw-o nal GLiciti
of the financial and sale Managers, M d Et} ben a3vzd that
.my  future ap2aatments or change  at seliLar leves o, Ws&
mt will be determiae  by tae awe high                nlz -dee  t-
ment (p>ara.e 4.e159) ;
(h)  The Govermemt will  w.rantee the provisio-, of a zn     o
U8$300 millin in equity according to an a3=ed scd   dule
(parm. 2.03 and 5.07);
()  The Goverment will provide an ul4zi,tcd pro&.eet ct^ptian
and cost overron guaratee 'sibJect to a G   0 debt/e/at7.ty
restrict.Lon and wit% all 4inda.Cmg on !era  Sate f';Cto-V to



tbe n%  ___ AfaX 06 wTsv1  captal to aa±nta in
a tzwrmt vaa   o   Us le-e t%   .30:  mtil 902 of ratei pro-
ftiven O alG          gz remd ower air consecutive
W.;j       v*<2 wft be      futil the debt/equity ratio drops
5O   cudkr It         the    reof wold be to lower the
emt ratio  e:  I 5 a m,             attn divids at any
fof eflativenot  e
Q~~f VPa2tO            Cpa.-B 6. 1 D
Ck) No fwdam-                 w=  be 1,ted by aCARTdbSI    If
z W    be r 'Srmae In tae debt/equity rato abow
GC/eIQ (pSaM. 62)
6l;3 at6as @£&If 1mreifl-rmt ab US$15 million pe a 0)
V!be ~znrr-Mad V:.Q%ht 2e=r&Zr a mmt bet  mt)'i, Bank and
(a)  Mt  )rno        be     i2 t wth du regard to euvirommer±al
Cu) The Gammm,2c  rmat to the fullest extent pose ibis
ItL SzPetam.  wfl   rSeI                    purchase aontracta
azi zhe         of .    't ha  as (pars. 4.18),
8.02         Bweg   oa fato  etq the. projact provides a s%md be ats for
a loan to flCAM   of US *70 c.Z±   equivalent for 15 years, 1za.a@t ag 5
years of rsczs.
2aMdutris Pm~jaatc )eP=1sN
Aaguet 0 VSmSgo



AX 1
MEU0C - LLS U300AS STEL PROJECT
MM KARnT AM PBICES FOR S3L  IN :XIECC
A. The Marlt
Introduction
1. The Mexican steel indastry traces its modern history back to
1900, when the first integrated iron and steel plant ias established at
Monterrey by Fundidora de Fierro y Acero, S.A. (Fundidora), iwith capacity
for 90,000 tons of ingot steel per year, and a rolling mill -for shapes and
rails.  It produced 11,003 tons of steel in 1903, the first year of produc-
tion, and by 1911 out ut had risen to 72,000 tons. The next major d3velop-
ment took  pLace in 19   5 when Altos Hornos de Meico, S.A. (Pfi2MA) was
formd to set up an integrated steel mill for flat products at Monclova.
The plant was concesived as a wartime measure, to achieve a meaaure of in-
dependence from imports, and was giv-en special facilities for procuring new
and used equipment from the U.S.A.9 it was commssioned for produotion oly,
in 1945. S.nce then the industry has grown considerably, and Miexico Is
present a&nnual capacity for awa steel prodction is estimated at 5 2 million
tons, distributed among the various comanies as shown below:
MEICAN CRi3DE STMI COAPACITY DISThMELMON
(0 )00tn
AHMIS&                                        2.,500
Fundidora                                       9)0
Haojalata y Lamina, S.A.- Monterrey
(H6LSA)                 and Puebl             7O
Tubos de Acero de Ke.-co, S.A.- Veracrxz
(TTAMU                            ~~~~~~~~280
OtherS2 VI                                       ,
Total                                       5, 1;0
"undidora is expected to increase its capacity to 1 .e mi]iJon tons befora
SICARTSA begins pro&action in 1976, so the total indstry capaciity for this
exercise can. be taken at about  5;7        tons.
2. Actual ra- steel prod"cion in 1972 was 4.2             onn sos, up
7.2% from the previous year, Historal data of capacity ulizaton
suggests tha1t technical liritations xestrict actual output in  e irgtagatd
units to about 90% of insta1Led capacity, and in the ser-itgrated  its
to about 80%. On tbis basis  total ou-tpo  from the nom:-inal c.pac:iy of s57
million tons would be about 6 mlior4 t-0on, which can be t&aen as thea
1/ Six small semi-intagrated plants. TMae bulk of this capacity is located
in the Mexico Ci-ty area6



effective raw steel capacity of the industy7.
3. The irstalled capacilt,y for rolling finished products is sub-
stantialIj in excess of the industry's current steel makdng capacity.
SI0LRTSA has estimated the effective rolling capacity of the indufstry at
about 2.4 million tons of flat products, 1.8 million tons of light non-
flat prodccts, 0.6 m=Liorn tons of heavy sections, and 0o.2 million tons of
seanaless pipes  for a total of about 5.0 rillion tons.  This estimte
assumas th  effect:ve rolling capacity of tae integrated mil;ls at 90%S of
n nal cap&-ty,      semfintegrated mills 80%, and the non-itegratd
units 70%. These percentages are considered reasonable as measures of true
capabiities; althcugh they exceed aatual performance to date by any of the
major categories of producers.  Since five million tons of finished prodcucts
would require about 607 million tons o0? raw steel input, and the existing
raw steel capacity is cnI. about 5.2 mllion tons, the country is nomrially
short about I3  mir tons. T is gap will be reduced tuo about 1 illion
tons after FN"didoravs expansion bo !.E5 e illion  tons.
Rece-it Histryof Stee  Cona~ts    '
4. Appam zt aonxpon  of steel products In Mexico has increased
duxing the past 20 years at an average  nirnual rate of about 7.7%, though it
has fluctulatad suibstan tally from yeaz to year. Apparent consuiuption exceed-
ed 1 .0 million tons eqival-ent for the first time in 1956, and by 1965 had
risen to 2 million  ns, desite four years during which consumption declined
or shawed no appreciable grovth.  Me av,erage annual go-wth rate for 1952-62
was 7.1%; and the record for the following decade was somwhat better, kith
apparent conrsPtion izcaasing from 1Q.4 mLLn tons in 1962 to 3.1 million
tons in 19723 or a, &erage annual grov7th rate of 8.3%. During the 1971
recession, aparen t cornmption dropped to 2.8 million tons. For. details
see Table 1-1.
5. From 1953 onardls, the aron   d Steel Manu:facturere Assoaiation
(C-NI) has maintained continuous detai2ed records of consunption by produLct
group (see Table 1-2,). They indicate that from 1962 to 1972 appa-rent con-
strption of non-flat -prodcuts increased fron 680,000 tons to 1,312,000 t3ons
(6.8% annual rate)  tle that of flat rolled products increased from 566,000
tonrs to 1,552,000 tons (9.9% annual, rate). During the same period, the
apparent consizption of seamless pipe increased very lit-le: fronm 130,00
tors in. 1962 to 191,g00  tonrs in 1972 (3.9% annual rate). The apparent growth
of f-lat rolled pro&u.ts conwamption at a faster rate thar  non-flat products
isE in keepinèl with the experience of cter coutritres durng si ar stages
of daelopment.
?ro,ject-ionep of. Demand fL*or 5tee'l tru,h18
6. Several pro-jections of doiisstic steel demard have been prepared
I/ Dozamestic production, plus inrorts zminus exports.



in recent years.  arst thae BaXnk of Mexico alttepted a proJection for- the
period 1967-76, based on itS expental input-outvuuu model for the 'eican
econov (h5 sectors). This was part of a large exercise for- foecasting
development of the M4xican economry, and was superseced by studies undertaken
by Nacional Financiera, S.A. (NALFNSA), Vnich has a substant.al interest inp
the two largest steel companies, AIfMSA and Fundidora, as well as SICARTSA,
NAFINSA prepared an independenit lon-a-term forecast in 1969 which was updatad
in May 1971. CNIE  also prepared demand forecasts for the period 1971-80 n
1969 and again in 1971. Finaly, takd.n these studies into accow-t. SIW.R*SA
prepared its on forecasts, focusing on demand for the non-rlat prodaots of
the proposed project.
7. NAFINSA's projection of steel demand (1969) was derived frorm
a linear progranming model of the industrial sector. It estimated growth
of demand at an annual average rate of 9.5% through the decade, and was
based on tUie assumption that GDP would grow at 7.1% annually da-rng thre6
period.  The revised 1971 estimate also assumed growth of GDP at 7.1% annually,
but projected growth of demand for steel at 8.9% per year for 1970-75, and
8.7% per year for 1976-80.  Mae changes in the second estimate  eire not fuLly
explainied; they appear to have been infLuenced to some extent by tne actuaL
record of growth in 1969 and 1970, and by the analysis undertaken by SICARrTRAo
8.  TNIHA's 1969 forecast envisaged growth of demand av ar average
annual rate of 11 ,4% for 1971-75 and 10,5% for 1976-80. The revised 1971
forecast offered two projections: a low rate of 6.5%,  =nual growth through
the decade, and a high rate of 9.0%. The differences between the twro fore-
casts, and the assumptions on which the low a=d high growth r-ates o ' the
1971 forecasu are based, were rnot explaized.  However, ONIH. ds;oends to a
large extent upon forecasts made by member fims, and changes -i their ex-
pectations have a direct bearing on the Association estimates for the fiatu::ea
It should be mentioned that a forecast made by CNIMEA staff in ae zrLd-60's;
which estimated raw steel demand in 1970 at 3.84  million tons, tZurned oubt> to
be very close to the actual figure -- 3.89 million tons,- but it was based on
an assuiption that GDP would grow at 6% annually in the years 1965-70, or
about 1% below the actual.  In the end, the wide gap between the .ow,- =d
high projections for the decade of the 70's detracted somewhat 1'rOa the us_-
fulness of the CNIKA forecasts.
9X  SICARTSAs first estimate of demand for steel n_ ,l;xcoc, madc
in 1971, fo7zowed the pattern of eanlier studies by XAFI'INS. and was based
on broad assumptions regarding the rate of growth of MtP, thc- rnpoportion of
gross fixed capital formation (G,'F) in GDP and changes there-in - rou&h
time, the correlation of steel consumption to GFCF and GDP, and c. anges in
the indirect consumption of steel, which is related to import- of capital
goods.  It projected growth of derand in tshe period 1972-7? k,   aabout 70,1
per year and for 1976-80 at 8.6% per year. A second 3ICATS  r& ecton,
made in the light of corsimption deat  for 1971 and part of 1972, envisaged
growth of demand ir, the first half of the decade at soriewhat ^ess than 9%
per year, and for the second half of the decade (1976-80) at 8g5% ?er year!
In terms of produ.ct tons, NexcLco Is demand was estimated at 4.9  llion tons
for 1976, rising to 6.9 million tons in 1980.



ANIYE 1
Page 4
10   n        1973, SICA RTSA revised its market projectiorns using
,972 instead of 1970 as the base year and, theraby, refLecting the delay in
dw.aid growLt caausea by the 1971 recession.  Tliis third SICARTSA forecast is
s2i&htly lower than the second one and shows a total demand for 6.2 million
tor4s of raw steel i4 1976) rising to 9.2 million tons in 1980. Demand for
non-flat prodacts of the type SICARTSA will produce is projected at 1.8
million tons in 1976 and 2.8 million tons in 1980, or an annual growth rate
of 9% from the 1972 level. These estimates appear to be based on realistic
a =tions, and are -aed for the Bark market assessment.
11. The incezase in the non-flat grawth rate to 9% from the.6.8%
that prevailed durig the pravicus decade is  ustified in view of the expect-
ed continuatior of the Meican Goveranent's housing and public works programs
that grew very substantially with the comig of the present adminis tration
in t970. A comparative statement of SCIARTSA's three projections and those
~iach pe     d them is shotn in Table ' -3. The estimated split of the
aggregate projections f4to pr-oduct tyPesis shown in Table 1-4.
SuMlz2y ofNon-nMat Stee"l ?roduots
12. As mentfoned = -i,ar&agz%aph 2, M exico Is current effecti~ve capoacit,y
for rolling light ron-ilat products is estimated at 1.8 million tons.  This
is distd:buted among the  sarxlous types of prodacers as follows:
ESm2LE3 N_O -?FUT PRODUGOTI0N CAPACTY
Current-
(Os)
In;tegard0 6   sir               1,015
S&zi-~tegtrated YlILa             480
Rro lers                           270
Total                         19765
=
If current plans of ex-stirg mLlls for expansion of capacity are car-ied out,
the total rolling czpaoity may rise to about 2.1 million tons by 1980. It
should be noted, hoavevr, that the existing capacity for 1.8 million tons at
presenet is being ut ized at a level of only about 66%. Therefore itv is
ezpscted that expasior, p>ans would be implemanted as zwch to achieve
ra'Uonalisatiorn of e-xoting facil-ties as to i4crease rolling oa-acity itself,
Sup72>ezand Comi,aviso for Non-mats
13. To forecast the msply/demand balance for 1976-80, it has been
azssmed tZAt the e==ap iorz discusesd Above will be copleted by 1980, with
half of the adZticoal capacity in place by 1976 wheon SICARTSA begins produc-
to:z. Ylorove,, actual Isppy has been assrmnsd to build up more slowly, with
Oaxacity ut%lizationr i2roving ftom  the 1972 level of 66% to about 85% by
19!`76 aLnd 90% by 1980  Th@e results, usLng the demand projections discussed



Page5
in paragrph 103, ar  shown in Table 1-5. The estimated e=ess. rolling capa-
city of 583,000 tons in 1972 is projected to fall to about 255,000 tons in
1976, and actual supply more or less to balance against total demand. There-
after, supply may exceed demand by quantities ranging up to about 275,000
tons per year in 1978 and 1979; but by 1980 demand is expected to catch up
ith supply,  The excess supply anticipated for 1977-79 represents about- one
year's expected growth in conswVtion at that time. Therefore0 given the
conservative assw8ption of increased capacity utilization in the exsting
industry, as well as the margnal nature of some of thae exstizg rerollers,
there appears to be safficient justification for SICARTSA coming into pro d2c-
tion as scheduled. The possible excss of supply between 1976 and 1980
neverthelese emphasizes the need for SICARTSA to build up an effective mar-
keting program if it is to secure the 35% market share represer4ted. by its
projected output in 1980 (1.0 million tons out of an expected demarnd for 2.8
million tona3.
14. Irports and exports in the past of the types of pro.dtcts
SIOARTSA mill produce have been negligible and are not expected to be signi-
f1cant in the future. Therefore, they have been ignored in the above supply/
demand projection.
B.  Pries
Present Status
15. Prices of steel pro&ucts in Nexco are contro1led by the Price
Commission, an agency of the Finistry of Commerce and Industry. In practice,
however, this oontrol has been nominal until recently since ceiling prices
have been fixed at levels seldom achieved in the mareietplace. Ceiaing prices
for non-flat rolled steel products were fixed in 1956 and have not been revised
for the past fifteen years. Moreover, market prices as late as January 1972
for the most imortant categories of products -- reinforcing bars -- were
substantially lower than the permissible ceiling prices. They were almost
at ceiling level in '969% but declined in4 1970 and continued to be depressed
i3 19719. More recent (1973) prices have alimbed back to ceiling 1ievel, and
t1he positive outlook for demand, together with rising production costs iri
Me-xco (as eve ryuhre )  indicate strongly that they will not fa] ; sibstantially
in the fatum.  indeed, there are substantial pressures from the lajor pro-
8ers to have non-flat price ceilings raised by about 15%, but no action is
anticipated until completion of -the Steel Ccmmission study of the Lidustry
(see Anmex 3),
16. Prices of flat-roleId products, also originally fixed. in 1950",
we:re revised in 19692 when the two princioal producers, SDISA a:d 3andidora,
&-monstrated that their costs had risen sharply and that they --S:ould ineur
heavy losses at the old oeilLngs. An average increase of 15% tas allowled by
the Government.
17. Official price lists are based on ex-factory   a.s r ad adid-
tional charges are levied for packing and handling. ALpart fro"a the base p;ice,
there is the usual range of "extras" for size and quality variations,  Turn-
over tax Js levied at 4%, but this is paid by the customer only or flat pro-



Page 6
;z3ts  and for nor-flat products nonvally is absorbed by the prodwer.
Iilarlys %-  cost of transport, vhich is nominally payable by the cus-
tca:r, is borne by the producer wherever competitive conditions make this
nZcessary -- paricularly in the Msaxico City area where local rerollers
tnd. 46o dictate pr=iss  In practice, therefore, steel prices in Mexco are
not fLmd and are aeted dirwtl  by competitive conditions, causing net
ex-factory realization often to be loer than the prmissible limit. This
is partiaularly tre for sales in the Federal District of Mexico City and
surrounding area, wich account for over 60% of total steel sales in the
country. In the smallar markets of other reslons, steel producers are more
often able to oharge full p4ces3 plus trwaport costs as we1l; but sales
In tse anaL are limitsd, and the cost of sales is higher on account of
&aebutorl ao  eisions, eto..
18. For pmrposes of    nfinanial projections for the Las
Trwhas project (see Arexes 13 through 15), it has bee-n assumed that 1976
prices will be about           eprst evels in real (uninflated) terms.
After 1976, real prices ar asamed to decrease about 1% per year, reflect-
ing S AQTSA s capability do influence the market under competitive conditions.
This is a1=ly a bypothesis intended to      nstrate (i) that SICARTSA can
remain financially viable even if I.ts prices rise at a lower rate than the
gaaraJl rate of infaation rn Maxico (i .e. fall relatILve to costs in real
ters) and (ii) that SFIGU A c19IA exert a positive restbraining influence on
Macan steel price inreases
C. l~orts anid Import Tariffs
19. Y oo imports a considerable quantity of steel scrap and re-
Yxorèc.e -materials, as weL as soma steel prodctS. scrap is iortd
prsiacpaJ.y from the U.S.A. for use in the sem-integrated steel plants,
whih have electric furnaces and    the past 10 years annual imports have
rangee between 450,000 and 600,000 torns, averaging about 600,000 tons per
.vear. Re-rollable materials, mainly rails, slabs, etc. have been i=orted
>t    extent of about 160,000 tons annually during the oast fiv  years.
>Tr .u rif finiihed steel products amoted to about 15C0,000 tons annually
I3n8 t  early 19601s rose to about 230,000 tons per year in the mid 60's, and
s1 have 2ealed off to about 180,,000 tons per year in recent years. Tin
p2a:?t,9,,~ speei    puose sheets, speial staee  bars and wire rods, and rails
raailac.k accessories are te most important items, accountiag for over
0% of tu:e total.  Tabe ,7 indicates 3       ports by product type &aring the
Yea- 1965-70
20. All.   rts into Mexico are guject to physical Licensing.
T'%ai       Of ZidIst f;; and C:isrce has advisory committees, consisting of
:i Msen ra   e  of Wverment depaztments., in&stry and brade to consider
s.aipp.a2tioiiv for iq3ort licenses. Tae comaittees function withir the frame-
vore  of guid3l&Ines indizating objectives and procedures; and they are gen-
era2J  'ill rgarded by the trade.



ANi3X 1
Page 7
210  Diports of scap a+tract onl an ad-valorem lgty of 3%. RaIs
d axles irtd for rerol2ing attract aomeuhat higher tariffs, but the
total charge does not eneed US$10 per tozn. Stel products are subject to
quite bigh levels of tariffs, intended to protect the domstic  indstry. A
selected list of tariffs is at Table 1-8. It vill be noticed that the levels
of protection available to the   c-aNsteel i}i1try are very considerable.
utr 93ects Daparex
Aguast 19i73






TABE I -1
Y=Oo  - LA       iU&S STEEL soOJC
APPARM  D    TC CONSUMPTION OF S∂EL FRMCTS
IN 1COO 1950--1972
Equivalena
product        Percent         Raw Steel         era t
YeAMz-    Tons Con s 6.    Growth         Tons Gonsumd    Gro-w-thl
1950          56&                             7388
1951          771                            1070             -
1952          730            5.8             1021             5.7
1953          650           -5.8              906           -10.5
1954i         6555           0.8              903            -0.3
1955          796           21%S             1139            26,1
1956         1096           37.7             1490             0.
1958         1155           -701622                           5,3
1960         i,411          26.7             1901            25.1
11961        1370           -2.9             i869             1.7
1962         1376            0,4             1879             0.5
1963         15241          10.8             2086            11.0
19&4.        1893           24.2             2579            23.7
1965         2057            8.6             2780             7.8
1b966        2259            9.e             3077            10,7
1967         2393            6.0             325959
1968         2597             .53537                          8.5
1969         2725            4,9             37114-
1970         294j8           3.2             4021             3 3
'1971        2816           -4e5             384.6
1972         3055            8.5              155             7.2
%  rothRatesN~
1952-10962    1952-13972     192-1972
Rm  teel tont,       6.9           '7 .6           8.2
'Poduct tons         7.1            7.7            8.3
Source: Camara Nacional de I1a Industzd±a de2l Hiozrro y d-cJ. ixero ~N~  d
2/1 Estimate by ONIHA,
2/ An average oIf the years 1950-1952 -was taken as the fipzre for 1952.
Induatrial ProJects Departm-nIt
J=f8 1973



TiB  1-2
MXIC  - LAS TRUCHAS STEEL PROJECT
APPARENT DOMESTIC CONSUMPTION OF STEEL
PRODUCTS IN MEXICO
(000 Tons)
Non Flat     Percent      Flat       Percent      Seamless      Percent.
Year     Poaucts       Growth    Products      Growth        Pipe        Growth
1953        369           ---       240          ---          41            --
1954        0ol         -18.4       267         11.3          87          112.2
1955        397          31.9       319         19.5          80           -8.0
1956.       570          43.6       447         40.a          79           -1.2
1957        682          19.6       461          3.1          98           24.1
1958        627          -8.8       407         -8.9         121           23.5
1959        535         -14.7       465         14.3         14            -5.8
1960        679          26.9       592         27.2         139           21.9
1961        645          -5.0       600          i.4         125          -10.1
19L6        680           S566                  -8           130            4.o
1963        741,          9.0       649         14.8         134            3.1
1964        9-16         23.6       837         28.9         140            4.5
196,     1,035          13.0        908         8.6          113         -19.3
1966(     1,058           2.2     1,053         15.9         148           31.0
1 96? >   1,121          ,5.9     1,112          5.7         160            8.1
1968      1,215           8.4     1,226         10.2         157           -1.9
1969      1,310           7.9     1,256          2.5         159            1.3
197.      1,372           4.7     1,402         11.7         174            9.4
1971I     1,275          -7.1     1,374         -2.0         160           -8.0
1972      1,312           2.9     1,552         13.0         191           19,4
%Growl~h haces:
1953-1962     1953-1972      1962-1972
Non- :Lat,s        7.0           6.9            6.8
Flst I vs 's    t10.8           10.3            9,9
3e& e1 .:,-       13.7           8.4            3.9
Source: C.4aHA
1/ Pverage 1961-63 used for 1962.
.nuatrial Projects Department
Jme 1.973



TiBL I t-3
MOGO - IAS MUOHAS STL PROJECT
PROJECTED DE1WM FOR STEEL FRWUCTS: 1976-8o
(000 T0z1s)
1976     1977     1978     1975      1980
RUFIN       (1971)          4992      5451     5909      6376     6i41
CNa         (1971) low       4300     4580      4878     5195     5533
High    4943     5388      5873     6402     6978
SICARTSA    (1 971  low      5089     5511     5968      6463     6983
High    5516     6001      6529     7103     7735
SIOARTSA    (1972)           4867     5299     5771      6291     6860
SIMCLBTA    (1973)           4528     5000     5523      6103     6?h6
Industrial  rojet Deprnt
Jua 1973



PIROJEGC   D M FP1. STSO  L FROU-T (1972 Base)
1E2        12-21 r7                U ?7I      1976        1977        1978        . 979       1980
Reinforcing bars         559.2       624.6      697.7       779.3       870.5       972.4    1,086.2    1,213,3    1,355.2
Merchanit bars           11:9.3    1 13347       149.9      168,O       188Q3       211.1       236.6      265.2       297@5
Liglit sectimis          184.9       205.4      222         253 . 5     2817        31.3.0     347 Q 7     386.3      1429.2
Wira rod                 318.8       352.3       389Q3      430Q2       475-Ql      525,3       5804        641.4      708.6
Total non-flats   L 182.2            3 6      1,65.1        61,0,  185eg.9   _2b        8    2?221O.9      2,.2    2790$5
Plate                    383.3       424,3      469.7       520.0       575.6       637,2       705.4      780.9       864.4
Hot roll                 277.8       300.8      325.8       352.9       382.2       413.9       448.2      485.4       525.7
Cold roll                644.1       719,4      803.6       897.7    1,002.7    1,120.0    1,251.0    1,397.4    1,506.9
Tinplate                 246,8       267,8      290.5       31)52       342.0       371.1      402.6       436.9       474.0
Total flats            1,552y0 1o 1                                     209 2607 2100 2807.2    34100.6  
Heavy structuals         12918       143.2      157.9       174,2       192.1       211.9       233.7      257,8       284,4
Seamless pipe            191.3       19704      203,7       210,2       217,0       223,9       23101      238.1       246.1
Total product tons    3  5563   1368.9   -3 L7                  2 1.,5276, 43999.8 522.2 ;             <13.1    6746.
Total raw steel tons  Yj.155.2    4,5817       ,054.2    5,577.6    6             6    .     7 1.1 13Q62 29174
Source: SICARTSA (1973 estimate)
Industrial Projects Department
May 1973



.V GO -L   ZRUGHO S2OL PROJECT
N0N-?L.AT PRODUCTS (ZCim -,NG 1HAV! Smo~CTUR'AIS)
DMAM -3S?PLY CUMPARITSO   BANK OCTON
D-0O Ptons)
1972   19?6   1977   1978   1979    980
Demwn. C)                  1 18    1816  2022   2211  2506   2791
Rol2ng Oapacit without
SICARTSA                 1765   1910  1945   1080   201   2055
Roll-rg Capacity includ-
i±g  OSARTSSA            1765   2060  2W45   2780   3015  3C55
SVPply vithout SICARMT    1182   164ok  1690   1725   1775   1850
SICTSA Supay                -      150    500    800   1000  1Q00
Total Sapply, (2)          1182   1790   2190   2525   2773   2850
Eceoss/ (Deficit)
(1) - (2)                 -      (26)  170    274    269      59
Industial Projects epartm 'nt,
June 1973



- b
~=00   LS M=41  SIM-L FRCJE0T'
3!L  (000 Ta-INLU _=0
Pro&~~~et                  19S~   6    196  1.268    1969    1970
'~~V            791  ~~~731    .706       459      4:94  ~2
IRerollabIe materials    59       23 1    195     20         9      13$
i)Ste& II rodualtlo         23-1    2,3 C    203     I71    li 8 0     L8?
wflo 2                           2       5         a9              8
Sheets                 20       16       1       151      14      21 
- Tin Plates             Li       15       10      11       12       43
-oops, Strip a          5        6        8       9       m        12
skelp
Merchant bars                   17       20       5       L        13
ire rods                6        7        7       6        9        8
-Raèis & acc ssoris  116        89       55       9       5 7      22
I'Sibes                 9       v23               6       1       16
.    .       _   
jWi;2s >13: 



IpWR DUTE IN MO
Official. Pxe          $p ct.ia              (sloie i         T(tasl
Per ToWA               ut7              ut %              $TA-h
utkrW.p IUelI  of 2 thyay wagoeu,
& uwlasiftied btundled scrap        4D                                    3                      12
- Unbu&-led unlassified                560                  -                3                   17
Pa iL;-oll.at Ic l4Jidaleft;:s
Rails and axles                           1,000                  70               5                  120
IXngots                                  1,500                  150             25                   52,
Plates                                    1,300                250               25                  573
Steel Produets
Plates, v.rious qfualities            4,000-14,700          200-1 ,500         5-10              400 2;235
.S  ets,            U                 2,100-31,000          100-5,000          2-60               120-4,700
R,xLufo;xhig7 hsays                      h,; 00(                5oo              20                1 ,300f
Merchant bars, vaz4ous qualities          6,000                 600             8-25              60->1,353
Wire rods - Com  quality                  9,000                  60               5                  5 0
- high ressistance             5,800                 150              50                3,00
nsi.:v!z (ror rallary)                    1,6oo                  10              30                  h9o
WbTt-li.ax.Mkr less tban 35 cnsyw       2,000                 160              50                 1, t10
11    11   rwmore  it 35 emxs          1,900                  5C0              7                  18O
Seamless tubes                           7,600                  150              10                  91O
High structurals *- angles               2,1400                 150               7                  318
- Angles with perforations and
speci.al sections                     2,800                 200              50               11Ω200 
IndustriLl Projec-;ts DepartrneDet
flayr  ? 97 






=300 - ZLS £VCHiAS VS=L  PROCZC2
1. In order to evaluate the opportunity cost of eteel to the
Mexican economq azd judge the relative efficiency of SIGARTSA by world
standards, the Bank retained consultants (Hans Mueller and Kiyoshi Kawahito)
to stur the world stwl mar1Xt. Te consultants' work was car-ie, out
during the period Fbbrua r-Apzo.i, 1973 and a draft of their repori  is
avalabule for ravaw, 'qy arwome intsrested in the details of' their findings.
:i8 Annex is baed oa an abridged version of the  u ler/K"aito report,
supplamnted by tho Bankto awn  conclusions In specific aras zelating to
the Las TLichas Project.
Global fteel Production and Trade Patterns in Recent  ears
", World production of' -aw steel in 1961 and 1969-72 is given in
Tabls 2-l2 oThe 1971 figura of 582 =Uon tons was 64% higeer than the
33 on   tons tuxned out in 1961, &ioh corresponds to an axnnua gro-wt
rate during the 1961-1971 period of 5.1%,  Tbe gro3Lh rate varied  sb-
tantaly amg individual  onties; it was 2.1% in the United States,
5.5% in the usSR, 12.1% in Japan, 3@5% in the European Coomuity, ad 0.7%
in the United agdom   A2=ost ai1 of the less developed coumtries registered
higher rates of growth than the world average during the same period.
3. The  ehars of' the wa-orld's larzet p                roers  n 1971
vere 20.7% in the case o'A ths USSR, 18.7% for the United States, 15.2% f'or
Japan, 6.9% for Gexrmany, 4.7,% for the United Kingdom, 3.9% for France, 3.6%
for Mainland China, and 3.0% for,          0-ther nations which accounted for
more than 1.0% of sorld prodction each wre Belgium (2.1%), Polandi (2.1%),
Czechoslovakda (2.1%), Canada (1-9%), Spain (1.3%), Romania (1.2%), india
(1.2%), Australia (1.2%), East Ge,mazr  '1.0%), and Brazil (i,0%).  The
Buropean CoiiwznitY members together produced 17.1% of the world total
h.  Table 2-2 shows the quantities of steel proLucts exported by
major steel-proaduig natiorns in 1969 and 1970. We find ta  Japan, Belgium-
/ Mueller and Kawaihto, Znternational Prices of Non-Flat-R-Ll-ed Iron ald
Steel Pro&as: Rev    ac Ot             p
2/  M2as section$ co-rs the global steel pmrodction and trade up to 1971.
ReMliable  £sfiu     for 1972 axre zot yet available.
3/ Uhless indiated: OthLses  figareas hereafter in this é=ex axt-4     t
from statistics of the Japan Iron and Steel Federation. The JISF
statistics in tim  are compled from  T, Quarterly Bu-1etI of Steel
tAt.___ o      oEEisenv  Ud for'D arcgnyi                    sFiah;
~  Annuale--crt~ 115 istaisis        teOfficial  tA,-tistic  of 'eah



2
>gr<S ainE Z_ _ e wavex  the majjor- eio    4 these yBars3
aoanWznjs aba athl }0crr haLf cf wor> stE0l Wq=ors. During 1970, member
cOvv2'teaZ  0o the 'fopea_n Coramzity (EV) clated 42% of world exports, ixt
a little ove. half of ths  was for exozts vi4tti  the 0onraniyC
A.  Ærsteel iLVorting na tions in 1970 were the U.S. (1.9
Ocn t     iGermanY (9@     Frarce (7 S), Ita4  (4h0), I etherlanrs (3.5>
East- Cenna7 (3.u1),9 Belgki'n-I4sourg (2.2)j, United Tlagdom (2.2), a;nd
Si-e.karl&and (2. 0). Other 4at0Lors tdanic imported more thanxi on's0 mZlliors tort
in 1970 &aer'e Siuth        Denmark, IT=Wa3 ery S ;-pszn, Sweda u. JttgoalasJ;
Bulgaznia, FPle4d, lmaaia, Ca=ad, ami t?gcntti.  It i-zs irAtarscfirjg to
note that i. taat year the0 SC torted a large ouantity of steel prcd_tLs
Itil   at the Sam tine it a1'ias thl worXld s larest steel eporter.          eer
.ade of           Io iz to the EC recedad more -tcente
rz.4  off o   " ' in  z 'f    970O ar4dta  9   weren 1I .3 aria 1 .5, inc-ding th'ne i3 tra'
13c    ty traad, azd 2. 3 & d 3 -   GhL    the inz tr-to        it   r .b t..
6,  0b bf Le 2 -  sho    exDt of non-flat steel products       a j  
rauitiors 4  Si    7 19 C Ge 0as  of  trodsi the five Ung-q-7est' eanc S warxe
,ae, Japan,, Ge,mran, EeIlLnm-Dasc4bour, aznd the UWER, in that cper.
Ir the case of bars  Cd  hapes  tha five largest exporters wer i              -
magbour-g, Cezlamay, USS, Jkpa43a arc?. Frra_ne  in that order,         : , izport-
cra o                 fwire  o   º  1%70 war  7az   h U   tetl Statas (1.2 tion  -td) G
g Ci f  3 BèLgt   Lriszab   \ 03 J   n    '0d d/.3>       3 f )7I taly   S3), a3 Cu&i a (0.2a
da cr i- corlArs of t:ars an ed  eshaps \-?'s Cran,r (2.3 _dLZon t3o t=  thed
ttaned &ate z-=~l 09 'Ij the~ XeO:landc- j012jaA cI&y
7,  3                          tOif              daaatio nr13 4Zct or a- S tle tios ±+ 3_  ;ci.
appaiw.nt       insCily,man9AA 2-4 g9,va exo' Sa0~  o._-u  inos    2  x-Zfal
siia-i" rcu--,,   L  mjorri   oe &anCzI 07, ..  lny figuar  bobey ~00iacts
that t'. UOmrtA7l 3 ssfc  vesmnma         thw':''  than   i=s  forfs-t any fi,pd  be_Lo
100 indwiceas   a    af , act; uy-s ;!ort  -a Vx,eaded   Vo, e Cinds  thatIa
Jaré a az4d the SC weis id  ma'o .s.t ex- rorte, dbaQt a>c thuflaL   azmo, ng - fa 2S7
mibs  3 a Lla- 'W va. a3t qt3 v=Ox-s          Eam udxdg._w;1t23  9<$a.sS1
en                                                     -U eot /u£a-aw3_2g'1f>ts< a1e;. >SCVOOA.e'-0Grt
neIt amc~    of the, saa    rcIt
to      :h Ities  of '&i  rris`a-bng, datsanwr  Steel sraois  9
and 1972 ssra pwr-,                              inicatelt    t3atth    :ditz   at te genesa  pat-
tesra  of, st;e: trad    scussod        z .   s  ctaon, hiar  not chartg-ac  z%icn
2S, Zi Sfe'jsa'iS G;r';8pI"I. that th j'k-p3:azasz.3  O.-II oXWGZ-,d stse', 'rJtg  Ias
ft urrthr swca:V&3d a&4   cz  has bcor  -o a a.e &  izVorte: of steC  p t.ne´
"L        pli=Lf-",- I       Sr  ar';bos J?. i3rt _.  B-d d            o   CatetoAs$
9.  s&,W 2-' ~d-.  2-6 zCac-n ri-mce ~imdie  of. u"-         :"OY stjeel:
prod~~~~~~~~~ tc., Lj    IN   Ez.e s 4  ;va,   Io,3 igov? , t .d F vv So i97 ,)n, T:a :f4z -r s 'L-A-te:..,,3_
;3235A>* 04.0   w4 s    .G  0 3    -unK Z  't   W  Sj 14 ?  ie  ..S i  ..2.A4    4._5
F/    r                  a s .    t 2Ci'tbSc o -< 4 E z'-o i , it sh&ud be zoted %tha  the
_ __ 0:, a-rn: s atporn prLacs of' the DSo tenAd to re,flect thiose_
o2Bolh$2-?zcé7 pteen,a~s   srs-zase of thi&-"r lar~ge vo1lscs of tr'ada.



2
I-abLes aze al, based or, actual t ransa4cton p-7-ices.  he export, -orioes are
-OB for looth 'tfhe EC an d. Japane. -e int mn         prces of tleR EC are
,vprassin in CIY tezzvz 7 but do not ir3inde   s   Te dcmastic prices of
Japanz are MMpressed in  13 teriT,   l'ading tax.
10. Because the composition rltIn sach' Dro&wt group may vary
betweer ho   and expo+  sales and from. year to year,g ri.d  tepretations
of +:2 indicea should be avoided. 1Iowewr, at least a few general observ-
tions are po¢sable   r-, the first place, tJ2e indiees indicate that the
prices of 'nor-flats products fluctuate more    ly cver time than the com-
posite prico of aJ∞i stasl prodcts.  One explaenatcr. may be that .n both
the EC and Ja)an non-flat products, exot -ire rods, are prodaced by
relatiwe2  lsne nmbens of fairly awZ. pzrcO cers sad sold to a large
nu±er of 'Kr r'. Aotier reason appearc to be that these products to most-
ly to the ccn3tuction industr  r ih is mos sensitLve to businesc cycles
,.I= other s3teel consumrs.
11. Secondly, the de1 2ining trend of steel prices that began in
19S6 conti=ued drizng the 196os until 1968, and then reversed itself shar;-
17,  i  low prices that prevailed from S962 to 1968 are generaJ1r attribtied
to the existence of ewzess prodaction owpacity and intense competition among
steelmakers in all maSmts during the period. in addition, thers is no doubt
that the low nrice le.7el was partially caused by productivtty inoreases in
Japan and a faw minor steel-prooncing nations that continuously eceeded in-
creases =i factor oosts during the Period.
12. The shmwp rise in the price trend ferom 1969 reflects new develop-
mts and needs close ob3seat0on         e 1969 boom started i  ae 1968, peaked
at the end of 1969 and contirmed until the spring of 1970. It was started by
a strong demend for steel in Europe and spread quick3l. around the world. The
home demd -- Iurope was so strong in 1969 that the EC did not even fill its
steel iuport. quota in the United states, wile the latter, although the least-
competfitiv  among major countreLs, penetrated sharply into the European home
kat. As a result,  erious doubt was cast over tha tWhronic-excess-capacity"
13c  More intaresting is -.at happened after the world-wide boom.
ended. A xecassionr devloped about the :d&.Me of 1970 in Europe, Japan and
the UnItedi States and cortinued until the autum of 1972, but world steel
prices dropped very little d=ring ths period, as they had. done in earlier
recessions. There seem to have 'ean several reasons for this phenomenon.]V
rat, the cost of stsel production rose rapxcQ during the period due to
inflation, wage h:Ucaes, and pollution control expendituzes, particularly in
i/ In addition to th- listed faCtors0 the 1971 figures were increased sor-m-
what rby the floatn,g of major currercies during the fourth qartaer of
the year.



2
~>~t~    fi  r:nn  sos& '  ve:ttz~fleathese prosettes p3aysd a. rola
in tnoU   tha     2'2&   roé&ootGn 'to mz-ca           upardj reVIStoneza L  the-ir
'∂4  o  <   t  L   Q  $  -$tbi%.r-a'          -,                      -.S 3ws27&&a
wau itrztt             mp  at97e 3t971 xi 9,2 t'ee  Taleo    27)   1to2snd  the prozcers
late EC bega  v         '   2l e zctvxe ot r             , m       pr aras on
stfl pri't @       r c    ts to mecuzc p&oD   .sln and to set zinina export
prices iz lat-s 19,70 arz:3~ wa exaPles.  ;4rd. Japanese produces also
aato& vc,nnta 47:y and cofle 'tivaly "bo oaurte&- proic'Mtic:' * n parti-u-lar ,
freT  Dacerber 1971 to Jetather 19         The r or72g h a nized mor  effective "recession
cazrtteZe  t,zr &-       t.                            0the F th*6 t g  1he '-970-1972 period; the
7 t> 24q<o2JX zce     Lre              - e         bi sng  ocsto fo r      fe fi:2rest
.- 3'3;3 "s i">-4.i  v  f       ifi }t5'b<                --    r0   tos 3Dax
t 9;c1yo   althonagh t t 6ft.omncre    s ia s  ni, t ocornUerdt
rev:LmeiL b  Zu.-oprazr 3a'(j, Amviar, ateel p-roduce's.  Fflththe japaiie&
procroeraa     erv-ccd4 'o  taiign.31 thiex  et:?o_rtr pri~ces to theDa'p2a
L57tLL  '~ltt'he  "atart went tp &ahzze12~   si.,mn th,ough tie Japanese amLcil  av
Cm.lu  a  v   7-orce..  Thi: Ls :S -sadarfy saeecie to have been ameSO-Coa    t __e
7~~~~~ap~    ra7 ; ,z<i8t &gf''s   '.  the3 UnAit   States th,;,;; S-CIart&dS..
Il'a 9tr9 '3 tr  &8 x a   a.. :..                                            4 A. z  .tr, ' - 1
;aLr_z        by 2hart -g  -the hQ Db Vest ncesible p.zLe.
' Tat  *             'v3 S x1 fo a_6 cS,   b 3ot  isl.' Sts-el   'cec  nl E
__ vea;.e ;# Lt voati  81ctc9 *g,5;44 'tee .staoL&  et..- ...u7'5006 Oae 
he. one =-.  sre'ort P3"s  t of   pan   'the ICO but that   ZObasOqSfLnt .4?zr tL    ;i- PLC
Pil$as abeLoi  nh      e y    z          t i rices havie bhe en consten  v and si Sgr. s
rw~,as eso 1,qe_m'winatChe               EC,  but thhe             h
nr;ees8 5150 hav  renae  belor those ifi 0the 'Cbt++   ;;e3O^.e 
<a,:a bene rtcrate2
3'.   hew T"   5       'ea  urkan Jl. anaee anad EEC -   es - ie ain :r"-eS:t  yme3
ant prEecnuc to C a2a-9,  We hi    a              n the odes of he3  oræ  !.  a. i
seae xrlces 't# '-97           3 c  -c > it   or at4i'ishc&   roi i3 or
p  tea sca:  hare 1" been even larger beca'tca -the L, -ropea:  _aLo'-trtt.e
m  be 4.44Z -a   ffittcscjrnereert     Ithe  tha--n, t,he Zigmcs ta.wr dh'E 
se-                            th's t3S6t6_3_asas Lt  aua e  :3∂rte eMC4 a-mO3 tV   re tn - S  w
a$J    e _Valh I4,5         t.lCSS i orns h . m   r ar4   ffr'n. ro  K- c; L ct.
io 1i to c       arder             r fferences w;re   a:par-.t7 catoLT by- th-i0
'-tZtZAti D@iof Jw:#ama.     exporo wrt.ocss to the  ar-orpear. Lel t ichi
C                                      passed or,- -               - -h -'
ap,              i           na    E ;i,'z issbl ^: S  iD a  iDiD   Oit>B Pri4e    71>u  otad..: ti -_  r 
<ac-.r              W ,   _J,s4  4,ZZ         4it Dt D>v        Dßrza.t.iDnWSbRe g ;pa vr caLve_  t    4,aes
~~>    . ~mn- -ah a"viy    JilLj                            coa'sd o  tste c: ute,,T
aJb,-)t five    ZfatS Go   fx'VtC4at fan the  bB pizateo  
Stan  an. "-' _"'       '>   .,,ir -or=_er   o f te sFOBSRt!D 3 i  nDt  blL  f-i>



LZ~ M. 2
65   W 1  acal tran  tiorn prices for 1972 are Iot available at
the tim  of this         -Uhae iava), of posted prices for the year indicated
that the d   lopment  described above -- the increasing gap betweer4 Japanese
and 3uropean home prices and the aligrent# of the Japaznese export prices to
the European level -- apparentay continued.  Fr instance, the export price
of wire rods of the BC appraised by Metal Bl1etin rose from $123 in March
to $1h5 in December 1972s -ile the Japanese export price of xiee rods quoted
by a major trade firm ancreased from $1117 to $136 during the same period (see
Table 2-10).  In comarison, at the end o Jaauazy 1973, the domestic base
pr.Ce of wi  rodz was $166 in Germany, $157 in France, and $176 in Belgiumi
1.le the delivered price of -Are rods in Japan was $130 (see Tab:le 2-7).
Mase have risen even higher sinoe January.
Racent Prices of Non-Flat carbon Stae2. Products, by Narrow Product Categori.S.8
17. Tables 2-11 throuh 13 show home and export prices of specific
non-flat steel poducts !n japan anLd the SC. These telas  ear3 compiled for
the purpose of sapplementing Table 2-8, the product classification of ich
was  somevhat broad., and providMginormation more realvant to the  .as Trcas
Project. Saml-finis'aed nrodacts and wire rods are excluded becaas3 they anm
relatively homogizenes ande Table 2-8 therefore should provide sufficient
18i Wile prices of the nr=w-classified product groqps offer ad-
tioonal information  -i tewir o=4n M a   thair comarabiJty on a homs vereU
export and Japan versus  C basis has been substantially weakened   This reduc-
tion, in copar ility hkas been caused in part by the unavailabiVy of data
on specific  'ze  and foris and also oy the differnzes in product classifi-
cation systes.!1
19. In general , the findings of the previous section stil). hold:
firstly, world steel prices surged u.pwards after 1968; secondlr, begnning
about 1969, Japanese home and export prices have remained beLow European
levels; and thirdly, the diffarentials between Japan and the BE  have been
ider in home prices than in export prices.  In adition, it car be concludsd
that &aropean export prices have been loi-er than home prices in most years,
but that Japanese export prices have beenr hiher than home prices since 1970.
~zprt Prices by Destinati~ons
20. Table 2-14 sorg Japanese FOB export prices cf biJi:ets, Wine
rods, bars and i7ape=s of carbon steel in 1i970 and 1971 by dess   ation, and
Table 2    shows the EC 's FOB expo:7 prices of wire rods and re-bars of car-
on as   shipped to different countries for the same yea-s-  .i.nese and ar
r tables coering a longer period were initial2j constracted to test
two b~Ppotheses: (i) that 7  export prices of a couatry or area very sb-
stantially according t  destinaatonzn, and (:i) that there are corsistent
4./ The N~AB  cod u.sed by the buropean, Cow=ty classifies products most-
on tha basis Of their physical properties and does not ra%veal their sizes
and forms.



u~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' tcv 5  ,  %  Se
F) g :ZΩLt .l         the  lcts ;i te C tinamof    .i  d
_a,,, ntia23'  acccr6tg o        &dta         -i,  dasta
P.OatsTn"  tw     eaZP!~                                               t:" t fe2E i4XZr37tat &,_
aser age exot~~o   ebr  fom;l taopearz p,ro&Aners in 1972 was $1 16 per
ton bu't     o txa wpns to I-rani -as $1028 =C to  Colomia $1iO.  Simizrly  . tp-
aseragz aerpwt rice Of      e zvlarn   ap-aes neap=esa producer  i    waszt 1
but tQs vzrce lba) S=th AmtLoa ?w.vas $1 26 a& Ud to Etarope t9t.
2 ,M  n z,-er a, the FMB szrort pri&s of a tar-ockaot Linrs     otitry
or :nzg+inon ta -acs4lar dasatnatio  in a giv-en' peiio&  :o3 rzec-Ut a hoat
of factom, ~&tb-,J:Qatiac imaztance of ea--.- of teass  fartor&a aLn thiat
Period is, ana re  ta d=5 oimlZ  pre d.ffevrtialls,  "Sc   of he re
(i) >tCL~ azzd daz=ii doo &.tions at the deaiz ation (ozn the
impecrta    zotn tz $he n-pb         eof the  arlkets in somes e corrzfies as
cterxctext'ea ,y a             be' a  ote-n enztrencahd im.porters  tr-  tzknaa
sUPcflars (Sost',an es fomer oolvi   pwavers  a&d new inQorterc   The -ca'aulrt
ing :price irwt-biZtr nay beo shot",-tea nm  the ncomera ar n;      ee  -,)Xsi-
martiy by ta.soa   9an4ss c-apacity 4i.: thet.rX tradition, markets; it mau beP
pereistenz~ if .K   stan permamernt ononast1: of" a s.nfc.ttato   h   c
I~rapr- t--ar'hzn,C   tn;ortiagg corntrv,yr  L"point bartera,
U steel %a   t     otas  a   usa!2u1-y inposed to protect a, lsas
coa;et,itJvzrc  stietc !zltrzr$  7tea  ax, izport quota iLS ~sft, eaportc",s tend
-,:,oir- seir-
oftenz scal-t irf-ao  aetings of emPortsrs vaiah are offs LttF Ui rm&O. to
Teach             t o. tie awpo rt, -=ctit; of each produncrv o- s pro-
'socra~ izn shainemOrt!7Ag Ovourtrr  ad`c to-Icor higher JLYTort tac,,os so
i l2zs irs cr11-forea.       -p'-2-eis -''-    tarza to a4 1 Gib leno
CC lumt o amorg   'o-wr  hiz among :,= JtSinS$FTz           O
;2t 4-         nc exporters. &  - h  el ,' cjz4 ba  th a, price aas.       a
1'g L.e r-crs. th2          tt e    l 
(i-    aoz-Zz~  abaityr a:' the &C-Czzrter dZlC nine iere
The lastr0  Il-znthne incna..i a  coasaceoin sc pe-naiv  Exot
Or's nMd 1rZk2  caOYL S.nor  in th  ezctn   oou:nt,x7 and th  woio IS - i te
t-'he -noic Ips  j wdL  tend. to be   <aghr-   Orhs factor &tt,,ousl  -wor-ks asta
iss  &arS,a:,K czts.oa   Me           that`k= - the ;A~o-simpor price is ralIatulVeB-
ssnc  at usszor  zcztas Z~ars"-  to reZ~eoLLt -'exc  -""" n'5'eeot.atrg abil-
4 of 3S.a ;~
~~ ~~znaen ssztnz a -'ear can  tr>anc          'azm. aver-
C~,tars :s&scr- eZpars    ~~an   in yearo 1,97C a:,d '271O



LVIMnt 2
('  ~Gaoghi.cJ loations of the exorter and the,  orter. Iz
or0der to  bso r     t costs, exportera tezc2 to raduce FOB prices as the
dsitanac to the bUBrs irorzases.  On the o-her hand, a. orters tend to
chargp higher. prices in Uzeiz 'captive  are"  e.g. Bast. Asian countries
for Japaese pro d.cena).
(vi)  leUvery terms and- technical services. To the eextent that
an exporter can provide better delivery terms and tech .cal services than
his competitors, he may afford to charge higher prices.  For eaza2.e, a
recent Japanese offer beat a British offer in Houston due to better delivery
ter=,, ee though the Japanese -price for thz standardIsed product wES $10
higher.
()  The quaxntity a4d tontinuity of purhase. The price becomes
lower as the quantity per order inoreases and if the contract involves con-
tgnuiz  purchases over a period of tim,
Couclusios            IL'r~dn   Eitorical Pri_ce Trends
23. World steel prices, masurd in terms of the hope a-,d aport
prices of Japan and the EC fol' owed a declining trend until 19686   Tis is
attributable to excess  orld-ids supply capacity, keen competition in all
markete, and prodctivity increases in Japan. The trend took an xward tu=n
in 1969, iiich hc  persisted until the present me.
2l. Ths fact that world steel prlces d1id not fall e        g-ficantly
during the recession of 1971 -- in thie =m=er they had declined dig preious
recessions - reflects cost izareases fte to inflation  wage -1hkes., and polu-
tIon control expendtures., dhich surpassed productivilvy increases.  It also
reflects, in some degre, the sccess of deLiberate ef2orts undertaken by
Japanese and Europear producers to stabilize prices =z domestic and inter-
national markets,
25. Home prices of non-flat steel products in Japan were $20 to
$50 lower than those in the EC in 1971, AIthough more recent data are incomplete --
and the long-term effects of recent currency realignments are not imoun, it
appears that the differences betweer. European and Japanese home prices have
videned further since 197:.
26. 0 he differences between Eluropean and Japanese ex-port -rices
were slight in 1971 and have reamained more or less the same up w _th_e present
time.  This phenomenon is partly eplained by the lower export prices thaat
have been cuoted by European producers in 2elation -to homrre pricas, and partly
by the tendency of Japanese producer-s to "alaig" their export -rices to the
European level.  This finding, aside from its own significance, also shows that
any attempt to assess an indwastryfs unit production cost on the sole basis of
its export prices is fraught wit-h peiil.
27. Fina 1lyl  tie stucdy points aot thqat "intezationa- :icesr" are
not uniforr. for iJ has been clearly demonstrated that both japanese and
EroSpean steel-makers have -harged e:a3ort prices which, when reduced to an FOB
level, differ substantially according, to destination.



Page o
4:)Q  vTo pnrcwu.e a >sit s  o, pro3ecting long-term world stee±
prices, YLhel-er and   warc'co made f'awecasts of future oroduct ior cost trends
for certain major inputs to tLIe stee-,-making process, with parti ou
ewhasis on non-fllat steel procacti*on..  Their analysis covered the three
maf- raw  'terials (ironi Or           and scarap), labor) and capita    Thne
Enticipated effect of each factor ox; final steel costs was considered, and
a cmnoarason -was made between the vations cost trends expected for th.e two
mtdrn5X; steel exorzg areas, Japan ax3d -tIb  EC  i  order t  poject T&deh olf
the =two would be the lof-cost leader in 1985..
29%8  The t< r/Zaahito  oroections of increased  cnit costs are
&hcvn im Tac:ées 2Jl6 and 2-17;  details can be found in their All soatdy.
Rein"g unit Costs have seen projected dor bot-h the ho aud Japaoese steel
industries, b:t cost increases 2 cr o-,Cii-g c;oal, labor, and caDp&&r &a  lE: ieaS
proCnou-nced for Japan.  Tlhe baSs- COSt3  1.0 -to which th-e project-ed t'creses must
be adled to gi8ve -Likely 1905 l-evlsl, have been- taken as rrresentazwe
a ye.r e  list   aces for deernstic alea thiat prevailed in the EO and Jaran Cini-L
l-e last. quarter of 1970 and the fir>t hasl' of 1971, a -period that ;dld n ot
teld partuar   t gh plrfzt5 for EC s.todiucers and tiherefore ;srwie- a
conservalive basis for future projections.
30.  The resul'ts of tthe analysis are ahown in Table 2-_18 and
s5UIarized below:
PRGTZJ II AVTSJZEUNIT PBODUTICN COSTS
(US$,ton a  _97- Exchange ARate s)
9 7./77 Base          lncrea S   el    G.st
EC         ?7                          35          191
Japan                1 ,4              29           183
J-±.  Th?Oe a?.verage CO uit t."tod-actaon cosIt- -is s?ho1w;,n to increases 22
i-a real teazrms by 12985 an.d that  of Jas?,a. 19%.  Pt should be noted  tat these
arc awavaragco full oc-tss pro-jeetaJ-'.ns ana  aantiot 'be taken necessarily to indicate
tL-n 1985 x.aices        produce: wil-  octaLn.  The latte£r will be a function
no'. on> of c ost 'cut Of Uoroetltive condtiors.  Tnese  are difficult3  ?ff not.
il;DOessible t  f ;or-eat partic,  al ory anternational ´exporti prtces, winao
no dUbt will cont.i nuea  as t'e-, .yave irn she past, to be vol-ati-Le, sometines
ewes-ig and sme.ti'me's .$a-]-'I  Cu'-bl. funi xii't productioun costs.  Potential
oV3rcaY aCit  in --the iand.ustry satil-l will be a problem and  as ItellJer and
in-,,sLito p.sznt ou^t, labor pressles  ill continu1re to bUrdnr. the i-ndIustrileo of'
bo1th the EO ;and Jazan with h.h-I i±xed costs.  in recession years, tis  will
t <cJ -tc ov?rnide any is rire Irorder1y1I mnarx$£ V eting and encour-age narginl
coci ps  sn @       . .of the tyepee t-at I'd  apa,'s export ex-olosion of 171.  Over
t.,n.:w z.or.?,   !e-ver, &tsatasfact'own 'th the past instab4iity o' homie and
steel mar-S.:ketz5 zzay res-it ir- some understanding bet een major



PiSNE 2
Page 9
stee2.-exporting countries. Steel >eras i  the EC appear to have initiated
some coordination of capacity expansion programsz and inclusion of the
Japanese in such an arra:igement would definitely have the effect of stabilizing
international steel prices.
Conclusion for Las T¢chas
32. To forecast the long-term opportunity cost for Mexican steel
i-ports to be used in the economic evaluation of the Las Truchas project
(Aznex 16), the Bank has chosen to use an expected range of EC export prices
based on the )ieller/Kawahito pro-ections. This has been based on the
following considerations:
(±) Japan most likely will continuLe to align its export prices
to EC levels as it has in the past0  Hence, the EC figures shLouild be used
as the basis for future projections.
( i) The relatively high home market prices that have prevailed
in Europe since late 1972 are beginning to yield reasonable profits to an
industry that has not been characterized by profitable operations for some
years. Accepting the proposition that some form of internationa3 cooperation
to forestall future overcapacity is likely -- or at least that the depressed
ettuation of recent years will not reoccur -- and recognizing the inevitable
upward pressure on real costs that the industry will face, it can be concluded
that average long-term real       t price s from the EC are very unlikely to
fall below the 1970/71 average 'hnoms prices referred to previously.
33. On the above basis, the Bank's econo2rc evaluation has assuaed
the average minimi real export price from Europe ove- the 1976-91 projection
period will be US$156 per ton FOB Europe, the Mueller/Kawahito estimate of
the home price average for 1970/71, adjusted for exchange rate changes. Tnhe
maximum has been taken as their projected average unit production cost in the
EC for l985, Us$19l per ton. 1/ The most likely average level within this
range is difficult to project. On the one hand, obtaining suppl-es of
upward of one million tons per annum from European exporters probably would
have to be under long-term contract and, therefore, at prices somewhat closer
to full production costs than would be paid by spot buyers of steel. On the
other hard, the historical tendency of steel prices to deviate from ful
production costs makes it imprudent to expect that the upper end of the above
price range would be likely as an average over the projection period.  It
therefore is concluded that the probable long-term price would fall in the
-ower third of the range, or US$156-l68 per ton.
Inckstrial PArojects Department
June 1973
1/ -Al at 1973 exhange rates.






TABLE3 2-1
PRO)IGTION OF CRUDE STEEL BY. MAJOR NATIONS
(Million Toe1)
To-tal of Eiglit
Year Japan  M  China  Ge         France  ,tal   EC Total  U.K.   USSR   USA        Largest        Others 6  brld1
196L  28        12       33        18       9       74       22      71    89         282           72       354
1969   82       16       45        23      16     107        27     110   128         J4X7         129      576
1910   93       18        45       24      17      109       28     116   119         460          135       5Z
1971   89       2].       40       23      17      103       24     121   109         1044         138       582
1972   97                 44       24      20      113       25     121   121         475          155      63o/
l/ Estimate
Source: Japan lron and Steel Federation



TABIZ 2-2
EXPORTS OF STE.L PRODUCTS BY MAJOR X&TI0NS
(Ellion Tons and %)
i1969      1970       1970 Share
ea pan                  : 5 X5)    17e6         20.0%
a.                       i2 7       12,0         13.7
F?razice                  6.6        7.4          8.
.Lly           *                         OS1.8    2,0
Belgi - =abourg         12.        1 '992.5     14.3
7.0        7.5          __
563        58.8        66.9
o;rlJd Total           82.2        87.8      1200.0
7= 
'/ The total of reporting rnatlons,
Scumce   Ur.l-td Nations, Boonornic Cormasion Tor Eropeo
Statistics of Trade in Steel,



MOBI3 2-3
EPORTS OF NON-IAT ST3M  MMUOTS IN 1970 BY MAJOR NATIONS
vounty                    Wire Rods       Bars and Shaaes
Japa'n                      0.8                1.6
Gsrmn6 0. 6                                    2 5
France                      1.1                 i.1
Belgium-lacezbourg          0.5                4.s 7
Italy                                          0.5e
United Kingdom              0.1                1.0
U.S.S.R.                    0.4                 1.8
1kbrld TotalV/            5 A               18.0
1/ The total of reporting couintries.
Source: UJnited Nations, Economic Cozmission for Europe,
Statistics of World Trade in Steel.



TE 2-2
RATMOS OF PRODUCTION  ALT, APARERNT CONSMPTIObN OF
N-C                                0 fM ,2  i   JO   IT~R~ M t3RI1NG 1971
~~tr~~           ?~ocPmection/App -et Cor.s,EMti.  f
Wire R.ods            Baza nd 1ap
jaip;a                    12706             111.5        1&6
Qe~~~any ~~91.8                        9.          107O
FraAnCe                   187.4              93.7        l   7
Irta-                      90.7                    116.2
Belgium-L=emouarg         1174              613.3        457
t~~riands  ~      lio.8             83.0
U.S.R.                    io6.4                    lo4-3
Cana-da                    94..3                    96.4
U.S.A.                     74.7              88.1         79.9
&w  =* JMS



TABLE 2 -5
INDICES OF PRICES OF CARBON STL MMUCS:j EUOPAN COMUITY  (1965=1 00
Al aaCbon
Steel Prodacte    Semi-Profet.s    Wirse Rods            Bars                es
Year Irp,q7  i xooF'   Thtra  -             Fhta'a    ort    ntra       ox-L  Ira         ort
196o   102..5  1i5.5   1(X)@3   122@1    io8.    126@7       97.4   114.7      97.7   115.4
1961   1o3.4.  109.2    103,2   113.7    106,6   110o.8      98.4   108.1    100.8   107e5
1962  liol4   1o2.6    103.3   108.3    10O 5    95.0        96.5   100.3    101.8   103.8
1963    99.2    96.5    100.0    91.2      96.1    91.6      95.4    94?.1     99.5    95.8
1961h   99.7   103.6     96.6    96.0      96,2    94.8    100.0    99.1    100.1    97. h.
1965,  100,0   100.0    100.0   100.0    100.0   100.0    100.0   100.0    100,0   100.0
1966    98.3    97,0      97.2    95.0     96,)4    91.7     97.8    97.4      99.9    96.8
1967    97.2    96.o    914.2    92.7      9408    91.7      97.0    96.9    957.4   93.8
1968    94.14    9)4. 4    90.5    93.5    94.3    91.4      94.1    95.3      74.1    92.9
196.9  10307   102.9    102.8   101,8    101.9    97,14    110@7   103.6    104.2   101,7
1970   129.9   132,5    10o88   136.5   1i34.0  143.7    138.5   138.0    139.6   136.5
19'71   125.7   122,3    109,1   121.5    128.7   127.2    129,9   127.7    133,3   125.0
Source: Compiled from the Statistical Office of the &uropean Coiymnities, Iron and Steel.



TADBtk 2 -6
NINDICES OF PRICES OF CARBON SSL PROU0T   JAPAN (1965109
Emilj, .0           4Prodn ots      Wir  RockS        Bar
pt -} IoL~                                                        ofa    H iJT 
YearX           ExSX  No .rb Hona*t  fgamw   lejTcRL> HN9S   Bx-'   HamX$ aX.f
1 9 lI oj0   112.0   127,)9                 108.0   1084 .      13 , 2    o1063   120o06   12,,4
lb 9    1 0i4    99,0   113.3                lo6.4    9103    99C7    89,5   10O.2    90- 5
1963   i0,0,7    9fi   'a)  æ6              I 00. 2    g0o.8    93.0    91.'1   101 e 4    955. 6
1964   101635    99.9   1 060   112.7   103.8    91t3 8    98,f0    94J,3   107t3 8    98S4
1965   1 00,0    iO       1000   100 0 e       10000   1 00l  0   1 00.0   100.0   100 0   1(0.0
1966    1301 .1    96w8   1014    939   103    913l    1 00,3    91VS2   102,7              99.:
1967   10365   10000    93J@    9941   1034?2    95.1   10800   110.9   10 (Y.3   110.2
1968    965 5    S6.    100 9ioi    53.8    99W3       953(    94.    1 101.7    98,35 9   10'
1969   102,4   100f2    911.8   108,0   10ol45   1014   102o7 1t io6   lO4h6   10865
1970   1 1 1 , 8   1 1 5 5   103,5   127,2   112.7   1225   130,hJt   130.8   121,9   131.2
1971    102.2   107.7   100.3   18%@3   110e.3   11207    93.6   112,6   1075.  113@l1
Scul:w'es   All J -o fx"nd t.s  mt -hmt of' AJcmu   ih tΩ.& Nc  o
0th&ar" prodxuT8    ona        JrHorno 1 '   ied   )h., tl'url- s tt Ylii     t'ls   Twsole
1? xpo" t   00(141<''kell8. efkv P. ' {' - rQ J4 -fKi.Sly CI 0  A.tf'OVt  *XJ37Th
j1~pt' G  X0(   T't( ;eh>s   -       t nlj   C"c1^-.'5 I' !=~   J. jf lG C, .  t : ' ,
Export ~      trB    o'



TABIs  2-7
DcAeSTIC PRIGJOS OF NON-FLAT PRODUCTS IN           FA OE                 JAPAN  1Q70(-1973
N   z    ~BL ,CI U4- ANIj
(.us$ per ton)
WIre Rods                   Merohant Bars                           x 5
G     F     B      J          G     F      B     J             G     F     B      J
1970  1/1    1I1   113.  VT2   1             12h   105   142   16             130   115   166   111
3/1i2                                        111                              1 24
h/i      1    122
12/21g  137                           130                              1 5
1971  3/1     122
3/15'    I                                   122                              130
1Vl     1 29
6/16   112             8
10/h                                         119
1972  1/1é     ' 15.5  1h    165i  123       147   129   158   123           15'   li4i   1 5   130
4/1                                     I   1 0                          1    138
5/11     I                            10                               165 
5/29    16 6
6/1                                          132                              1 hi
7/1           148                            136                              1 h
7/13                 176                            .                         .1
9/1 1                                        147                              153
10/1           157
1973  1/31
1/  Prices reported to EOSC, (base prices    rebates), for Cer"any. France and Belgium..
5/  Sales prices of major pro6cers for Japan.
3./  ThIn2vaa ee a cz a by i2evabrt.. o..ns of Eropsfal andf. JaP--c..eS'qS ouym,Ie-cs,
Sources:  Japan Iron and Steel. Exporters' Association



TA22 2-2
$$:  S o             0± NUpOr     3U 'TI OAD JAMp  BY
- . z                       -   (   P
&=tl IL; WirsR                          Barz                 2
Ye=S29 14Fw-                               . _iot -         ,        :& :
1 965.5   !Zoe, uO-2         98.2       9385     o6.5       93.3    'O;Ss2 1' 0.6
:9;SO 6  7. 7Z 6            9.71       35,6    I 04  2        9 0359            97
s2 961"'    7 ; . 4  S-6 .3  93. 1.     8.6 'a03.3          90 3     0s         h 
196      7 .       -.$ 4     52.6       8-4    100.0o       38.9      99.9      93 
191$    ?74 2      75.+6    I Co.      91o      v 8. 0      96c6    . G7       102 
1970     87 C    10 e3       31.6      I 342    147,7      128.7    148.3    1373
197      87 @3     90.3    1.4 2d@               35                             2 53  7
I 1965   71 7      76.6      98.       I o0i      93.9       A  I    .ov'
1966     72 7      7'i.9    98 9                 94.2       92.4    1,3  :    102C7
` 967                . Bv7      9    I I   14 e      q  e      it>    4     : o  ;09 @ 2    10 3  s0
570 ,i0    73.4    97    96 66è4    884            908.8    @0>        02  >
1969     6. Zi    32 e $7   t  . 02 o a    0Xv9  90o,i 4   I 012.6   ';066     V 2.2
'7if2 g4Ca v 974   I' 0. 8   1243    ß2.h         i2&32 244 18        13o7
d 51, i  s . G 9  PZ O fi C-' .40  i 1U~. 4  87 .9   9    05       9 o$  1 6.e
t :a    I 2 f         &ow actua l tn acio-n prices. E:Zorts are a=, msed FOB 
-S p4a=t.i  p;rces a, Cl? at bor-re, b-it do not iznJiz-d  various
e@@L-o  Dmsoi,:$ -l..<9z3cos    Japan az'    FOB atS -oroemers.



ALBIC 2-9
DIMMMUSTT. BEM   j.AS  4mE  STEEL PRICES-
(us$ per ton)
Sen' IWre_                             Bars                 a a
EM`h,or  Fome    Mo   How m                               Hoo
1969      6.2     -7.1      -2.6     -11.9     21.6        6.G     4h2       -9e9
1970     12e8     .3e9      20,8       9.9     25,3        .3      2l;w2      1 X6
1971     15,4      6.6      180       4..5    50.6        8.5     32.2      8.8
1/  Positive differencep indicate EC prices greater than Jap=aese prizes.
Sou9 e: GOmpdJled from Table 2-8,



TABLE 2-10
"I0v13A,..rS Qi JI∂ SE  m A!UD JPRO    P0? 
1/                          Fur  an K    ~~~~~~~~~~2/
A                              Iit  ars   V    a  *h  't             W   '
1972      3W15      107e0    115c0    115-120   March             99-102      110 116      121-127      122-125
4 615    11V0.0    120.0    120-125. April             99-102      110-19       126-130       123-130
54 5     110.0    120:0    125-13(   MaY               99-1024      115-119    130-132      127 131
6.15     110,0    120 0    125-i130   Jme             1Olp4106     1152-120     130-132       127-132
7-i5    11090    120.0    130-135   JUJy              106-108      117-120      130-132      i28-132
8. 5     1100'   120,0    130-135   August            110-111      119 120      131-132       130-133
9.15     110.0    120.0    130135   September         110-1114     120-124      131-137      130-136
10i15     120.0    120.0    130-135   October          112-l11      121-125      134-137      1132-136
11 1      12L1U0   130.(    132-135   Nkeo.'I2a        112114       122 126      13h-139      132 138
15     12'7,0    130.0    135137
12.1      137.te0    135,O   135-137   Dealnber       118-120      132-133      ilo-145     139-14o
13     140 0 0    1i40)    p135r137
1973      1          1 1500  i0.0    135W'3?   Jéu41 o"'A;       125 1        143. t-11t5  ik$ -5155    I to-i 50
15    mc%tlot,-A  150e    135-137
2,1      i 60M    4i7h0    135-137   Fob:i ay         'I50 71      155-1751    160183       155.178
1/ R3b\portL qlxao  hioi, of' a r'iojo'J   fi de Ymxr.\
2/ AppYraisWi. by Metal  3luleltTh.



TWRL 2-11
aSP FO ft aSPiw'FI                                     0F0A       0N L
(W$ per ton)
Rouad Bars                                  tg3                         Plat Bars
lh1art b kieJ    3a1l; Price     Rpozrt        Natkat Priee      Eport         market Prioe        :trp;
1966       J     02.6         105.6         89,0         J    lio62         103.3        J      96.5         105.9
D    11-5.3                                   D     )L3. 1                    D    1 26.4
19 6       J    1O4.9        io5.6         108.8         J    126.4         124.9         J    111.8         114. 1
D     88&2                                    D    124.3                      D    110,14
1968       J     77.1        10o.6          96.2         J    109.0         109.3         J     93.8         107.9
D     821 026                                 D    109.0                      D      96.5
1969       J     95.1        105.6         107.8         J    120.8         115.8         J    109.7         108.3
D    140.0                                    D    ih5.8                      D    13h.7
1970       J    112,%        1o5.6         123.2         J    154.2         1i64.         J    140.3         130.0
D    1 lO.Lt                                  D    134.7                      D    118.8
197r1      J     86.1        1o5.6         1 otl,8       J    123o6         126dt.    J         98.6         119.2
D     70.8                                    D    112.5                      D      91.0
. f        prIO    . - nonriy alrorages in Jsanu.a7 (J) and Deoeemiber (D) in Tol;yuo  OosWpild from Takko
SA4ii STho .,  TaId. k,onkari.  Sqles prices - major producers' CIOt pr.es . Comiled from Tekk.o
&&1A>x>bm &.a 7∂> L...Wn r mi a.nd. Kinmgoloi Sane o Kex..u Kai , TeAo 1t L^ii ,htn KKt.xhl Ia okol
SIIV       ,.,,, SR,y  Kell  Ka. ,. lo                          t k ,  .W A_ ...k  Do -o. aN
1/      SI'IU 673-221:i f"&aCl section romrnd bars, less thaxn 50 iAa i , diaroater, of other thian high baron or
alloy steel." Compiled from the Kinistry of Finaneeo, Jj! s           andI  rt
2/      SXIT  673-225: ft Su,re bara of other than. hih &arebon or alloy sStel. 
3/      SIT( 673-226, '1PFlat barx  of other than high carborn or alloy steel "



lADLS 2-12
7JAt,AWiS 1 )2. DOl  %IR C A?D EXPORT PRIUSS OF SPECIFIC SYT ,Ft3 OF C B0N SCARBON
(ur$ P' ton)
An  .e!/                                           Channels
Anger
M%*lK lt'    SA-es      Iarlot        SAes                    Markst      Saes "  ,1 t VVI
Price      Price        Price        Prt.1,                   Pri.e      Pri; A.
(6x65 mnw)        '1Xx75) (xi12fl   (1CtThc125)             (5x50liOO1ar) (i5&SOlCbgri)
1966   J    86el3    1028    J    1io.4         111.1         89.4   J   109,0    113.9            103.8        116,6
13  13765               D    167.4                           D1  23820
1967   J   1056    108.3    J    132.0         I i 6f        97.5   J   13765   119.11            11806        129.1!.
1)   93 13              13   11503                            D   118r1
15968   J    89.6    108, 3    J    103,h    1i160i           90o,1   J   l04,2   119@1)4          107,8        1266r
D    88K2               D    103.14                           D   104,7
1969   J   1208    108.3    J    151i,4         11667         97 7   J   1148.6    119J4           1i5.o        128,30
D   1145.8              D    170.8                            D   250.0
1970   J   109,7    10383    J    156.9         116.7        127 14   J   143.0    119.4           1501         1148,0
D   10o716             l)   1140-3                                 117Q4
1971   J    94,4    108.3    J    109.7         11IG7        105c9   i   10218    119.14          1i5j7         131.5
D    81.9               D    104,2                            D   112,5
1/  SWTC 673511  'tlkgleou, less thaw  8asfSi,) of other har higih cablo r or alloy s-teal."
2/  SITc 673-<11 i"Channels4, 8Qmnimo. uv wor%,, of other- I- than high carbon or alloy, stesel 
3/  SITO 673-è19  %<-t2 ios  lTe-,;s tbar, Sfx-a%n of other thau high op rbh  n  Ox   Ty .s.teel



TABLE 2-13
ME  C tS HONF, AND EXPORT PRICES OF SECIFIC BARS AND SHAPES OF OAEBON STEEL
(US$ per ton)
Re-Bars                  Other Bars                   H     hes                    Other Shaes
Intra       1xo:rt         Iritra       Exlport        Intra        Eport           Intra          ,ox4s
1966       99.8          88.7         106.0          91.9         lo4.8         102.6          108.8         10105
1967       98.0          87.4         106,4          91.5         103.3          97,0          108.8          96@0
1968       96,0          87.2         105.3          89.5         lo4.8          98,I4         106.2          94.h
1969      12300          96.5         112.8          9.8B8        115'.9.       106c8         112.2         103dIt
1970      146,3         126.5         140t5         129.2         149.3         12567          14io7         132p6
1971      139.9         115.5         133,6         121,0         139.1          125.0         141.1         126.9
1/  Re-bars: Wfl'IE2E 7310,12 through 1969 and  IMXE 7310.13 from 1970
2/  Other Bars: Bars, Irass steel, hot-rolled or extrded.  NAMEXE 7310014 through 1969 and N-fXI 7310.16
after 1970.
3/  U   . IHT Sb}aye-g IlJ. 1  or H. mass steel, hot-.rolled or hot extmrded, 1leSs tharn 8QOm high- N-MME 7311 ,114
t  Othar Shiy9: Oth er shafs, mwass s'-We., hot-rolled, or hot e-x t.idpd, less tharn 80Oi  high.
Souriee  Coopled from : the 5tatist;..al Office of the PJMropeari CoBmam-ties, N:IM  AnalyUcal Tables.



J IP,VV2,'p'R'OO   MUCtS I' DMMl JON1S,t 197  (199
(.$ per toi)
flJ2? V.       W iuli Rod      Barr    Setotn.M anM Sh-ems
3  .1 4ll4y   110.5            116.9
467-t;        1}t.)        (1g83             (1.,35-7)
85.4}          108.3         1 036             103,1
(1ioG;)         ( 126  6)     (12. .1)          (1 .P 6)
bmal.mr                                             90.6         125,7             117.5
(124-8)       (1G)             (127.7)
North (aC  Gt :a) Cb  w kiwai.a                   125,5         121 .4            124.7
(123VO) )     (122.8)          (129,3)
South America                      80.7            126,1         129,9             130.1
(90-)            (144ths<6)  (156.1/ 1)       ( 155-0)O 
AfrtAa                                             107.8         111.2             111.3
(112,2)       (137.1)          (135.3)
Q$18 an.a                                          126.1         112 I .           117.3



TAKE 2-15
EC .3M4MT ?RZCES BY flESTM~ATI0NS, 1971 -(1970)
(US$ per ton)
World              120.8           115.5
(134.1 )        (12605)
Greece             120.6           1127.
(150X7)         (133.1)
Niger a            129.2           109oL 
(178.5)         (141h0)
U.S.               118.6           111.6
(123.6)         (113.1)
105.1           12?.8
(159 .4)        (137.3)
Israel             2S5S           108.0
(14o.6)         (131.42)
Colombia          126.7            105.0
(112.5)12,8
Noteg' Wire r-Od:. NI1,1E  7310.11  -- wain rodst  m
steel, only hot-rolled
Re-bars  NZ       7310.13 -- re-bars.



TL3TE 2.s 6
PFL&EMON3 OF -irkKUS INPUT COSTS F0?R 1975A 1980 AD 1985
(In_ Constant TS$/tor. at 1971 Exchange Rates)
0&St 0 o  factolr i)971/19'0iQ  -1975       1980         1985
Lr.LA.a .>>ts    nE        1 I 50  I:F            56o CiF   1.5o7 CiF   11.50 c'
japan       12.00 CIF            24.00 CIF   12,00 G-07F   I2. 00 GTF
oi--! tCoal   E'          1 .0OGQ/tor,  ' so eel   1 900      22,00        2  ,0r
Japan      i6 0O/tonr 3f -st e a 3L  i3,.4.0   19.70        2,.00
-; C .L.   CO         33, 00/ton            33  00       33.00        33o00
japan      3L )00/torn            3h4. O,      34h-00       3h.05O
EC         283,0/tOr A3"ee    30.00            37.00        45,00
Japari     18s5',/ &or' of si-,e    2C) f0O0                29.00
EOC        36C,00/t.  o<     i c P.           '68^   0     1 76)  t 
Japa      I32 (&      33 cap.                   5. 00      'it 40 135.0  lh 0oo
:-.   zasiler/ awa. tX



TME 2 17
PROJECTG  INCBEASAS IN W5   IT COSTS OF
fr-L H KG WN INX JAPAN FOR 1975, I 9BO,, AN 19;6
(In US dollars at 1971 Excohae Rates)
Goat Increase per Ton of
Non-Fl-at ~Steel- Product&
1975            1980             1985
Coking Coal' EG      055              2.20            3.90
Japan i0,22            0.96              1,70
labor        EC    2.60              1000            19,00
Japan  2.00            7.75             15.00
Capital      BG      0.10             0.40             0.88
Japan  0.05             0.25             0.75
2/ Calculated on the assvtion that 40 peroent of all non-
flat prodcts are produced from hot metal and that the rat.o
of crade steel to finished products is 1.0 to 1 .4.
Source: teller/Kawahi.to



6r 6sf.                                      19 t  .' i>     0    71    .4 i
~~~~sa1(z LaM.S:<s orn2'9X~i C(3.WJ  C4190/1                     _A-Rea %t                t
Total (2,t)wn (6pg , (l)+(2)
lhQx,3XC.nt-al O9'mA,ßt litero$ ss Ove  197/7 1  y43696    .. 6:W .. & ,-L .  .6.'o>wrm' 8As  l3-,n (INt 3
9'/7197  0   2.M1a0h0Ratio
1980~~~~~~N 22  10000     Oj0        tO           6               13       (     h                176  ss  
1985 3n90   i9,00,0a88                     5o00 a9'                       O )  (2)
97g       oCt~~ 2.690       0@40       1.0         4               1t30           1A               16
19830         2.20   10.00      0@40       3.00        1 6              1386          I 4               176
1965          3.9  St-0         0.8        5.00        29       W        @     6 1630  19t0              g
1975          O.22    2.00      0.05       1.00         2               115           114               15
1980         0o96    7.75       0.25       3.00        12               115           127i              170
1985          1.70   15.00      0.75       5.00        22               115           137               182
8cutje: 310aUe//r2 aiito



A    3
1   o0 -    mToais STML PROJECT
SL CO0a38ON






AyEX 3-i
MMG-IMES EEMLISHIMNG   C          f-A   A2OM   
SBMARIT O  GOEMNT PROMRTS
DECREE setting up an intersecretariat Courui:ssion to be known as
the Iron and Steel Industry Coorlizating Comission.
mn the margin a seal bearing ths National A∂ns and reaang "United
Yaxican fttes -- Office of the Presidert of the Republicll.
S EO    BRIA ALVAMEZ, Constitutional President os" the 'riited
Y=ican States, in exercise of the power conferred upon the Federal Executive
by Article 89 (1) of the po-litAcal Constitution of the Republic, and on the
grounds of the provisiona of Article 23 of the Law governirg Scaretariatw
and Departmnts of State, and
W H E R E A S
It is appropriate ad desirable to coordinate exploration for and
production of irorn ore, coal and coke, in view of the demand for these itemas
and the expansion of tlhe iron and steel industry, in order to contribute
better toward the econonic and social development of the countxy -.rough pro-
duction for consumption and for use by industrial centers;
To achieve the desired balance betmaeen the volume of mineral re -
sources and the production capacity of the iron and steel inds3 it iS
essential that programs be drawn up that ;ill hamonize production and con,
vumption in accordance with na tional requirements, in such a fasiorn as to
bring about the so%=d do"lopiant of these activities;
For the achievement oi the foregoing objectives, t1he Federal Execu-
tive deems appropriate the establishmnt of an intersecretariat  =d.ssion
with memers drawn from the competant federal ageneies, hereby issues the
following
Ar+icle 'An ztersecret-aiat Comnession shall be set up  to be known as
aF3~and Steel  ndmastry Coordinating Commission, the members of which
shall be the Seeztary of Government Properties who shall act as Cairman,
the Assistant Secretary of Nonrenewable Resourees of that Secretariat and
one representative each from the Secretariats of Industry and Commeree,
Yinance and ?alic Credit, and the Presidency.  One rapresen-rativei of
Nacional Financiera, S.A. shall also have a seat on the Commission.
Mhen tia Ghalrman of the Coi assion is Uzable to at-tend the Aais-
tant &'cretary o-f No-nrenewablie IResources shall act for him, and i.f neaider
of them ~.s able to attend, the representative of the Ser ta -at of Industz7
Bnk tramsla ti"o  of Spanfish original.



ilSZ 3- 
Page  
ax c tnmten±ob 2a of2 bothrguLare ardigned a -,Seor eah rear sapresenative
_UFio         'v'tt'tU  a o'both  re,ia  a4i alerate mmers ^shar be covee
biy te  ar,n&Les -&a  repr3sent.
hrticl3 3. ?*emers of the Commission -may be freely appointed and dismissed
by tse           d to do so.
.Art& leæ  The@ izose of the Iron and Steel Incistry Coor&zratig   on        -
s o?     2.   t
anon an&A be to
T    P2. xse to the, A dzra Executive t-e ecordinatIon of tne p-
Lucti'o4 and axpaaz&.on >rorams of all enterprises engaged in:
M-e productio: of iron ore , coal and coke;
,'7  Me prcdution of pig iron ani asteel
c; Thce paroction of rolled steel,
=    4To act as advisory body to the Federal Exucutive  n4 the forn-m
atio  of the pro6nction programs, and, tbrough the proper channels, of the
axpansion plams of the enterprises inrtch the Mexcan St'ate paricipates
taich ha" a, &ar purpose the activities referred to in tUe preceding
paragrHea  amd, h 0
2J. Ee883r and  if appropriate, provide i-a opinion on - por.s afos5Nz-
a;ted by the agorrics of the Federal Executive in regard to the rational iron
zAn  steel ia %tr7 aid especially with respect to thiz  rcenti-mt' tzioh carz or
izhould be given to thai-  industry.
7   Provide assistance Ln the prospecting for natural rnsources
fcie  cut by 'th  entcTrp%Ls in t ich the State hiade participatiens arld
on:3ar :&a i Go'mrmmAt agencies.
ve   Coore-inate, p lZize and promote  nes develona.sr4t of iron and
steel  ciraoloay auited to the .-ountry;
?,  Prepare nin   -u systcm-atioally, and .onatinuousl-y 4ational
cevalo-npmL-n plane for &the iron and steel industry.
T.F?rce priorIt"i3s for tae establleb-mert and iplgeaertatior
of niew i eron, and taeel plants in the country.
s:c:I, Contrilbute  'dict   ito the promot on of regional devolopmniet,
, e  tv  $stZut of gowthi jpo0les i_ the less prospeouse aran.S of
For a3 curm-,7-ing ooylaino  -#n. a7nd. ecutio-n o  the dec:iLsions and
TFTt sof tahm Condsaon, & Director General and such technical and
-. _ta_f_ an the Ocnaz± on 'oeois necessax; Thali be appointed.
:SktS    2 C      cctie;ion Shall .a tn ordinary session at least once
t12r30m .        r   -Gtt         the Director .neral ai.nd the majority



of tstIa.k   n.Sers  a21 attend..  Zhe Ciraln  ay call  %eciasl sGsaions' wheni-
ever he .     such, adGh  daobl  anC-A reArever the Director General so requests.
1{OL'onatior    '   b   3assed by a majority of votes and the Chair-
=11 aiix 1 have a .ast:ing vote.
Artic>-  -   Reiesoliitions wo h,in t he opinion of the Commission, so -arrant,
-'bythd for considrationy the President of  the Republic, through
the come.aSvion
Art*5*>izk  .w   or the           oili'rnt o  its purpose, the CoissiorA may request
tne asst.>.;re of the tecbnica L staff o-f 42h.e agencies fong its unebership,
together o    .i-Uu stauesPand opinions a-s it may dee  dsre f     Vhm,
or froma .tWLae par&yX&     2 ae-o  or pitvato enterprises rep.e5s-ntéo in the
Teer ut.-C. fottt4is referred to inf Artioes 10 of the present >ecree.
A'rtiolc     l or azit.hriUatrat&ve pur-poses the Commssion shall cort under t-e
$Seoe4'C?a>^     of unverioent Property, tdc       agreent with and  arough te
inttemrw-%bax  of th-e Secretariat of Fnance and Public Credit, shall request
authorh,ea-ton from the President of the Republic for the budgeta mnandments
that vs fron the futlfillment of itus purpose.
Article .C   the Commiss%on shal:l request each of the corporatiors listed
lSiloh i& Rppoaint one member each, to form a Technical Committee, throug
-ahech tb-y r wll make know  or axplain their views or matters failing w     nithi
the pur-wie  of the Vommission: Altos Hornos de Mexico, S.A.;  Fudidora de
Hierro y A-eero da Monterrey, S.A.  Hojalata y Lamina, S.A.3  Sioerurgica
La,aro ()arderas-Las Truahas, S.A.; and the National Chamber of the Iron and
Steel Industry.
TXhe Comaission shall seek the opinion of tie Technical Coramittee
2egarcLn-g all matters within its comptence which are subjects for study and
action by it.
J'o be able to perfom its task, the Technical Comittee sha.l1 be
Uinofroed 1f the work car.ied out by the Director General andc the other staff
of thie  CowmftS3iofne
T E M P O R A R Y   P R O V I S I o  N
Sole fl:otZ:Lon. WThs Decree shall enter into force on the day followingg its
b iKoa    i tn he Official Gazette of the Federation.
DBone at the Residnce of the rederal Executive Power, in MetCC
city,  243 MaY 31  *1972. Signsd by Prsdt, Secrtary of Finance and,
Pu1l.o Credit, Secretary of Gormarnnt Properties, s-$cret;ary o.f Indastry and
Commerce, Secretaz7 of the Presidency.



I                                       I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I                                      I



ANhI  3-2
Y= G    M71,1 -N  61E1 DUMMY COORMAXTIIG ThY191SSTIOX
T R  OF R       I CZ FOR. KaTEL DUSTRY S.JDY
B&   CCPD    T BY BATMtE :NST1T7JT/
?aripose of the Study
It shall be the object of the study to provide the CoordiLating
Cowmittee for the Stae7 Industry with the basic data required for the draw-
ing up of progr=s to anable that Comittee to regulate the g-owth of the
coi-ntry's steel industy.
it wiL, tiherfors, be recessary to determine aznd analyze -th
present state of production  .n tezms of eacLsting capacity, to carry out a
market study in   spea  of t:e whole decade, based on requirements ofUA -
finished steel and rolled products, and to review, in terms of Uae fore-
going, the   vestments needed to satisfy demand, on the basis cG  the plans
of enterprises already established and any new plar4ts that may be set ap,
so as to make it possible to determine the. best sites for increaes in pro-
ductive capacity, iA tems of the supply of raw materials and of tie markets
Simialy, the   udy shall, conaider the proolem of the price.s of inputs and
finishad prodacts, with a view to devising a sound policy in this connection.
I.  Present Production of Steel, both in the Unfinished State
and y  Tous o  Procts
1. Me consultants shall make a technioal survey of "existing
capacit  to prodces steel, both in the unfinished state and 'y groups of
rolled products.  The teic %xit3ng production capacity" shall  vert
(a) plantts already set up and in operation;
(b) plants in process of desig  or construction, or
ihich have already been ordered from the euppliers.
2, Estimates -ill have to be provided with regard to the probable
dates on which the plants mentioned under (b) above will actually come into
prodluction.
3. The survey in question vll relate, in the main, to  :ndidora,
Altos Hornos, HYLSA, Tamsa and  £CAAT (under constrution) but wil also
need to includ  a r1apremutative oelection of serd-integrated a4d rerolling
plants.
The technical s      in question is intended to:
(a) indicats the levels of output attainable in4 practice
(both of unfinishad steel and of the mazn 
(Co poLit out the production sites where idcle capacity is
available and te reasora3 for tha-52 state of affairs,
and -Uose aL.teas-where small-scale investmnt prografs
ud.gat ineree_3e productive catacity;
(o) e=ze Closaly those i orts of :-nputs ori
oroducts w.ioh are used to comolerent natLonal pro-
lxtion$ aspla:ning the reasons for this;
~/Banzk tran ala tAo: of -,paniaLh original~



eC) eanaL- 3t,nai   appli-es of ore0 fluxt g aggents~
a and other inputs,  s also teFOB cost at
source,  An estimate shall be mad3 of the cost of in-
mortig these rar materials menever it is felt that
here is a poesibi2ity of t teral sodrees of supply
beoomt2g isfifn
(e) estmte the current cost of' transporting, to each of
the plants, the inputs mentioned urder point 'd) of
thts paagraub, rmaking clear the erteL't to- ioh such
-osts reflect dislocations in the eZsting transpvort
Vsyte-m or dstortioins of the relevant -ate stru.ctre;
'f1;rs8are e3atdnats of the producton costs o  cash plant,
asedd on its present technical efficiency, it  plannin1g,
,its poteritia  efficiency, and the cost of %nput's- For
tis pirpose use should be made, for the most part  of,
&atever information may be supplied, by tihe. vaZrlas
steel   odactng cc=manies and other bods 83,
.  The consltants shaJll prepare fresh estinates of lviemlcn demand
for couon grades of stAeel products during the years 1973-80, ta%ng into
account the data  ulbEi -ted by the - tion.i  anamber off the Iron aad Steel.
lwtstry, the more imorta t nrOda.ce.ts ad others.
2 . These calculations mse tGartsade detailed information -t->
regard to the main g roups of prodcts, 3so as to make it possible to aacert&.a
-the industmy>  s 3breq%rehsnts of rolling a=U other £inished eoupmisntv o'r itis
axpzvion prog-,am.
3. Estimat&.s of te de.and fo- L-kavidual groups of rd^tic s
rr:at- be cormeatedL  as far as possb5  , "weLt  data caronerning the FsciLfic
n    e     >        .-Le ota existiAg and notential
Z ee stady shl  l c    declr.oe details of the presant and poter-
ia. regional d zibu-ioa of &r:d for steel prodacts , as also oJ` tLhs cost
1i. nmsport- btwsam prmaest or propoqe d siteas for ste-el p>amts, and th
nJ..markcete, both praent and L,ature0,  Te; -rv   shall take into acooua t
:acost ofl trn4sport, wiith and tV.-cLout subsidies, by reail Ih3gaay or? gsea,
soas to make it possiola for m2ll-:balanced drcis.ions to be tak-en aLfth regard.
to, the si,ting of pro&act;ive ca-pait--.y zin tenzs of various products.
S mmTh  consltants shall eftzain  the, prospec-ts availabole fo
, in~ . M  $ xic   sn,dCpg     &     based on uaarginal- and absolutec  smt d
)C 2^acity i ro..essof o.nterzal  .emand: and thes cost: of t:11 &nsport.
In. t-; .?Ztt  1` of their  Xtd "is inr, the two o& eriou-s sectic:-s of
OaSS %.        'aftenne,"2WOO-mm     the   naiOt-Aant :n  shall ascartain te  invesst-
enmto rea' edt for stΩsl nrd cttotz.i, inlulin   ts converzz....srsdon into flat an d
nowa 2at :,r  ctds, to matibfy rz,7a;tional diraemaid. This whal be done on t-he



JINNEX 3-2
basic of prseswt =4 Xture inveestnt programs of existing enterprises3
-5 ?5agrd being also paid to alternative sites for new plants. The invest-
mnt raqu:-d for the infrastructure Works called for in each. case mst be
given separate2y. Sin±larly, an estimate imst be made of tae operating
costs per ton (cost of pro&ction, depreciation and inancial charges) in-
volved in the said programs, onee the investamnts in question, at one or
moe sites,' hav  been comleted.
2, 1h   the studies referred to in the foregoing paragraph are
uderltzko, proper attention shaL be paia to the following:
(a) thG advantages that might be driverd froua utiZ"ing
idle cap =-ity at l e.sting plants;
(b) the costs involved in transporting the fii4shed pro-
dchts to preent nd future areas of oonszmtiorn. In
order to assess the financial eifect of  k-' costs,
'ooth existing freight rates and aay possible changes
in them shiall be taktn into account;
(o) the costs connected with the tasport, -tAL  the
country, of the inputs that wJll be required for the
various programs of investment;
{d) the supply of domestic or inmorted inputs.
3. An outine must be given of the ipact of altenative programs
of inestment on the siting of the bases required for the future  lrowth of
the Mxioan steel indistr7.
4. An appraisal will have to be made of the complete financial
studies for each program. of investmnt, and for the steel-mna2Lng sector as
a whole. These finanoial studies should contain, as a mnxr-am, the follow-
ing information.
(a) financial plan;
(b) pro-fora earnings statements and analyses of
profitability;
(c) pro-Iora balance sheets and analyses of the
iancaal struct-ure;
Cd) analyses of feasibility.
5. On the basis of the findings with regard to operating costs
and irvestnts reqired for each program of the enrtrprises concerned, it
Will also 'e nacessarY to datermine the foreign etchange cost cf ard the
total cost per   ecifia typc e of prodct, to the various prodacers, both at
the plant and ae the nzaaret port. In thi.s connection, information will
haw  to be obtaizned or the followIng points:
(a) the additional capacity required in the matter of
equkpmet to transport raw materials to the various
plants;
(b) export and iz=ort prospects for both coal and iron
ore; ane.
(c) th- cost of the alter=ative domstiz^ uses foz these
raw materials,



I     3-2
3p-,
:nZm mszner3 Lt tght bes advale to ask_  or a preltta-ry
estz ate Of .o tee totEl  oat 0±'    notion and the foreig'n echan*ge
costs would va%s  at long term, in relation to the varouas programs of
trsVetmnt,.
6.   msce sha.l oe a bef disoussion of the technical and fin-
ar.cial aspects involved  in sett1ng -p an export-oriented steel industry.
Tis would nclude an explanation o-f how export prospects would be af'ect-
ed by the cua2itc of frzihed see  prodcts and the pcrfonrazne observed
2.Z tneecitlng ;1sta
:V, ?rize@3
1 Me fim of consultants w     have to exwanie recent  anepiercam
LiUve years) and thea present atetuctur  of prices in Mzco for t-he mor
ixorta,t seel pro&ucts as also the institutional, legal and other factcrs
affecting those prices, such ,s the price co4trol mechanism, the ih te-a
tax strwtare, t      sy   of tariff protectior and export scheanes
2 The; following data reaar        prices will have .Uto be sou-htu  -
respect of thme tpic a, protcts referred to i  para'gra-oh 3 of.this sctio
() g   basic paceas at plant;
in:  aetra chargas under he heading of quantity,
qus2ty~etc~,
(Ljdscounts for volim, GiovenlMenx.-. purchaaas?s etc ~;
(i, freight adjust'rLents'
C,v)    ad~tustinan-z f-i resi,ewct of sa:les and oth-L ~r axes:
(vi   p:?-ces -nait by d-Istributors and, aoriSunTIEr ot.,
tyical mres
vi)tezas and cond±oix.i ol. payme-t; ar4d
(v11   exPomt ;prices (.WCB  &t a-u),
,3. The f'2-oullongo types of p.rodruot-s -will hara to be studed- (a
.c~itsonbeing made withn ccmpareile2ato±&  dataa)
2.  plate; 
(-3            (coilsta'Sfu   arA shaets)-  C..S;7;3Ba
c~ otd-rolled. (coils and sheets);
S~gal,vaized plate;
6r tinp:Le.t  ad  ittimar p-odc'ts;
?   ordinary bars, for the reinfttorcemaentl of concre te
& ti-re rod;
9. hgh r      t      bars faor- t2he reinfozc3m  ,tCement  of concrr. ete;
1Q:i; ;nre
ii.C.r  rdimm and heavy structAnal products;
b  -,et
13 0. li4st, a r<ir. al and anIeprduts
IN   se ares ttbirzg;
& 6   aO} an-d g.Osazva.4ized pipes wiLth sea-as.



MOfiM 3-2
4. ThS domea3tic poesI that is to say the actial ard not the
lzt prices, prevailing on otber important markets i1l have to be studied,
an indication being g.ven of future trends in those prices. The markets
in question arest
1.Brazil
3. Japan
h.  The Uited Kingdox; and
* The Uniited States
't wil 'be nooeasary for a separat e aTamation to be made as far
as poss:ible of internal and export prices for these products," dstals of
the prioes rnling during the past three years iL3  be sufficient f or this
purpose.
50  Paxt of the stidy   1 have to be devoted, once the foregoing
data have been  obtained. to the preparation and evaluation of the alterna-
tives available in connection 'ith a price policy to be adopted in future,
i&ich should provid  a level of profitability sufficient to finance the
development of the Mexican steel industzr. This policy will have to: cover
both the more important products of that steel industry and the main inputs
required.
V. Conclusions



I



M=0   1A3 MUCEAS STEEL PROJ3CT
TE MA DRSR0MEN



I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I                               I



A12x  14-i
;=3CO -    TRUCl3HAS STEL PROJECT
TECHNICAL DESCRPTIOI OF STAG  I OF TIE  ROJECT
1. The project is for the establishment and operation of a non-
flat steel products plant vith an initial capacity of about 1.1 miLion tons
of raw steel per annum. and 1.0 million tons of finished products.  The plant
flowsheet is shownr in Annex 4-3 and the layout in Annex 4-4. The facilities
have been laid oat and  designed in such a vay as to permit an easy expanSion
and diversification of productfion capacity to more than 5.0 million raw
ateel tons Per alram.
2, The process roate adoptedi for the Las Truchas s-teelworks is
detailed in succeeding sections of this Annex and is suTnmarized below:
(a)  MAining and benzeficiating the Las Truchas iron ore
with transport of concentrate in slurry form to the
plant site;
(b)  Agglomerating the iro-n ore fines to fona self-fluxing
pellets;
(c)  Conventional coke making based on imported coals;
(d) Iron making by the blast furnace method;
(e) Basic oxygen (B.o.,v.) steelmaking;
(f)  Continuous casting of billets;
(g) Rolling cf rod, bar and light sections in two
finishing mills.
(a) Mini4g and Concentration Plant
3. The project is based on the exploitation of the Las Truchas
iron ore deposits, which are located in the vicinity (20 1m) of the plant
site.  The primary deposits are kzown as Ferrotepec in the south and El
Volcan, El Mango, Las Trachas, and Santa Clara in the north (see 4rmap).
The primary ores are of the skarn magnetite type with detemined sulphides
of iron and copper. The northern deposits have been weathered to variable
depths, the effect of which has been to convert much of the magnetite in
the upper layers to hematite (martite).
14. As of the end of Ju1y 1973, geological or in-situu reserves
wsere estim4ted at 76 million tons of measured ore and 12 million tons of
indicated-/ ore with an average soluble iron content of 50O5.%. These esti-
mates are based on an average specific gravity of 4.0 a&-d are considered
conservative.  They take no account of the float ore, -iich covers part of
the deposits and whieh can eventually be used as a direct charge materials.
Nor do taey include potential reserves in soe of the deposits whlch. have
not yet been fully explored. The quant-ties of ore presently in the measvred
category are sufficient for over 30 years  operation of the plant at the
initial level of output, accepting the SICARTSA/BSC exploration team's con-
tention that most of the geological reserves are likely to be economically
1/ See .Annex 4-5 for definitions of 1swasured"' and "indicated".



Page '
reco-ns'aLse0  TheL8 xSe>   n; reserve  progam  inll contin-uae through the end
of 1'973, at `i  is antz.patad  ithat, an zcrease to as mach as 100 million
ta2os Q-> rzcnrle mrVes Will zesul. O
ft  The Ferrotepec orebody contairs magnetite and almost no hetnmatite,
and +tha comany p.3azs to start mining operations there, a procedure that will
simpli±) the initial concentration and pelletizing operations.  Later orn, when
thin deposit is at the point of being mined out, the northern deposits -ill
be swooitad.
Oe   7 S S { $  zht4 7Re-4< o   C 11} >7.3e n  a r1 ve s 3  a -t   m * i ll3 -Lon
>SC.res5 in Ferrotetoec ourret   reetmte   ;c zlc
tons46   mzeszredC ore mufficient for the t itial five to six yea-r  o_- o4eration
of tie plsa4t -
7.  hining of Ferrotepec wll be of the open-pit type using 6 cu.
yd,  electric ahovels, SO ton tracks ant a vartety of ancillary plant and
euioent.  'Me. averavge stripping ratio during the first few years of opera-
zlon  e. n  e'iated at 2: .    As eploi'tation proceeds to a pt  depth of 1 00 1a.
this striPazig ratio ri1i incicrease.  Yaning coots wiLl depend largely on the
con7atmption of' driling bits, explosives amd spare parts and can be establish-
od final  our ten  mine dvelopment actually begins0  Ir the naar+time
howemver opevating costs have beern based orn a preliminary mining plan and
conservat'ITe application of the Adiisorts experience on similar cmirag opera-
tions in HoorLoo and elsetere to the conditions prevailing at Flk.trtepec0
The estimateso are conidered reasonable and have been used in the financial
prc<actions (Annexs 14 ar4d I5),
8.  Concentration ofI te run-of-mire ore will be niecessaa,  to reject
gancze  copr eacd z;ur and 4his t    leaies grinding to a very fino size.
The resmu-t1r4 concentrate  ill be too fine for sintering, and it t-erefore
will be r4sncasa7 to instal a pellet plant.
9.   6bTe r'ason for working the Ferrotepec depo st first is lhat
the ore is prtnaaly magnetite and car, be snret simnply Colcentrated ard
clete4zized. Provisior-  ll, however, be made iz the des-ign ofL+ the  oncen-,
'ator and pellet plant for process4nLg  at a later stage, ore and con7cetratea
rtainring up to 25% hematite,
IiC   A primary and seconday crasin,g plant Wdll be located near
vne .n.tize aZnd some pmconencratior also -i'll be den.  Thwe crushed and screen-
cd oe  LU bne tras.or-ted by oonveor belt to the concentration Dlan4t, Bere
one -.o-nths e, -rly of ore for the plant   ll be stockpiled.  The conentration;
AtW;i- vill be- si-'ted as close to the nine aa topographical conditions allow,
I' . For  tie éYerrotepec ore body, a vetl magreti-c  conce-ntraticn
tLo7e-;neet s proposed.  Ten the northenz deposits begin to be exploito, 
hematite  ZLmurcits will be added,



12,      a on rtratts 3l'ur, will bt puxmd a  opaxtelY 23 I= to
tha mn worka. TN  cs;L  of tse alu-=r  pipeline haz bees  elntusted to
Behtel Cororation of &r Francisco, Siich ia ur.quely eperieceed in this
field.
13. If aind -&rn it becomes necessary to supplement the local iron2
ors spply, SICTL2&- wi2Z p uznhase pallets or high grad  concentrate either
dry or in the form o, s-      utAble for pellet plant f eed,
CeS) Peglluti inL~,anzt
14. 2-13T pellt; plaAt  ill boe of conventional chaing;ate or -grate/
!dn dsip.  It will h a-e a capacity of 1.8 million tons of sereened, fl,=ced
pel-lete per ~mar.
15. Mi  deig  and operation of the pellet plant are xvected
towards producing the recaired quality and tonnage of hot mtal at the blast
farnaoe at the lo31es  owrall cost.  Mis policy has resulted in decisions
(a) produes fJiwd pellets;
(b) add various  wsaste  materials such as BOF slag,
Mill mcale 9et. to the pellet plart feed.
16. Tha addit-on of flux to the pellets giv3s the opportunity to
operate the blast fuace  ith Ygher blast tamperatu-ras and redaces the fuel
rate as a result of the pre-cacination of the lilstone   A furthsr cost
benefit resifts   mproiding the bulk of the flux required in the form of
BOF slag.
17. C   uter studias have shown the opti'nw level ef iron in the
burdsn to be 5.5% and ths allows the facility to incortat varous  wste'
iron-bearing materiaLs into the pellet feed, thereby achieving:
(a) zvoovery of iron ur4ts,, which would otheri.±se
be lost;
(b) avoidnce of the cost of disposal of these
lwst I  aterials;
(c) the ablity to operate on a two-comonent
burden (pellet and cole), leading to better
control and higher operating efficiency of
the ; ,last ft raace.
Cc) Coke8 Onen Plant
A8 A batteyr oo-.rising approximately 64 ovens of iiidtum height
5.3 to      a., will ba inslalled, initially, the owns will be charged with
wat coal xc=orpareing 6% dry casis of recycled coke breeze, to produce
575;000 tons of    -of-ovan coie per annum. Provision will be maede to con-
7srt at a later date, to pre-eated coal charging, -fi.tch woxLd raise the
capacity of the cra3 Me               caring  ar wi2l be des-ig-ned to give swokeless
éaraing by neans of iet s='bbing of evolved gases and tie ocke pushing end



au&=: nsgp zqso 4t tw incor-orate tds best >pzo en ma=s of poLUtio<n
JR os-_,  ?ro o               bemaa Zo  the ?.ture i ncorporation of et4elosed
par-L,,Zg ead"3 qsnezi eqUpnnzt.
19v  -.f-' n cok  till be screened and. cut to yield a product
fraction ofP -&6 as  + 23 mu Xse  in accora-_ce with cun'ent practice.  As
th4re ial. be no si4tsrX plant, ths coke breeze nil be partly reycled to
the coal rap:ration plant and pat2y used as boiler ltel.
20.  -Me       d       ia-?to -aill remve the tbar, am nia an4d
nkoatg.   na fro  the  ads colm ov- e  gas tich will be used as a l          -the
ipla:14~ as reaoverac  a=ro2a vi:2l1 be incizerated,
22.  212 :ufLied cokl  ovenr gas will be cess.Lphuize&  to ;rpre,;t
aGir- pfltion by si4par Jioride  idile all liquid effiuents wil 'be t:eated
to a high Standard to npenmt safe dirhgahge to grater courses.
(&) Blast Fcrnace lant
22   The blast f=tnace -wL be required to produce a-n anTaal out -
put ofe 1. 2    ion +ns of hot metbal for delIverjy to Une  steelpLanrt,   ns
aarwuI prodrztiorn will renyre a fanace wiLt an average daiy reatu capacitj
of 300 tonsr Fg aesnnga  a  lant avab?ility of apoxatbey 9T5               h Wns
fuzarna   e.c v arad    have 'een deslgned to ac-corawdate m a      v oatnt ran
of 4,1103 tons pe  3o  127 tl?           tOns per year.
23 .T   order t  achievre thie outout a furnace8 ?4 'LI a Tle a hea     dia-
meter of  .0 m and an aRppoimate, irxzer volump If 1,7-0  will be insntaled.
TSLS rep>19tr4i  ;4  ta@ ar        -s!oh tN4//w                  h      -, pr0o
This- repro.et P.   -o =  r      big of ..9$ tons/"A/day, Whic wiLt-  Lae
posed burdez is co arble with the batter stamndards ofI operating +tzhougI-ou
the world.
22.  The buarden for t'i e ftrna-e, 'rhich Consists essertially Of tv"wo
Conporents - plefls and  oke4, will boe m0ads up as foliows":
dtlf-, l.ag gellets    1 630 kton of 0t motai
Ωenganese ore            17
FIas  oil                50
2èS.  The :arnace buron was ontinized asing a Coinpater model and
the neat balaeg, gas flaosi fual r'-at   etca ate.   jived from ithe  u',p utt.  Tie
heat balxace flre       r eJre i  t=4 uased. in a second cox:uter model to caln--
late  hot blast sltove dasign ande. perating parazsters.
2'.  The -ran- wail have two tao holes and. two aasti ho0ses,
~S-rictealZW  ennoCSd&.  ZTe he ,,,  Toia tbe rr-iunsar. systzca  will be eaz't irlto
270   n i_,o, ttoxj?eo ladlle  =nd t;he iag Lv& % -rI slag nrits,  Q'GrWlanui&ton facil-
itIes nv7    i LnstClled  i2 a m,rket Er7ey indicates a market for- this  oro&xct.
2 2  . it    k.2'    3 be ceaisgied to operate a;t a top ' pres5    of
1. ±cNJCn4  eI thta A6umace ton 'vw3  .be aemh as to 'eritit operatZeon at tIs
hi&% prezsu-.e X Alth a t±.    of Main44tenance.



2Tinnx h-i
28. The bla-t tempera7izre will  be 1,200CC using 3 stoves with
external cobustior4 cambers.
29. The ful injection system will be oapable of a maxim= in-
jection rate of 120 kg/ton of hot metal, although the initial injection rate
ill be 0 kg/ton.
30. The fuzace stockhouse rw311 contain thiree rows of bunkers,
one for coke, one T'or pellets and one for miscellaneous materials. The
total storage capacity for coe,b  pellets and each niscellaneous material
will be approximatly 12, 16 and 24 hours respectively. Each row of bunkers
will discharge onto a corvyor, which in turn discharges into the weigh
hoppers aftsr screezng out the undersized fractions of pellets and coke.
The weigh hoppers will disoharge directly onto the main furnace charging
conveyor which delivers the burden to the receiving hopper or, the furnace
top. The complete charging sequence wil be automatically controlled,
31. The dirty top gases from the furnace rill pass tV.rough a
conventional du8t catcher, to remove the larger fraction of dust partioles,
followed by a double wet scrubbing process.  The system-will clean the gas
dust content to less than 8 mg/Yi5 and reduce the gas temperature to with-
in 5OQ of the available water temperature. The noise level resulting from
the pressmre reduetion and high gas velocities will be restricted to the
maxim 1practical extent and is likely to be about 105 db at a distanece of
1 m from the unit. The dry flue dust extracted will be recycled in the
pellet plant.
32. Ele furnace tw--l be equiped with inst,uirmntation and control
equipment for the measurement, logging and control of all operating para-
mters,  This system will be capable of conversion into an automatic conltroj
system at a future date.
!e) Basic 0lygen Steelmaking Plart
33. The feedstock for the finishing mills takes the form of
billets 115 m and 1215 n  sqaare, and the most econoziicalJ method of providing
these is by contiuous casting from liquid steel.  For reasons discussed in
the following section, each casting machine will be lirited to a ma3imum of
6 strands.  This deoisior, coupled-with the attainable casting rates of 115
rm square billets, effectively deternines the size of the B.O.F. vessels,
Te interaction of vessel heat sizes and casting times for a liqidd steel
prodaction of 1 A v&llion tons per year leads to the selection of 00 ton
vessels and 3 six-strand casting mac.hnes as the optimm facility combiration,
34. Te  iapcity )f the 33F pi-ant has been detenmied on the
basis of 11,,300 !eats 3er ye.ar of 30 weeks., which should be raadily atta-n-
able 4th9Uil 30  znthas of stazrt.-up. This gives a liquid steel pro&dction
somewhat in excess of tLe reqcued 1.1 million tons per annum.  As further
axperiance is gai4ed, an fic:rease to 13,000 heats per year car, be expected,
35. Th  eomsasior4ng strategy for the BOF plant is designed to
achieve as rapid a biad-up of production of liquid steel as possible.  This



D e                                                         thebort asi   3>Ot v  the first, eight
ato  atarS-um   At  '-                 G>.i  vessel MaY be  4Ltro.L.ed
to bl ow 2L>s t; %t the- f-rst 73S e, teans maintaining a tap--to -tap
t     that uzrLf pret azn earl;y Lijtroduotiton of sequ8ence casting o-n the
ontinoS cast- ingarat. When ons vessel iS out of praduction for relin-
L       g9 the   a    tL'% the ope-ating vessel -ould be shortened to lessen
me loss of steel proachtx,on.  The mr ess=  additional faciZties for
tUhs mod- of operation will be installed.
96. tt tls Zn;l% oeira-t>ion, the lining Z-Ls of the
,em5esi - rZir e ernsnded by crazming of castable rffraories0   saxse of
-bfloen _   t4-otoi'ap       l Cta'zared it ;vto-v7eesel operation; the Sanring
Ou-ratioi wilnot, aect- t> @es    cmr-             s significantly.  1    use of
this tc=        wmJ. reduce sLgS!o-vzssel operation to a m=ninr-
T7.  Ths -as cleanig ar-d cooling system is dpsigned vo oserate
oa Spresad cotet-ion at an air factor of 0. i, as tts i s ccnsidered to
ne technmica.y and econoteally more desirable than TI or paral r& cm-
buotion Ze was . g,as   b1 b  cooled ad cl eaned by a venrl  scc: a'ber
D.  fThe scrap, hoto mtal; slag and ad'diAtiom  handlig Is of con-
va-4.tonal charactar.  The only unasual feature of the plant relates to the
lo0m tOnnage of scrap artiri?gS, which wil necessitate tae use of suobsaant aC
quanitites ofS cide pefllet  (as chat Sed to the blast ftrace) as a coolant-
Am lid sats-el till be poarsd f'rom tLe v ssel ino  00 ton ladles a   the:
trar,sf erre-  to ths caaitig bay or lad&e trans fer carst
499   til  the pl..ant nil -be blt intial> as a tWC-vesIseL sho's
prfovi-sriOn viLl be made for   e 'nstallation o  a third veseL at a later
datea
(f)Oontiz-Ccs OatA  1-' PLant
Me ',i-flet  rctqiLrsd so-t- -    ishing  mZLL5 aa re    r- ar. ,
12è :M  cy.±re,9   It haE- beean dmonstratd above tiat a 6-strand cast-ing
Sachine taa be matced   itha a 103 ton BCE vessel o produce the   eca essary
2tz=ga,  Ese two Cs7c  machLes wctulda bes' Liy uti;Uee- i  se cng th
st-eel planf, a thiLt S-strat m'an e ia rsqcIred to ur-ovide f           dr ld cha4g-
i     breakovts.9&
Th'4is  2Ee ar<tiinat-ed r r casting rate for 1135 m  square billets
is 0,28, -to e3 er t:nute par strand, Which is esqivalEnt to a cast-ing ∞imA of'
Gra 4A) tr2 htat sisrW     A rate of 0 28 tonis per na-jte   a  '-, 5
squ aar zo   ,, Ster4t to 3 f,nc  rtxut;,  i-At-h repraoents fgood current
pna:ctis   t2ithoug-h cert- a3in tlan  ar-m;v the reeartj pastu are Maiowm to have
¢vsiiattaSLn amrzeidsriChi-y grea^x-;~e aatL4,p ras i3i'te risk of breakcu"ts tncrease
an ~z's    r'pono.n to taso ~sLrg Spted.
4,;,1> tic<,-g-C--vessel ote>ratio  is intr>^^oduced in! te BOY shop, this
will pert> >-`, l  éi-est:l to be wmtahed  ith a casting machine . At 11,300
hsate par yuar the cylsel l3tie oe r vessel would be about 89 minuates, t5i¢ch



Pae 7
-ould be mll rtaiin the capacit  of the casting maciinss and Permit seu ernce
casting.
3 ?       Oh  dcision to iit each casting machine to a          of 6-
strands is baed on oczaiderations of temperaare and eaansion sen casting
seotions of the requied size, With the long tundish required to cover 8-
strands, sigrdficant temerature differences arise between the inner and
outer strands,  The examt8iOn  diich occurs in the lo?ng tandish creates pro-
bl'n in. centexd4g tih noszles in the molds, paricularly for the smaller
sections,  The alternative of using a split tundish,, hich In turn requires
in-stoppared steel ladles, has itis own problems ana is'not favored.
41i. Each casting machine mill feed a forced draft cooZf= rack
with provision for tmnAing to anisurs mifonm  cooling straigh r-<sa. Billet
handling ill 'be designed to minize crane and vehicle movements. No  in-
line faci'ties for billet dressing will be provided, although soace is
available should b'Ilet dressing be found necessary.
45. Each mill wiL.L have an identical billet stoc2gard with a nor-
d1 capazit of two weks stock and a maximum of fot.r weeks. Space is ava-
able for future eaxansion.
46. 'The reheating furaces ill each be 150 ton per hour, refractory
hearth walking beam flaace.
Rod. and Bar Mill
47.  Tiis mill is designed to roll 0.5 nillion tons per year of
rod and reinforcinig bar in -the range 5.5 to 12,7 i  (7/32 to , inch), 1I
i11 be able to produce uncat coils of up to 1500 kg from 15 m billets.
Saller coils will be possible with shorter billets. In both cases 115 mm
square billets wil be used.
48. 'Mm billet cross-sectional area was se'lected as the mairr1=
size of bi1llet compatible with a guaranteed inclmze'ish2ing speed of 50
m per second and an acceptable entry speed at the fIrst  staid of 5.6 m per
minute.
49. To meet the required profict range, a 25-staed, timae strand
rod mill with three single strand no-twist finishing blocks will be install-
ed,  The mil All be dividad after the 15th stand with foriard ronning re-
peaters3, into eask. of the three  10-stand finishing blooks. Mhe rod wdil be
cooled on a controlled tye cooling conveyor before beiag coiled dow= into
a reforng  e r   Provision -w1 be made for in-line splittimg to pro-
wids one half or cae third cola -igatu.
50,  ftinfcrcing bars rolled on this mil l  ill be straightened
aznd cut to length before bundling for despatch. Where necessary, Ghe 12 m
long bundles can be bent in half for shipment.



Ah1g: h-1
Page
-1     e _.Il wil-l be designed to roll a total of 0.5 million tons
per yar       h3e foUaiing pzrodut range:
Rabar             12.7 mnm - 4O nm
Other bar         12.7 nia - 50.8 mm
Equal angles      25.4 mm - 760.2 
Uneqiaal angles   50.8 X 38.1 mm - 90 X 50.8 mm
Ch.Mels           7602 mm   28.1 nrm
Flats             50.8 i - 127
x 6.3 rm - 40 m
Squaes am,d
Hexagons          12,7 mm - 50,8 
52.  Me bilet size used wil be 125 ami square x 15 m long for
the fr22 product rangee Ai overlap with the rod mill down to 9.5 -m., can be
achiaved by roll.ng 1115 =u 1 15 ia billeta, thus enabling rebar to be rolled
into straight les      onto the cooling banks and eliminating restraightening.
53e  To roll- the above prodct range., the rmill wilJ cozrxprLse 18
stands capable of tWin-strandlng on the lighter produotvs   The  rovision of
oac.k roll changing facilities is being considered to minirize roJ changing
delays
54.  Finishing faclties will be normal for a mill of this type,
with a double-sided cooling bank. The output from the banks will be assembled
into batches for  hsea-Tizg into mltiples of customer lengths in three standari
ranges of 5-7 m3 7-9 m an4d 9-12 mu, Rebar will be supplied in 12 m lengths.
(h) Mechpunical and 33ectrical Services
Zlectric Power Sp2 and Distribution
55. Me  -nalor soe of pover i s La Villita H.rdroelectric Station
on thie Rio BaJlsaa, soma 15 k  distant, wt-ich has a capacity of 300 MW. From
thAeroe t   230 LV overhead lines to be erected by Ccmision Federal de
glectricided (O) wll r1L n  to a distributio  sabstation on site, terminating
at two 75 IW, 230/34,5 KV transfoiers
56c  ?rzary sita distribution will be at 34.15 KV with du.al wspplies
to each of four substations strategically located near te mai consng
centers ard interco=ected to the power station, wfhere security of supply is
essent,Al.  At each of the four smbatations the voltage will be step-ped down
to '13.8 KV for secondary hig tension distribution and to 4.16 ln  and 480 V
tzAsrforwsr8 for local netirorksD
57   "he -m..ne and concentration plant will be supplied fLroy the
wytL  s -- 3bt ? to 115 XV ovextead lines erected by the CE.  Primary diS-
tribution .1 ze at 13.88  V a-bseqer t3Ly stepping down to 4.16 KV and 480 V
for local distr s uo  and use.



ax 4-1
Power ?lat z4
58.Me plant wl intZially  nclude three high-pressure steam
generators i.red on blast furnace gas and tar with coke oven gas and fuel
oiU burning faclties, two bolast frnace turbo-blm3sro and two 10 KVA, 8 M
Pass crxe/conelensing 'bo-alternators,
590  In th  eent of a failure of the inconing CFE Dower supply
the tvoo-altemators vilL provid  sfficient power to  3aintain essential
vorks svices. Non-essential power supplies will automatically trip and
intonxectors for essential supplies close as the failure is detected.
60. Provision for distribution control of gases includn7g air
and oMen, f2uids, steam and electric power wilJl be from a central control
room at t>ae power pLazit, ensurig  mtm tlization and the efficient use
of enermr in alternative forms.
'Water 3prn    Tramn and Disnosal
611. Industrial grade water will be abstracted from the Rio BP-lsas
Upstream of -a,aro Cardenas town and puiped, via two pipe lines, to the site
for distribution.
62e Condenser cooling fwater will be used as deli-vered, dile other
plant coolieg water _s softened to reduce scale formation on heat transfer
surfaces., Boiler quality water will be devv=eralized for use as maske up on
steel makng and continuous casting closed circit cooling systemts and for
steam ra:ising2.
63   Elevated raw water storage  ill be p-ovided to ensure contin-
wlity of essen tial suplies uxder exrgency conditions and for fire fighting.
6k.  Potable water will be drawn from local wells.
65k  Condenser cooling water, clean process water, surface drain-
age azid ahsmNally and biologically treated effluents vill be discharged to
a coxo ovtZall in the harbor area.
Blast hurnace and Coke Oven Gases
66. Blast farnace and coke oven gases will be distributed via
overhGad pi-elines -th a gas holder floating on each system to cater for
variations in both sapply and demand.
EneL Oils
67. Pael oils  il be stored at a tank farm in the dock area and
distributed via pipeli e to local servIce tanks at each major consinition
center.



6. At Central a  conrsso tation and ring main dibtrbaT±on
;   V.-2 piM.viA geeneraL purpose air at a1 points    out the ws
-¢    ~  ~~wL   sppy asi for instr∂  ntation and control srsteis.
SA    omxyen plant d. provide so* 400 tonE per day of gaseous
oyMm frcm, t-#m equal-size air separation unitsc  Each unitA.Ui be capable
oU q        C, 10% of its prodction to provide the necessar  storage to maet
$m.W       ,ewands and to cater for reduced         output when maIntenance
-. L3ing ' d  oUt on a sepazation  ut.
M-,-- centra1 engineering: mIkhops v1l be laid out and equipped
t^Q                   engineering mnaint4nance requ2irement, With facilities
Zor r    _ Xk and mobile  Lant repairs,, platig         xe Sdlng, heaV  and
:S~It mah:n3 and tuxning, electrIcal plait rairs, motor repairs and
£h9t.fiR g93



MO.0 - LAS Z7UCIAS SEL mO0JECT
MWCEXCI. DESCRIPMON OF TENTATIVE STAGE II
1. In the second stage of the Las Truchas project, as it presently
is conceived, the plant would be expanded to a capacity of about 2.03 nrxLon
tons of raw steel per annu, with the addition of a new product, heavy plate,
to SICARTSA's product  iax.
2. TharAks to the provisions made in the design of the first stage,
the eparsion could be carried ou.t with the addition of onl,y a sigle B.O.F.
cornrtar, the duplication of iwst of the other iron and steel ma=.ng facil-
ities, the addition of a slab caster and 132-inch plata mill con:;leax  and.
corresponding increases in works services, ancillarr and mobile equipnent.
3. The major units to be operated at the completion of the second
stage would be:
(a) Coke Ovens - A total of 128 ovens.
(b)        ;    Plant - Two pelletizing units.
(c)    a                 idrntical fiirnaces, each with
an approae inner volun  of -.,75 m3,
(d) Basic hrgen Stee2mzking Plant - Mime  00-ton
converters (two operating and one standby). Te
third converter would enable output to be increased
initially to 20,000 heats arnd, following the expected
learning curve, ultimately to 23,000 heats Der year.
(e) Continuous Cast   Plant - Two single-strand slab
cast-Ig machines to Be-added to the initial three 6-
strand billet machines. These machines would be
capable of handling the rising output from the B.OF.
plant.
(f) Ro    Mills - In addition to the two nron-flat
proc i s installed in the first stage, a heavy
plate mill would be installed for the second. This
would consist of a slab yard, two 200-ton-per-hour
slab reheat furnaces, a 132-inch, 4-high reversing
mill with slab descaler and hot plate leveller,
walking beam cooling bank, and testing, inspection,
shearing, piling and plate finishing facilities.
Izcstxeal Projects Deant
Jun 1973






~~~ I                          _ _I
Z X ' j!W VUq             :~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
L   .>        D'I 'jSNNZlSDiO  






.0        I ~~SYOni    SI   *VN0          .0UVV  VIUn3
Lct~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~jrwx U3"un acl v   w S i                      2       X       E 
I~~~~~~~~                                        I
aMw
on"..3O."o" Lo sil
*L80*.00> e't                    1flA11  LNV~ 7WMN3O 
A.±MW nVMW
81    f leet 0111CM)X                                                                    
l          I<OILtASla 711 @                                                                 \~~I77    ---
W                      =~~~~~~~~IY ".01∞ 8                    tOiiX3 N3NWflj MOj "8' 
Y~~~~~~~~~~~C '0 031 s1 cn 1|t3 *360663
6336 '3\                                                                                       .
~~~~~~~~~~~ne          1. 4*01
s4w. All306lU 61164  * C   
30.0                  ,oosfn_t tonn.an         ,.  ~>    L1.,                            L6
w~ ~~n.03Ie ,.0OJt owu, mon 0 n                        II  
.7~ ~ ~~ ~300644*0 06*fl5nt;sr#n_ *3        /          1    -i                                             ;
036.03h3 3         /      L       - L   .---- -----------
eeoaO  ~ ~   - -- --- -- - - --
4'-"S   
/                                  t                                         Oa   g             u-8e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4-
' t    11                         -               _            t    / ff   >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
{~~  ~       ~~ ~ ~                                        I   --s,   _W          /f






*  AX 4-5
J2WTWON OF R:ER7ES
1. Reserms for which tonnage is computed from dimensions reveal-
ed in outcrops, tranches, worl<.ngs and drill holes, and for which grade is
computed from the results of detailed sampling.  The sites for inspectio'n,
sampling and meauement are spaced so closely and the geological character
is so mall defined that size, shape and mineral content are well establish-
ed. The computed tonnage and grade are judged to be accurage %iLin limits
which are stated, and no suo12 limit is judged to be different from the
computed tonnage or grade by more than 20 percent.
MICAN1D
2  Reserves for which tonnage and grade are computed partly from
specific measurements, samples or production data and part1ly from projection
for a reasonable distance on geological evidence.  The sites available for
inspection, measurement and sampling are too widely or otherwise inarpro-
priately spaced to pe=it the mineral bodies to be outlined campletely or
the grade established throughout.
INRR)D
3. Reserms for hich quantitative estimates are based largely
on broad knowledge of the gaological character of the deposit and for which
there are few, if any, samples or measuremeznts. The estimates are based on
an assumed continuity or repetition, of which there is geological evidence;
this evidence may include comarison writh deposits of similar type. Bodies
that are completely concealed may be included if there is specific geological
evidence of their presence. Estimtes of inferred reserves should include
a statemnt of the spatial limits within which the inferred material may lie.
NOTE
The above definitions have been used by SICARTSA in their calcu-
lations of ore reserves, and have been accepted for the basis of calculations
used in this appraisal.
IncZustrial Projects Department
June 1973






A1\NZX 5
iXICG - LAS 'thUCUAS ST1S'EE  PRE'2=
T' PORT OF TZARIC CARDENAS
1.  The Tas Truchas steel plant will need to import about 765,000
tons of coal per ann=,. when its first stage reaches full production.  This
amount will more than double with implementation of the second stage.  Pro-
vision for these imports, for the isportation of plant and equipment, and
for coastal shipient of a portion of SICARTSA's output by barge, is being
-made at the port of Lazaro Cardenas now under constraction by the Ministry
of the Navy (flarina) at the mouth of the Balsas River, adjacent to the
plant site.
2. Although SICARTSA initially   ll- be the principal user of the
port, the Governent does not intend this to be a special-purpose oort. . it
is expected that increasing volumes of general. cargo will flo-w through it,
especially after rail shipment between Lazaro Cardenas and I'iexico City is
nade possible with eventual completion of the Lazaro Cardanas/NIueva Italia
rail line (see Annex 06). The Government's general. traffic fore6asts for the
port are, however         t, to be inflated and the Bank therefore has recorend-
ed on several occasions that the port not be overbuilt in the beginning.
3.  A forecast of SICARTSA's port needs -'or the perlod through .983
is shown in Table 5-1.  Me required facilities comprise 200 meters of ouay,
an entrance chnnel to be dredged to 14 meters to accomodate bulk coal
vessels ox' 50-80,000 IWT. nav-igational aids, a breakwater, buildings and
general port infrastructure.  Marina will have complete- construction of
these by 1976, plus an additional 4o0  meters of quagr (two berths) for gen-
eral cargos (which the Bank considers unnecessary in this first stage of port
development).
4. Ca i-al costs for the port total an estimated 1329 million
(US$26,4 million), as shown in Table 5-2.  This includes M$50 million (US$i4
miillion) for the additional two general-cargo berths.  The estimates do not
include the resale value of reclaimed land.
5.  Port charges are to be set so as to recover the economic costs
ol' building and operating the port and will be levried according to gross
registered tonnage, category of ship and type of cargo.  Final agrcement or.
2 tariff has yet to be reached between SICARTSA and Ilarina..  Hoowever, the
Bank has been informed of the general levels being discussed, and considers
t1e-, to be based on overesti--.tes of general cargoes, which the proposed
tLariff assumes  il-11 cover the largest portion of tJPe tort's costs, ,Hence.
rmuch higher levels have been assumed in the economic evaluation of the steel
project, details of which are shown in Annex 16.
Industrial Projects Department
Iay 1973



ANNEX~
TAI 5-1
I00 - LIS TFJCIAS STL PROJECT
PRELMA Y FORBCASTS OF STEEL-REIED TIRAFFICS
7HOUE TME PMT OF I&ARO C.ARDENA   1974-83
(In 000 tons)
1974   1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983
.hase 1
I rta zinsry              80     20       4      4       4      4      4 h
lqportAd coal             -      -      115    380    610    765    765    765    765    765
5mti  Sales of
steel coast0ie           -      -       23     75    120    150    1t 50 i5o              1t 
Tot-alI hase 1           80     20    142    459    734.      i 919     919     9199    919
-Fhase 2
Iported raohi             -       _      _       3       9     26       0      5       4      4
Exports of plate                      -              -       -      -          -     50    220
Pacific sales                                    -                            35     72   119
Iported coal              -                       -      -      -       -    385    7I4   1061
Total Phase 2                    -      -       3       9     26     50    42-5   8140   I04'
'M0AL MCAR'5A MAFFIC    80        20    142    462    7143    9145    969   13&4.  1759   2323
-.,   . 5_. arAd Marina figures, modified by Bank.
eus riad P=jects Deparsmnt
;a-y I 973



TA:BI  5-2
:MCO - IAS iJJMS S$OL PROJD;CT
CAPITAL COST ESTIM~ATE FOR POCRT OF IAZARO CARDENAS
Y$ m;Xa li on  UF9 e.llion,
Breakwater                                     14               , 1.2
Lighthouse, beacons and signals                 4.0            0.3
Channel dredging to 14 meters                 180G0           14.4
Land costs                                     23.0            1.9
Access roads                                   11.4            0.9
Open storage areas.                             3.8            0.3
Transit shed                                    4.8            0.4
Berths (600 meters)                            75.2            6,0
Water and power supplies                        7.5             0.6
Fishing installations                           4.3            0.3
Administrative building                         0.9            0X1
Total (1973 currency)                       3291.4          26,4
Source:  Marina
Industrial Projects Department
Xay 1973






AM.C 6
,LarICO  EAS    C  S STEL TROOJECT
TR&4SPORT OF FINI51-M PRODUCTS
1.  The transport of *rne million tons of Las Truchas steel annually
froam the coastal project site to mar-kets in the center of M'xi-co -- principally
the Mexico City region, Guadalajara, and Souther  Mexico -- will be a major
undertaking.  Insuring it., is carried out at thXe lowest economic cost has been
of primary interest- both to SICARTSA and the Goverrnent.
2. In April 1973, SICARTSA contracted a well-Inoi-m consulting fii
to undertake a thorough examination of all alter-native methods of transporting
the steel to markets. A linear programruming nzodel was construtetd a-nd data on
construction, maintenance, eqLi3:pment arnd operating costs and on the capacities
of each route were obtained from the National Railways ana t.he Ministries c'
Public Works, the Prec9idency, and the hSavy. The resul.ts of the study took tne
form of conclusion-a and reconmmendations regarding:
(i     Thie mr ode or modes of transport to be used;
(ii)    Equipment needed;
(iiJ )   The req-ured program for const-uction and
improvemient of needed infrastiructure and
its optimal tinLing; and
(iv)    The total estimated cost and its breakdowr.
3.  The methodology or which the inndel was based aimed to rrinimize
the discounted present cost of moving assumed quantities of steel to specific
markets.  The costs considered included operating, maintenance, equipment pur-
chase, and any reouired construction or improvement of each rou-te.
4. Basically there were Lfive routes examined, although each of these
contained sub-alternatives.  They are as follows:
(i )    By rail to Neuva Ttalia and from there by rail to
Mex-co City and/or Guadalajara (rail-rail';
(ii)    Bwy road to Nueva Italia and from. there by rail to
Mexico City and/or Guadala'ara (road-rail);
(iii)   By sea to Manzanillo and from there by rail to
Mexico City and/or Guadalajara (sea-rail);
(ikv)    By road to Nueva Italia and from there by road
to Mexico City and Guadalajara (road-road);
(v)     By road to Mexico City through Altamirano (MIexico
City demand only -- Guadalajara demand would use
one of the other four rbutes) (road-road).
5.  Sizable investments would be needed for four of the alternatives.
The cost of t2he rail link from Las Truchas to Nueva Italia J.s estimated at
$56 million, and investmients of 71! million would he necessary to imp:rove the
road to Nueva Italia.  The road through ALtamirano does not exi st yet, but
construction to a stanidard high enough for use by hea-urily-loaded trucks would
be more expensive than thlte mere tourist road t; Tihultanejo that has been
planned (US$7(.2 milTi.on)0  New investments for the sea-rail route through
Manzanillo woulid be 'US$9,4. million, but the distance toc Nmexico City is much
longer so that operating costs would be highrr.



A yNEX 6
Page 2
6,  Crne of >-e faiL: ngs of previous studies of the transport issue
was to consid-ero that once a route h,ad been chosen there could be -no changes
over -Ut,e liSf of the steel project.  The final7 formulation of the prob7lem
allowed, for changes of mode and roui3es witLin each mode -- e.g. sea-rail for
1976-80 and all rail through .eva Italia from 1981 onwards.
7. For parposes of the economic evaluation of the Las Truchas pro-
ject (Annex 16), the all-road alternative via Nueva Italia has been assumed.
This is considered likel3y to be expensive. since it would involve nrrach higher
operatuing cost's on the Nueva-Italia/XMeco City l-eg than -those of the parallel
rail route.  Ee-nce iiis use in the economicd calculation is conservative,  Me
aztulal dei sion of the Govez-nent; sterrning ftom the above study,, is tUhat the
ra-il,way linik vi-l be built ard provide the primary mode of ttransport fr`om 1978
onwardss.  airing the 1976-78 perLod, road transport will oe used as an interLm
Thdeustrial P. ojeoto Department
Augast 1973



7
SO     CIITr O  ILA>ZLR  OIAP3UAS
,. The constraction of a major steel plant in a hitherto lightly
populated region naturally implies the concomitant development of a city to
house and to provide services for -th  employees of SIOARTSA ard any a'Cil lary
industries groi.i  up around it.  Based on the experience of Monclova, in
northern Xexico,J the eventual expansion ofL 0 [CARTSA and the development of
associated industries and services might be expected to result in, a total
population of 90,000 before the year 2000 (see Anrex '7)
2. Planning for the new city of Lazaro Cardenas is well underwaK
and a Trust unmd has been established to oversee its construction.  The city
initially will be economically and legally distinct from the &all tovTn of
10,000 persons (fomerly !mown as MeNlchor Ocampo) uhich now exist'e near the
plant site (see map). Detailed construction planis are only available for
1973, but a longer-term construction program is beirg prepared on the basis
of a general schems which the Bank has reviewed,
3,  Available to the Trust Fund are 696 hectares of land in an o;b-
long tract adjacent to and north-west of the plant site and abo^t 3 kyi inlazd.
About 521 hectares wil be used for residential and service aeas and 59 for
parks and recreation. The final 116 hectares will be reserved for ancillary
industries. At present, no central business district is planned; rather,
service facilities wIl be located in clusters along the main artery of the
city. It has been thought important to separate vehicular from pdestrian
traffic; thus, the town will have vehicular circulation around its perLphery,
%Ith sufficient penetration for services and a network of pedestrian w-alks,
all linked together and leading towards the civic and shopping clusters.
Sinoe so many of the now resildents will be from the countryside and used to
sunshine and oper, spaces, the pedestrian walks also 'will serve as gardens,
playgrounds and shopping malls, At the same time, a high dwelling density
will permit cheaper towm services and land costs per housing unit.  There
will be no concentration of high and low-income dwellings; housing for dif-
ferent income groups will be in close proximity. The Trust Fund believes
that a mixture of incom6 groups and of residences wiLth services dill give
the city more vitality.  Te general plan appears 'well conceived, although
the schedole for its implementation is very tight.
h. The annual housing construction program is showr in the follow-
inag tables
1/  Mionclova is the site of Altos Eornos de Mexico, tie natios lagest
steel producer.  Consturction began there in the early 19L407F and its
popU:Lation has gron from abou-  10,000 in 19L0 to over 860,000 in 1970.



hN1 7
Page 2
HOUS"IbM OONSTRUCTION ?R0OA14
Typ  iof Construction and Number
of Bedrooms                            Projected
Barracks   Houses   Houses  Houses  Cmulativ-e  Workers          Rooms   1 
Year    3 br       3 br      2 br     I br    Total Rooms  On Site   Per Worker
1973     180       148      220       130       i,554       1,750       0.89
1974      67       51X2     745       351       5,226       7,000       0.75
1975      17       1S 196              8h5      6,173       9,300       o,66
1976      22       178      247      :12        7,379       4,000        -8
Source:  S CALiEs., Trust Fud, and Bank calculations.
I/  As can be seen,, mst worlmrs during the constructior phase wil be aha:ing
rooms.- only in 1976 will significant numbers be able to have their fsmilies
with them.
5. Once "51QRTS is in operation, the Trust Fund will rent or sell
hovases, lots and connercial and industrial sitee. The sales prices a=d rentlas
wil- be arranged so as to provide arn adequate return on irvestment and to
subsidize t2ie housing of the poorest inhabitants of the city. Besides build-
ing houses, the Trust Fund also w11l install urban infrastrutuxre -- vater,
eleotricity, sewrage, taleohones and streets.
6. Total costs for the city throughl 1976 ara estimated as Ii455
dillion (US036d4. million) as shown in the table below. This total includas
provision for a 6 percent annual rate of increase in construction costs. Wifth.
out price escalation, the cost in 1973 cunrency is M$422.5 million, (US$33.8
milion) and the present value, assming a 10% cost of capital, is ;386
million (US$30.9 illl.on). Using an astimated  iJfe of 30 years for the installa-
tions and houses and the 10% coat of capital, the equivalent a;nxral cost for
amortizing the oityZs capital investment if K 41.0 million (US$3.3 vCllion).
'Lnce  the total employmnt paymients to be mad  by SICAITSA when the first
stage o.- the steel project is in full operatisor is about M$175 million (us$14
.llio2I3 . there seems to be no reason to doubt the abilit  of SIOARTS Xs
employees in the aggregate to pay for a large share of the costs of the city.
CAPITAL AM INITIAL ADMINISTATIVE COSTS
0DMTHECIY 0?3 IMZAR~0 CBDNA
Cost's                Costs            Present Value
Year     (Current Prices)    Constant 1973 Pices)              ces)
94,0Ch               94,004               94g004
207,900              196,132              178,301
19Th          64 ,50                5759                57,590
1976         u68 250               74,788               56,232
Total        i54,,654,             422,513             386,127



ANkEX 7
Page 3
7,  Altwc)ugh represented on the Trust PFndis Board of Directors,
SMC,RTSA viJ  have ro special financial obligation to the City.  The Trust
Fund will receive an initial loan from Nacional Fir4anciera and thereafter
will be expected to be self-supporting.  Conplete financing plans are not
yet available, but it seems likely that the Trust Fund also will receive
funds from INFONAVIT, a new Government fund financed by a payroll tax for
the purpose of financing workers' housing.
TIdust.al Projects DeDartm3nt
June 1973






0- I. E JCHASZ SE -F ROJECT
WNTCIR TAL PROVECTION IN PIANT DfESIG&
1. In drawing up the tander speciLicationa and in iLnalizing the
scope  of the eqaipm-nt sup0ly contracts the Compy has established the
following obJect+ves egarding pollution control:
(a) To incorporate good proven techniques;
(b) To examine any defermnt options in the light
of present local conditions;
(c) To reflect Msxican Law.
2. Tne layout of the pla.nt will reduce the imact of residual
pollutants; i.e. t-ose emissions  hich remain after cleaizng and control
xlasUres. The locatioi of the plant close to the port area and the short
internal transport lies for raw materials and materials in pro-ess will
refioe the problem of dust control in relation to the surroundig region,
,xhile the location of the blast fna ce, coke ovens and steelmakThg plant
wi111 permit dust fallout to be confined to the plant area   The proidt
of the sea simplifies drainage and reduces the cost of effective disposal
of treated effluent. Main aceess to the steel plant wil be designed to
by-pass the town, with som  resulting benefit so far as noise is concerned.
3. The pollutants which nave the greatest frequency of occurrence
in iron and steelmak1ng and thich require control are summrized below.  It
is the aggregate eissio n levls which the pollution control devices are
&signed to restrict.
A. Sources of Water Pollution,
Blast Fuxnace - cooling water, gaz washing and dust removal from furnace top-
gases, slag granulation.
Cole Ovens and By-Prodacts Plant - cooling water for heat echanzges and
diret washing, coke quenching.
Steel Flant - poiocess  ater for OF fume scruabbing and spray coolirng for
Continuous castings.
Rolling Mills - cooling water for rolling mills rolls.
Ancillaries - boiler feed water, condenser cooling -.ater, dcmasoi  water.
B. sources of Air Pollution
Iron Ore Mines, limestone Q&arrias
Coal Handling and Oru3ibng - dust.
Coke Ovwns - caroon monoxicg, sulphur dio=.de, sundry to: c gases, smoke,
ateam, duast.



M-NE
Steel K.4at  caon Monoxide (flard), 4tamo,
'Pm-r a  axt - snitar &ox,±de.
G  ~Saac  eof Noces Pollitttcr
Blast farrac-  ponuer plant9, oygn plant.
s ta X r MI 'M. XR4
4.   aZs  so'arce o  w atr -rapply for the operation of the plant is
ia iBaJ.sas Pver. The rate of flow of the river is eastLmatCd at3/S2SC e
*i&d trie intt e to the steel plant is little more thanA 3 m3/eec, Lisaoharged
rmter X±') be retirned  e theX river or      sea va discharge canals.  It
-,,L- 'be r abotad to tzrsatnt before disposal to redce the content of sus-
r.-nd-ed soZd   scelas, o=-das, chemical rasidaes, etc. After  his treatment
&'ial  be  carried by gravity through canals, in itch it mAll be  lterd
-d dese&drsntd to arrive at th  rirer or sea with an acceptable level of
pollution
~s 1 ,anavenst
5.  In order to control gas and dast emissions the stIacks at the
pellet plant, reieat furaces and power plawnt have been increased in nEiLht
beyond that necessar to obtain the required draft for combustion cortrol.
Stacks emitting           dioxide oill be high enough to give P zaznr grozaid
wl ccnctration of 0.,013 grams,/M3
6.  Me nain sourae of noise will arise from the bLast urnace  hr,
g  Poissure staam, o7gerA and air are  loviOi off tro  the hot- and cold
Z-aut vSyems   Di±scu)assions are c-rrently going on with t-&Le e ;uiprnnt supiphler
t  detertne how clo3ely the desirsd na±rnna noise level of 85 cio at a dis-
ta.roe af 1 meter can be approa& ed,
wioqGof      tion C<rtral Devi_es
e  The cost of te mairz identifiable devices,  ho   fnctons a
:a'sct   concemed wth pensnon control, is estimated at US$15 irillion.
Yos-t of t ese devices ha'm by now lbeen accepted as an integrall part of Tdir-ty
. e zits and it is diff-ioC olt.   coneaiv  of their not> being installed
r~cie'n cant,   h r~~ro,Sc-n  6>vt.ces are  xcclidad froci 2teUS1 
-a darz0tY, -.f'4 E>g''es=a  Le US$15
ictiirw tfig'ars -&tL   also m..rè'ccrz ,n essential techzologicai role in steel-
g 0tn.g  orm .are esentnal for  sanlaness and afficiency within the plant but
xrtih aiso contrftuts -to jcT:tior control.  This is eaecial2z; so in the
>IV -mZ- mlilx. Dect oper&.ing costs of pollution control devices are esti-
t&-3.C..8d  per ton of protct.
o *X  A :.vG@4<cc',ai  a w e cost of peven   g or    viting poil-
tici 4 t iron ane.d st&<  'works in ottisr countrios can at best be approxdmate,



Page 3
because dfien    swtel iiezustries haave  ii@ferez3t attitudes as to uaat Should
be inc1lded       te-er  pollution-control deice. Furthenaore the cost of
stacks varies consicrably according to materials ad local ecology. tith
these qralifioatLons., SICARTSA s investmnt in pollution oontrol appears to
be in line with world-wide modn standards, and the company's deftinite
atte   to miiize a&orse environmnt effects of the plant is commendable.
Thustivia; PFojects Departent
JunO 1973






SICARTSA ORGANIZATION
JUfING CO  iMUCflON PERiok)
OF
0 iCTORS
DIRtEC',TORATE
anv"Zns=nAL
y~~~~~
g                  ~                 7F-
I                    RD>MATiON                        Ht1& lAPd        .     Al MINiSTRATION
PROJ6SCT MANAGER                                                  DtVI$10N  RESURCES                                                                    & FINkHU.V
F                                                            j ~ - ß P,o}<wjlc Sc sh3uilig  | |  Pan|                   Am inir mm. S&rvwc.]      I  F      inagca; Phonning
¢-.> CO NIR_ a;N G                                                      ..                          >  ...  1                                      jsi    Trelining  1  1 m arrk lrAi
|o  ConG.tafI.....   raol            Rovl,t.lI  rctJ;ynD|I?z-ms3                                D -'t 
TECH-NIdCAL             CONSTiP FUCv1iON             CON'JRACT JIG                  Conter &                                                  Financial Adrin.          |Prt:ect                I
DIViSION3                  DIVISION1C  Exp &djjag Pr odurt                                                                                   Aud3fhq A                          P
. | t:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~omputer S ces                                                 v     k Me hdica!l Swvl  |m  
o_m P,           r4)FJ CvxucI                       NAT IAL
EmCIII    iPrg   ning                                       SUPPLY          I
1  Prita P'tw          1       FL-Ad En2h,,rttrn   |
E|i  El?21rifle     i   | ca  C?g;ud;0, ... .^~~
RAV N 1ATErIfAIS.
e    S;r.^srPRO&f AMNO 
World Bank - 7738






MININ3 F:IORANIA
1   Traiing a-PPears to be recognized by all levels of SIGALRTSAts
maniagement as an essential step towards the efficient and prof-table opera-
tion of the stueel works, and the subject is receiving appropriate attention
in the overall works program.
2.  T-he Train:zg and Development Depart-ent -ill provi&a training
and develcg-snt serz 'ces to all ;functions within the works organiZation and
will operate a for    t-faining center.  The department will be charged with
asponsiblity bot- 'or off-tie-job training activities and, together with
t.e appropriate forks dzpartments,  for all on-the-job training activ.ties.
he depart-mnt will institute and maintain training systems as  -Li as itr1 o-
dace new ones as and fiaen needed. The department's program 4i2. cover the
following types of training and development:
A. Craftsxen
Adults
i)    Bricklayers giel at-tend   short reuraining colarse in refractory brdcic-
wforks
ii)   Adults rearitead for burning, grnn'ing and drilling jobs vill be brain-
ed for a period of one to three months
iii)  All other craf'tsren will at3ted a short testing program to check their
level of skill and knowledge before connencing a course in ccnton
steeh. orks practices.  The craftsmen wll then be allocated to a works
area.  The subsequent couyse will cover the s"lls and Imowledge require-
xrents of the plant and equipment within the allocated area.
iv)   Ex-students of technical insititutions who wre n ot able to complete
their course of study will be trained as electricians a4d instrument
mechanics.
Apprentices
A11 craft apprentices will attend a two year prograa wi-thin the Train-
ing Center, folloved by a one year program within a ruaYber of works
maintenance deparartents.
B.  02peretire
Adul  ts
I,    .plicar;s for moSbile  ehic1  diriving, over.-ea(i elecvri.c ciae dri  C,
and rail transport Joba  ill be tested and screened before being placed
"n&O Jobs.
i?  All. -roduction dzp-irpment operat-ves will be trairled and teste- in the
skcills ande knowledge they Wil require in their jobs. In addition, at
strategic  sEitiOns in the p,Ttion line, arra.ngeents wil be ,ade
for further tr.naining and testing before each operative is promoted.



A-!e  10
Page 
PrOduCtio  Arenticea'
Yoang zxiployees direct froa school, will follow a special training
program of 12 months fu.ration before being placed into a production
department.
C.  Techricians
All adults 4il attend a course vich i4ill gime tem an uInderstaidIng
of the -ork of other technicians and a knowledge of the prodaction pro-
cesses, routines and procedures associated with their job, amd i6re
necess3ay an up-dating of skidls and knowledge required wttin thair
own discipline.
Yqn=er Lm!pleeas
Younger employees direct from t,echnical institutions will attend a
course which will include the topics listed for the adults plus for
metallurgists and chenmists, a period-in the training laboratory, and
for draughtmen, a period in the training drawing office.
D. Clerical Personnel
Adults
All adults will be trained in standard office procedures and practices,
oner EpLToyees
T8e younger eMloyees will attend a course in general clerical pro-
cedures, numrical accuracy, oral and writtepn coananication  doc%ent
preparation, use of office machines and the procedlures and -oractces.
E. Managemant, Technclogists and Supervisors
The in-works training programs will include produc-tion processes; technic ues
of analysing jobs anAd training; raageent/slupervisory practices; proce'dures
and s1i.lls; general policies; and control and operating procedures and
systeas.
F.  Graduate Apprerticeship Scheme
A sho.rt program for all new graduatas of the trainirg programi will include
policies and procedures, produdtion.n processes, and appropriate technological
lmowledge allied to the needs of their i\ture careers,
3.  Tes         Ov. erseas Developyraent Association (ODA) has offered a
grant in the amunzt- of f230,00  ($575,00o) for machine tools for the training
c:zte r and te  rsvcea of three seni"or instru.ctors on two-year cortracts.
Morso'er, OD"' will. 9contribute L70000 ($1752,000) towards the cost of sending



P2a ge 31
senior Mexican personnel to  h.e U. K. for training. Other costs of traininng
have been b'ilt in-;o the project cost estimates, and total approximately
US$4 million.
4. Recruitment and traiiing will start in September 1973, although
construction of the training center will noot be corWleted until April 1973.
It is intended that the entire training team. (totallong some 77 instructors)
will be inA a position by twhe second hXalf of 1975. Training requirements
have been based on 4O-hours per week wor1kin in the piant polus an allowance
of 8 percent for absenteeis=. Starting with 254 apprentices and 35 adult
trainees iij Jaz3uary 1974., the program will peak at 630 participants in the
trainirg center at, any one time by early 1975 (see Tabe 10-1 Tin totaL, 
about 5,0 personnel ranging f-om management and s=aff tomaintenanrce and
production t orkers will revire training of some sort through 1978   About
1,300 will receive trairing in the Training Center itself,    It is
recognized that the turnover rate will increase withL rising levelS of skills,
and appropriate provision has been made to take accoint of this -henomenon.
5. Every process departaent initially will have assigned to it
from the Advisor's UIK. staff one manager, two assistance, -and a.ywtere
from four to six shift foremen,  The fLnction of these expatriates Wuill be
to create an operating team and train their Mexican counterparts on the job
site.  They will be phased out in a manner consistent witn smooth handing-
over of the managerial and supervisory functions.  For effective liaison
with works departments, a merber of each department's management team wil
be made responsible for training needs as an addition to his normal resoonsi-
bilit:es.
6,  The entire traning programh'Las been geared towards facilitating
the successful start-up and initial operation of the plant.  The need for in-
depth training at all levels3 including extended assignments of managerial
and supervisory staff tIo the Advisorls or eqaipment suppliers' plants, h.as
been fully acceptsed.  Te arrangements proposed are considered t-o be fally
consistent with the assumed build-up of production and to be sufficiently
flexible to takce care of any, at present unforeseen, eventualities which may
arise as the training program gets underiay.
Industrial Projects Department
june 1973






Table 10-1
-?X1O0 - IAS TRCHAS STEW  PROJECT
NCDBER OF TRAINES IN ThE TRAINING CENThR
1974           1975           1976           1977            1978
1     ~2       1      2       1      2       1       2       1      2
1
PRENTIG:ES
14'ltaii-al ES1dlls                  16i    270    270    270    158    158        98      98      98      95
B.l.ectmciamxq                          38     71      71     71      46      59     26      26      26      26
Ioa",a,int  ohaalos                     12     21      21     21      15      19      8       8       8       a
Stctu.a                                113    113    67       67      37      37     26      26      26      26
Total Apprentices                   254    405    [ 9    129    256    273    158    158    158    158
TECHNICIANS
Group 1                                 10     13      32     29       8      11     15      18      15      18
G:roup 2                                27     33       6     10      10      10      - 
Total Technicians                    37      46      38     39      18      21     15      18      15      18
ADULTS;
Mechanical Skl4Ls                       39     47      56      25     35      46     111     -       -
El.ectmeicms                            25     25      50      25     50      25      25     -       -       -
Instrwiaite Kochu)lcs                   10     10      20      10     20      10    '10      -       -
Stuctutra8lJ.                           26      4      17     21       6              19     25      25
Bric klayer                             12     12      20      20     -       -              20      20
Total Adu1ltS                       112      98    163    101   1i11        81     98      45      45
GRQBJW) TOIAL                      4103    549    630    569    335    3 73    271    221    218    176
.ur: <   



Table 1 0-2
)IEZCG   iAS TRUCRAS SEL PROJECT
MANNING SCHEDUIE AT FUIJL  RODUCTIOJ-1I
Admuini strative
Operating  &B Spervisozy  laintenance  Totals by
Departmel2.              Personnel  Personnel        Personnel  Department
Mine                        112            22             78         212
Crasher/Concentrator         48            22             -           70
Pipeline                      2            -              -            2
Qxaarry                      31             5             10          46
iziim ie-K                   16             4             -           20
Docks                        24             4              4          32
Raw Materials Handling      142             4              8          54
Coke Ovens                   97            15             37         1$9
Pellet Plant                 42            16             35          93
Blast Furnace                71            13             16          100
B.O.F. Plant                 96            33             72          201
Continuous Casting Plant   120             22             72         214
Rod Mill                    200            35             90         325
Light Section Mill          200            40            100         340
Gentral Faciliities         248           596            307        1151
Services                    354            61            261         676
Total                    1703           892           1090        3685
E xcludes head office and sales persornel
ll5f.s-tub 2Projects Departinent
JuTLne 1973



SIDEFRURGICA LAZARO CARDENAS - LAS TRUCHAS
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
19t72                         1973                                              1974                                            197T                          1976
_________  5! tTWJF A lll!lJlJMMll rASOM 1jA JJj4IE                                                                                                                           T {O JT,f_ j∂0,
.~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                         A rfis  01 31!1Si As
Ore Mining                                                            .esueeasuueeabaeesegshm    guuuse.a. e@ 6.tIIUEiCIgIaUgSSIl
Ore Processing                                                            S5BOSSOt&S IUfl   eaa.eBee s               e        iU b5CsS9  auces
Slurry Pipelne                                                             LfM lM,
Limestone Quarrvy                                                                                      e,,....ecsueseueasuaecssesc   s ussC   G
Wharf Fecilities                      saess   ss  aus,ccsucssESasusa                   meses   icsussJtsDaats
Rawa Materials                                         -                    o                              -
Handling                                         .
Pellet Plant                                                                     eastman   sttUWBaSe5t1
Coke Ovens                                         -              *sGaflGcssSacsassaatas          asasssanscaa
Lime Burning                              e                                       asueca   secuassucscsuuus caasecaeeussasi  seCcscesa
Plant                                                                                                                                                      r
Blast Furnacc keseuaan Xaauaacauess    ss    anaasesssaaauausaeeabsaacacent  eanaususseasesa
Steel Making                       :                            scesccsssss ascs    mamesas  t3c23esGsaaum0ass   cusu 3seutuaau.au
(BOF) Plant                                                                                                                            C               v                          sx>Vs 2    C,
Continuous                                                    smesur-saccesacuscsasutaas  sscussusumsscac               caecceuacasse   555
CaGting                                                                             .AMWOM                                                                                                  TM nleTa
Scrap Preparation                                                                         s        eas uea aaa                                    sams2auaa
Mill Building                                                                                 s sssuumsusu.
Light Section
ModlMill
RorJ Mill                   .                                         meumcesmmafifassseus   slauee*esssumususcmsaatecumsaueaeaacsaaeet  secasa3
Oxygen Plant                                                                      E3l5I3585t5  sassaa e cctmutseaases
Povmer Plant                                                      ssecsssse.,:cs sseL  I scm  sac.. cse s ccsessues                assacsaeus  cmas          ecclsl
Electrical                            2'                                                                                                                                                      '1                     ii
Distribution                                                      ua ras asscs s asQscaa  sets aesc           c ectsccra-   a scssasaac
System
Water Services                                                                                                                                                                                  I                    -'
System                                                                                                                                         l
General Services                                             iiY              li                                                         a       assccJaeueum cecs
Central Engineering                                    s
Workshops    _-__                                                                                          __-_  _
LEGEND:    Engineering and Selection of Suppliers                                                                                                     Wrd Bark   7674
Manufacture and Delivery ot Plant                  sa      aassuseesecceu
Field ConstrvcltionFrection/Piant Commissioning  r






IIAW  1 2
B=CC - IUS TRUCHAS STEgL POJECT
CAPITAL COST AD  R






AlNNEX 12-1
MEXICO - LAS TRUCHAS STEEL PROJECT
ESTIMATED PROJECT COST
(US$ million)
Plant and    Plant       Insurance   Erection  aund    Civil    Structural
Spares     Services   and Freight  Commissionil_R    Works         Works        Total
Mine and Quarry                              6.8         0.1          0.1            0.2            0.9        0.1
Crushing and  Concentration                 10.6         0.9          0.8            2.5            6.0        0.9          ?1,;
Slurry Pipeline                              0.8          -           0.1            0.5            0.9        -              ,.
Pellet Plant                                10.8          1.7         0.8            3.5            3 2        15          2)J.
Blast Furnacell/           1                16.0         0.9          0.8            2.3            4.4        3.0
Basic oxygen Furnace (BOF)                  17.9         4.3          1.7            7.0            5.7        4.0.         4
Continuous Casting   I/                     11.7          1.1         0.3            1.9            4.4        2.2          2] ,
Wire Rod and Bar Mill-                      32.2          -           1.3            9.4            6.7        -
Light Section Mill1/                        33.4          -           1.6            9.8           10.'        8.5           ,
Oxygen Plantl/                               4.3         0.2          0.3            1.1           C^,         -
Lime Kiln                                    3.4          0.1         0.2            0.9            !'4        -
Docks and Mw Material Handling              16.1          -           0.7            3.6            Jo         0.3          24'
Coke Ovens;/                                19.2         0.7          2.0            5.1            4,'1 C.1                SI
Fluid and Electrical Services and
Power Plantl/                            42.5          -            1.6           11.3            5,5        1.6
Transport, Workshops, Labs, Offices1/    12.7             1.3         2.0            1.5           e0.,        1.9          29
Site and Temporary Services                  -            1.2         -              -              9i)        _            1-
Insurance                                    -           -            2.9            -              -          -
Mexican Merchant Tax                         2.3         0.4          -              2.5            3.7        0.7
Sub-Total                                240.7        12.9         17.2           63.1           7e6        24.  
Design and Engineering -
Physical Contingencies                                                                                                       ,.
TOTAL FIXED ASSETS
Pre-operating Expenses/7
Initial Working Capital2'/
TOTAL PROJECT COST BEFORE PRICE CONTINGENCIES
Price ContingenciesJa                                                                                                       3S
TOTAL PR3JECT COST                                                                                                         33.
1/  Fixed prices, not subject to escalation; others are June 1973 estimates.
2/ Includes money spent prior to August 1973.
3/ Representing escalation on non-fixed prices.
Industrial Projects Department
August 1973






ANNEX 12-2
IfM0 - LAS TRUCHAS ST1iEL PROJECT
TOTAL CAPITAL REQUEUDNTS CCMPAPQ WITH WORLD STANARDS
1. Comparing the estimated capital cost of the las Trachas project
with the costs of other plants that appear in published literature can be
misleading if a number of factors are not considered. First, published data
appear to be based largely on idealized costs rather than on actual construc-
tion costs, and figures quoted usually are several years old, requiring
escalation to reflect present-day costs. Second, the currency realignments
of 1971 and 1973 have tended to increase equipment costs fraa Japanese and
European suppliers expressed in dollar terms (although not in direct propor-
tion to the changes in parities). Tird, published cost data refer to plants
from the raw material preparation stage onward and thus exclude the cost of
mining and ore beneficiation facilities (such as the Las Truchas project
contains). The cost of a pellet plant also would not be included normally
in published data, but that of a sinter plant would. Since the cost of
these two facilities is approximately the same, the comiparison of Las Truchas
with published data should be made on the basis of total fixed asse-t costs
less the cost of the iron ore and limestone mines and the ore beneficiation
facilities. Fourth, published figures probably do not fully reflect the
cost of anti-pollution devices which are fast becoming standard features of
modern steel plants. Fifth, insufficient or no allaowance is made in most
published data for pre-operating expanses, engineerizg fees, working capital,
start-up costs and initial operating losses. Sixth, site conditions,
specifically the need for piling, have a significant effect on total conistruc-
tion costs and cause wide variations in "standard" figures. Seventh, the
capacity of a plant is somewhat subjective assessment which depends to a
large extent on the skill o it3s management and labor force. Differences
in estimating the capacity of a given plant can amount to as mch as 20%,
with a corresponding effect on unit costs,
2. As Annex 12-1 indicates, the total fixed asset cost of the
Las Tzmchas project is US$199.3 million and the total project cost (without
escalation) Us$597(3 million. A modified estimate, which can be compaed
with published estimates for other plants, is developed as folloas:
ADJUSTED PROJECT COST ESTIMATE
FOR INTERNATIOLAL COMPARISION
US5$ million
Total tiLxed Assets              435,91I
Pre-operating   ses               63.020
Working Capital                   12.5
Totzal                         5114
1/ Excluding iron ore rdne, limstone quarry, crusLer/concentrator, ore
conveyor, and slurry pipeline. Contingencies and design and engineering
costs pro-rated accordingl;y.
2/  Changes pro-rated wi-th changes to fixed assets.
3/ WorkIng capital required to begin operations, ip2us 3 months inventory of
iron ore pellet feed that would be needed if the local iron ore were not
available.



ANNEX 12-2
3. Takng the achievable capacity of the plant as 1.3 million
tons of rzw steel per annum (as opposed to the more conservative planning
figure of 151 million to ns used elseihere in this report), the modified
total implies a capital cost for Las Truchas of about US$395 per annual ton of
raw steel. his is considered very reasonable by world standards for a
plant of this type -- particularly for one that will be remote from exist-
ing maintenance and repair facilities and will be operated by a cozpara-
tively inexperienced work force, both of which necessitate rather more
conservative (and therefore more expensive) design, engineering  ard con-
struction practice than might be possible elsewhere.
4. The scale of the las Truchas operation, particularly in its
first stage, militates agaimst the very high capital productivity achieved
in some of the giant modern work}s of Japan and Europe. It is necessary,
however, to view economies of scale in this context somewhat moore closely
than is normally done. Economies of scale in steel fall into two quite
distinct categories. The first and more obvious category covers plant
facilities having lower capacities than those curmntly being built in
major steel producing countries. Since capital and operating costs do not
inrease in proportion to capacity, the cost per unit of output produced
in the larger facility will., other things being equal, generally be lower
than that of the smaller one. The second category covers the parallel
operation of two or more similar facilities of mairamm scale. Hence, econom-
ies derive from better production scheduling than is possible with single
units and lower ma:itenance, overhead and administration costs per unit of
output.
.  An analysis of SICARTSA's major production facilities along
these lines shows that, in fact, only the blast furace, with a maximum
rated output of 4,100 tons per day, might be placed in the first category.
Even though this is a large furnace, it will be appreciably smaller than a
few blast furnaces in Japan and Europe, which have rated capacities of up
to 10,000 tons per day (but are not part of non-flat steel works). The
balance of the facilities fall into the second category; for exam:ple, the
BOF and continuous casting plant iich, for purposes of this analysis, can
be considered a single enrltity. Given the present state of the art of con-
tinuous casting, 6 strands represent the upper limit for biUlet casters,
if temperature and expansion proble,us are to be avoided. Also, current
practice is to cast 115 mm square billets at a rate of 3 m per minute, Com-
bining the r:xitr, ziumber of strands per machine with the maximu casting
rate shows that t->s appropriate BOF vessel size is 100 tons.  Therefore,
although BOF vesssls -with a capacity of 300 tons are currently in operation,
they are used only in conjunctior, with ingot or continuous slab casting,
not With billet castingc  Silarlyr, the two rolling Mnlls -- the rod and
bar rll and the bar and light section mill -- represent the largest mills
of their resDective type currently being installed -world-wide. Given the
projected product mix, rolling capacity Could be increased only by the
installation of a tird mil.
6. It follows from this brief analysis that the proposed projeot
is of an economic size for a non-flat steel works, even in the context of
the latest developments in the iron and steel industry.
Incdustrial Projects Department
August 1973



A=~ 1 2-3
1l91CO - LAS TRUCHAS STEEL ROJECT
ITIS TO BE FINAICE BY THE BANK
Estirated Cost
Mexican    Foreign
Package No.         Item               Componentl  Comonent Total
Hi         Blast Furnace               8.1        14.3    22.4
H12        Boilers                     3.1         1.0      4.1
S12        KiL Stnrctures             9.4          -       5-4
Vi -2      Locomotives                  -          1.0       1.0
M13        Conveyors Control System   1.3           -        1.3
M8         Pallet Plant               12.4         7a3      19.7
Total Equipment Cost2/    314.3        23.6     57.9
Contingencies              2.7          1.8      4 5
Interest During
Construction              -           7.6      7.6
TOTAL BANK LOAN           37.0         33.0     70.0
1/ Includes esti'Mates of price escalation for each item except HI and
H12, for which firm prices have already been deternined from tenders,
Industrial Projects Department
June 1973



ANN 12-4
MiCO - IAS 1EUCHAS STEEL PROJECT
3STIATD SCEDUIX  OF DISBUP3NTS
Estimated          Estimated
Year         Quarte9 Endixg              Disburments    Amount Undisbursed
1973          December 31                    3.4                  66.6
1974          March 31                       h.2                  62.4
June 30                        8.6                 53.8
September 30                  15.5                 38.3
December 31                   16.1                 22.2
1975          March 31                       8.2                  14.0
June 30                       3.1                  10.9
September 30                   1.7                  9.2
December 31                    1.3                  7.9
1976          March 31                        1.3                  6.6
June 30                        1.3                  5.3
September 30                   1.0                  4.3
December 31.                   1.0                  3.3
1977          March 31                        1.3                  2.0
June 30                        1.0                  1.0
September 30                   0.5                  0.5
December 31                    0.5
Industrial Projects Department
August 1973



ANNEX 13
llXIO - LAS TRUCHAS 3EEL PROJECT
PROMUCTION AND REVENUE BUIIDUP
Unit Value in
1973 Prices l/    Sales Volu.me in 000 Metric Tons
US$/IT        1976    1977    1978    1979    198G
Wire Rod                185.0           26      87     140      175     175
Re-bar (565-12,7mm)    186.0           49      163     260     325      325
Re-bar (12.7-40mim)     186.0          27       90     144     180      183
Other Bar               176,0          21       70     112     1ho      1O!0
Ii.ght Sections         171.0          20       65     104     130     130
Spring Flats            250,0           7      25       40      50      50
Total Tonnage           185.5         150     500      800    1000    1000
Capacity Utilization %                 15       50      80     100      100
(US$ Million)
Gross Revenues (Constant
Prices)                            27.8    92.8   148.4   185,5   185.,5
Less-1.8% Merchant Tax2/            0.5      1.7     2.7     3.3     3.3
Less -iscounts. amd sales           0.9     3.0      4.7     5.9     5.9
service center costs9
Net Revenues (Constant Prices)       26.4    88.1   14i.0   176.3   17D.3
Net Revenues (Current Prices)iv      29.6  1OO.8   164D7   209.9   214.1
1/ Delivered prices Mexico City.
2/  Preferential rate given because of project's location in designated
development region. Noniinal rate is LA
3/  Shoim as a reduction in revenues rather than as an operating cost* .
V  Assumes 12% increase over 1973 prices by 1976.
Industrial Projects Department
August 1973



ALNEX 14.
Iv=GCO - LAS TRUCHAS STEEL PROJECT
OPERATING COSTS FOR ON)bE MILLION TONS FINISHED
PRODUCTS PER ANNUM OUTPJT
1973 prices)
Percent of Total
US$/Ton          Operating  Costs
IFIXED COSTS
Employment                                   12.7                  21 .
Fuel and Energy                               0.2                  0.3
Maintenance Mlaterials-'                      1.3                   2.2
Consumables/Sundries                         0.4                   0.7
Plant Insurance                              1.0                   1.8
Total Fixed Costs                         15.o                  2  5
VARIABLE COSTS
Raw Materials - Coal?/                       15.6                 26.2
- Other                        5.5                   9.3
Fuel and Energy                               3.6/
Maintenance Materialsa                       10.8                  18,3
Consumables/Sundries                         8.0                  13.,":
Total Variable Costs                      43.5                  73.5
TOTAL OPERATING COSTS                        59.1                 100.0
Administrative        Pd s.5                                       ,9
Transport of rFinished Products              8.2                  13.9
TOTAL INCLUDING'z TRAiNSPORT              69.8                 118.1
1/  Includes replacement of spares.
2/  Includes Us$0.2 for port charges.
3/ Assumes quoted road haulage rate of US$13.60 per ton for shipments from
plant to Mexico City, an approximate average haul.  Of this amount,
SCGARTSA must absorb only transport costs for 60% of sales that actually
go to Mexico City markets. Elsewhere in country, customer absorbs
transport costs. Hence transport cost to SICARTSA = 13.6 x 0.6 = 8.2.
Industrial Projects Department
August 1973



ANN  15
MUCO - IAS TRUC'HAS STEEL PROJECT
FNANCIAL ANALYSS






mmXO - LAS TRUCEH  STEEL PROJEC
PRO-FORM PROFIT AND LOSS STATEMENT
(US$ milli)
1/                                    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991
Note-
1 MUT REaVrUEs                           28.9   100.8   164.7   209.9   214.1   218.5   222.7   227.2   231.6   236.3   241.0   245.8   250.7   255.8   260.9   266.1
2    Production Cost                     18.9    44.5    58.8    70.7    72.5    74,9    77.2    79.3    81.9    84.3    86.8    89.4    92.1    94.8    97.7   100.6
GROSS PROFITS                         10.7    56.3   105.9   139.2   141.6   143.6   145.5   147.9   149.7   152.0   154.2   156.4   158.6   161.0   163.2   165.5
3   AdAin1strativa and Transport Costs 4.1        7.4    10.5    12.8    13.2    13,6    14.0    14.4    14.9    15.2    15.7    16.2    16.7    17.2    17.7    182
4    Dapreciatiou                        14.7    29.4    29.4    29.4    29.4    29.4    29.4    29.4    29.4    29.4    29.4    29.4    29.4    29.4    29.4    29.4
S    Anorfiratiov  of Deferced Charga.    5,4    10.7    10.7    10,7    10.7    10,7    10.7    10,7    10.7    10.7         5.4
OPERATIE PROFIT                      (13.5)    8.8    55.3    86.3    88.3    89.9    91.4    93.3    94.7    96.7   103.7   110.8   112.5   114.4   116.1   117.9
6    Incuae frvaInvestants (+)            -        -       -       1.2      7.4    14.6    18.9    25.2    32.7    33.0    36.2    39.5    44.5    51.9    60.7    70.1
7    Interest Paid (-)                   11.2    31.1    31.5    29,4    26.3    23.2    20.1    16.9    13,7    10.4         7.1      4.1     1.7      0.3      -       -
PROFIT BEFORE TAXES                  (24.7)  (22.3)   23.8    58.1    69.4    81.3    90.2   101.6   113.7   119.3   132.8   146.2   155.3   166.0   176.8   188.0
8    Tanaa Paid                                            -       -        -       -        -      22.2    60.1    62.5    68.1    73.8    77.6    82.1    86.6    91,3
NIrI UIMG0,E                         (24.7)  (22.3)   23.8    58.1    69.4    81.3    90.2    79.4    53.6    56.8    64.7    72.4    77.7    83.9    90.2    96.7
9    Di iden,                             '        -       -       -       30.0    30.0    30.0    30.0    26.8    28.4    30.0    30.0    30.0    30,0    30.0    30.0
Transfer to  tetained Earnings     (24.7)  (22.3)   23.8    58.1    39.4    51.3    60.2    49.4    26.8    28.4    34.7    42.4    47.7    53.9    60.2    66.7
Operating Profit/met  Revemles       -       0.09    0.33    0.41    0.41    0.41    0.41    0.41    0.41    0.41    0,41    0.41    0.41    0,41    0.41    0.41
Net Incme/Shareholders Equtty        -        -       0.09    0.17    0.18    0.19    0.19    0.15    0.10    0.10    0.10    0.10    0.10    0.10    0.10    0.10
Dst   1.  C.2-g befor Tza.s  0,6              1,2     1.8     2,0                 Grop-ter thdan 2.0
1/ See Rvnex 15-4
Iaduatrial Projects Dap rL at
August 1973



- L_S TRUCVAS SThREL PROJECT
5F1'0f    $R: ' : a:=W?LAT7.0b (P! euIls ST ,TE S??
(Wsk nUill.on)
1972    1973    1974    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1963    1964    1985
1oes            SOURO%S OF FUNiD5
Note 
1   Net Income                                              -       -        -        -     (24.7)  (22.3)   23.8    58.1    69.4    81.3    90.2    79.4    53.6    56.3
4   Depreciation                                            -        -       -        -      14.7    29.4    29.4    29.4    29.4    29.4    29.4    29.4    29.4    29.4
5   Amortizatiou of Deferred Charges                        -       -        -        -       5.4    10.7    10.7    10.7    10.7    10.7    10.7    10.7    10.7    10.7
Total Cash from Operatlons                              -       -                 -      (4.6)   17.8    63,9    98.2   109,5   121.4   130.3   119,5    93.7    96.9
10   Increase in Accounts Payable                            -        -       -        -        2.8     1.4      2.5     0.1      0.2      0.2     0.2      0.2      0.2     0.2
Equity Paid In                                         12.8    31.0   137.0   109.5       9.7          -        -       -            -            -            -        -
U.K. Grant                                              -       -        0.4     0.1      -        -       -
11   Lng Term Debt Drawdown - IBRD                           -        3.4    44.4    14.3      4.6      2.3      1.0     -            -        -    _       _        _
- 1DB                         -       2.0    22.7    21.2       7.3      0.8     -        -            -            -        -                -
- Bilateral                   -       6.2    68.0    59.6    39.6        5.2     -
- Other                               -        -       -       61.7    13.7                                -                         -
Total Loans Drawn Down                                  -      11,6   135.1    95.1   113.2    22.0        1.0      -        -       -        -        -       -        -
TOTAL SOURCES                                         12.8    42.6   272.5   204.7   121.1    41.2    67.4    98.3   109.7   121.6   130.5   119.7    93.9    97.1
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
12   Investment in Fixed Assets                              -      35.1   251.9   164.9    61.1    15.6         1.0      -       1.4      14.5 S
10   Increase ine Inventories                                -        -       -        1.3    13.8      8.0    12.8      0.8      1.1      0.4      1.8     1.2      t.1      1.3
10   Inctease in Receivablee                                 -                         -       16.7     8.0    14.3       0.8     0.8      0.8      0.8     0.8      0.8      0.8
10   Iecrease in Cash-in-l-and                               -        -       -        -        1.8     0,8      1.5     0,1      0.1      0.1      0.1     0.1      0.1      0.1
Total Increase in Current Assets                        -       -        -        1.3    32.3    16.8    28.6       1,7      2.0      1.3     2.7      2,1      2.0     2.2
5   Increase in Deferred Charges                           12.8      7.5    20.6    38.5    27.7        -       -        -        _       _        _        _       _
11   lepayment of Long Term Debt                             -        -       -        -        -       8.8    21.8    35.4    35.7    36.1    36.6    37.1    37.6    38.1
9   Dividends Paid                                          .        -       -                 -       -        -        -      30.0    30,0    30.0    30.0    26.8    28.4
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                                    12.8    42.6   272.5   204.7   121.1    41.2    51.4    37.1    69.1    81.9    69.3    69.2    66.4    68.7
%Oror~     V. 
6   Surplus Cash to Investment                              -        -       -        -        -       -       16.0    61.2    40.6    39.7    61.2    50.5    27.5    28.4    .
17  See Aamex5-4
Industrial Projects Departmet
August 1973



HMEICO - LAS TEICE   STEEL PEojEOr
PROPOMF0W BhAZA4C SHEEX
1972    1973    1974    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985
NotelS
10   C"h in Hand                                   -        -       -        -       1.8      2.6     4.1      4.2     4.3      4.4      4.5      4.6     4.7      4.8
6   Surplus Cash for Investment                            -        -       -       -        -      16.0    77,2   117.8   157.5   218.7   269.2   296.7   325.1
10   Inventories                                   -        -       -        1.3    15.1    23.1    35.9    36.7    31.8    38.2    40.0    41.2    42.3    43.6
10   Receivables                                   -        -       -        -      16.7    24.7    39.0    39,8    40.6    41.4    42.2    43.0    43.8    44.6
Total Current Assets                          -        -       -        1.3    33.6    50.4    95.0   157.9   200.5   241.5   305.4   358.0   387.5   418.1
12   Gross Fixed Aseata                            -       35.1   287.0   451.9   513,0   528.6   529.6   529.6   531.0   545,5   545.5   545.5   545.5   545.5
4   Accumolated Depreciation                       -       -        -       -     (14.7)  (44.1)  (73.5) (102.9) (132.3) (161.7) (191.1) (220.5) (249.9) (279.3)
Het Fixed Assets                              -       35.1   287.0   451.9   498.3   484.5   456.1   426.7   398.7   383.8   354.4   325.0   295.6   266.2
5   Deferred Charges                              12.8    20.3    40.9    79.4   107.1   107.1   107.1   107.1   107.1   107.1   107.1   107.1   107.1   107.1
5   Accmwlated Ae.rtizatien                        -       -        -       -       (5.4)  (16.1)  (26.8)  (37.5)  (48.2)  (58.9)  (69.6)  (80.3)  (91.0) (101.7)
Net Deferred Charges                          -       20.3    40.9    79.4   101.7    91.0    80.3    69.6    58.9    48.2    37.5    26.8    16.1            5.4
TOrA-7 ASSFTS                                 12.8    55.4   327.9   532.6   633.6   625.9   631.4   654.2   658.1   673,5   697.3   709.8   699.2   689.7
LIABILITIES
10   A;e*ato Payable                                                 -                2.8     4.2      6.7     6.8      7.0      7.2     7.4      7.6      7.8      8.0
11   Current Portion of LT Debt                             -        -       -        8.8    21.8    35.4    35.7    36.1    36.6    37.1    37.6    38.1    38.6
Total Current Liabilities                      -       -        -       -       11.6    26.0    42.1    42.5    43.1    43.8    44.5    45.2    45.9    46.6
11   Laong Term Debt - IUD                          -       3.4    47.8    62.1    66.7    66.6    62.4    56.9    51.0    44.6    37.7    30.3    22.4    13.9
- IDB                         -        2.0    24.7    45.9    53.2    51.4    34.9    30.8    26.7    22.6    18.5    14.4    10.3             6.2
- Bilaterals                  -        6.2    74,2   133.8  164.6   153.0   148.0   130.6   113.2    95.8    78.4    61.0    43.6    26.2
- Other                       -        -        .       -      61.7    75.4    66.7    58,0    49.3    40.6    31.9    23.2    14.5            5.9
Total Long Term Debt                           -      11.6   146.7   241.8   346.2   346.4   312.0   276.3   240.2   203.6   166.5   128.9    90.8    52,2
U.K. Grant                                             -       0.4      0.5      0.5     0.5      0.5      0.5     0.5      0.5      0.5     0.5      0.5      0.5
Paid io Equity                                12.8    43.8   180.8   290.3   300.0   300.0   300.0   300.0   300,0   300.0   300.0   300.0   300.0   300.0
Ret.afFd.arnL  a                               -       -        -       -      (24.7)  (47.0)  (23.2)   34.9.   74.3   125.6   185.8   235.2   262.0   290.4
Nt  Sheb 1ders F,q fty                         -      43,8   180.8   290.3   275.3   253.0   276.8   334.9   374.3   425.6   485.8   535.2   562.0   590.4
TOTAL LIA6fIV111ES AND WAl!ITAL               12.8    55.4   327.9   532.6   633.6   625,9   631.4   654.2   658.1   673.5   697.3   709.8   699.2   689.7
CUR T RAT                                     - IO              -       -        2.9     1.9      2,3  )
QUIGi( RATIO                                   _       _        _       _        1.6      1.0     1.4  )  Greater than 2.0
DEH8T1/QUnTY RATIO                            -      21/79   45/55   45/55   56144   59/41   56/44   48/52   42/58   36/64i  30/70   24/76   19/81   13/87
/ See Annex 15-4
Ildustrial Projects Departnieit
August 1973






ANNEX 15_4
MEIICO - TLAS   UCHAS STEEL PROJECT
NOTES TO FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
1.        Net Revenues - Shown net of taxes and average discounts; in-
flated at 2% per annum after 1976,  See Annex 13.
2.        Production Costs - Inflated at 3% per annum from 1973 figuares
shown in Annex 14.
3.        Administrative and Transport Costs - Sam  as for (2),
4.        Depreciation - Following rates used:
Fixed Plant            6  p.a.
Mobile Plant          20% 
Buildings              3 ISt
Office Equipment      1 0%
.         IDeferred Charges - Breakdown is as follows:
1972    1973    1974    1975    1976    Total
Pre-operating Expenses           6.$0    6.3    10.8    16.1    11.0       50.2
BSC Fees                         1.8     5.4      5.5     4.7      2.4     19.8
Escalation on Above               -        -      0.8     2.2      2.2      5.9
Interest During Construction      -      0.8      3.5    15i5    12.1      31.9
Total Deferred Charges           7.8    12.5    20.6    38.5    27.7    107.1-
Total is amortized over 10 years (10% p.a.)
6e        Investments - Surplus cash generated but not requi-"ed for day-to-
day operations will be invested either in short-tern securities or in plant
expansion.  In either case the return is assumed to be 10% per annum (simple).
7.        Interest - Assumed average for all loans.  See Note 11 below.
8.        Taxes - SICARTSA normally would be required to pay income tas at
the rate of2, but since th.e pro,,ect is located in a desi&nated development
area, the company can depreciate its assets for tax purposes at the most
convenient rate possible,  Hence, no income taxes are pro,ected uztil 1983
since tax depreciation will be taken at the rate necessary to keep net tax-
able profits at thwe zero level until the plant is fl-ully depreciated on the
tax books.
9.        Dividends - Although no dividend policy has been decided, it has
been assumed forillustrative pgaposes Ithat a dividend equal to 10, of paid-
in capital, but not exceeding 50% of net income, -will be paid out once  2he
Debt/Equity ratio drops below 505/G0



ANle 1 5
AN~'X ~-4
10.       Working Carital Assurrnnons
Weeks
Cash in Hand                                     1
Raeceivables                                    10
Raw Mateials - Coal                             12
Other                          4
Semi -f rished stocks                            2
Finishe5 ?ro±act Stocks                          4
Accounts Payabie.
Trade C -redIL-rs                                6
AIniind   Salaries                             1
Labor Wages                                   Ω
?ice escalation is assulmed at average 3% p.a.
Long Term Dabt -
ISRO: U1$70 m:Illion ecuiralent for 15 years, including 5 years
grace, at 7Finterest plus a 1-3/U,. Go zemiaent guarantee feet.  Re?ay-nents
of principal and interest in 22 equal semi-annual installments comnwencing
second half of 1977.
D33   US$B, nillion equivalent for t5 years, including 5 years
grace, at  Irnterest.  Feayfen, of principal in 22 equal semi-annu-3l in-
stalLmients c_omnwencing second ha:l- of '-9727
3ilateral Fi  rcing   U3$ '-&6 nilLion equivalent.  Asstmed average
tezm of 1         st ( interest, with repayments to begin one 7rea  after
startup, or the equivalent of 4 years of grace; first sem -annku -pay3ent
in second ialf of 1977
0-Other Loans: Unsneci fied Scuzes, totalling US$7y5,  a Ilion
ecuivalent iuteri of II yea-:s. including 3 years gr? e, at 9%
interest, 3o rs  drawdown not unwil t   976 and first repayment 3 yeass later;
epayment in mnanner sdilar to  i3DBoan.
2,      2 2     ARd Assets - See  fnne x .or counilete breakdown.    calav on
rates used are as fcill_vs:
Service-s, Freight a.nd Insurance Erec on
I Con. C0t7mis s cn ng                              6S p.a.
L%i I Works, $tructres, Design and Engineering           5' p.a.
Oo-:-ingencies                                         5-6% p.a.
austxr:ar. ?   ects IDen- tan6 -~e
ffugu'st W,



MEXICO - IAS TJCUAS STEEL PROJECT
FINANCIAL SEWSITIVITY AN&LYSIS
BASIC ASSUI?rl(IOS                                                                    RESULTS
Real
Buildup to                     Price         Change in                 Change      Rate     Net Cash
Full    I                  Decrease         Capital      Startup    in Op.        of      Accum, to          Debt  e     e Covera           Maximum
1/  ~~~~~~~,/                                                                     ___
Case      Production- 1      uty       from Baset         Cost         _ela      Costs      Return-/    1980            1976   1977   1978   1979    Debt/Equitz
(US$  jllion)   (% p.a.)    (US$ million)  (years)        (%     )            (uSS million) --       Times Covered ------        (Ratio)
Al (Base)      24           300             0               0            0          0          11          118           0.6    1,2    1.8    2.0         59/41
B1            54            300            0                0            0          0          10           67           0.6    0.8    1.7    1.9         60/40
A2             24           300             1               0            0          0          10          108           0,6    1.2    1.8    1.9         59/41
B2             54           300             1               0            0          0           9           57           0.6    0.8    1.6    1.8         60/40
A3             24           300             0             -60            0          0          13          131           0.7    1.7    2.4    2.7         49/51
B3             5'          300             0             -60            0          0          12           92           0.7    1.2    2,2    2.5         51/49
A4             24           320             0             +60            1          0           9           20            -      0.1    0.7    0.8         67/33
B4             54           320             0             +60            1          0           8            3            -      0.1    0.5    0.6         68/32
A5             24           300             0               0            0        +15           9           80            0      0.9    1.5    1.7         61/39
B5             54           300             0               0            0        +15           9           31            0      0.5.   1,3    1.5         63/37
1/ Production Buildup (000 tons):
1976   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982
Cases Al to A5    150    500    800   1D00    1000   1000   1000
Casen BI to B5    135    350    700    800    900    950   1000
Csse Al is the basis for all financial projections inL Annexes  5-thr     15-3.
2/  Base case assumes prices to increase at 2. p.a. (see Note 1, Annex 15-4).  Sensitivity cases A2 and B2 assume oaly 17. p.a. price! increase.
3/  In c.nstalxt dollar terms.
Industri/al Projects Department
August 1973






AMM i-6
MEXICO - LAS TRUCHAS STEEL PROJECT
CASH BREAK-EVEN SALES LEVELS
1.000   -r
700o__ _                                                _             _
z
0
SW
oort ~          a
900
w~~~~~~~~~~~
8J  00                                                  _ _ _    _
z
300  __                 _
BREAK EVEN i~:VELS
WIM SALES PLAN
100  __                   __     __  _j,,,,,             I__
197 t    1977         97            1979          1
i 49 | 8R~~EAR VNLEVL  
i g            # # zD ES SALES PLAN    orld j k-7






`7IDLrvTIVAF.E: 0iEP10NOorFP
-~          *r, CD uu              Yl£V '- TXaT4
1, 2.    '  iS
I'_   _  _12\',-






ANNEX 16-l
MEXICO - LAS TRUCGAS STEEL PROJECT
ECONOMIC EVALUATION
Introduction
1. The Bank's economic evaluation of the project addresses two
basic questions:  (i) Is the Las Truchas project the appropriate next major
step in Mexico's steel expansion program,, and (ii) will the project be
economically viable in an absolute sense? The first question has been viewed
in mostly qualitative terms insofar as detailed cost data on the ecisting
industry have not been available. This situation is expected to irnrove with
completion of the Battelle nridustry study for the Steel Co=mission Annex 3-2).
The second question has been viewed in traditional Bank terms, excluding the
regional benefits of the project that clearly form a major part of the
Government's rationale for undertaking this project in the chosen location.
Our analysis considers the project siiply in terms of its import sabstitution
effect. The regional issue is not ignored, however, and is examined separately
in Annex l7.
A. Las Truchas Versus Other Alternatives
Available 2etions
2. There are three basic routes that Mexico could have chosen to
fill the steel demand/supply gap projected for the late l970's (see Annex 1:
(i)  Importation of semi-finished steel products (billets and
slabs) for domestic rolling into finished products;
(ii) Production of steel in electric furnaces, based on sponge
iron and imported scrap, followed by the rolling of products;
(iii) Fully itegrated steel production using domestic or imported
coal and iron ore.
3. It would not be practical for Mexico to attempt to meet future
growth of demand on a long-term basis via imports of steel billets aId sl'abs,
since supplies on such a large scale would be both difficult to obtain ard
expensive.  During the past several years, term contracts for semi-finished
steel supply have not been easily available on the export market, even with
price variation clauses, and fixed price contracts for more than 90 days have
been unusual. Therefore, if Mexico is not to place a major sector of its
economy at the mercy of highly unpredietabl-e world suppliers, it has to produce
raw steel in integrated or semi-integrated plants.
4. The electric furnace route presents d4fficulties i7or large
increases in capacity because of the inherent volatility of the world scrap
market -- particularly with regard to prices -- and the high economic cost
of electricity in Mexico. Today, Zbxico imports about 600,000 tons of scrap
per annum for steel production, and rno doubt there is a continuing role for
scrap-based increases in production capacity of a marginal nature, particularly
for specialty steel.  As a long-term policy, however, Mexico's posi'tion as a net



ANNEX 16-1
Page 2
.porter if scrap and high-cost enez-gy consumer makes this an unattractive
al'rnative.  This leaves fully integrated steel production as the favored
ms-mtod for Yexico to meet projected demand increases -- aside from importing
steel products themselves which the analysis in section B of this Annex
damonstrates to be unattractive.
5. The integrated capacity now planned for Las Truchas could have
been installed at a coastal location, or it might have been provided through
expansion of the existing integrated mils, all of which are located inland.
A further alternative would have been installation of new facilities adjacent
to the existing mills.  The Government's choice of a coastal location is
ju-stified largely because of raw material constraints in the country. It.
follows the dominant pattern established world-wide during recent years to-
wards locatLng new steel facilities at coastal sites to utilize high quality
inported raw materials transportbed from distant locations in large bulk
carriers. While Mexico l11 not be inporting =uch iron ore in the near term,
its limited national reserves make this inevitable within the next 10-15 years.
Iron Ore
6.  Mexico's primary integrated facilities are located in the
Monterrey-Monclova area in the northern State of Nueva Leon and in Puebla,
near Mexico City. The largest producer is AIfSlA irn Monclova, whose crude
steel capacity is 2.5r million tons per annum. The company obtains its iron
ore from the La Perla mine, 403 Im away, but since only about five years of
reserves remain at this location, AIM4SA must obtain its subsequent long-term
ore supplies from the Pena Colorada mine now under development in Colima 1520
km to the southwest on the Pacific coast.  The second major producer is Fundidora
in Monterrey, whose iron ore supplies come 661 km from Cerro de Mercado in
Durango and the more recently developed Hercules mine in Goahuila, 4h64 km to
the north.  FuAndidora plans to exDand its annual capacity to about 1.5 million
tons before 1976, at which rate these iron ore reserves would last for 25 to 30
years.  The third major integrated producer is the HYLSA group, witih plants
in Monterrey and Puebla. These use a gas-based direct reduction process and
electric furnace steel-making and nave a total raw steel capaci-ty ot about
900,3OO tons. HYILSA's iron ore presently is obtained .rom a Encino in Jalisco,
but this resernve will be mined out soon, and the company, like Altos Hornos,
riua-t mve its source to the Pena Colorada mine, 1043 km from Puebla and
1500 km from, the Monterrey plant.
7.        SuDstantial increases in steel production at the present locations
wouLia overload already-strained iron cre supplies. Even if sufficient reserves
were available (Pena Colorada itself has only 90 million tons of reserves),
the economic costs of tneir transport would be high due to the long distances
-.avdyed, particularIy for Au-ISA and HYLSA, -Who are far from their long-term
source at Pena Colorada.  The Las Truchas project, alternatively, is located
virtually next to iron ore reserves that will be able to supply rrre than
30 years of operation at ths initial production level; and, in the long run,



ANNEX 16-1
Page 3
the plant1s location on a deepwater port will facilitate imports of high
quality iron ore from elsewhere in the world.  The existing companies could,
of course, impcrt iron ore; but their inland locations place them at a cost
disadvantage vis-a-v.is the Las Truchas site.
Coal
8. The coal situation is different. Altos lHornos and Fundidora
use Mexican coal from reserves in the northern part of Coahuila, near the
United. States border.  While abundant, this coal is low in quality. When washed
its fixed carbon content averages 62% and^ ash content 16%, compared with 72%
and 8% respectively for the Austral.ian and/or Canadian coals that Las Truchas
wa±.il import.  The higher coking costs these quality di:fferences inply for the
northern producers mst ue weighed against the coal price advantages they
obtain t1uough closer proximity to the coal source -- the Las Tiuchas coal,
of course, carrying subst1antial sea freight charges.  Reliable cost figures
for 3iexican coal are hard to comn by, but there is evidence that a long-term
price delivered to the existing northerr. producers (assumirg economic costs
for rail tra,nsport soire 25% higher than the present rail tariff) would be
around US$18-20 per ton at 1973 prices, conpared with US$20-22 for the coal
to be imported by Las Truchas. The difference is roughly made up by the
lower coking costus for Las Truchas.
9.  Although cost differentials between the existing steel producers'
use of domestic coal and the use of ixorted coal by Las Truchas probably
are small, it should be recognized that the latter is vulnerable to possible
future coal scarci-ty on export markets and, hence, possible long-term cost
increases vis-a-vis the domestic resource.  Furthermore, the use of inmorted
coal represents a very substantial foreign exchange expenditure that should
not be ignored.  Under these circumstances, the coal situation clearly favors
the existing producers;  it is not, however, considered great enough to over-
rilde Las Truchas, advantages in other areas.
Natural Gias
10.  HYLSA's direct reduciuon process uses natural gas as the
redulcing agent instead of coal, with very important economic imlications.
MSA obtaimns the gas from the national oil company, Pemex, at rates which
Pemex maintains are insufficient even to cover production and transmission
expenses, let alone the opportunity cost of the gas itself, which has attrqctive
alternative uses in Mexico.  It is understood that Pemex has refused to increase
InLSA's gas supplies without a very significant increase in the price, and
that this effectively has blocked HYLSA's recent expansion plans.  At economic
gas price levels, substantial increases in hYSA's capacity seem to be out of
the question.
Water
11.  Las Truchas has a Thrther advantaFe in its location alongside
the Rio Balsas, which prlovides a virtually unlimited supply of process water.
HYLSA/Puebla has no water problem, but the AhMISA, Fund- dora and zILSA plants
in the arid northern region must pump water from depths of as much as 2000
meters, at high cost. iFurther expansiori at these sites would only exacerbate
this problem.



ANEX 16-1
Page 4
E-lectric it
12. Electricity for the Las Truchas project will come from the
nearby La Villita hydroelectric plant, with insignificant transmission
losses. This gives Las Truchas a further advantage over the other integrated
producers -- principally HYLSA, which consumes large amounts of power in its
electric furnaces.
Transport of Finished Products
13.  The Las Trachas site is about 700 km from the main steel market
in  e-xico C-ty, versus mXore than 1,000 km for the northern producers. Despite
the fact that the project will hasten the need for iai-rovements in the trans-
port system linking the project region with the development and more-highly-
populated center of the country, the long-term economic costs of transport
from Las Truchas are certain to be lower than those of the more distant
producers.  Only HYLSA/Puebla is an exception, but this is unattractive as a
major expansion alternative for other reasons.
Other Coastal Jocations
14.  The only other potential plant location in Hexico matching the
primary conditions that exist at Las Truchas -- proximity to exploitable
iron ore reserves and an ex2isting or potential deepwater port -- is the
city of Manzanillo, some 250 kmn up the coast. It is 60 km from the Pena
Colorada iron ore reserves (versus 20 km from tne Las Truchas plant site
to its mine) and has an already-developed port and road/rail transport
system connecting with Mexico City that would require less investment than is
being put into the Las Truchas infrastructure. There are a number of operational
disadvantages that would be associated with a Manzanillo site, such as no
suitable open space for development directly adjacent to the port; but, primarily,
Nanzanillo was rejected i favor of Las Truchas as a conscious decision by
the Government to use the steel project as the means of developing the com-
paratively poor coastal area along the Michoacan/Guerrero state border, adding
a new development "pole" in a water-rich area and an improved outlet to the
Pacific for Mexico City.
Conclusion
15.  The above analysis obviously is not rigorous, for it does not
include actual calculations of capital and operating costs for the various
alternatives that might have been possible. A valid conclusion does not,
however, require such rigor. If the Las Truchas project were viewed simply
as a means of adding a million tons to Mexican steel product capacity, it
probably would be a more expensive route than marginal expansions of the
existing producers, whose capital expenditures per ton of additional capacity
and start-ulD costs would be lower.  Wdien one views the situation over a long
time horizon, however, and considers Las Truchas not simply as a million-ton
steel producer but as one with an eventual output of several times that amount,
the short-term capital cost advantages that might have been obtained at the
alternative sites are overwhelmed by the higher operating costs that almost
certainly would have resulted from their raw material and transport disadvantages.



ANNEX l0-1
Page 5
On this basis, the Las Truchas project, as it has been conceived, is con-
sidered thie appropriate next step to be taken in Mexico's steel expansion
program.
B. Economic Return Calculations
AsTtions
16, The economic cash fjLow has been based on the financial pro-
jections of Annex 15, modified (i) to r=place the comnercial benefit stream
with one based onte  opportunity cos:t of steel imports to !4ex.>o  (ii) to
eliminate internal Mexican taxes from the cost streams,, (iii) to adjust ahe
costs of fuel and electricity upward .O ref"lect the inadequacy an economic
temns o-f present aarket prices for these inputs, (iv) to reflect the economic
cost of SICARTSAfs use of the port, and (v) to incluide the full economic
cost of transporting SICkRT'7As finished products.  No shadow pricing of
labor las been employed.
17.  A suirnary of the adjustments made to the financial cost streams
is shown i, Annex 16-2. All are expressed in constant 1972 dollars, adjusted
for the effe~fTT 73 exchange rate changes.  Comments on the maj-or ajust-
ments are as follows:
(.i) Fuel and Electricity Costs - These have been shadow-priced
respectively at 3   and 407S above their current selling prices in Mexico, in
line with the findings of the Bank's most recent Economic Mission.
(ii)  Port Costs - As noted in Annex 5, the comnnercial port tariff
asswaed by SICARTSA allocates the largest portion of port revenues to general,
non-steel-related traffics which may or may not materialize to the extent prco-
jected. In Annex 16-3, a calculation is made of' the equivalent annual cost
of' buildiing,oeaing and maintaining the port in perpetuity, assuming a 10%
cost of capital, This comes out to US$2.5 million per year. If 85% is
allocated to steel-related traffics, then SICARTSA should carry an annual
economic cost of UT$2.1 million for port services.  This percentage is used
in Bank's analysis, but it should be recognized as very conservative in view
of the likely long-terrm growth of non-steel traffics through the port.
(iii)  Transport Costs - In the base case of the economic analysis
the transport cosfor1 .nTshed products used in the financial asses:sment
havte been increased by 124 to reflect the estimated full economic costs of
transport to the project if trucks were used excl-asively.  The fi_gures were
based on road rates over the entire distance from the Plant to Mexico City
(which is a reasonable average distance from the plant in addition to being
the principal steel market) and estimates made during the course of the trB:s-
port study carried out for S1C,ALTSA and described in Annex 6. In using these
figures, the implicit assumption is msade that a more economic long-term forn
of transport than road will be possible and that the estimates therefore can
be considered conservative.  To provide a fhritier chec-k on the assumptions,
a sensitivity test ha.s been carried out assuming a 50% increase in the traais-  0
port cost strea3 used in the base case.



ANNEX 16-1
Page 6
(iv) Revenues - The benefit stream in the economic projection
comprises the expenditures Mexico would have to incur to import similar
quantities of steel products if it chose not to produce steel domestically
at Las Truchas. The long-term projections for average European export
prices, as developed in Annex 2, have been used for this calculation, with
the addition of sea freight, port handling and inland transport expenditures
to move the steel from Europe to Mexico City. The resulting range of deliver-
ed import proces is as follows:
LONG TERM4 STEEL IMPORT PRICES
TO IRZXI0 CITY tl976-91)
(1973 Us$/ton)
Probable Probable
Average Cost FOB Europe          H i                   M
Sea Freight                                 20          20
Port Handling                                4           4
Inland Transport                             8          8
Delivered Price Mexico City                188        200
1/
The sea freight cost is based on the Mzeller/Kawahit/ estimate of likely
rates for Europe/Mexico charters in the early 1980's; port handling and
inland transport costs are based on assessments of actual costs in Mexico
today, and are considered conservative.
Results
18.  The economic benefit and cost streams described above, have
been subjected to a computer sensitivity analysis, the results of which are
shown graphicaUly in Annex 16-4. Two sets of projections have been made, one
for the expected production buildup period of 21 years (corresponding to the
"A" cases of the financial sensitivity analysis in Annex   )  and the
other for a slow buildup period of SΩ years (corresponding to the "B" finaraci..l
cases). In each set, the sensitivity of the project's economic return is
measured against variations in (i) the import price for steel, (ii) transport
costs for finished products, (iii) operating and port costs, (iv) a Conmletion
delay and cost overrun, and (v) combinations thereof.
19. The results of the sensitivity analysis covering the probable
range of import prices defined in paragraph 17 are as follows:
1/  See Annex



ANNEX 16-1
SENSITTV-LTY TESTS OV  RCN
OF FROBABIi SWL IMRT PRICES
Range of Rates of Ratrn
(1) Base Caes                                12-13                11-12
(2)  Trasnport Costs up 50%                  11-12                10-11
(3)  Operating and Port Costs up 75%         10-12                 9-11
(4) Combination of (2) aud (3)                9-11                 8-10
(5) Completion Delay of I year and
9millon oost overrun                 9-10                 8-9
20, Tri probable ec.onomic retar5n of the project can be seen to
range from 12 to 13%,, dependJng on the steel price. At the mao.muDi possible
price, the return rises to 15-16%. The retarn is fairly insensitive to a
50% increase in the assmd costs of transport, tending to diminish the
importance of this '.nput .ram arn economic viewpoint -- al.thoug  not from an
operational perspective.  Mhe 15% increase in operating and port costs --
mhch is sufficient to cover most contingencies in this categony    reduces
the retuxn by up to twr percentage points; taken together with the tranaport
increase tle retu=n goes down by an additional percentage point. riailar
results are obtained from the completion dela,y and cost overr0 n. In the
worst cases, the return drops to 8%, but the combinations of adverse eirum-
stances that these cases represent are considered unlikely.
21. Had fll shadow pricing of all inThts been used in the above
&nalysis, instead of the partial shadow pricing actually employed, the cal-
culated returns no doubt would have been higher. Capital costs, for example,
are made up mainly of imported machinery and local construction. Shadow
pricing of foreign exchange would raise the costs of the fornr and shadow
pricing of labor would slightly lover the latter, vith the zet remaut un-
likely to be a significant ohange one way or another in the return, In
operating the plant, the unskilled portion of labor costs will not be large,
and using shadow prices for it would have little effect. Material costs
would go up with the assuned pre:iwa on foreign e=change -- for coal and oil
in particular -- but total materials costs would go up by less than  this
premium, Transport costs also might rise with higher fuel costs, but, as
seen above, the return is not greatly sensitive to even a 50% increase in
total traxasport costs.
22. The principal effect of shadow pricing would be on the value
of the steel produced, which would rise by the full amount of the premiwa
on foreign exchange. Since this increase would be greater Ln total than the
sum of arq similarly-caused incr'aees in input costs, the ret result would
be a higher rate of reta=. :fence, the reurn estimates calculated above
can be considered conservative.



ANX O 6-1
23. 3:t is concludad that the probability of an economic ret=
azeding 10% is verY h , ad, that on this basis, the project is econom-
iA fll viable in the l4eGcan oontezt. Again it should be noted that none
of these figres tabs secondary benefits of the project into account; nor
do tbe consider the economies of scale that Mill be possible in the second
and subequent stages of the project, with resulting increases in the real
retai  of the projet to the 1b.can econoV over the long run.
Industrial Projetas Depa
agust1 1973



MEXICO - IAS TRUCHAS STEEL PROJECT
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
ADJUSTME,NTS TO FINANCIAL COST ESTIMATES FOR EGONOMIC ANALYSIS11
Financial Cost2/ A!lLustments   Economic Cost                       Basis forAdiustment
(US$/ton of Steel Produ)ct)
Plant Operating Costs
Salaries and Wages                          12.7             (0.9)          11.8            Average income tax of 7/ on salaries and wages
Raw Materials - Coal                        15.4               -            15.4
- Other                       5.5               -             5.5
Fuel and Electricity                         3.8              1.1            4.9            Shadow Prices: Electricity 1.3, Fuel Oil 1.4 (less 10% tax).
Maintenance Materials                       12.1             (0.8)          11.3            Turnover tax 47 plus 27 due to cascade effect.
Consumable/Sundries                          8.4             (0.5)           7.9            Same as above.
Administrative and Insurance                 3.5             (0.2)           3.3            Average income tax of 77% on employment portion.
Total Operating Costs                       61,4             (1.3)          60e1
Port Costs                                     0.2              1.9             2.1           85% of full economic cost of port - see text.
Transport of Finished Products                 8.2              7.0            15.2           Full economic cost of 100% of products.4'
Grand Total                                   69.8              7.6            77.4
1/  See Annex 11 for capital oDsts of project, which are assumed to be the same for both financial and econoaic analyses.  Latter, however,
uses unescalated figures.
2/ See Annex 14.
3/ 1973 prices.
4/ See Annex W6I., para. 17 (iii)r.
Industrial Projects Department
August 1973






A=X 16-3
mMEICo - LAS TRUCHAS STEL EPRO3ECT
CALCULATION OF ECONOMIC COST OF PORT SERVICES
Perpetual
Original   Useful Replacemypt    Present Value of
Item                    Investrment   Life     Factor-     Perpetual Replacement
(3 Xmillion)  (years)                       mililin,
Breakwater                     14.5        75      1.0007              14.5
Lighthouse, Beacons and
Signals                       4.0        15      1.315                5.3
Dredging                      180.0/  Indefinite 1.0                  180.0
Land                           23.0    Indefinite 1.0                  23.0
Access Roads                   11.4        15      1.315               15.0
Open Storage Areas              3.8        15      1.315                5.0
Transit Shed                    4 a        30      1.061                5-1
Berths (200 m)                 25.O6./     50      1.009               25.2
Water and Power                 7.5        30      1.061                8.0
Administrative Building         0.9        30      10)61                1O0
Total                 274.9                                   282.11
M  million/yr      US$ million/yr
Annual cost of perpetually-replaced
assets = 0.10 x 282.1                        28.2                2.2
Add annual operating and maintenance
costsL/                                       3.3                0.3
Tota. xrinual Cost                         315                 2 .5
85% SICARTSA Portion                       26.8                2.1
1/            (   rt
Factor =  (1 + r)          where r = rate of return   0.10
(1+ r)t1          and t = useful life
2/ No account is taken of the resale value of land filled with the dredged
material.
3/ Excludes 400 m of berth planned for the port but not needed for SICARTSA
traffics
4/  Marina estimate.
Industrial Projects Department
May 1973






M= 16-4
EUROPEAN STEEL EXPORT PRICE - US $ TON
150          160          170           180         190           200
...~~ I                        ,      I            I :lulI ' 
17                                                                           17
MEXICO - LAS TRUCHAS STEEL PROJECT
ECONOMIC RETURN
16
1        2
15 _            SENSITIVITY TESTS                                   '        15
14                         PROBABLE                                  414
LONG-TERM HIGH                                       14
S
13                                                                  4        13
z
D  PROBA  LE
I-wLONG-TERM LOW
C
8 _                                                                   5I  E  lw1:X  r  rd  uiu 
UJ 12[                                                                          1
0  ~~~~~~~~~~~~LNG-TERM HIGHJ
o144 2                                             /  2a11
2
4                   ~~~~~KEY
nommum    Expected (2Y/a yr.) Prod. Buildup
r              11111111111= Slow (SY. yr.) Prod. Buildup
4                   ~~~~~~~~1. Base Cases
2. Transport Costs up 50%.
3. Operating/Port costa up 15%.
4. Combination of 2 and 3.
5. Project Completion Delay of 1 yr. and
7                                       US $60 million cost overrun.      47
180          190           200          210          220           230
DELiVERED PRICE MEXICO CITY FOR STEEL
IMPORTS FROM EUROPE - US $ /TON
World Bank-7939






MEXICO - LAS TRUCHAS STEEL PROJECT
DIRECT FOREIGN EXCHANGB SAVIIRS DLRING OPERATINO  PERIOD
(Costs at 1973 Price Levels)
(Benefits at 1970/71 Price Levels AdJusted for 1973 Exchange Rate ChaLges)
Foreign                                                                                                                                              Annua,
E:change                                                                                                                                   Total   Average
Content      6 1          1978    9       1980   1981  83    1983   1984   1985                     7    i988   y892   1990   1991    D76-91  Z/76-91
Gross Foreign Exchange
Savings7                       100      26.4   88.0  140.8  176.0  176.0  176.0  176.0  176.0  176.0  176.   176.0  176.0  176.0  176.0  176.0  176.0    2543.2   164.1
IT   Foreign E&change Expenses
Coal                           100       2.3    7.8   12.3   15.4   15.4   15.4   15.4   15.4   15.4b  15.4   15.4    15.4   15.4   15.4   15.4   15.4                   222.6    14.4
aintenance Materials            50       0.9    3.0    4.8    6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0    6.o    6.o    6.o              6.0     6.o     6.o     6.o    6.0         86.7      5.6
Exployment Exrpenses             5       0.1    0.4    o.6    0.7    0.7    0.7    0.7    0.7    0.7    0.7    0.7              0.7     0.7     0.7    0.7      0.7       10.2       0.7
Interest on Long Term Debt2/   100       7.6   24.1   24.1   22.2   20.2   18.0   15.8   13.5   11.1    8.8    6.3              3.9     1.2     0.4     0.2     -        177.4    11.4
Amrti2 tion of Long Term
DeWr100                                -      12.3   24.3   24.5   28.7   29.1   29.6   30.2   30.7   31.2   31.9   32.6   19.4               3.8     3.6     -         331.9    21.4
Total Foreign Exchange
Expenses                              10.9   47.6   66.1   68.8   71.0   69.2   67.5   65.8   63.9   62.1   60.3    58.6   42.7   26.3   25.9   22.1                    828.8    53.5
III  Net Savings in Foreign Ezchange
(T - II)                                15.5   40W4    74.7  107.2  105.0  lo6.8  108.5  110.2  112.1  113.9  115.7   117.4  133.3  149.7  150.1  153.9    1714.4    no.6
F/ FOB &trope1
Sea Freight          20
Value Maxican Port  17_
Above price is lcorest in range assumed in economic analysis.
&/ Excludes po-tion attributable to price escalation (i.e. assures capital costs at 1972 prices).
Industrial Projects Departmenl






ANNE 17
M=CO - LAS TRUCHAS STEEL PROJECT
R:EGIONAL IFWACT OF THE PROJECT
1. The project is located at the muth of the Balsas River on
the border between the States of Guerrero and Michoachan. Both states
have been identified by the Government as development areas based on the
potential of± their natural resources.  The Governument is becoming increasingly
concermed with the concentration of wealth and economic activity in the
traditional central triangle of the coantry defined by Mexico City, GuadalaJara,
and Monterrey, and a strategy of decentralization is being effected (i) to
direct public investmenrIt towards non-traditional regions., and (ii; t,o give
incentives to firms locating away from the three largest cities. As part of
this strategy, the Government intends for the Lazaro Cardenas zone to
serve as a "1growth pole" which will (incrementally) attract steel-related
industries and othler activities away from the traditional centers.
2.        An inventor,y of the natural and man-made resources of the region
gives grounds for believing that the growth objectives for Iazaro Cardenas
can be met,.
Natural Resources
(i)  Iron Ore: It was, of course, the Las Truchas iron ore resources
of the reoion, in close proximity to the sea, which first suggested Lazaro
Cardenas (then Melchor Ocanqo) as the site for a major steel project.
(ii) Forests:  Extensive areas of both Guerrero and Yelchoachan are
covered by forests. The Guerrero reserves are the basis for z forest
tiadmtri         project presently being prepared for possible Barnk financing.
(iii) 1iter:  The Balsas River, one of the longest and most voluminous
rivers in Mexico, runs the length of Gierrero. It is used extensively fLor
irrigation and power.
(iv)  Dolomite: This is a clay used principally for refractories;
deposits are located in Guerrero.
(v) Other 14nerals:  Barium oxide, optical calcite, copper,
limestone, silica sand, bentonite.
Infrastructure
1. Roads:  Lazaro Cardenas is conunected to other centers by a
coastal road which soon will connect with Zihuatanejo and Acapulco to the
southeast and, eventually, with Manzanillo to the northwest. Another road
leads inland through Playa Azul to Nlueva Italia and Mexico City through
Morelia. Plans are far advanced for a road from Zihatanejo to Mexico City
through Altamirano and Toluca, which will provide another (and more direct)



ANNEX 1 7
Page 2
road link from Lazaro Cardenas to Mexico City and will pass through the
forestry of Guerrero (see map).
20  Railroads:  No through railroad from Lazaro Cardenas to Mexico
City exists at present, but it is likely that within four or five years of
the beginning of SICARTSA's operations the missing link between Lazaro
Cardenas and Nueva Italia will be constructed (see Annex 6 for further
discussion)    Nanzanillo is already linked by rail to Mexico City through
Guadaljara and much of inland Michoacan is served by a rail network.
3. Power: Two large dams on the Balsas River at La Villita, 15 km
from the project site, and at infernillo, further upstream, make the region
a major supplier of power to the central triangle of the nation.
4. Ports: The Dort of Manzanillo, 250 km up the coast from the
project site, i    xico's main port on the Pacific. Recent capital investrent
there, financed by the Bank, as well as a reorganization of port services
has greatly stimulated its use. The port of Lazaro Cardenas (see Annex 5s, when
completed, will be closer to Mexico City than ManzaniLlo (800 km by rail
compared to 1,100 Laa), and therefore eventually can be expected to become a
primary Pacific outlet for the capital.
5. Agriculture: The varied climatic zones of the two states perxmit
cultivation of many different fruit crops, particularly melons and straw-
berries, and the present value of agriculture production in the two states
is US$160 million annually.  Cattle raising also is important.
6. Tourism: A new Pacific coast tourist center, including a jet
airport is under construction at Zihuatanejo, 100 km down the coast from
Lazaro Cardenas. This project is being financed in part by the Bank and is
expected to draw thousands of foreign tourists and residents iato this hitherto
underdeveloDed area.
Backward and Forward industrial Linkages
3.        An industry which stimulates the growth of other industries
as suppliers is said to have 'backward" linkages;  one which stiniates
industries using its output has "lforward"i linkages. Knowledge of which
industries can be expected to generate forward or backward linkages (and under
what circumstances) is very sketchy and is based almost entirely on comparative
transport and factor oosts.  Some approximations for the Las TrLuchas project
can, nonetheless, be made. Since the non-flat steel output of SICARTSA
1n its first stage will be used principally in the construction industry,
,here is little doublt that the forward linkages of Stage I will be very weak,
except to the extent that construction demand develops in the project region
over time. Experience ln Monolova, the site of the AJiSA steel plant, was
that no forward-linked industry became established there until 1965, 18 years
after AHMSA began full operation.  Hece, during its initial years of operation,
SICARTSA's principal impact is likely to be in generating demand for supplies
and in the demand of its erployees for consumer goods and services.



AA;  ji
Page 3
4. an idea of the strength of backwardi linkages i s ind: ca led in
the following table by the incremental rat,io of pasti AhSfA job creat-on to
total enployment in ',he city of ?&nclova and in the larger zone which
includes 1'onclova:
AH3SA EMILDYL4NT EFFECTS
Incremental Eqr',ry.-ent.
AHMSA                        En4p1oyment                Ratio
Enoloymnent    Prployment         Ratio          i-ncrease in (A)/Ihcreasf?
Year      (A)            B                   _) 
ivTnclovu          1'161nclova              Nonclova
Iionclova   Zoile   Monclova   Zone      Yonclova       Zone
'11940    -        2,865  -,897
1950-/  3,175      6,559   12,207      0.48      0.26"'      o.936          .3c)
1960    6,190    14,072   22,185       0.43     0.28         0.41O        0,30
1970    8,1t20    20,887   30,4.08     O. t0    0.28         0.33         0.?7
1/  AHMSA did not get into full operation until the late-19)40's, so that 195c
can be taken as an approximate ecuivalent of SICARTSA's 1976 startup date.
5. There is reason to believe tha-t the backward linkage effect ?'
Iazaro Cardenas will be greater than in Mbnclova since the resource potentn.-il
of the area is greater and more of the demand generated by SICGATSA there'fore
will remain within the region. Similarly, there is evidence that forward
linkages, even though they most likely will have to await the production of
flat products during Stage II of the project, will turn out to be greater in
Lazaro Cardenas than in Monclova.  Bear-ing upon both of these phenomena will
be the following factors:
(i)  During the early years of Iionclova, wages generally were higher
than those in Mecico City.  The opposite is likely to be true for some time
in Lazaro Cardenas since the development, region is starting at very low income
levels.
(i;)  The greater agricultural potential of the Lazaro Cardenas regioc
will tend to hold down living costs and, therefore, wages.
(iii)  TransporL costs froii Lazaro Cardenas to Mexico City in the ion,
rwu  will be lower than those frorn Monclova because of the shorter distance
involved.
(iv)  Government incen',dv's will be available to new industries
locating in the Lazaro Cardenas region.
6.  For the above reasons, it is considered reasonable to nssurie J
somewhat faster growth in secondjry emoloyrnent at Lazaro Cardenas thar. was
experienced at Monclova. This is shown in the following table:



PR=    D EBFFCT C  ICATSA ON E;1MT AND PCPULATIOQ
IN TI CITr OF LAZARO CARDEAS
Incremental EM1loyint
SICARTSA    Total      Eployment           Ratio
Employ t 3Emplo      t    Ratio    Increase in (A)/Increase    Total
Year    (A)          (B)       (A/B)              in (B)Populatior
1977 ,    4~,000    S., 0     0-.500-.48s.,                          29.,60
1986    6,50       16,333     0.40(0O43)       0.30 (0.h4)           60,432
1996     8,000     23,833     o.3(o.40)        0.20 (0.33)           88,182
1/ Assmmes a dependency ratio of 3.7 persons per employed worker, the Mexican
national average.
2/ The numbers showm iu parentheses are the actual ratios pertaining to AHMSA's
effect on )bnclova's development during equivalent time periods (from para-
graph 4).
7. The projection indicates that by the end of 20 years of SICARTSA's
operations rougbly two out of every three jobs in the Lazaro Cardenas area
will be outside the steel company itself, compared with six out of ten during a
comparable period at Monlova. With substantial development of forward-linked
industries using the flat-product oatput from the later stages of SICARTSA's
development (the above projections have assumed a second stage of steel pro-
duotion -- yielding a doubled crude steel output -- by 1986 and a similar or
larger third stage by 1996), thia projection could be exceeded. In fact, one
study done for SICARTSA some time ago argued for even higher job creatiorn
rates and projected total employmnt in 1985 at 42S,400 and total population at
171,0. This estimate is considered excessive, but that does not detract
from the strong evidenee indicating that the impact of the Las Truachas project
and other development program in the surrounding area will be sizable indeed.
Industrial Projects Department
Jme 1973



IBRD -10441
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r9                                                                                                                                               U4 7
MAJOR STEEL EPRODUCTINCETR
G ULF   O F    A4FK/CO
c  AN ~ ~ ~ ~     ~      ~      ~     ~     ~      ~     ~    ~     PEISl       
1-1 INTE-ATED-11 M~U'10~ -                                                       GUERRERO~57                            ~~ 
~~~1- -D-1- CE-- ~ ~ ~      ~      ~     ~     EICIOCA 
I-USERUCIN  BCUS--E                                                   -.A7--U.-
-TE ... -RIES ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~,                                             ~      (~ONSA
-E-TI-1 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~1                                                                    4
.....                                                                                                                                                          C) N Dk A 5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IS 






IBRD-10500
r             }<X>(txc~~~~~~~~hapalilla  TO ZacatecasJ    oa   0                          To <\; SanL uls    T, TC, i dra   X-Ton;\                                   8     JULY t93
-20rJ   Xg    ∞tPostelaDgx             X    ,>gL~~~~~~~~~('6 uis Potosi   Leon   Guana tua< to                                        XTxa                                  200-
Pto. Valle ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ 6                                                            to  soni1
Ame,eaa                                                                                                                                 Gulf    of
160                                                                                                                          160 mS  A R              m /
Manzanill{)  Tepalcatebpltali~~~moa                          ,Turnvaautb                                         g               /va ad
MEXICO  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EI                                                                J 're
implyaendorsemeora ae  by th                                                                                                                1cc
180                                                      a                RV                   a   it  ;. i  w.z Sunin \ Apatzin
ZihuatanejX  ,^                                              <             f~~~~~~~~~~~Thuca
VD~~~~~~Dt  Papan                      ran          g1a                   La Pea              Ciuadxalec
DEVELOPMENT AREAS a its a   D                                    AREAS
-POSSIBLE BANK FINANCED ROADS                               /                           Aco    p uluz Grn"de )fSTv
MAIN EXITINlG ROADS                                                                                 -           (Penotepa                       e 
MAIN RAILROADS                                                                                                       Nacional        (     XThatp
_ Wft4      GUERRERO PORESTRY AREAS,                                                                                                                                 SaiaC
STATE BOUNDARIES                                                                    ~\z==\                                                  ( R
IVER                                                                                                                   Pto. Escond1   
<y                         --iPto. ~~~~~~~~Angei
O0     50      10     150    200                                                                                                                           98
KILOMETERSI
-160                                                                                                                                                160-V         :r7  .    wA 
MEXICO                                                                              X                . ...
T'he boundarievs shosvn osn this rnap do tifot  M                                                       I C                                                         cS      I C00 Me    
inillyy endorsemenit or acceptatnce bv the                                                                                                            C,
ivortel ank 4madits ayffiates.             D     VElO PM              EN TI     o>e<
10340                                          1020                                               1000                                     AREfA  X      2      .






103'40'(Kov/tla                       103J45'                    )la. 50'    \>'sc                                   :     :""ts':,:5-
I                                                      W \ ,  o       'II  t._     r   .             h: x
103040        o ,vvo,,a,,aLos Amates                    ~                      ~ h
.  I                                     C ) x !   @   Gu/f
r/  -S  W- XMEXICO    Mexico
RZ4//   {  a  -'     )      x co
'4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lneit*{/   8ouundiones 
The boundaries sho.n on th's map do not
-'b5'                                                ia /uan                                                                    bply endorsement or acceptance by the
<  }   wSan Juan      0                             l                     WorldWBank and itsaffiliates
LAS TRUCHAS   g(J
EL VOLCAN/>           E MANGO
-/                                                        OF .,4n't  /I I f    t J ß                         MJIRON ORE DEPOSITS
SANTA CLARAT  TA E    OF                                                                                              LIMESTONE MINE
/                          -t ~>__ Z La Mira                                   JOSE ra.MOREL9S DAM                 K.    STEEL PLANT SITE
M/CHOA CA N                                             0i         - - -- PROJECTED CITY EXPANSION
fX                             /          \                                 \                                        - 2    1uf   _   PAVED ROADS
{/ )FERROTEPECLaVliaURVEROD
/-  (SAN ISIDRO)               Acalpican                                            La Villita                              UNPAVED ROADS
g1 \ \ /                                       AX 1 ............... _ _ STATE BOUNDARY
RIVERS
-18∞00'   ~ \___/  /    J                                     \        Las Guacamays                       OZecatula
|   = < k x y (~~~loy  Azul                                  ~<                        
I7~~~5  GENERAL LOCATION MAP ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Lczaro
4   --   .   >                                                         )&  . Lazoro                              /~~~~~Por  4          -
- ~~~~~~~~~\>, V _<9~~~~~~~~~~~~~ty  
MEXICO                                 -\t                       \  {                 <      KM
SIDERURGICA lAZARO CARDENAS-LAS TR1CHAS  ;--S                                                          1                                         5
OC'   <  ~~~~ Cdrdent ~~0    1    2               3    4    5           _
∞9>   \                          ~~~~~~~~~~~KILtOMETERS      14 oo
103f40'                               10e145'                                 103W50                                103055'         e



