Page  1
30533 
Project Information Document 
 
Project Name: 
 
INDONESIA 
–
First Development Policy Loan 
Region:
 
East Asia Pacific Region 
Sector: 
 
Poverty Reduction Economic Management  
Project ID:
 
P092663 
Borrower:
 
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA 
Implementing Agency:
 
Ministry of Finance, Jakarta 10710, Indonesia 
 
Environment Category:
 
C
(Not Required) 
Date PID Prepared:  
 
November 1, 2004
 
Auth Appr/Negs Date: 
 
November 12, 2004
 
Bank Approval date: 
 
December 21, 2004
 
1. Background 
 
Indonesia has come a long way since the economic and financial crisis. After a difficult 
period of crisis and post-crisis management, and the broadly successful implementation 
of the White Paper – a homegrown economic reform package, Indonesia has a new 
administration responsible for development policy. On October 20, Dr. Susilo Bambang 
Yudhoyono, the former coordinating minister for security, took over as the first directly 
elected President in Indonesia’s history - having won a decisive mandate with 61 percent 
of the vote. In more than 600,000 polling stations across the country, more people voted 
in this election than in any other direct presidential election in any country in history. 
Indonesia’s electoral process with three national elections within six months has been 
remarkably peaceful. Overall, the election results reflect a desire for change and effective 
leadership to address Indonesia’s social and economic challenges. 
 
The new government will have the opportunity to reenergize the reform momentum. 
Since the crisis, partly for political reasons, economic policy has been dominated by 
short-term considerations. The “White Paper” – which had an implementation period of 
15 months – was broadly successful in assuring the transition from the exit of the IMF-
program to the new government taking office. With this new government, which has 
received a strong mandate for the next five years, Indonesia finds itself at an opportune 
moment to address longer term development challenges. 
 
Page  2
2. Objectives and Description 
This proposed single-tranche Development Policy Loan (DPL) has been programmed in 
the World Bank Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for the first half of FY05 under an 
“Enhanced Base Case” scenario. The “Enhanced Base Case” required systematic 
implementation of the “White Paper” reforms and a commitment of the new government 
to continue the reform process. The previous administration of Indonesia requested the 
Bank for the loan and the new administration has reaffirmed this request.
 
The objectives of the proposed DPL are to: (i) recognize the Government’s 
implementation of important “White Paper” reforms; (ii) consolidate the economic 
stabilization achieved by the outgoing administration and contribute to the financing of 
the 2004 budget as has been pledged at the last CGI-meeting; (iii) create the basis for 
early engagement with the new Administration on key policy issues; and (iv) develop a 
programmatic framework within which, going forward, the Bank can support the new 
Government’s reform program.   
 
It is anticipated that the proposed loan will be the first of a series of DPLs to support 
reform efforts. The proposed DPL supports actions in three areas: (i) macroeconomic 
stability and creditworthiness (ii) investment climate, and (iii) public financial 
management and anti-corruption. In addition to these reforms, actions in areas such as the 
justice sector and public service delivery would move Indonesia into the “High Case” 
scenario laid out in the Bank’s CAS, in which case the Government could obtain further 
programmatic assistance from the Bank.   
 
3. IBRD Loan Amount:
 US$300 million 
 
4. Environment Aspects  
This program loan, which focuses on macroeconomic stabilization, improvements in the 
investment climate and public financial management reforms, is not expected to have any 
direct impact on the environment.  
 
5. Benefits 
This loan establishes a framework for dialogue and financing for development in 
Indonesia. This loan endorses sound policies under the White Paper and supports the 
reforms outlined by the new administration. The new programmatic DPL-framework 
provides an opportunity to engage with the Government early on in an innovative way 
which strengthens reform ownership of the administration. A companion technical 
assistance project will support the reforms in the area public financial management. 
 
7. Project Risks 
Fiscal Strategy: The Government has presented to the public its commitment that the 
2005 budget will continue the trend of fiscal discipline.  However, political pressures 
could lead the new government to pursue an excessively expansionary fiscal strategy. 
Once reform momentum slips, and revenues do not improve, Indonesia’s hard-won 
macroeconomic stability could be at risk. This risk would be compounded by exogenous 
Page  3
shocks which could be either external (world economic growth and trade, oil prices, etc.) 
or internal (terrorism). 
 
Fiduciary: This loan is prepared in an environment of substantially improved public 
expenditure management in Indonesia. However, Indonesia has still an enormous public 
sector reform agenda to implement in order to have a more significant impact in the fight 
against corruption.  
 
8. Contact Points: 
Wolfgang Fengler (co-TTL) 
 
 
 
 
P.S. 
Srinivas (co-TTL) 
 
World Bank Office Jakarta 
 
 
 
 
World Bank Office Jakarta 
Tel: 
+6221-5299-3061     Tel: 
+6221-5299-3082
 
9. For information on other project related documents contact:
 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Tel: (202) 458-5454 
 
