Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 18469
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
EL SALVADOR
POWER SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN
(LOAN 3389-ES)
September 30, 1998
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Unit
Country Management Unit 2
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(as of March 31, 1998)
Currency Unit       =      Colon (C)
US$1.00        =    C8.75
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha = 10,000 square meters (m2) = 2.47 acres (a)
1 kilogram (kg) = 2.205 ponds (lbs)
1 metric ton (m ton) = 1000 kg
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CABEI        -      Central American Bank for Economic Integration
CAESS        -      Compania de Alumbrado Electrico de San Salvador
(Distribution Company of San Salvador)
CECSA        -      Compania de Luz Electrica de Cucumayacan, S.A.
CEL          -      Comision Ejecutiva Hidroelectrica del Rio Lempa (Rio
Lempa Electric Utility Company)
CEPE         -      Comision Ejecutiva del Proyecto Energia
CLEA         -      Compania Electrica de Ahuachapan, SA
CLES         -      Compania de Luz Electrica de Sonsonate, S.A.
CLESA        -      Compania de Luz Electrica de Santa Ana, S.A.
DIEICA       -      Institutional Dev. Project for the Central American countries
EHRC         -      Electricity and Hydrocarbons Regulatory Commission
EIA          -      Environmental Impact Assessment
EPD          -      Energy Policy Document
ESMP         -      Energy Sector Modernization Project
GOES         -      Government of El Salvador
IDB          -      Inter-American Development Bank
NEC          -      National Energy Council
SAL          -      Structural Adjustment Loan
SIGET        -      General Supervisory Office for Electricity and Telecommunications
SOE          -      Statement of Expenditures
TA           -      Technical Assistance
TAL          -      Technical Assistance Loan
UES          -      Unidad de Estudios Sectoriales
UNDP         -      United Nations Development Program
URSE         -      Unidad de Restructuracion del Sector Electrico
USAID        -      United States Agency of International Development
VIF          -      Venezuelan Investment Fund
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
Vice President:        Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:      Donna Dowsett Coirolo
Sector Director:       Danny Leipziger
Task Manager:          Jorge Gorrio



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE ..........................................i
Evaluation Summary .........................................                                   ii
Part I: Project Implementation Assessment
A. Introduction .................................................1
B. Statement and Achievement of Objectives               ................................................2
C. Project Implementation experience                 ...............................................2
Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
D. Bank Performance ................................................8
E. Borrower Performance ...............................................8
F. Consultants Performance ................................................8
G. Assessment of Outcome ................................................9
H. Project Sustainability ................................................                    10
I. Future Operation ...............................................                           10
J. Major Lessons Learned ............................................... 10
Part II: Statistical Tables
Table 1:  Summary of Assessments ................................................ 13
Table 2.: Related Bank Loans/Credits ...............             ................................ 14
Table 3: Project Timetable ...............................................                    15
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements .........................                                  15
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation ...........................................,.16
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation .17
Table 7: Principal Studies Included in the Project .18
Table 8A: Project Costs .20
Table 8B: Project Financing .23
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits .23
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants .24
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .28
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .28
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions .29
APPENDIX A
Completion Mission's Aide Memoire .30
APPENDIX B
Borrower's Perspective .34
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not. otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
EL SALVADOR
POWER SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN
(LOAN 3389-ES)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Power Sector
Technical Assistance Loan in El Salvador, for which Loan 3389-ES in the amount of
US$11.0 million was signed on September 11, 1991 and made effective on December 31,
1991.
The loan was closed on March 31, 1998. At the end of July 31, 1998, the time
allowed for final disbursement, the Bank had disbursed a total of US$ 10.08 million (92%
of the loan amount), and the unused amount of US$916,330 was cancelled.
The ICR was prepared by Jorge Gorrio (Task Manager) with the assistance of Sati
Achath (Consultant). It was reviewed by Juergen Franz (Sector Leader, LCC2C) and
Maria Victoria Lister (Quality Assurance Support Unit). The ICR is based on material in
the project file, interviews with IBRD staff involved in project preparation and
implementation, and additional information requested from the Borrower to facilitate
IBRD's review of the project. The Project Executing Agency, Comision Ejecutiva
Hidroelectrica del Rio Lempa (CEL), prepared the Project Review from the Borrower's
perspective, whose summary in English is attached in Appendix B. Comments on the
draft ICR received during the completion mission of August 18-21, 1998 (Appendix A)
from the Borrower, CEL, and principal Project Implementation Government Agencies,
were taken into account in the preparation of the final version



ii
EVALUATION SUMMARY
EL SALVADOR
POWER SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN (Ln. 3389-ES)
1.   Introduction This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the
Power Sector Technical Assistance Loan for which a loan in the amount of US$1 1.0
million was approved in September 1991. It became effective in December 1991 and
was closed on March 31, 1998.
2.    Project Objectives The main objectives of the project were to assist the
Government in improving the efficiency of the energy sector by providing a sound legal,
institutional and regulatory framework, fostering sound planning and pricing policies,
attracting private sector participation to the power sector, and strengthening the efficiency
and management of Comision Ejecutiva Hidroelectrica del Rio Lempa (CEL), the state-
owned public utility.
3.    Project Components The project consisted of four components:
(a) Sector Studies to (i) draft regulations governing the energy sector, develop a
detailed proposal for the functions and organization of a regulatory body,
propose an action plan to carry out the reforms, and draft a new electricity law
taking into account future participation of the private sector; (ii) define the
methodology and propose an action plan to set electricity rates based on
marginal cost criteria; and (iii) value the assets of the power distribution
companies and propose an action plan to allow their privatization.
(b) Engineering and Management Studies included (i) pre-feasibility studies of
hydro generation projects, a feasibility study of a thermal power project, and
evaluation of the geothermal potential of the Berlin field; (ii) assessment of
the reliability of the transmission system; (iii) evaluation of the quality of
service of the distribution systems; and (iv) assessment of the management
eifficiency and organization of CEL and development of proposals to improve
them;
(c) Acquisition of equipment and materials consisting mainly of vehicles,
electrical measurement and testing equipment, and data processing equipment
in order to improve planning, electricity rate design, system reliability billing
and collection; and
(d) Training program to include (i) training for government officials at the
regulatory body; and (ii) management development program and a specialized
training for CEL's high level staff.
4.   Implementation Experience and Results The project completed satisfactorily
all four components and achieved its objectives. The project assisted both CEL and the



iii
Government in the development of the power sector, in particular, (a) developing a legal
and regulatory framework for the sector including the restructuring of CEL, organization
of the Transactions Unit (Unidad de Transacciones) and initiating the design of a
wholesale market for electricity; (b) drafting and enacting a new Electricity Law and
creating the sector regulator, the SIGET; (c) estimating the marginal costs; (d) preparing
a Sector Environmental and implementing an Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA);
(e) developing a least-cost expansion plan for the system; and (f) providing training to
CEL and government staff in new operations and technical aspects.
5.    The original closing date of the project, June 30, 1996, was extended to June 30,
1997 mainly due to the time required to prepare and enact sector reform legislation. The
closing date was extended for a second and final time to March 31, 1998 to enable the use
of large uncommitted loan funds for key reform regulation and implementation studies.
The total delay in completing the project was 21 months.
6.    The total disbursement from the Bank loan amounted to US$10.08 million,
compared to the original amount of US$ 11 million. The undisbursed amount of
US$916,330 was cancelled by the Bank. The Bank's loan was supplemented by IDB
(FOSEP: US$1.25 million); USAID (NRECA: US$1.00 million), a PHRD grant
(TF20555: US$0.722 million); and the joint CEL and Government contribution of
approximately US$0.5 million. The actual project cost amounted to US$13.55 million
compared to US$14.13 million estimated at appraisal.
7.    Although not a requirement for this TA project, it is still too early to assess the
full economic impact of the power sector reforms supported by the project. The four
Government-owned distribution companies were recently privatized in January 1998,
and the generation companies are expected to be privatized in 1999. However, it is worth
underlining that the sale at 40% over book value of 75% of the distribution companies'
shares totaling US$575 million had a substantial financial impact (equivalent to 5.5% of
the 1996 national GDP of US$10.5 billion). The operational impact resulting from
incremental fiscal revenues and improvements in the efficiency and quality of service
can only be assessed after the new owners have been in business for at least two to three
years.
Factors Affecting Project Implementation
8.    There were no major problems in project implementation other than a delay of 21
months. The main causes for implementation delays were:
(a) loss of momentum in the country and sector dialogue brought about by new
Government administrations and changes of key ministers within a given administration;
(b) divergent, though constructive, view points within two units of the Bank as well as
at the Borrower's end regarding the extent of privatization and reform to be carried out
given the relatively small size of the sector;



iv
(c) delays in drafting, presenting, and passing the new power sector legislation by the
Congress;
(d) initially the project unit was not staffed with senior and experienced people in the
technical areas - this led to frequent procurement, disbursement, and audit- reporting
delays;
(e) procurernent delays, in particular regarding:
(i) The Study of the Geothermal Energy Potential of Berlin Field. The details of this
delay are not well documented in the project files. The Task Manager and the
Borrower have different versions. The Task Manager reports that even though the
loan agreement specified the use of the Bank's old procurement guidelines, the Bank
insisted on CEL using the Bank's new guidelines and continuously evolving new
standard bidding documents (SBDs). Moreover, the Bank insisted on unbundling
the purchase of equipment required for the study (an important amount of the
consulting contract) from the consulting services. CEL accepted the Bank's proposal
and the procurement was carried out after the six bidding components were defined
and packaged. There was a delay of about three to four months in the initiation of
this procurement process, caused by some controversies with the consultant hired by
CEL to help in the preparation of the six bid components. While not explicit in its
summary report, the Borrower does mention in its main report that some
procurement delays were introduced by continuos Bank insistence on the use of the
latest SBDs version. Based on the Task Manager's account, some delay appears to
have been caused by the then ongoing administrative restructuring of the sector unit
which required Task Managers to clear all procurement matters with newly
contracted Procurement Advisors (PAs). Apparently, new PAs tried to apply the
latest procurement guidelines and latest SBDs versions even though Borrowers are
only bound to the use of the guidelines specified in the Loan Agreement - the legal
department corroborates that Borrowers have a legal right to refuse using guidelines
other than those legally contracted for. However, this problem was subsequently
resolved when CEL finally agreed to use the Bank's new SBDs version.
(ii) The Pre-Feasibility Study of the Four HydroPower Plants. After signing the
contract with the consortium Lahmeyer-Tahal for Phase I of the studies, CEL begun
a litigation process with Tahal on some other contract (CEL-2013) financed with
CEL's own resources (Appendix B, para. 8 (b)) As a result, CEL did not wish to be
associated with Tahal in any new contract while the litigation was in progress. Since
the cancellation of the CEL-2013 contract took a lot longer than anticipated, CEL
with the concurrence of all parties proceeded to amend the Bank financed contract to
reflect the selection of Lahmayer to replace the Tahal-Lahmeyer consortium as the
main contractor for the studies. The dispute on CEL-2013 arose because CEL's
Board detected that the contract had been signed and become effective under terms
inconsistent with those authorized by CEL's Board. This problem delayed the
implementation of the studies by ten months. To avoid it in the future, the Borrower
posits the following lesson: project managers should not concentrate only on
technical project issues but also on administrative, and legal aspects of contracts to



v
avoid serious project implementation problems and delays. This more
comprehensive project management would have enabled the timely detection of the
legal problems with contract CEL-2013, and avoided costly delays to both CEL and
contractors themselves. Even though this lesson emanates from another project, its
consequences affected project implementation.
(f) A week before the closing date of the project, the Bank was unable to disburse
about US$300,000 because of limitations in the disbursement procedures stipulated in
Schedule 1 of Loan Agreement. Because most foreign manufacturers represented in El
Salvador, can only sell through their legal local representatives, CEL had to purchase in
local currency software licenses through the foreign manufacturer local representative.
The Bank could not disburse because the Loan Agreement allowed only foreign
expenditures for the purchase of goods. In this particular case, the disbursement
procedures should have allowed at least some percentage for local expenditures. A
loan amendment was not attempted because CEL was under the impression that the
local agent would be able to segregate and bill in foreign currency the direct foreign
cost of the goods. It turned out that the local agent decided to bill in local currency
because it found such an activity too cumbersome and intruding into the agent's
confidential profitability accounting data. No last minute amendment was attempted
because the required sum could be disbursed from the ongoing Ln. 3920-ES.
9.    Bank Performance The Bank performance in project identification, preparation
and appraisal was satisfactory despite the change of three Task Managers. Supervision
was also satisfactory despite the implementation delays and some differences of opinion
on procurement and disbursement matters. There was a fourth and final change of Task
Manager towards project completion. Despite these changes, the Bank managed to
provide effective support with smooth transitions. Regular formal and informal
exchanges took place throughout project implementation. Close interaction with the
project units helped develop a collaborative working relationship which ensured the
satisfactory completion of the project and meeting the project development objectives
successfully. However, as mentioned above, Bank insistence on the use of new
procurement guidelines and standard bidding documents caused delays in project
implementation.
10.   Borrower Performance  The Borrower performance in preparing and
implementing the project was satisfactory. GOES showed sufficient commitment to the
project and was timely in complying with most project covenants. CEL, the
implementing agency, also was committed to the objectives of the project and complied
with most of the relevant project covenants except for timely audit reporting. The
Comision Ejecutiva del Proyecto Energia (CEPE), was created on time and structured
according to CEL-Bank agreements. After initial staffing weaknesses, CEPE performed
properly to meet its obligations for the execution of the project, disbursement, preparation
of periodical reports, and general supervision of contracts.



vi
11.   Consultant Performance. Performance of consultants involved in the sectoral
studies and the engineering and management studies, as can be seen in Table 7, was
satisfactory.
12.   Project Sustainability. The sustainability of the project is strong. Drafting and
enacting a new Electricity Law, creating the energy and telecommunications regulatory
agency, SIGET, fostering sound planning and pricing policies, strengthening the
efficiency and management of CEL, privatizing the four distribution utilities, and the
expected privatization of the thermal generation companies are tangible factors
underpinning the sustainability of the project. In addition, both the GOES and CEL
continue to have their commitments to the Energy Sector Modernization Project (ESMP,
Loan 3920-ES), which is a sequel to TAL. ESMP is assisting the GOES in consolidating
sector reformn and its regulatory framework through the preparation of secondary
legislation and procedures to help ensure the sustainability of the project. Furthermore,
the Government's efforts in establishing project guidelines and quality standards to
promote envilronmentally sound investments, and strengthening management and
regulatory capacities would complement the sustainability of the project. Finally, the
confidence displayed by the investors who have paid 40% above book value for the
distribution companies adds further credence to the expected sustainability of the project.
13.   Future Operations  The Energy Sector Modernization Project, approved in
September 1996, is a follow-up to the Power Sector Technical Assistance Loan. The
main objectives of the ESMP are to: (a) improve service reliability and coverage and (b)
assist in restructuring the sector and reforming the regulatory framework.
14.   Lessons Learned about Reform and Privatization
(a) The strategy for Power sector reform in a given country should be designed,
wheneve:r applicable, with due consideration to the potential size of a neighboring
regional market which is usually many fold larger than the individual national
markets -- cases in point are El Salvador (already under implementation) and Belize
(still in the design stage) in the Central American Market; and Bolivia in the context
of the Mercosur market. In all these cases the relatively small size of the national
power sectors prompted initial preferences for restricted market liberalization.
Further analysis however showed that a more sustainable and liberal strategy should
be tailored to cater to and benefit from the larger regional potential market with, as
required, suitable transitional stages.
(b) Sector policy and regulatory reform should be well underway before privatization in
the sector, so that bidders can feel that they are entering a secure environment, and
will have a sound basis for calculating their bids. Much of El Salvador's success in
privatization is due to the progress that was made beforehand in preparing
comprehensive sectoral legislation and rules.
(c) The government's Reform and Privatization team should be staffed with qualified top
level staff, with proven commitment to the reform and track record of getting things
done with extremely tight deadlines.



vii
(d) It is often better to break up large companies, so as to make them less risky and more
attractive to a range of buyers and to encourage competition.
(e) Full time attention must be paid to public relations, lest public resistance impede the
process or threaten its results.
(f) Top-level political support is critical for the success of the reform and privatization
process. When the message from the top is clearly in favor of privatization, the
process moves ahead rapidly.
15.   Lessons Learned about Bank Lending
(a) It is important that the Bank be proactive in its sectoral dialogue and prepared to
take the time to bring up to speed government officials of new administrations who
may have unclear perceptions as to the required extent and pace of ongoing reforms.
(b) The loan should not become effective unless the project executing unit is in place,
staffed with senior people with adequate experience, especially in technical areas, and
its capabilities in procurement, disbursement, and financial management meet Bank
guidelines.
(c) On Procurement and Disbursement:
(i) In the event that the Bank is not successful in persuading the Borrower to use new
procurement procedures which come into effect after signing the loan agreement, the
Bank should give the Borrower the option of using the old procedures spelt out in
the loan agreement. This is very important, since the Bank does not have the legal
ground to enforce such new procedures. On the other hand, if the Borrower is willing
to use new procedures, timely training should be provided to the staff concerned in
order to avoid unnecessary procurement delays.
(ii) to avoid lengthy potential disagreements during project implementation, the
Bank project team should agree with the Borrower during appraisal or, at the latest,
during the project-launch mission, on the specific procurement procedures to be used
for those items which may not be clearly defined in the appraisal documents, such as
whether ICB procedures are going to be required to procure relatively expensive
equipment associated to complex technical studies.
(iii) Loan Agreements regarding procurement should be drafted with enough
flexibility to accommodate local procurement where direct foreign purchase of
goods is not an option for the Borrower. Alternatively, task managers should take
timely steps to amend the Loan Agreement in such situations.
(d) Adequate use of consultant services for diagnostic studies prior to project
implementation would help anticipate the relevant needs of the project and to focus
more on priority areas during implementation (Appendix B, para. 10 (a))
(e) The technical staff should focus not only on technical matters, but also on
administrative and legal matters while executing project contracts (Appendix B,
para. 10 (c)).



viii
managers to assess and follow up on those issues. Furthermore, this also causes delays
and higher costs in the preparation of the project ICR.
(g) Since the TAL was one of the first projects where the project documents were
electronically filed, many relevant information were not available either in the
electronic format or in hard copies. In order to avoid such problems in the future, for a
smooth transition from paper filing system to electronic filing, it is essential to maintain
both hard copies of project documents along with electronically filed documents, until it
is proven that the newer, more efficient system can reliably replace the older less
efficient system.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
EL SALVADOR
POWER SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN (3389-ES)
PART I . PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.   INTRODUCTION
1.    The Bank was closely involved with El Salvador's power sector until 1970s. There
was a complete break in its activities in the sector in the 1980s until 1991 because of the
structural weaknesses and deteriorating business environment caused by the civil war
which affected the country during this period.
2.    New policy measures taken by the Government which came to power in 1989
caused a resurgence in the economy. In 1991, the Bank approved a Structural Adjustment
Loan (SAL) to support the Government's stabilization and adjustment program and a
Technical Assistance Loan (TAL) to improve the efficiency of the power sector and also
for promoting important structural changes in the energy sector as a whole.
B.   STATEMENT AND ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
3.    The main objectives of the project were to assist the Government to improve the
efficiency of the energy sector by providing a sound legal, institutional and regulatory
framework, fostering sound planning and pricing policies, attracting private sector
participation to the power sector, and strengthening the efficiency and management of CEL,
the state-owned public utility.
4.    The Bank's participation in the project was crucial for several reasons. First, the
Bank had developed a close policy dialogue on macroeconomic issues with the
Government. The project was an additional opportunity for the Bank to expand the
dialogue to the energy sector, which if not properly managed, could become a bottleneck
to El Salvador's economic growth. Second, the project could help the Government to
develop its energy policy and improve the efficiency of the energy sector through a reform
of the institutional and legal framework, and study options to foster the participation of the
private sector in the power sub-sector. Third, the project could also enable the Bank to
further expand its dialogue on energy issues in general and identify future projects that
may be suitable for Bank financing. Fourth, Bank participation could serve to attract
cofinancing and grants from IDB, UNDP, USAID, and Japan.



2
5.    The project completed satisfactorily all four components and achieved its
objectives. The project assisted both CEL and the Government in the development of the
power sector, in particular, (a) developing a legal and regulatory framework for the sector
including the restructuring of CEL, organizing the Transactions Unit (Unidad de
Transacciones) and initiation of the design of a wholesale market for electricity; (b)
drafting and enacting a new Electricity Law and creating the sector regulator, the
Superintendencia General de Electricidad y Telecomunicaciones (SIGET); (c) estimating
the marginal costs, upon which tariff structure and rate adjustments were based and targets
were agreed with the Bank; (d) preparing a Sector Environmental Assessment as a basis for
an Action Plan for correcting existing environmental problems and implementing
Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) and mitigation techniques for new projects; (e}
developing a least-cost expansion plan for the system; and (f). providing training to CEL,
and government staff on technical issues.
C.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE
6.   Implementation Record. The project loan was signed in September 1991 and the
loan became effective in December 1991, after the GOES and CEL satisfied
conditionalitiies stipulated in Article VI of the Loan Agreement. However, the project
started a few months later than originally planned since the Comision Ejecutiva del
Proyecto Energia (CEPE), the unit responsible for implementing the project, was basically
using personnel from the Planning Division of CEL who did not have procurement
experience and needed to be trained. This was corrected subsequently by splitting the
responsibility for project implementation between the procurement and planning areas and
keeping only technical supervision functions in the Planning Division.
7.    CEPE was eventually replaced by a Project Implementation Unit, which was created
when the follow-up project, Energy Sector Modernization Project (ESMP - Ln. 3920-ES),
became effective in May 1997. At that time it was decided that instead of having two
separate implementation units, the PIU would take care of the implementation of this
project until its closing.
8.    The original closing date of the project, June 30, 1996, was extended to June 30,
1997 mainly due to the time required to prepare and enact sector reform legislation. The
closing date was extended for a second and final time to March 31, 1998 to enable the use
of large uncommitted loan funds for key reform regulation and implementation studies.
The total delay in completing the project was 21 months.
9.    Project Cost and Financing. The total disbursement from the Bank loan amounted
to US$10.08 million, compared to the original amount of US$11.0 million. The
undisbursed amount of US$916,330 was cancelled by the Bank. The Bank's loan was'
supplemented by IDB (FOSEP: US$1.25 million); USAID (NRECA: US$1.00 million), a
PHRD grant (TF20555: US$0.722 million); and the joint CEL and Government
contribution of approximately US$0.500 million. The actual project cost amounted to
US$13.55 million compared to US$14.13 million estimated at appraisal.



3
10.   Project Components. The project consisted of four components:
(a)   Sector Studies under the responsibility of Ministry of Planning to (i) draft
regulations governing the energy sector, develop a detailed proposal for the
functions and organization of a regulatory body, propose an action plan to
carry out the reforms, and draft a new electricity law taking into account
future participation of the private sector; (ii) define the methodology and
propose an action plan to set electricity rates based on marginal cost criteria;
and (iii) value the assets of the power distribution companies and propose
an action plan to allow their privatization. These studies were to be
coordinated by the Unidad de Estudios Sectoriales (UES) formed with
representations from CEL and the Government, but chaired by CEL.
(b)   Engineering and Management Studies under the responsibility of CEL
included (i) pre-feasibility studies of hydro generation projects, a feasibility
study of a thermal power project, and evaluation of the geothermal potential
of the Berlin field; (ii) assessment of the reliability of the transmission
system and of the damage caused by terrorist attacks; (iii) evaluation of the
quality of service of the distribution systems; and (iv) assessment of the
management efficiency and organization of CEL and development of
proposals to improve it;
(c)   Acquisition of equipment and materials consisting mainly of vehicles,
electrical measurement and testing equipment, and data processing
equipment in order to improve planning, electricity rate design, system
reliability billing and collection; and
(d)   Training prom to include (i) training for government officials of the
regulatory body; and (ii) management development program and a
specialized training for CEL's high level staff.
11.   The Electricity Law, based on the Energy Policy Document (EPD) financed by the
project, was enacted on October 10, 1996. The project also helped put in place the
operations, staffing and training of SIGET, the regulatory body created under the Electricity
Law. Based on the recommendations of the restructuring and asset valuation studies,
CEL's four distribution companies were privatized in January 1998. Thermal generation is
expected to be unbundled and privatized in 1999 as a result of ongoing studies being
financed by Ln. 3920-ES. (These studies were originally financed under Ln. 3389-ES, but
since they could not be completed before loan closing, they were carried over to Ln. 3920-
ES). The study to establish the Transactions Unit was completed as scheduled and its
incorporation as an independent agency responsible for dispatching plant and operating the
wholesale markets is under implementation.
12.   The Marginal Cost and Electricity Pricing Study carried out by Hagler Bailly
(USA), completed in 1994, enabled CEL to adjust its average tariff in current dollar terms
by 56% during 1994-97 (from 4.8 to 7.5 USc/Kwh). This realignment of rates with
economic costs and the establishment of a modem arms-length regulatory framework were



4
instrumental in the successful privatization of CEL's distribution utilities in January 1998.
Under the new tariff adjustment program, it is projected that the rate would reach USc/
8.4/kWh in the year 2000.
13.   Three pre-feasibility studies for future hydro-power plants were carried out: Paso
del Oso (63M[W), El Tigre (700MW- of bi-national scope El Salvador/Honduras), Sapotiillo
(215 MW), and San Marcos-Lempa (80 MW). The studies concluded that the first three
plants were feasible, unlike the last one whose proximity to river Lempa's estuary made it
unfeasible because of the unusually large and costly pondage requirements. Currently,
none of the studies is being upgraded to feasibility status because the pre-feasibility of El
Cimarron (240 MW) carried out with CEL's own resources showed a higher rate of retwun.
The on-going feasibility of El Cimarron is being funded by Ln.3920-ES. The pre-
feasibility of the thermal plant to be located at Cutuco (600 MW in two phases) concluded
that the least cost option was based on the use of coal as fuel. No feasibility study is being
carried out for this plant because a recent policy decision at CEL (a) rules out corporate
investments in generation based on local natural resources; and (b) incremental investments
in generation should preferably be carried out by private investors.
14.   The Sectoral Environmental Assessment was also completed and presented by the
consultants to CEL on schedule. The installation of modern MIS at CEL was completed by
the end of 1997 and the fine-tuning of the system is responding well to the implementation
of intranet and modern group-ware facilities, all Y2K-compliant, within CEL. Under the
project, procurement of 40 computers and 10 vehicles was completed satisfactorily.
Training programs on marginal cost and pricing for the UES staff were carried out
adequately through visits to other countries, and local and international seminars. Fifteen
CEL and SIGET staff and forty government staff also attended several seminars on energy
sector regulation, pricing, and privatization.
15.   Since there were four concurrent operations underway (two Bank loans 3389-ES
and 3920-ES, and two PHRD Grants--TF 20555 for TAL and TF 23014 for ESMP), it
became possible to use grant funds to reduce disbursements from Ln. 3389-ES. It was also
possible to reallocate some goods and services to the follow up Ln. 3920-ES to avoid a
third extension of Ln. 3389-ES's closing date. Under this arrangement, the feasibility study
and the works identified in the sedimentation study are being financed under Ln. 3920-ES.
16.   Even though there was no formal cofinancing of the project, there were separate
financing operations from IDB and USAID. No cofinancing was provided by UNDP
according to both Bank and CEL records. Based on the results of the study on the
geothermal potential of the Berlin field financed under Loan 3389-ES, the IDB financed
the Feasibility Study of Berlin geothermal plant through a pre-investment loan of US$1.25
million under the responsibility of FOSEP (Fondo Salvadorefno de Estudios de
Preinversion). And USAID cofinanced the rehabilitation of CEL's rural distribution
systems (US'$1.00 million).
I Source: see Appendix B, Table 7B.



5
Major Factors Affecting the Project Implementation
17.   There were no major problems in project implementation other than a 21 month
delay in the original implementation period of five years. While this delay may be viewed
as excessive, it is worth noting that the project has supported so far a very successful and
fundamental reform in one of the principal sectors of the economy, whereas other countries
(Chile, UK, USA) have taken and are taking considerably longer periods of time to
implement similar reform programs. The main causes for implementation delays were:
(a) loss of momentum in the country and sector dialogue brought about by new
Government administrations and change of key ministers within a given administration;
(b) divergent, though constructive, viewpoints within two units of the Bank, as well as at
the Borrower's end, regarding the extent of privatization and reform to be carried out,
given the apparent relatively small size of the sector but located in the midst of the
potentially larger Central American market. This issue, subsequently resolved on a
consensual basis with the support of specialized consultants, led to a more liberal sector
reform program whose key features are:
(i) unbundled sector functions (generation, transmission-dispatch, distribution, and
supply to final consumers);
(ii) liberal cross-ownership among distributors, suppliers, and generators -
transmission ownership is off limits to distributors, suppliers and generators;
(iii) unrestricted and transparent open-access by generators to the transmission and
distribution wires;
(iv) unregulated generation prices;
(v) wholesale power market based on medium and long term contracts between
generators and distributors and large power consumers, complemented by a spot
electricity market based on supply and demand uncapped price bids (more like the
Norwegian market and unlike the Argentinean, Chilean, Peruvian and Bolivian
markets where the spot market prices are capped by the supply short term marginal
cost, or unlike the England and Wales spot market which is based only on uncapped
supply bid prices);
(vi) regulated transmission and distribution prices based on the replacement value of
economically adapted assets updated yearly with the approval of SIGET or every 3
months if cost variations exceed 10%;
(vii) supply is regulated if provided by a Distributor and
(viii) arms-length regulation through an autonomous regulatory agency, SIGET.
Although the wholesale market is not yet fully operational, and it will be a few years
until an operational track record can be established, the Salvadoran power sector reform
is being frequently commended by international investors. The key rationale for the low
degree of restrictions on free transactional competition for such a small market is based



6
on an enlightened forward look at El Salvador within the much larger Central American
market where the power sectors of eight countries (including Mexico and Belize) are
expected to become interconnected within the next ten years through the implementation,
of the SIEPAC (Sistema de Interconexion Electrica de los Paises de America Central).
So far, Guatemala and El Salvador, and Belize and Mexico have been interconnected
and are already trading energy and capacity.
(c) delays in drafting, presenting, and passing the new power sector legislation by the
Congress;
(d) initially the project unit was not staffed with senior and experienced people,
especially in the technical areas - this led to frequent procurement, disbursement, and
audit- reporting delays;
(e) procurement procedural delays in particular regarding:
(i) The Stucly of the Geothermal Energy Potential of Berlin Field. The details of this
delay are not well documented in the project files. The Task Manager, a Bank retiree
no longer in the Washington area, and the Borrower have different versions. The Task
Manager reports that even though the loan agreement specified the use of the Bank's
old procurement guidelines, the Bank insisted on CEL using the Bank's new guidelines
and continuously evolving new standard bidding documents (SBDs). Moreover, the
Bank insisted on unbundling the purchase of equipment required for the study (an
important amount of the consulting contract) from the consulting services. CEL
accepted the Bank's proposal and the procurement was carried out after the six bidding
components were defined and packaged. There was a delay of about three to four
months in tlhe initiation of this procurement process, caused by some controversies
with the consultant hired by CEL to help in the preparation of the six bid components.
While not explicit in its summary report, the Borrower does mention in its main report
that some procurement delays were introduced by the continuos Bank insistence on the
use of the latest SBDs version. Based on the Task Manager's account, some delay
appears to have been caused by the then ongoing administrative restructuring of the
sector unit which required Task Managers to clear all procurement matters with newly
contracted Plrocurement Advisors (PAs). Apparently, new PAs tried to apply the latest
procurement guidelines and latest SBDs versions even though Borrowers are only
bound to the use of the guidelines specified in the Loan Agreement - the legal
department corroborates that Borrowers have a legal right to refuse using guidelines
other than those legally contracted for. However, this problem was subsequently
resolved when CEL finally agreed to use the Bank's new SBDs version.
(ii) The Pre-Feasibility Study of the Four HydroPower Plants. After signing the
contract with the consortium Lahmeyer-Tahal for Phase I of the studies, CEL begun a
litigation process with Tahal on some other contract (CEL-2013) financed with CEL's
own resources (Appendix B, para. 8 (b)) As a result, CEL did not wish to be
associated with Tahal in any new contract while the litigation was in progress. Since
the cancellation of the CEL-2013 contract took a lot longer than anticipated, CEL with
the concurrence of all parties proceeded to amend the Bank financed contract to reflect
the replacernent of the Tahal-Lahmayer consortium by Lahmayer alone as the main



7
contractor for the studies. The dispute on CEL-2013 arose because CEL's Board
detected that the contract had been signed and become effective under terms
inconsistent with those authorized by CEL's Board. This problem delayed the
implementation of the studies by ten months. To avoid it in the future, the Borrower
posits the following lesson: project managers should not concentrate only on technical
project issues but also on administrative, and legal aspects of contracts to avoid serious
project implementation problems and delays. This more comprehensive project
management would have enabled the timely detection of the legal problems with
contract CEL-2013, and avoided costly delays to both CEL and contractors
themselves. Even though this lesson emanates from another project, its consequences
affected project implementation.
(f) A week before closing date of the project, the Bank was unable to disburse about
US$300,000 because of the limitation in the loan disbursement procedures stipulated
in Schedule 1 of Loan Agreement. Because most foreign manufacturers represented in
El Salvador, can only sell though their legal local representatives, CEL had to purchase
in local currency software licenses through the foreign manufacturer local
representative. The Bank could not disburse because the Loan Agreement allowed
only foreign expenditures for the purchase of goods. In this particular case, the
disbursement procedures should have allowed at least some percentage for local
expenditures. A loan amendment was not attempted because CEL was under the
impression that the local agent would be able to segregate and bill the direct foreign
cost of the goods. It turned out that the local agent found such an activity too
cumbersome and intruding into the agent's confidential profitability accounting data.
No last minute amendment was attempted because the required sum could be disbursed
from the ongoing Ln. 3920 ES.



8
D.  BANK PERFORMANCE
18.   The Barnk performance in project identification, preparation and appraisal was
satisfactory despite the change of three Task Managers. Supervision was also satisfactory
despite the imp:lementation delays and some differences of opinion on procurement and
disbursement matters. There was a fourth and final change of Task Manager towards
project completion. Despite these changes, the Bank managed to provide effective support
with smooth transitions. Regular formal and infonnal exchanges took place throughout
project implementation. In particular, the Bank's supervision of the project provided
satisfactory intellectual leadership, and conceptual flexibility in working with the GOES
and CEL on both sector reform and loan administration issues. Whenever appropriate, the
supervision tearms helped draw the Borrower's attention to a few weaknesses in project
implementation and suggested practical remedial measures. Close interaction with the
project units helped develop a collaborative working relationship which ensured the
satisfactory completion of the project and meeting the project development objectives
successfully. F[owever, it is worth mentioning that Bank insistence on the use of new
procurement guidelines and standard bidding documents, caused delays in project
implementation.
E.  BORROWER PERFORMANCE
19.   Borrower performance in preparing and implementing the project was satisfactory.
GOES showed sufficient commitment to the project and was timely in complying with
most project covenants. CEL, the implementing agency, also was committed to the
objectives of the project and complied with most of the relevant project covenants except
for timely audit reporting.
20.   The Comision Ejecutiva del Proyecto Energia (CEPE), was created and structured
according to the schedule set in CEL-Bank agreements. After initial staffing weaknesses,
CEPE performed properly to meet its obligations for the execution of the project,
disbursement, preparation of periodical reports, and general supervision of contracts. Even
though the Director of CEPE changed three times, the transitions were reasonably smooth
and its functioning was not materially affected, since the majority of the key staff remained
in place during the project period.
-   F.    CONSULTANT PERFORMANCE
21.   Performance of consultants involved in the sectoral studies and the engineering and
management studies, as can be seen in Table 7, was satisfactory.



9
G.   ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
22.   The outcome of the project is considered satisfactory. Even though the project was a
TA loan, it was able to achieve significant results like major structural reforms in the power
sector. This was mainly due to good project ownership and political support by the
Government, CEL, and sector authorities.
23.   The project was successful in meeting its development objectives. The legal and
regulatory framework is in place. The regulatory agency SIGET has been established.
Sound planning and pricing policies have been fostered. Hydroelectric power plants are
being rehabilitated and modernized. CEL, the national utility, has been restructured.
CEL's four distribution companies were privatized in January 1998, and CEL's generation
companies are being prepared for privatization in 1999, all in line with firn action plans. In
addition, the Government would also be creating an independent transmission company to
guarantee open access to the transmission system to any private generator.
24.   The project was also successful in quantifying the potential of Berlin field, one of
the main geothermal fields in the country, and in designing a reliable system for the best
hydro projects in the Lema river basin (El Salvador is currently talking with Honduras
government to implement the bi-national project El Tigre, which was one of the projects
recommended by the TAL studies).
25.   Even though there was a delay of 21 months in closing the project, performance of
the project can be regarded as remarkable given the extent of the overall sector reforms and
divestiture/privatization achieved after a long, violent and extremely disruptive civil war.
26.   TA operations do not require that an economic cost-benefit analysis be carried out
during appraisal. This ICR does not attempt to estimate a broad cost-benefit analysis
because it is still too early to assess the full economic impact of the power sector reforms
supported by the project. Government-owned distribution companies were recently
privatized in January 1998, and the generation companies would be privatized only in
1999. However, it is worth underlining
(a) that the sale at 40% over book value of 75% of the distribution companies' shares
totaling US$575 million had a substantial impact (equivalent to 5.5% of the 1996 national
GDP of US$10.5 billion). The operational impact resulting from incremental fiscal
revenues and improvements in the efficiency and quality of service can only be assessed
after the new owners have been in business for at least two to three years; and
(b) the high success with which international investors and Bankers have regarded the
privatization process of CEL's distribution companies is attributed mainly to
* having a majority political support for reform and privatization;
* having a high level and experience working group in charge of designing sector
reform and preparing enterprises for divestment;
* having the legal and regulatory framework in place;



10
* using top level consultants and using second and even third opinions from other top
level consultants from having differing viewpoints and/or from different geographical
parts of the world;
(c) that a full evaluation and description of the process followed in the privatization of
CEL's distributjion companies is outside the scope of this ICR. However, it should be
pointed out that the process followed an approach aimed at maximizing the value of the
transactions by taking advantage of the factors mentioned above in particular the
existence of a fiull legal framework. Also, distribution was privatized first because the
retail sector strategy and the enterprises were ready as soon as the legislation was enacted.
Generation is going to take another year since the final strategy and size of the different
generation companies is still being designed.
H.   PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
27.   The sustainability of the project is strong. Drafting and enacting a new Electricity
Law, creating the energy and telecommunications regulatory agency, SIGET, fostering
sound planning and pricing policies, strengthening the efficiency and management of CEL,
privatizing the four distribution utilities, and the expected privatization of the thermal
generation companies are tangible factors underpinning the sustainability of the project. In
addition, both the GOES and CEL continue to have their commitments to the Energy Sector
Modernization Project (ESMP, Loan 3920-ES), which is a sequel to TAL. ESMP is
assisting the GOES in consolidating sector reform and its regulatory framework through the
preparation of secondary legislation and procedures to help ensure the sustainability of the
project. Furthernmore, the Government's efforts in establishing project guidelines and
quality standards to promote environmentally sound investments, and strengthening
management and regulatory capacities would complement the sustainability of the project.
Finally, the confidence displayed by the investors who have paid 40% above book value for
the distribution companies adds further credence to the expected sustainability of the
project.
I.    FUTURE OPERATION
28.   The Energy Sector Modernization Project, which is currently under implementation,
is a follow-up of the Power Sector Technical Assistance Loan. This project, approved in
September 1996, aims to reinforce the achievements of the latter project. The main
objectives of the ESMP are to: (a) improve service reliability and coverage by rehabilitating
, modernizing and expanding power generation, transmission and distribution systems; and
(b) assist in restructuring the sector and reforming the regulatory framework through the
preparation of secondary legislation and procedures.
J.    MAJOR LESSONS LEARNED
29.   Lessons Learned about Reform and Privatization
(a) The strategy for Power sector reform in a given country should be designed, whenever
applicable, with due consideration to the potential size of a neighboring regional market
which is usually many fold larger than the individual national markets - cases in point are
El Salvador (already under implementation) and Belize (still in the design stage) in the



11
Central American Market; and Bolivia in the context of the Mercosur market. In all these
cases the relatively small size of the national power sectors prompted initial preferences
for restricted market liberalization. Further analysis however showed that a more
sustainable and liberal strategy should be tailored to cater to and benefit from the larger
regional potential market with, as required, suitable transitional stages.
(b) Sector policy and regulatory reform should be well underway before privatization in
the sector, so that bidders can feel that they are entering a secure environment, and will
have a sound basis for calculating their bids. Much of El Salvador's success in
privatization is due to the progress that was made beforehand in preparing comprehensive
sectoral legislation and rules.
(c) The government's Reform and Privatization team should be staffed with qualified top
level staff, with proven commitment to the reform and track record of getting things done
with extremely tight deadlines.
(d) It is often better to break up large companies, so as to make them more attractive to a
range of buyers and to encourage competition.
(e) Full time attention must be paid to public relations, lest public resistance impede the
process or threaten its results.
(f) Top-level political support is critical for the success of the reform and privatization
process. When the message from the top is clearly in favor of privatization, the process
moves ahead rapidly.
30.   Lessons Learned about Bank Lending
(a) It is important that the Bank be proactive in its sectoral dialogue and prepared to take
the time to bring up to speed government officials of new administrations who may have
unclear perceptions as to the required extent and pace of ongoing reforms.
(b) The loan should not become effective unless the project executing unit is in place,
staffed with senior people with adequate experience, especially in technical areas, and its
capabilities in procurement, disbursement, and financial management meet Bank
guidelines.
(c) On Procurement and Disbursement:
(i) In the event that the Bank is not successful in persuading the Borrower to use new
procurement procedures which come into effect after signing the loan agreement, the
Bank should give the Borrower the option of using the old procedures spelt out in the
loan agreement. This is very important, since the Bank does not have the legal ground
to enforce such new procedures. On the other hand, if the Borrower is willing to use
new procedures, timely training should be provided to the staff concerned in order to
avoid unnecessary procurement delays.
(ii) to avoid lengthy potential disagreements during project implementation, the Bank
project team should agree with the Borrower during appraisal or, at the latest, during



12
the project-launch mission, on the specific procurement procedures to be used for those
items which imay not be clearly defined in the appraisal documents, such as whether
ICB procedures are going to be required to procure relatively expensive equipment
associated to complex technical studies.
(iii) Loan Agreements regarding procurement should be drafted with enough flexibility
to accommodate local procurement where direct foreign purchase of goods is not an
option for the Borrower. Alternatively, task managers should take timely steps to
amend the Loan Agreement in such situations.
(d) Adequate use of consultant services for diagnostic studies prior to project
implementation would help anticipate the relevant needs of the project and to focus more
on priority areas during implementation (Appendix B, para. 10 (a))
(e) The technical staff should focus not only on technical matters, but also on
administrative and legal matters while executing project contracts (Appendix B, para. 10
(c)).
(f) Task managers should provide clear explanation of the issues and problems faced
during project implementation in mission Aide Memoires, instead of just giving cursory
mentioning of those issues. Without such explanations, it is difficult for succeeding task
managers to assess and follow up on those issues. Furthermore, this also causes delays
and higher costs in the preparation of the project ICR.
(g) Since the TAL was one of the first projects where the project documents were
electronically filed, many relevant information were not available either in the electronic
format or in hard copies. In order to avoid such problems in the future, for a smooth
transition from paper filing system to electronic filing, it is essential to maintain both hard
copies of project documents along with electronically filed documents, until it is proven
that the newer, lmore efficient system can reliably replace the older less efficient system.



13
PART II. STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives          Substantial        Partial         Negligible       Not applicable
Macro Policies                                                                              ER E  Cl
Sector Policies                                                                            El   E  Ei
Financial Objectives                                   El                E                 Ia
Institutional Development             )1                                 E                 El
Physical Objectives                                    E                 El                El
Poverty Reduction                       l              Cl                El
Gender Issues                         E1 0                               El
Other Social Objectives               El               o                 El
Environmental Objectives                               E                 E                 El
Public Sector Management                               E                 El                El
Private Sector Development                              ]                El                El
Other (specify)                      E:1               0                 El
B. Project Sustainability                Likely                   Unlikely                   Uncertain
C. Bank Performance                       Highly
satisfactory           Satisfactory                Deficient
Identification                        El                                                    El
Preparation Assistance                                                                      E
Appraisal                             El                                                    El
Supervision                          E                                                     E
D. Borrower Perfornance
Preparation                                                     El                         El
Implementation                       E                                                     El
Covenant Compliance                   E                                                    E
Operation (if applicable)            E                          E                          El
Highly                                               Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome                satisfactory    Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory     unsatisfactory
El111                             El                 El1



14
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title        Purpose          Year of approval        Status
Preceding operations
1. 0889-ES - Sixth    Distribution of     6/73                Closed
Power Project         electricity in rural
zones
2. Credit 227-         Construction of a 33  6/76             Closed
ES/Soyapongo Gass     MW gas turbine near
Turbine - Power V     the capital
3. Ln 1288-           Electric supply in    6/76              Closed
ES/Ahuachapan         rural areas
Expansion Project
4. 3293-ES - Structural   Structural      9/93                Closed
Adjustment Loan       Adjustment Programn
Ongoing or recently
closed operations
1. Loan 3646-ES -     Structural          9/93                Closed
Second SAL            Adjustment Loan
2. Loan 3648-ES -     Public Sector       10/93               Closed
Technical Assistance  Modernization,
Loan                  social sector and
environmental
reforming
3. 3920-ES/Energy     Improve electric    7/95                Closing 6/2000
Sector                service reliability                     IP/DO = S/S2
and coverage
4. Loan 3946-ES -     Raising productivity  1996              Closing 6/99
Private Sector                                                IP/DO = S/S
Competitiveness
Enhancement Dev. And
TA Project
2 IP/Do: Implementation Progress/Development Objectives
S: Satisfactory



15
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle          Date Planned         Date Actual/
l Latest Estimate   l
Identification                           10/90             10/20/90
Preparation                              01/91             02/12/91
Appraisal                                03/91             03/12/91
Negotiations                             05/91             05/20/91
Board Presentation                       06/91             07/11/91
Signing                                  09/91             09/11/91
Effectiveness                            09/91             12/31/91
Project Completion                       12/31/95          03/31/98
Loan Closing                             06/30/96          03/31/98
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
FY94_        FY95_FY96_FY97_  FY98_
Appraisal Estimate             2.2          4.3      8.6   10.7   11.0
Actual                         2.5          5.5      8.9   9.2    10.08
Actualas%ofEstimate            113          127     103    85        92
Date of Final Disbursement: July 31, 1998



16
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
l. Key Implementation
Indicators in SAR/               Estimated                  Actual
President's Report
1. Study regarding energy
sector regulation                    10/31/92                  07/16/92
Preparation of Action Plan for
energy sector reform                 12/31/92                  04/24/95
2. Study to set electricity rates
based on marginal cost.              10/31/92                  01/01/93
Action Plan to implement
recommendations                      12/31/92                  05/04/95
3. Study to value assets of
power distribution companies          3/31/92                  07/22/92
4. Drafti.o new electricity law                     09/01/93 First draft
4. Drafting new electricity law      0/31/92             02/01/96 Second draft
5. Pre-feasibility studies of
generation projects and
evaluating potential of Berlin
geothermal field                     10/31/91                  12/17/93
6. Assessment of the reliability
of trans. system                     10/31/91                 08/13/92
7. Assessing the institutional,
operational and managerial
capability of CEL                    10/31/91                  10/27/97
8. Preparing a Financial
rehabilitation Plan for CEL          6/30/92                  05/01/95
9. Studies on opeiration and
transmission                       Not available               4/20/92
10. Studies on C]EL
Administration                                                 11/10/97
11. Environmental Studies                                      9/4/95
12.Energy Sector Privatization
Studies                     _                                  6/22/92



17
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
II. Modified Indicators (if
applicable)
1.
2.                                      NA                          NA
3.
III. Other Indicators (if
applicable)
1._____
2.                                      NA                          NA
3.
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
I. Key Operating Indicators
in SAR/President's               Estimated                     Actual
Report
1.
2.                                      NA                          NA
3.
II. Modified Indicators (if
Applicable)
1.                                     NA                           NA
2.
3.
III. Modified Indicators for
Future Operation (if
applicable)
_.             NA                          NA
2.
3.



Table 7: Principal Studies Included in the Project
Study                            Purpose                 Status      Consultant                   Impact of Study
Performance
Sectoral Studies
t1. (a) Drafting regulations goveing   To increase efficiency of public  Completed  Prepared Sd  action plan to implement a legal, institutional and
energy sector and developing a     energy sector agencies                        regulatory reform for the energy sector; revised the Electricity Law;
proposal for the functions and                                                   analyzed alternatives for CEL restructuring; and created Transactions
organization of a regulatory body; (b)                                           Unit.
Revision of the Electricity Law; (c)
Restructuring of CEL; and (d) Creation
lof Transactions Unit                                                             Developed an electricity pricing policy based on marginal cost criteria|
of Transactions Unit                                                             and prepared an action plan to implement recommendations.
2. Defining the methodology and
proposing action plan to set electricity
rates based on marginal cost criteria    To establish procedures for  Completed  Valued the assets of CEL, particularly of generation and transmission  co
crltena    regulating prices of energy products         equipment
3. Valuing the assets of the power  T
distribution companies and proposing   Govt.   in  volvitie                       Prepared reports with conclusions and recommendations to fostera i
Ian action plan to allow their      Govt. incommercialactivities      Completed  private sector participation and identified distribution companies
privatization                                                                     suitable to be privatized
4. Studying the privatization of energy To reduce direct involvement of the
sector               Govt. in commercial activities
Completed



Study                           Purpose                Status      Consultant                  Impact of Study
Perfornance
Engineering and Management
Studies
To build a pipeline of well prepared   Completed  Satisfactory   (a) evaluated four hydroelectric projects and identified
1. Pre-feasibility studies of generation  projects that may be suitable for                  projects suitable for fnancing by the Bank and other
projects and evaluate the potential of   fnancing by the Bank and other                      international agencies; (b) analyzed the potential of
Berlin geothermal field           international agencies                                      Berlin geothermal field
To build a pipeline of well prepared                       Prepared rehabilitation plan for CEL's transmission
2. Assessing the reliability of   projects that may be suitable for                          system
transmission system and evaluate the   fnancing by the Bank and other
damage caused by terrorist attacks  international agencies          Completed  Satisfactory
Increase the efficiency of CEL by                          Prepared reports with conclusions and
promoting accountability for the
achievement of performance target                          recommendations for improving CEL's efficiency
3. Assessing the institutional.
Operational, managerial and
environmental capability of CEL   To develop a plan for protecting the   Completed  Satisfactory
environment in all activities related                      Analyzed the current environmental situation and
to energy sector                                           incorporated legal and regulatory framework for
Other Studies                                                                                 energy sector for better environmental management
1. Environmental study
Completed Satisfactory



Table 8A: Project Costs
I -    Appraisal Estimate (US$ Thousand)                 Actual/Latest Estimate(US$ Thousand)
Local           Foreign          Total3         RLocal             voreign               Total
Item         -                   Costs            Costs                              Costs           Costs
Sector Studies
a. Legal, Institutional and             85              300              385                                 1215              1215
Regulatory Reform
b. Electricity Rate Study               64              263              32                                  505                505
c. Power Sector Privatization Study    118              194              312                                 290                290
d. Operating Performance Audit in                                                   I
RASA                                   25               250              275
e. Hydrocarbon program                                                         _                             154                154
Engineering and Management
Studies
2.1 Generation Power Project
a. Pre-feasibility Study of Hydro
Projects                               479             2362              2841                                4092              4092
b. Feasibility Study of Thernal
Power Project                           91              530              621                                 720                720
c. Potential of the Berlin            145              1913             2058                                658                658
Geothermal Field                I -
An arithmetical discrepancy of $50,000 was found in the project cost in the Schedule A of the MOP. This relatively small amount was assumed to be due to the
excess cost on electrical measurement and testing equipment (item 3.1 below), and has therefore been excluded in this Table 8A in order to keep the total
project cost consistent with the figure given in the MOP.



Appraisal Estimate (US$ Thousand)                 Actual/Latest Estimate(US$ Thousand)
Local           Foreign          Total3          RLocal            Foreign               Total
Item                             Costs            Costs                              Costs           Costs
d. Feasibility study of the Berlin
Geothermal Field
1251              1251
2.2 Transmission and Operations        45              219               264
Studies
2.3 Rehabilitation of Distribution     227              1065             1292                                365                365
Systems                                50               160              210                                1000               1000
2.4 Management Study at CEL                                                                                  61                 61
2.5 Others
a. Preparing bidding documents for
CH de Noviembre
b. Environmental studies                                                                                     144                144
241               241
c. Sedimentation studies
d. Diagnostic study of 4 central                                                                              15                 15
hydroelectricals                                                                                              58                 58
e. Rehabilitation study for Cerron
Grande central hydroelectricals                                                                               60                60
f. Rehabilitation study for
telecomnmunication systems
Equipmenrt                                                                                                    22                22
3.1 Electrical Measurement and
Testing equipment                       0               1942             1942                                1371               1371
3.2 Data Processing Equipment



____________________________          Appraisal Estimate (US$ Thousand)                 Actual/Latest Estimate(US$ Thousand)
Local           Foreign          Total3         RLocal            Foreign              Total
Item                            Costs            Costs                              Costs          Costs
a. for the Govt.                                       9                9                                 43                 43
b. for CEL                            0               285              285                                201               201
3.3 Vehicles                           0               176              176                                 136               136
3.4 Misc. equipment and Materials      0                                                                   244                244
a. fortheGovt.                        0                18               18                                 0                  0
b. for CEL                           386               18              404
3.5 CEL & Govt. costs                                                                                                         500
(administration and taxes)
Training
a. Staff of the Sectoral Special Unit   0              164               164                                57                 57
of the ministry of Planning
b. Training Program for Manager         0              276              276                                 133               150
and Higher Level Staff of CEL
Base Estimate Cost.                   1715            10144            11859                               13553             13553
Physical contingencies                 172             1014             1186
Price contingencies                    106             981              1087
TOTAL                                1993            12139             14132                              13553             13553



23
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate (US$    Actual (US$ Thousand)
_Thousand)                                         I
Local  Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign  Total
Source        Costs  Costs             Costs   Costs
IBRD                             11000                     10080
IDB/UNDP                         300                         1251
USAID                            1521                        1000
Japan Grant                      710                         722
CEL and Govt.                    601                         500
TOTAL         |                 14132 1                   13553
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
N.A.



Legal Covenant Report; Latest sitaus of Covenant Coi3p,lan3ce                                                  3D 13.05- ANNEX D5
LC - LAogi  America & Caribbean Ree5on                                                                                                                                        Page:  1
LCC2C - Central Amnr"-R CMU                                                                                                                              Run Da.e- 1011.98 at 15.48.02
Forgo 590 Date: 07/03/1998
Project 31): SV-PE-7170    - POWER TAL
Original     Revised
Covenant              Fulfill      Fulfill
Class(m)   Status      Date         Date      Description of Covensant                                CQoMnts
Agreemient: LOAN Loan Number: IBRD -33890
Texi Reference: 2.03
10           C        06/30/1996  03/31/1998  Closinig date                                             Complied with.
Text Reference: 3.01
10           C                                  The Burrowef to implement Lhe project through           The imoplementing scheme is functioning adequately.   0
MIPLAN CsIlctoril SLudiQ-N Unit) and CEL (Subsidiary  Tthe Project Director is acting on behalf
Loan Agreement)                                                                                                    (9
7ext Reference: 3.04(a)(
09            C        10/31/1992  05/31/1993)  The Borrower to complete the Sectoridl Studies and  New revised dates have been proposed by the Bank,
to submit satisfactory action plans.                    as the proJect was initiated later than scheduled.
Text Reference: 3.04(b)                                                                                                                                                                     f
09            C       03/31/1992  08/31/1993  The Borrower to value assets of power distribution  Valued assets of distribution companies is
companies and to submit an action plan for ttheir    expected in a short time and a new date for
privatizatiori.                                         privatization programs has ben postponed.
Text Reference: 3.05
09            C       03/31/1992                The Borrower to submit project progress reports          Covenant is being complied satisfactorily, as
including results of studies and evaluation of          project progress reports are presented quarterly.
training programs.                                                                                                 I
Text Reference: 3.06                                                                                                                                                                        ,
10           C                                  The Borrower to carry out a training program on         The program was carried out adequately through
marginal cost and pricing for the Sectoral Studies  visits to other counCries and local and
Unit's staff.                                           international seminars.
Status:
0
C    - Complied with                                                                                                                                                              4
CD   - Compliance after Delay                                                                                                                                                     (D
NC   - Not Complied with                                                                                                                                                          P
SOON - Compliance Expected in Reasonably Short rime                                                                                                                               0
CP   - Complied with Partially                                                                                                                                                    rt
NYD  - Not Yet Due                                                                                                                                                                (A



Legal Covenant Report: Latest status of Covenant Compliance                                                                                                   OD 13.05 - ANNEX DS
LCR - Latin America & Caribbean Region                                                                                                                                     Page:  2
LCC2C - Central America CMU                                                                                                                           Run Date: 10101/98 at 15.48.02
Form 590 Date. 07/03/1998
Project ID: SV-PE-7170    - POWER TAL
Original     Revised
Covenant              Fulfill      Fulfill
Class (a)   Status     Date        Date      Description of Covenant                                 Coements
Text Reference: 4.01
01           C        04/30/1998               The Borrower and CEL to maintain adequate separate  Covenant is being complied with satisfactorily.
loan accounts and to yearly audit the Special
account.
Agreement: PROJ Number:
Text Reference: 2.01 to 2.05
10           C                                 CEL to carry out procurement and other tasks in         covenant is comiplied with satisfactorily.
accordance witth the Loan, Project, anid Subsidiary
Loan Agreements.
Text Reference: 2.06                                J
10           C        06/30/1992  06/30/1993  CEL to submit a satisfactory plan for its                Complied with.
financial rehabilitation (tariffs, arrears, and
efficiency improvemenit).
Text Reference: 2.07 - 2.09                                                                                                                                                                 ,,
10           C                                 CEL to submit a satisfactory trainirig program, and  Complied with.
to carry out such a program and study in a
satisfactory manner.
Text Reference: 2.10
10           C        12/31/1993               CEL to furnish a satisfactory least cost expanision  Complied with.
plan, including environmental costs and
recommendation from studies.
Text Reference: 3.0L3.03
10                                              CEL to carry out its operations and maintenarice of
equipment in accordance with sound enginieering and
financial practices.
Status:
C    - Complied with
CD   - Cowpliance after Delay
NC   - Not complied with
SOON - Compliance Expected in Reasonaily Short Timae
Cl   - Complied with Partially
N,D  - Not Yet Due



Legal Covenant Report: Latest status of Covenant Compliance                                                                                                   OD 13.05 - ANNEX D5
LCR - Latin Americs & Caribbean Region                                                                                                                                     Page:  3
LCC2C - Central America CMU                                                                                                                           Run Date: 10/01/98 at 15.48.02
Form 590 Date: 07/03/1998
Project ID: SV-PE-7170    - POWER TAL
Original     Revised
Covenant              Fulfill      Fulfill
Class (s)   Status     Date         Date     Description of Covenant                                 Comments
Text Reference: 4.01
01                    04/30/1998               CEL to maintain adequate loan accounts and audited
financial statements to be submitted each year to
the Bank.
0a
Status:
C    - Complied with
CD   - Compliance after Delay
NC   - Not Complied with
SOON - Compliance Expected in Reasonably Short Time
CP   - Complied with Partially
NYD - Not Yet Due



Legal Covenant Report: Latest status of Covenant Compliance                                                                               OD 13.05 - ANNEX DS
Full Text of General Covenant Classification                                                                                       Run Date: 10101/98 at 15.48.02
Covenant Class
1 Accounts/audit
2 Financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries
3 Flow and utilization of Project funds
4 Counterpart funding
5 management aspects of the Project or of its executing agency
6  Environmental covenants
7 Involuntary resettlement
8 Indigenous people
9 Monitoring, review and reporting
10 Implementation
11 Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12 Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action
13 Other
-4



28
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement Number and Title       Describe and comment on lack of compliance
No lack of compliance was evidenced
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                          Actual
Project Cycle                                    l
Weeks   US$
Preparation to Appraisal          27.3     70.5
Appraisal-Board                   13.1     31.6
Negotiations through Board Approval  2.4   5.6
Supervision                       89.8     272.7
Completion                        8.0 (est)  21.0 (est)
TOTrAL                           140.6    401.4



29
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Nubr Days                     ImlmnainTypes of
Number   Days   Specialized        Implementation     Development  Problems
Stage of          Month/        of     Field   Staff Skills           Status       Objectives
Project Cycle     Year       Persons     ld    Represented
Through Appraisal
1. Identification  8/90      3         5       Power                                                 NA
Engg./Fin.
Analysis
2. Pre-appraisal  10-11/90   3         2        Power
Engg./Fin.
Analysis                                             NA
3. Appraisal      3/91       4          12      Power
Engg./Fin.
Analysis/Econo                                       NA
mics/Privatizn.
Appraisal through
Board Approval
Supervision
Supervision 1     2/93       3         7        Env. Eng./Fin.                          I        Nil
Analysis/Econo
mics
Supervision 2     8/94       1         4        Eng                                     1        Procurement
Supervision 3     6/95       3         5        Eng./Economics         S               HS        Nil
6
Supervision 4     10/95      2                  Fin. Anal/ Econs       S                S        General
Supervision 5     2/96       2         5        Eng./Economics         S                S        Nil
Supervision 6     5/96       3         3        Eng./Economics         S                         Nil
Supervision 7     8/96                          sEng./Economic         S                S        Nil
Supervision 8     6-7/97     1         3       Eng./Economics          S                S        General
Supervision 9     10/97      3         5      | Power Engg/Fin.        S                S        Nil
Supervision 9  10/97 ~~~            Analysis/Regula
2         8       tory                                    s
Supervision 10 and   8/98      .       2       Power Engineer          s                S        Nil
ICR



30
APENDIX A: AIDE MEMOIRE



31
Aide Memoire
World Bank Implementation Completion Mission
To Evaluate the Power Sector Technical Assistance Loan (Ln. 3389-ES)
San Salvador, El Salvador, August 18 to August 21, 1998
1.    A mission of the World Bank (the Bank) comprised of Mr. Marcelo Osorio, Bank
Consultant, visited El Salvador on August 18-21, 1998 to: (a) discuss the draft of the
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) on the above Project prepared by the Bank;
and (b) discuss the Completion Report prepared by the Government. The Mission
interviewed staff of the Government and CEL, the state-owned public utility (list attached
in Annex 1). The mission appreciates the support provided by both Government officials
and CEL.
PROJECT EVALUATION
2.    The Government, CEL and the Mission agreed that the Project was successful in
meeting its objectives. It assisted Government to improve the efficiency of the energy
sector by providing a sound legal, institutional and regulatory framework, fostering sound
planning and pricing policies, attracting private sector participation to the power sector,
and strengthening the efficiency and management of CEL.
3.    All programmed activities were carried out in each of the Project's components
although with some delays. The Project assisted both CEL and the Government in the
development of the power sector, preparing pre-feasibility studies of hydro generation
projects, preparing a Sector Environmental Assessment as a basis for an Action Plan for
correcting existing environmental problems. The Project was completed with a total delay
of two years and nine months.
4.    The Government acknowledge that the Project provided a fundamental
contribution for the establishment of a new legal framework for the power sector,
provided the basis for the restructuring and privatization of CEL, promoted private
participation in power generation and the rehabilitation and modernization of CEL
hydroelectric power plants. At present, all power distribution companies have been
privatized and there are requests for permits from private generating companies to install
new generation plants.
5.    The first component, Sector Studies, financed the following studies: (a) energy
sector regulation; (b) marginal costs to set electricity tariffs; (c) valuation of assets of
power distribution companies; (d) drafting of the electricity law.
6.    The second component, Engineering and Management Studies, financed the
following studies: (a) pre-feasibility studies of generation projects and evaluation of
Berlin geothermal field; (b) assessment of the reliability of the transmission system; (c)
assessment of the institutional, operational and managerial capability of CEL; (d)



32
preparation of a financial rehabilitation plan for CEL; and (e) an enviromnental impact
assessment for the power sector.
7.    The third component, Acquisition of Equipment and Materials, financed the
acquisition of equipment for electrical measurement and testing, data processing and
vehicles.
8.    The fourth component, Training Program, financed training for staff of the
Sectoral Special Unit of the Ministry of Planning and for Management and High Level
Staff of CEL.
9.    Only US$10.08 million out of the total US$11.0 million loan amount were
utilized. The Bank will cancel the balance (US$916,330).
FUTURE PROJECT OPERATIONS
10.   The Government and CEL are applying effective measures to consolidate the
reforms and studies carried out under the Project. To this end,
(a)   Government (i) established a regulatory entity for the power and
telecommunications (Superintendencia General de Electricidad y
Telecomunicaciones - SIGET); (ii) is promoting private sector
participation in power generation. At present, it has received requests for
the installation of power generation by private companies; and (iii) will
create an independent transmission company to guarantee open access to
the transmission system to any private generator;
(b)   CEL (i) privatized its power distribution companies; (ii) is being
restructured to create separate generating companies to be further
privatized; and (iii) jointly with Government, is implementing the Energy
Sector Modernization Project financed under Loan 3920-ES, which is a
follow-up of the Power Sector Technical Assistance Loan.
San Salvador, August 21, 1998
Ing. Guillermo Sol                         Ing. Jose Oscar Medina
Presidente CEL                           Director Ejecutivo CEL
Marcelo Osorio
World Bank Consultant



33
AIDE MEMOIRE
ANNEX 1
List of the Persons Met with the Mission
COMISION PRESIDENCIAL PARA LA MODERNIZACI6N DEL SECTOR
P(JBLICO
Ing. Frinee Violeta Castillo de Zaldafia   Administrative Coordinator
Lic. Isela Martinez                        Technical Coordinator
Ing. Alcides Castillo                      Regulatory Frameworkd
MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Lic. Julio Montes                          Sub Director, General Directorate,
Investment and Public Credi
Lic. Jose Mauricio Aguiluz                 Economic Advisor
CEL
Ing. Guillermo Sol                         President
Ing. Jose Oscar Medina                     Executive Director
Dra. Ana Maria Majano                      Restructuring Unit Coordinator
Ing. Gregorio Avila                        Technical Coordinator
Ing. Salvador Novellino                    Finance-Administrative Coordinator
Ing. Carlos Armando Rivera                 Director Project Implementation
Unit
Lic. Gladis Artiga de Valencia             Chief, Project Performance and
Monitoring Unit



34
APPENDIX B: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
POWER SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN
(LOAN 3989-ES)



35
EL SALVADOR
POWER SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN
English Version of the
Executive Summary of Borrower's Report (Appendix B)
Introduction
The following is the English version of the Executive Summary of the Borrowers Report.
The introductory paragraph of the Summary is not translated here, since it is a repeat of
the background information on the project mentioned in the main text of the ICR. In this
Appendix B, only Tables 7A (on project studies) and Table 7B (on training ) are
included. Other tables were excluded because they are duplicates of the respective tables
of this ICR. The full Spanish version of the Borrower's report is available in the project
file.
1. Project Objectives and Description.
The objectives of the Power Sector Technical Assistance Loan were to (a) improve the
legal, institutional and regulatory framework; (b) develop sound planning and pricing
policies; (c) promote private participation in the power sector; (d) strengthen CEL's
administrative and management capabilities and efficiency; and (e) training for the
Government's and CEL's staff
The project component consisted of (a) sectoral studies; (b) engineering and Management
Studies; (c) procurement of equipment and materials; and (d) training.
2. Achievements Made Possible Under the Project
(a) Improving the legal, institutional and regulatory framework and (b) develop sound
planning and pricing policies:
The following legal and regulatory framework was put in place: (i) creation of
Superintendencia General de Electricidad y Telecomunicaciones (SIGET);
(ii) creation of the Transactions Unit (Unidad de Transacciones); (iii)
Electricity Law and Regulations; and (iv) creation of the National Investment
Fund for Electricity and Telecommunications (FINET).
(c) Promoting private sector participation
* In February 1996, the optimum modernization of the power sector and the
participation of private capital was facilitated by the approval of Presidential Accord



36
No. 283 dealing with the Integral Plan for the Management of the Public Power
Distribution Services.
In April 1997, Decree No. 1004 approved by the Legislative Assembly enabled
selling to private investors the shares of the Power Distribution Companies. The first
transaction consisting of 70% of the shares took place on January 28, 1998. The sale
of the rernaining shareholding is expected to be finalized during the final quarter of
calendar 1998.
(d) Strengthening the Government's and CEL's administrative and management
efficiency
* The studies conducted by the project for strengthening and improving the
management efficiency of CEL resulted in initiating and advancing the
process to modernize and restructure CEL's organization and operations.
IrLcluding the creation and unbundling of different generation and
transmission companies as independent entities with proper organizational
structures.
(e) Training for the Government and CEL staff
* As shown in the Table 7B of this Appendix B, the project financed the
training of 40 government officials and 15 staff members of CEL.
3. Factors which affected the project execution
The unanticipated longer time taken to approve the new Electricity Law, until the end of
1996, delayed many of the studies envisioned in the project, such as the studies relating
to the restructuring of CEL. These studies could not be carried out until the restructuring
mandates were enacted in the new Law.
4. Project Suistainability
The project's outcome is deemed to be irreversible. Primarily due to new legislative
measures approved by the Legislative Assembly, such as the new Electricity Law and the
creation of SIGET. The privatization of the Distribution Companies and the advanced
restructuring of CEL have also made the project outcome sustainable.
5. Bank Perlformance
Bank performance during project execution is deemed to have been satisfactory due to
the following reasons: (a) frequent supervision missions by the Bank staff helped to
clarify Borrower's various doubts regarding execution of studies and on procurement
matters;
(b) timely disbursements; and (c) constant interaction by the Bank staff with the project
executing unit for dealing with disbursement and bidding process.



37
6. Borrower Performance
The Government performance, as the collaborator and supporter of CEL, in the
preparation and execution of the project was highly satisfactory.
7. Consultant Performance
The consultants contracted for carrying out the studies financed by the Loan performed
satisfactorily in executing their assignments.
8. Some Other Instances of Project Implementation delays
At the request of the Bank CEL's Project Implementation Unit (PIU) tried to find out
within CEL what, if any, were the main reasons for the procurement delays in carrying
out the Study of the Geothermal Potential of the Berlin Field, and the start up of the Pre-
feasibility Studies for the Four Hydro-power plants. It bears noting that these studies
were carried out some four years ago when the PIU had not yet been formed, and CEL's
technical staff in charge of supervising these studies cannot be easily reached since they
are no longer in CEL. Also, the details pertaining to procurement delays are not always
registered in a structured manner in the project files. However the PIU has interviewed
the technical and legal staff that were most closely associated with the studies in
question, and the following summary is an attempt to respond to the Bank's request.
(a) Study of the Geothermal Potential of the Berlin Field. CEL's staff does not recall
any serious discrepancies with the Bank on the procurement procedures followed. The
staff recalls that given the complex nature of the study which required the purchase and
use of relatively expensive complex specialized metering and testing equipment, CEL
proposed to the Bank the use of six bidding documents and processes. The Bank
recommended the use of only one bidding document but divided into six components and
requiring bidders to tender individual and/or integral prices for carrying out single or
multiple components of the study which may include the provision of the required
equipment. The idea was to enable CEL to evaluate all bids and select the lowest
evaluated combination of bids. CEL accepted the Bank's proposal and the procurement
was carried out without major delays after the six bidding components were finally
defined and packaged. The staff remember however that this latter activity delayed the
initiation of the procurement process. It was caused by some controversies with the
consultant hired by CEL to help in the preparation of the six bid components. These
controversies, not unusual in the case of preparing complex purchasing activities, though
successfully resolved, did delay the preparation of the final bidding documents by
perhaps some three to four months.
(b) Pre-feasibility Studies for the Four Hydro-power plants. Contract CEL-2013 (not
financed by the World Bank, but funded with CEL's own resources) had been signed
with the firm Tahal for the Installation of a Security System for the Cerron Grande
Hydropower plant. After the contract had become effective and was under



38
implementation, CEL's Board realized that the contract had been signed under terms and
conditions inconsistent with those that had been authorized by CEL's Board. CEL's
Board then denounced and submitted the contract to the respective authorities for the
determiniation of the actual legality of the formalization, effectiveness, and execution of
the contract. The initiation of these legal procedures unfortunately coincided with the
signature of the contract for the Pre-feasibility Studies for the Hydropower Plants
(financed by the World Bank) with the consortium Tahal-Lahmayer (T-L). Hoping that
the legal procedures relating to CEL-2013 were going to be resolved in a short period of
time, CEL put on hold the negotiation of the contract with T-L. Since the legal
procedures were taking much longer than anticipated, over six to eight months. CEL
decided to prepare a contract variation order, with the concurrence of T-L, to transfer all
responsibilities under the contract from T-L to Lahmayer. The lesson learnt from this
incident is that technical project managers should not concentrate only on technical
project issues but also on administrative, and legal aspects of contracts to avoid serious
project implementation problems and delays. This more comprehensive project
management would have enable the timely detection of the legal problems with contract
CEL-2013, and avoided costly delays to both CEL and to the contractors themselves.
9. Project Evaluation
Results achieved from the project are very relevant for the energy sector reform,
especially for the electricity sub-sector. The studies financed by the project were the basis
for the privatization of the distribution companies and the restructuring of CEL.
10. Main Lessons Learned
The followinig main lessons learned during implementation of the project should be taken
into conside;ration in future operations in order to maximize the benefits of these
projects:
(a) adequate use of consultant services for diagnostic studies prior to project
implementation would help to anticipate the relevant needs of the project and a more
timely focus on priority implementation areas; and
(b) Loan Agreements should include more flexible clauses to allow for local payment of
foreign goods which can only be procured through local representatives of foreign
manufacturers, such as software licenses.
(c) technical project managers should not concentrate only on technical project issues but
also on administrative, and legal aspects of contracts to avoid serious project
implementation problems and delays. This more comprehensive project management
would have enable the timely detection of the legal problems with contract CEL-2013,
and avoided costly delays to both CEL and to the contractors themselves.



ESTUDIOS INCLUIDOS EN EL PROYECTO
ESTUDIOS                                PROPOSITO                               ESTADO                                IMPACTO
1. Estudlos del Sector
a) Refofma regulatoria legal e   Estudio de Marco legal, Institucional y Regulatorio del Sector FINALIZADO  Determinar los problemas que afectan al sector energia y
institudonal                   Energia.                                                                   proponer modificaciones a su marco juridico, institucional y
regulatorio que contribuyan a aumentar la eficiencia del sector.
Revisi6n de la Propuesta de Ley General de Electricidad.    FINALIZADO     Revisar el anteproyecto de la Ley General de Eldcticidad antes
de su aprobaci6n por la Asamblea Legislativa.
Proyecto de Modernizaci6n y Reestructuraci6n de CEL I y 11  FINALIZADO     Analizar alternativas de Reestructuraci6n de CEL, elaborar un
fases.                                                                     programa de implementacd6n de la Reestructuraci6n.
L:
Organizaci6n de la Unidad de Transacciones           FINALIZADO            Creaci6n de la Organizaci6n que tendra como funci6n regular
la compra-venta del mercado de energia y la elaboraci6n de se
reglamento de operaci6n.
b) Estudio tarifa eldtrica   Estudio del Sistema Tarifario del Subsector Electrico  FINALiZADO          Determinaci6n de los costos marginales del sistema y
recomendar un sistema tarifario a nivel de generaci6n,
interconecci6n, transmisi6n y distribuci6n.
Implementaci6n del Sistema Tarffario                 FINALIZADO            Precisar los precios que deberian regir el sector energia en
conformidad con el proyecto de Ley, y los terminos y
condiciones para su aplicaci6n.
c) Estudio de privatizaci6n del   Estudio de Privatizaci6n del Sector de Energia de El  FINALIZADO      Analizar alternativas y proponer procedimientos que faciliten la
Sector Energia                 Salvador                                                                   participaci6n de los inversionistas privados en el sector.



Levantamiento y valuaci6n de los Activos Fijos de CEL.  EN EJECUCION    Leventamiento de inventarlos Fisico, Valuacd6n, desarrollo,
implbmentaci6n y capacitaci6n de un sistema mocanizado para
el cilculo de la depreclaci6n y actualizaci6n del valor de los
bienes de Generaci6n Transmisi6n v Generalbs de CEL.
d) Auditoria en RASA del Sistema Operacional                                   NO REALIZADO
2. Estudlos Administrativos y dergnera
2.1 Proyedo de Generacd6n de Energia
a) Estudios de Prefactibilidad Estudio de Prefactibilidad de los ProyectosHidroelectricos    FINALI7ADO  Conocer la Prefactibilidad Tecnica-Econ6mica de los cuatro
Proyectos Hidroeldtricos      Zapotillo, Paso del Oso, ElTigre y San Marco, en el Rio                 Proyectos Hidroelectricos y realizar los estudios superiores de
Lempa.                                                                  preinversi6n de los proyectos que muestren mejor rentabilidad.
b) Estudio de factibilidad del  Estudio de Factibilidad de la Central Termica de Cutuco.    FINALIZADO  Estudio de Factibilidad y Diseflo Preliminar de las prmeras dos
Proyecto de Energia Termica                                                                           unidades de la nueva Central T6rmica de Cutuco, analizando  4-
altemativas de combustible a base de bunker C,             0
Policombustible y Carb6n.
c) Potencial del Campo   Estudios geocientifico del Campo Geot6rmico de Berlin, en  FINALIZADO   Investigar en el campo geotermico y cuantificar la sismicidad e
Geotermico Berlin            el Departamento de Usulutin.                                              identificaci6n de fallas activas, caracterizaci6n ffsicas del suelo
mediante estudios geotecnicos y de subsidencia.
2.2 Estudios de Operaci6n y  Estudio de Diagn6stico y Rehabilitaci6n de la Red de  FINALIZADO       Elaborar un diagn6stico de la red de transmisi6n y estudiar y
Transmisi6n                   Transmisi6n                                                              plantear diferente altemativas tecnicas para rehabilitar las
lineas.
2.3 Rehabilitaci6n Sistemas de   Financiado con fondos de OECF
Distribuci6n



2.4 Estudio Administrativo de    Elaboraci6n de Manuales de Procedimientos de las Areas   FINALIZADO  Modernizar los procedimientos en las areas Financiera,
CEL                           Administrativa, Financiera, y de Recursos Humanos.                      Administrativa y de Recursos Humanos de CEL, con el objeto
de lograr mayor eficienciencia.
2.5 Otros
a) Preparaci6n Documentos Consultoria para la Rehabilitaci6n de la Central  FINALIZADO           Elaborar un diagn6stico del funcionamiento de los distint9s
Licitaci6n C.H. 5 de Noviembre    Hidroelectrica 5 de Noviembre.                                      elementos que conforman la Central Hidroeledrica, asi como
de la preparaci6n de los documentos de licitaci6n para la
rehabilitaci6n.
b) Estudio del Medio     Evaluaci6n del Medio Ambiente del Sector El6ctdco  FINALIZADO           Analizar, desde una perspectiva socio-ambiental, la situaci6n
Ambiente                     (EMASE).                                                                  actual del sector el6ctrico; incorporando al marco legal y
regulatorio del sector elctrico los aspectos de evaluaci6n,
manejo y control ambiental; y recomendar un plan de acci6n
ambiental.
c) Estudio de Sedimentaci6n Elaboraci6n de Trmminos de Referencia para la contrataci6n  FINALIZADO  La Consultoria a contratar determinara la sedimentaci6n
de Embalses                   de Servicios de Consuitoria que realice un estudio global de            depositada en los embalses del sistema, principalmente en el  Z
la sedimentaci6n en la Cuenca del Rio Lempa.                            embalse Cerr6n Grande.
d) Diagn6stico 4 Centrales   Inspecci6n, diagn6stico y recomendaciones de las  FINALIZADO        Elaborar una evaluaci6n de las condiciones actuales de las
Hidroelctdricas               condiciones de las Centrales Hidroelectricas Guajoyo,                    Centrales Hidroeletricas y recomendar acciones a seguir para
Cerr6n Grande, 5 de Noviembre y 15 de Septiembre.                       sus rehabilitaciones.
e) Estudio de Rehabilitaci6n  Consultoria para la Rehabilitaci6n de la Central  FINALIZADO        Elaborar un Diagn6stico del Sistema Supervisoio de la Central
C. H. Cerr6n Grande           Hidroeldctrica Cerr6n Grande.                                            Hidroelectrica.



42
TABLE 7B
CAPACITACION DEL PERSONAL DEL MINISTERIO DE ECONOMIA
- FINANCIADA CON FONDOS DEL PRESTAMO BIRF 3389-ES
Nombre Semiinario                  Nombre Participantes    Numero Participantes
INSPECCION PETROLEO Y DERIVADOS    OSCAR HERRERA                    2
JAIME ZELAYANDIA
LA INDUSTRIA PETROLERA E IMPACTO   FRANCISCO CRUZ                   3
AMBIENTAL                          LUIS MARTIR
GINA DE HERNANDEZ
CONTROL DE PERDIDAS Y CALIDAD DEL  LUIS MARTIR                     5
COMBUSTIBLE                        JAIME ZELAYANDIA
OSCAR HERRERA
GUILLERMO TORRES
LEONARDO PALUCHA
PLANES DE CONTINGENCIA ANTE DERRAMES  LUIS MARTIR                   4
DE HIDROCARBUROS                   JAIME ZELAYANDIA
RICARDO ARTIGA
DANIEL ZEPEDA
SEMINARIO ENERtLAC EN COLOMBIA     GINA NAVAS DE HERNANDEZ          I
SEMINARIO EN MEXICO                FRANCISCO CRUZ                   I
SEMINARIO EN ECUADOR               FRANCISCO CRUZ                   3
MARIO MARTIR
RENE AMAYA
SEMINARIO EN PANAMA                FRANCISCO CRUZ                   I
SEMINARIO RECOPE COSTA RICA        RICARDO ANDRADE                 2
OSCAR HERRERA
ING. ROSAS Y RODRIGUEZ          I
GONZALO PALACIOS                I
MIGUEL HERRERA                  2
BRENDA MARTINEZ
MISION ECONOMIA POLITICA PETROLERA  BLANCA MEJIA DE FLORES          2
LUIS MARIO MARTIR
SIMPOSIO HEMESFERICO SOBRE ENERGIA  GINA NAVAS DE HERNANDEZ         I
PASANTIA SOBRE PLANES DE CONTINGENCIA  RICARDO ANDRADE              2
ANTE DERRAMES DE PRETROLEO         JAIME ENRIQUE
ZELAYANDIA
SEMINARIO SOBRE ENERGIA Y DESARROLLO  FRANCISCO CRUZ                I
SUSTENTABLE EN AMERICA LATINA Y EL
CABIRE Y III CONFERENCIA ENERGETICA DE
AMERICA LATINA Y EL CARIBE
ADMINISTRACION, ECONOMIA Y         GINA NAVAS DE HERNANDEZ          3
ADMIJISTRACION PETROLERA           JORGE IRAHETA TOBIAS
LUIS MARIO MARTIR
SEMINARIO DE PRESENTACION DEL "ESTUDIO  GINA DE NAVAS              2
DE FACTIBILIDAD DEL GASODUCTO REGIONAL LUIS MARIO MARTIR
MEXICO-ISTMO CFNTROAMERICANO"
PASANTIA EN PEMEX, MEXICO          RICARDO ANDRADE                  2
OSCAR HERRERA
SEMINARIO TALLER NEGOCIACIONES DE  GINA NAVAS DE                    I
CONTRATOS PETROLEROS               HERNANDEZ
TOTAL                                        _       _             40



43
CAPACITACION DEL PERSONAL DE CEL Y SIGET
FINANCIADA CON FONDOS DEL PRESTAMO BIRF 3389-ES
Nombre Seminario                   Nombre Participantes    Nuimero Participantes
SEMINARIO SOBRE PRIVATIZACION EN
WASHINGTON
DECIMO PRIMER SEMINARIO SOBRE     RICARDO AMAYA                   I
DESEMBOLSOS                                      .
SEMINARIO SOBRE TARIFAS EN BRASIL
MISION A EUROPA                   GUILLERMO SOL                   6
ALBERO CHIQUILLO ALAS
ERNESTO GALVEZ
ANA MARIA MAJANO
ROBERO GONZALEZ
JAIME TORRES
SEMINARIO DESEMBOLSOS COSTA RICA  CECILIA FIGUEROA                I
SEMINARIO DESIGN OF TRANSMISSION LINE   JOSE SALVADOR             I
STRUCTURES & FOUNDATIONS          SANTAMARIA
SEMINARIO ELECTRIC SUBSTATION DESIGN    ANGEL ARTURO DIAZ         2
FUNDAMENTALS                       CARLOS ARTURO ROSALES
SEMINARIO EN INTENATIONAL DEVELOMENT   OTTO SALAMANCA             1
TRAINING INSTITUTE
ANALISIS Y NEGOCIACION DE PROYECTOS COT DAGOBERTO VILLALTA        3
Y POT, ALTERNATIVAS Y ESTRATEGIAS PARA  RICARDO DUENAS
DESARROLLAR LA MEJOR INFREESTRUCTURA  JORGE FRANCISCO BLANCO
DE SERVCIOS PUBLICOS
TOTAL                                                             15
------------------------------------ End of Document---------------------------------






MAP SECTION



9000'                                             8930'             j8900'                                                                             88'30'                                             88'OO
To San Jacinto /
rl,>1'1                           ToanaRs                                                                         EL SALVADOR
To Puerto Barrios F                       '                                                                                         EL          AD
}         i    Metop6e                  'Sao Jw-lao                                                   0    SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS              tl    RAILROADS
Loko Guila /0                                                     L                                           0t  0    i     DEPARTMENT CAPITALS          J.          MAIN PORTS
G  U A T E M  A L A                         To     p\>z ,L                       )0 G                                                                  (9)  NATIONAL CAPITAL                       __  RIVERS
Guatenala City                       ~                                              4f  I                        -  PAVED ROADS                           -         DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES
A N  I A                                                             0                           SECONDARYROADS                               INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
El Cor,ioaIoj-SCNAR   OD
N  A     -CoeveN-6n                               de Maria      -
'  g       ibCandeaIria                   Coeiseeie ncep'OC,  C H(fA L A T E N A  N  G O 0            / 
To Guoteal-o City                                                         Rio _n    e e    CA
If 7                                                                           Cc,o          , -    Chalatenango
| 4'00'Aqui..ya                                  *.               ,c,- PIbo.                             G                                                                        ? '-                                                                  1 4,00' -
A'                                                          Rr-                                                         77~~~~~~~~ P(C  r'Cuorer
decl Gopb               Z,.          ~           ~            Qeson'
Tnsoolj                          LS\-r    6 ><uk                         \        sr .. kF     ,          T:                     >         f                                                                                                                  Sul
,j-        or lpico                                                                                'S                            Sensunoepeq
UNITED~~~~~ ~ STTE  OFuatpeo AMRC/.SnMreia, ,,udue                                                                                  '                                                       D                      0d                     f
HUA '                            r                                                           A                                      bc             / .                                                              C'' -   ue ff FO    E r  A  bs  /  , . jt9
'-     1r                                                                                                C H    AAA       i,,    aaa.                                                  i       hr29v <                               *
nce  n                                                                                               Ilo6 .sc.~~~~~~~'pe a                              ~0O                  ic l
M.esdo ,                      ', HAn/,;,.
M. o-      d ;^ODU
GUATEMALAX-._~~~~                           ~          ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~                                                    f/ ,  0aris 10i 20  30  40  50                                                   13
CO STA RICAa s    - ,~ .       -                              Ayu/lsxpAq IZ                                                                                                                  7
Sn~~~~~ Dc,ig6                               A -ySbatin                                                                          '     ,JSan Francisco
ib  L'vi . X    E   PANAMA   s  ->A,f                                                 Co 0t    eeb -t,6.   Sade Goterai
N      .6no                                        L         SoateA~I1  DOR0                                              J  Sa Ildefass-
o .  Al\..:CLI   S\   a       r                                                      SccVice                                                  GofIa aorc                d.UrLi
6~N            1;                        Neev ,J BR ZI                     89an  Marc0 to00 0Apa~IW E Ro                                                                                        NA D
-I    Tnoep.qoe~\ ),                                        <V                     L   i5                                                                              L A       1(  beoacp
_                        J  ~~~                    LiAN~~~                    ~~/Y~~fs~.   S~~ALNA\                                                                U N  I0  N'v
F~~ C6lsss/ias  - ,zrJu,~~~~~~~~(  N,          o1o~~~~~ca    Zaccstecoloca                            P.P'b Chin                                                                    30'ec
La L.ibertac                        SNeeLuiso                                                       SontiagS. AlIe.                                                d 
90,00,                               ~~~~~~89'30   -/\                                            a/                    /     N,         zti      Sd       '~ane Rof-el/
Morcebno  a ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ siadale e  -~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~nor,
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA/                                                                             Son aco in        50Irn  U.fDIroPoroClc
- -  THE BAHAMA<--                                                                                                                        -   ed
CUBA            -DOMINICAN
NAT)-REP.
MEXICO                           JAMAICA
',~,HONDURAS
GUIATEMALA/"-    2                                                                                            0       3         40        5013,000
EL SUVAD R  iNICARAGUA                                                                    0   1         0        3          0       5
COSTA RICA-                             VEEUL
PANAMA              .\     VENEZUEL
RANXm~~~~~~~~~~d  ~j                          The boundaries, colors, denominatioans and any otber informaotion
/      'L,~~~~     n~bo' ono this mop do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group,                                                                                                    r
COLOMBIA   ~~  c~~-  ( .~        ony jndgment on the legol status of ony territory, oroany endorsement
r' A .1\t  ~ ~      ~       ~               ,.,~         ,,       r acceptance of tuch bonndaries.                                                                                                                                      to1
BRAZIL                                      8 9~0                                              8803                                                8EOO



