Page  1
                                                     CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3389 ES
            (Power Sector Technical Assistance Project)
                              between
                      REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                     Dated September 11, 1991
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3389 ES
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated September 11, 1991, between the REPUBLIC OF
EL SALVADOR (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;
      (B)   the Bank has received from the Borrower a letter dated
May 23, 1991 describing the Borrower's intended policies, objectives
and strategies for its energy sector (hereinafter the Program);
      (C)   Parts B, C (ii) and D.2 of the Project will be carried
out by Comision Ejecutiva Hidroelectrica Del Rio Lempa (hereinafter
CEL) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance,
the Borrower will make available to CEL a portion of the proceeds of
the Loan as provided in this Agreement; and
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
Page  2
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement
of even date herewith between the Bank and CEL;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)   In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is re-lettered as
subparagraph (l) and a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
      which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
      inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
      the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Central Bank" means Banco Central de Reserva de El
Salvador, the Borrower's Central Bank;
      (b)   "Legislation" means the Borrower's Decreto No. 137
published in the Borrower's Official Gazette dated September 27,
1948 as amended to this date;
      (c)   "MIPLAN" means the Borrower's Ministry of Planning
(Ministerio de Planificacion y Coordinacion del Desarrollo Economico
y Social);
      (d)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and CEL of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements
supplemental to the Project Agreement;
      (e)   "Project Director" means the official appointed by
MIPLAN to exercise overall supervision of the execution of the
Project;
      (f)   "Sectoral Studies Unit" means the unit established
pursuant to Decreto Ejectivo No.47, dated June 26, 1991, to assist
in the implementation of Part A of the Project;
      (g)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
      (h)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and CEL pursuant to Section 3.01
(b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of eleven million dollars ($11,000,000), being the sum of
withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued
by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Page  3
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in its
Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1996 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.
           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.
      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
            "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
      amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
      time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
      Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of
      the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the
      Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
      outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated
      at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
Page  4
            "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
      Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."
            "(c)  (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
      commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a
      calendar year."
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall:
(i) carry out Parts A, C (i) and D.1 of the Project, through MIPLAN,
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and engineering practices and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project; (ii) cause CEL to perform
in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the
obligations of CEL therein set forth; (iii) shall take or cause to
be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities,
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable CEL
to perform such obligations; and (iv) shall not take or permit to be
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.
      (b)   The Borrower shall relend a portion of the proceeds of
the Loan to CEL as required by it for the carrying out of Parts B,
C (ii) and D.2 of the Project, under a subsidiary loan agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and CEL, under terms and
conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank and which
shall include, inter alia, the exact lending terms as those
applicable to the Loan Agreement.
      (c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or any provision thereof.
      (d)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, the Borrower shall maintain the Sectoral Studies
Unit and the Project Director with functions and responsibilities
satisfactory to the Bank. The Project Director and each of the
members of the Sectoral Studies Unit shall have qualifications
satisfactory to the Bank.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods
and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Parts B, C (ii)
and D.2 of the Project shall be carried out by CEL pursuant to
Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Page  5
      Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) carry out by October
31, 1992 the studies included in Part A of the Project under terms
of reference satisfactory to the Bank which shall include specific
programs or plans of action to meet the objectives of the Project;
(ii) promptly after the completion of each such study, furnish to
the Bank a copy of its findings and recommendations including such
programs or plans of action; (iii) afford the Bank a reasonable
opportunity to comment on such findings, recommendations and
programs or plans of action; and (iv) where appropriate, and taking
into account the Bank's comments thereon, prepare plans of action to
carry out the recommendations of such studies. In relation to the
studies under Part A (i) and A (ii) of the Project, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank action plans, satisfactory to the Bank,
not later than December 31, 1992.
      (b)   The Borrower shall carry out the studies under Part A
(iii) and A (iv) of the Project by not later than March 31, 1992 and
February 28, 1992, respectively.
      Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall, jointly with CEL, on
March 31 of each year during the execution of the Project, exchange
views with the Bank on the progress achieved in the implementation
of the Project and the Program including, inter alia: (i) the
results of the sectorial, and engineering and management studies;
and (ii) the evaluation of the training programs.
      (b)   Not later than 15 days prior to each such exchange of
views, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for its review and
comment a report on the progress achieved by the Borrower in the
carrying out of the Parts of the Project under the Borrower's
implementation.
      Section 3.06. The Borrower shall carry out Part D.1 of the
Project in accordance with the program submitted to the Bank
pursuant to Section 6.01 (b) of the Loan Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources
and expenditures in respect of Parts A, C (i) and D.1 of the Project
of the department or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out such Parts of the Project.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section and those for the
                  Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in
                  accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                  consistently applied, by independent auditors
                  acceptable to the Bank;
           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than four months after the end
                  of each such year the report of such audit by
                  said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                  as the Bank shall have reasonably requested,
                  including a separate opinion by said auditors as
                  to whether the statements of expenditure
                  submitted during such fiscal year, together with
                  the procedures and internal controls involved in
                  their preparation, can be relied upon to support
                  the related withdrawals; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts and the
                  audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.
Page  6
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance
                  with sound accounting practices, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;
           (ii)   ensure that all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures are retained until
                  at least one year after the Bank has received the
                  audit report for the fiscal year in which the
                  last withdrawal from the Loan Account was made;
                  and
          (iii)   enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
                  records.
                             ARTICLE V
                       Remedies of the Bank
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   CEL shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
      (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that CEL will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
      (c)   The Legislation shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely the ability of CEL to perform any of its obligations under
the Project Agreement.
      (d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of CEL or for the suspension of its operations.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower; and
      (b)   any of the events specified in paragraphs (c) or (d) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and CEL;
      (b)   that the Borrower shall have prepared and furnished to
the Bank a program, satisfactory to the Bank, for the execution of
Part D.1 of the Project;
      (c)   that CEL shall have prepared and furnished to the Bank
the program referred to in Section 2.07 of the Project Agreement;
Page  7
and
      (d)   that the Borrower shall have prepared and furnished to
the Bank terms of reference for the studies referred to in
Section 3.04 (b) to this Loan Agreement.
      Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
      (a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by CEL, and is legally binding upon CEL in accordance with
its terms; and
      (b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and CEL and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and CEL in accordance with its terms.
      Section 6.03. The date December 9, 1991, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister of Planning of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministerio de Planificacion y Coordinacion
              del Desarrollo Economico y Social
            Avenida Los Diplomaticos y Calle Mexico,
            Barrio San Jacinto, Casa Presidencial
            San Salvador
            El Salvador, Centro America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  MIPLAN                    301 30309
                  Casa Presidencial
                  San Salvador,
                  El Salvador
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD                 197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.          248423 (RCA),
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                             82987 (FTCC)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR
Page  8
                  By /s/ Mirna Lievano de Marques
                                         Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                  By /s/ Rainer B. Steckhan
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                  Latin American and the Caribbean
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Consultant's               1,300,000        100%
    services under
    Part A of the
    Project
(2) Consultant's               5,200,000        100%
    services under
    Part B of the
    Project
(3) Equipment and                100,000        100% of foreign
    Materials under                             expenditures
    under Part C (i)
    of the Project
(4) Equipment and              2,400,000        100% of foreign
    Materials under                             expenditures
    Part C (ii) of
    the Project
(5) Training under               100,000        100% of foreign
    Part D.1 of                                 expenditures
    the Project
                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(6) Training under               300,000        100%
    Part D.2 of
    the Project
(7) Unallocated                1,600,000
                               _________
         TOTAL                11,000,000
                              ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country
other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower.
Page  9
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$500,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures
before that date but after March 31, 1991.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objective of the Project is to increase the efficiency of
the Borrower's energy sector by: (a) improving the legal, institu-
tional and regulatory framework for the sector; (b) fostering sound
planning and pricing policies; (c) promoting private sector parti-
cipation; and (d) strengthening CEL's efficiency and management.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Sector Studies
      Studies to: (i) analyze and evaluate the legal framework of
the energy sector; develop a detailed proposal for the establishment
of a regulatory body including its organization and functions; and
prepare a draft bill of law regulating all matters related to
electricity; (ii) define the methodology and propose and action plan
to set electricity rates based on marginal cost criteria; (iii)
value the assets of the power distribution companies and propose an
action plan for their privatization; and (iv) conduct an operating
performance audit at the oil refinery.
Part B:     Engineering and Management Studies
      Studies to: (i) determine prefeasibility of generation
projects and evaluate the potential of the Berlin's geothermal
field; (ii) assess the reliability of the transmission system and
evaluate the damages caused by terrorist attacks; (iii) evaluate the
quality of service of the distribution systems and the impact of
distribution investment restrictions on the system's reliability and
recommend measures for improving distribution reliability and
planning including the preparation of distribution standards; and
(iv) assess the management efficiency of CEL.
Part C:     Acquisition of Equipment and Materials
      Acquisition and utilization of:
            (i)   data processing equipment and training equipment
                  and materials;
           (ii)   electrical measurement and testing equipment,
                  vehicles, data processing equipment and training
                  equipment, and materials to improve planning,
                  electricity rate design, system reliability and
                  billing and collection.
Part D:     Training
1.    A training program for personnel of the Sectoral Studies Unit
in regulatory policies and procedures and the application of
marginal cost electricity pricing methodology.
2.    A training program for managers and high level staff of CEL
including a management development program and specialization in
marginal cost electricity pricing methodology.
                             *   *   *
      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1995.
Page  10
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                            Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (Expressed in dollars)*
November 15, 1996                               200,000
May 15, 1997                                    210,000
November 15, 1997                               215,000
May 15, 1998                                    225,000
November 15, 1998                               235,000
May 15, 1999                                    240,000
November 15, 1999                               250,000
May 15, 2000                                    260,000
November 15, 2000                               270,000
May 15, 2001                                    280,000
November 15, 2001                               295,000
May 15, 2002                                    305,000
November 15, 2002                               315,000
May 15, 2003                                    330,000
November 15, 2003                               340,000
May 15, 2004                                    355,000
November 15, 2004                               370,000
May 15, 2005                                    380,000
November 15, 2005                               395,000
May 15, 2006                                    410,000
November 15, 2006                               430,000
May 15, 2007                                    445,000
November 15, 2007                               460,000
May 15, 2008                                    480,000
November 15, 2008                               500,000
May 15, 2009                                    520,000
November 15, 2009                               540,000
May 15, 2010                                    560,000
November 15, 2010                               580,000
May 15, 2011                                    605,000
*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
      Premiums on Prepayment
      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:
      Time of Prepayment                        Premium
                                    The interest rate (expressed as
                                    a percentage per annum)
                                    applicable to the Loan on the
                                    day of prepayment multiplied
                                    by:
Not more than three years                        0.15
      before maturity
More than three years but                        0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity
More than six years but                          0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity
Page  11
More than 11 years but not                       0.80
      more than 16 years
      before maturity
More than 16 years but not                       0.90
      more than 18 years
      before maturity
More than 18 years before                        1.00
      maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:  Procurement of Goods
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Computer hardware and software not exceeding an aggregate
value of $350,000 equivalent, and vehicles not exceeding an
aggregate value of $250,000 equivalent, may be procured under
contracts awarded through limited international bidding procedures
in accordance with the procedures set forth in Sections I and II of
the Guidelines (excluding paragraph 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56
thereof).
2.    Goods estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent up to an
aggregate amount not exceeding $600,000 equivalent may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of price quotations solicited
from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under the Guide-
lines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part C:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    (a)   With respect to each contract procured under the
procedures referred to in Part A and Part B hereof, the procedures
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of
the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure
that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out
of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized
withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.    The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist the Borrower or CEL in carrying out the
Page  12
Project, the Borrower and CEL shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1),
(2), (3), (4), (5) and (6) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $750,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                  deposits into the Special Account at such
                  intervals as the Bank shall specify.
           (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                  and other evidence required pursuant to para-
                  graph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                  Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
                  from the Loan Account and deposit into the
                  Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall
                  have requested and as shall have been shown by
                  said documents and other evidence to have been
                  paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                  expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
Page  13
expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
