Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
4-A  2-   6   / - 
Report No. 7120-CO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
COLOMBIA
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE S..CTOR PROJECT
May 26, 1988
Department III
Infrastructure and Energy Operations Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
t  % >;r {  '~"   '  '  ~ I    '~    V  '



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit             =         Peso Colombiano (Col$)
US$1                      '         Col $287.75 I/
Col$l                     =         US$0.003475  /
ABBREVIATIONS
ACODAL        Associaci6n Colombiana de Ingenieria Sanitaria y
Amb;ental
(Colombian Asfiociation of Sanitary and
Environmental Engineers)
BCH           Banco Central Hipotecario
(Central Mortgage Bank)
CENAGUAS      Centro Nacional de Adiestramiento de Aguas
(National Training Center for the Water and
Sanitation Sector)
CONPES        Consejo Nacional de Politica Econ6mica y Social
(National Council for Social and Economic Policy)
DBRS          Divisi6n de Saneamiento Bhsico Rural
(Division of Basic Rural Sanitation)
DNP           Departamento Nacional de Planeaci6n
(National Planning Department)
DWSS          Directorate of Water Supply and Sanitation
(Direccion de Agua Potable y Saneamiento Basico)
EMPOS         Empresas de Obras Sanitarias
(Sanitation Works Corporation)
EPM           Empresas Ptlblicas Municipales
(Municipal Works Corporation)
FFDU          Fondo Financiero de Desarrollo Urbano
(Urban Development Fund)
FONADE        Fondo Nacional de Proyectos de Desarrollo
(National Fund for Development Projects)
INS           Instituto Nacional de Salud
(National Institute of Health)
1/ As of May 24, 1988.



FOR OFFICIA  UE ONLY
INSFOPAL      Instituto Nacional de Fomento Municipal
(National Institute for Urban Development)
IVA           Impuesto al Valor Agregado
(Value Added Tax)
JM            Junta Monetaria
(Monetary Board)
JNT           Junta Nacional de Tarifas
(National Tariff Board)
LCB           Local Competitive Bidding
MOH           Ministry of Health
(Ministerio de Salud)
MOPT          Ministerio de Obras Pdblicas y Transporte
(Ministry of Public Works and Transport)
NPBRS         National Program for Basic Rural Sanitation
(Programa Nacional de Saneamiento Basico Rural)
SRP           Sector Reform Program
(Programa de Reforma Sectorial)
UDB           Urban Development Bonds
(Bonos de Desarrollo Urbano)
UFB           Urban Formation Bonds
(Bonos de Fomento Urbano)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfo.nnance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- iii -
COLOMBIA
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.   PROJECT SUMMARY ..................................                     1
II.   THE WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR ................                3
Service Coverage and Pu'1Llic Health ....        ..........      3
Sector Development Targets and Priorities    .......             4
Sector Financing ................................                4
Tariff Policy ...................................                5
Manpower Aspects and Training ....           ...............     6
Sector Performance and Prospects for
Improvement ...................................               7
Sector Reform ...................................                8
III.    BANK INVOLVEMENT IN THE SECTOR .......................                 9
Past and Ongoing Activities .....................                9
Sector Strategy .................................                9
IV.   THE WATER AND SANITATION SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM (SRPF) .               10
Objectives ..........................                           10
Reform of Sector Organization and Institutions-..   11
Decentralization Initative .....................             11
National Institutions ..........................             11
Local Institutions .............................             12
Rural Water Supply .............................             13
1988-1992 Sector Investment Program ....          .........    13
Investment Levels ..............................             13
Service Coverage Targets .......................             13
Financing Plan .................................             14
Subproject Lending Policy and Eligibility
Criteria ....................................            15
Eligible Institutions ..........................             15
Institutional Strengthening ....................             16
Project Types ..................................             16
Tariff Policy and Cost Recovery ................             17
Tariff Setting Mechanisms and Approvals ........             19
Service Cross-subsidies ........................             19
Payment of Other Public Services ...............             19
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Colombia in October 1987.   The  mission comprised Messts. Walter Stottmann
(Sr.  Engineer),  Thomas  Zearley    (Financial  Analyst)  and  Luis  Pisani
(Sr. Education Specialist).



- iv -
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont.)
Page No.
Management Stability ...........................    19
Financing Arrangements and Conditions ..........    19
Project Eligibility ............................    20
Project Supervision ............................    20
Design and Technology Improvements ...............    20
T;-aining .........................................   21
V.   THE BORROWER AND EXECUTING UNIT ......................     21
Introduction   ....... ............ .................  21
The Borrower - BCH ............................       21
The Executing Unit - FFDU .......................     22
Current Portfolio             .         .           22
Sources of Funds ...............................    22
FFDU On-lending Procedures and Conditions ......    23
Organization and Institutional Capacity   ..        24
Financial Analysis of BCH/FFDU        .     .         25
Potential Creation of Regional
Development Bank              .        .            26
VI.   THE PROJECT ..........................................     26
Origin ......................... ................     26
Project Objectives .26
Rationale for Bank Involvement .27
Project Description .28
Project Cost .29
Foreign Exchange Risk and BCH/FFDU Relending
Arrangements and Terms .31
Legal Instruments for Relending .31
Implementation Specifics .........................    32
Investment Program Review .32
Subproject Lending Policy and FFDU Operating
Manual Statements ............................    32
Strengthening of BCH/FFDU's
Operating Capacity .32
Establishment of DWSS and Execution of
Component C .32
Establishment of CENAGUAS and Execution of
Training Program .33
Tariff Policy .33
Institutional Reform .33
Monitoring of Sector Company Performance            33
Preparation and Maintenance of Subproject
Pipeline .33



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont.)
Page No.
Monitoring FFDU's Performance          .     .         34
Reporting          ..................                  34
Annual Program Assessment   .          .34
Auditing  . .35
Subproject Approval and Monitoring by
the Bank  . .35
Procurement   .                  .35
Disbursments . .37
Environmental Aspects .......................            38
P-oject Benefits and Justification        .     .        38
Risks ...........................................        39
VII.   AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .40
ANNEXES
Annex 1    Sector Policy Letter .43
Annex 2    Sector Organization .50
Annex 3       National Program of Basic Rural Sanitation                54
Annex 4       1988 - 1992 Sector Investment Program .58
Annex 5       Target Performance Indicators .73
Annex 6       Terms and Conditions of FFDU Loans .74
Annex 7       Program for Strengthening FFDU's Operating
Capacity .76
Annex 8   BCH/FFDU Finances .78
Annex 9       Project Investment Schedule .89
Annex 10      Conditions to be Included in Subproject
Agreements .....................................       90
Annex 11      Plan of Action for the Establishment of DWSS and
the Execution of Component C of the Project            91
Annex 12  Sector Training .93
Annex 13      Monitoring Indicators for BCH /FFDU .100
Annex 14      Documentation Required for the Review of
Subprojects by the Bank ........................    101
Annex 15      Limits on Type of Procurement and Prior Review
Thresholds .105
Annex 16      Loan Disbursement Schedule .106
Annex 17      Allocation of Loan Proceeds .107
Annex 18      Selected Documents and Data Available
in the Project File .......      ....................    108
Map IBRD No. 18370



COLOMBIA
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR PROJECT
I. PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:     Banco Central Hipotecario (BCH)
Guarantor:    Republic of Colombia
Amount:       US$150 million equivalent
Terms:        Repayment  in  17  years,  including  five  years  of  grace, with
interest at the Bank's standard variable rate.
Proj ect
Description:  To meet one of its major policy objectives--alleviation of poverty
through increased provision of social infrastructure services--the
Government has decided to invest, in addition to US$820 million in
sector investments already under execution, US$600 million between
1988-1992 for boosting water supply and sewerage coverage in
medium-size and small cities and towns and in rural areas. In an
effort to overcome a generally unsatisfactory sector performance
in the past and to adjust sector management to its decentrali-
zation policy, the Government is introduzing major reforms to the
sector's institutional and policy  environment.   The objective of
the proposed project is to underpin the sector reforms being
undertaken by the Government and to finance a US$430 million slice
of the Government's aforementioned US$600 million additional
1988-1992  investment  program.      The  Project  would  have  the
following components: (a) a line of credit, administered by the
Urban  Development  Fund  (FFDU)  of   BCH  to  finance  about  80
subprojects involving the rehabilitation and expansion of water
supply and sewerage systems in some 400 conmunities and the
upgrading of solid waste services in about 10 cities, where water,
sewerage and solid waste services are provided by the same
municipal utility; (b) a program to strengthen the operating
capacity of FFDU; (c) execution of studies to improve sector
efficiency; and (d) establishment of a national sector training
institution and sector wide training. Total Project cost would be
US$435 million: US$430 million for water supply and sewerage; US$5
million for solid waste; and   US$5 million for Project components
(b), (c) and (d).
Benefits:     Project investments would provide  water  service to an additional
1.9 million people and sewerage service to an additional 1.3
million people. The implementation of the Sector Reform Program
(SRP) would bring significant benefits to the country's economy
through internal sector savings.
Risks:        The reform of the  sector's  institutional and policy framework is
an ambitious and complex undertaking and will require a sustained
effort in the  years  ahead.    The  maJn  risk  is that political



-2-
pressures might undermine the new de.tanding sector lending policy.
Although the risks are lessened by the conditionality and rcview
mechanisms built into the Project and the commitment of the
Government and FFDU to tne objectives of the SRP, it is likely
that not all of the policy objectives will be achieved in full and
that some subborrowers will not succeed in meeting institutional
strengthening and financial  performance  targets.    Even so, the
Project wovld contribute signifirantly to the development of a
more efficient water supply and sewerage sector in Colombia.
Z of
Prolect Costs                           Local      Foreign    Total    Total
-------------US$ million-----------
Investment Subprolects                  281.5       148.5      430.0      98.9
Water Supply                          137.5       112.5      250.0      '7.5
Sewerage                               97.5        32.5      130.0     29.9
Solid Waste                             2.0         3.0        5.0       1.1
Institutional Development              11.7         0.3       12.0       2.8
Supervision of Construction            16.0         -         16.0       3.7
Pre-Investment Studies                 14.0         -         14.0       3.2
Training                                2.8         0.2        3.0       0.7
Strengthening of FFDU                     1.5         0.5        2.0       0.5
Studies by DWSS                           1.0         0.5        1.5       0.3
Training Center                           1.0         0.5        1.5       0.3
Total Project Cost                  285.0       150.0      435.0    100.0
Financing Plan:
Operating Companies                    55.8         -         55.8     12.8
Local Government                       55.4         -         55.4     12.7
National Government                    50.0         -         50.0     11.5
BCH                                    68.5         -         68.5     15.7
Financial Intermediaries               41.3         -         41.3       9.5
FONADE                                 14.0         -         14.0       3.2
IBRD                                    -         150.0      150.0     34.5
Total Financing                       285.0       150.0      435.0    100.0
Estimated Disbursementsat
Bank FY                 89      90     91      92     93      94     95
-----------------US$ million----------------
Annual                 4.5   15.0   33.0   51.0   31.5    12.0   3.0
Cumulative             4.5   19.5   52.5  103.5  135.0   147.0 150.0
Rate of Return:    Individual subprojects are required to reach a Financial Rate
of Return of at least 1OZ, with revenues taken as a proxy for
economic benefits.



-3-
II.   THE WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR
Service Coverage and Public Health
2.01     Of Colombia's current estimated population of about 30.6 million, about
572 has access to water supply through house connections and about 412 has
sewerage services. Service levels and quality of service tend to be directly
related to community size. They are highest in the country's large Metropolitan
Areas (Bogota, Cali, and Medellin), where more than 962 of the people have
access to piped water and are connected to a public sewerage service. In the
medium-size cities and small towns, service levelb are considerably less with
about 65% for water and 502 for sewerage. With only about 26Z of the population
served through house connections, Colombia's rural population 1 is affected most
by the lack of a safe and convenient water supply. Likewise adequate excreta
disposal is lacking most in rural  areas.   People without piped water generally
bel~ng to the poorer segments of the  population.   In urban areas, they rely on
purchases from private vendors which tend to provide water of deficient quality
at high costs. In rural areas, people without service draw water from often
cortaminated and distant sources.
24)2      Throughout the  country,  the quality of se-_vice to those connected to
water and sewerage is uneven.    In  the  larger cities, safe water is generally
available, but service tends to be irregular, especially in poor neighborhoods.
In the medium-size and smaller cities and towns and in rural areas, the
bacteriological quality of water provided is often unsatisfactory and service is
frequently intermittent. Surface runoff of sewage, because of malfunctioning
individual disposal facilities and overloaded sewers frequently creates health
and nuisance problems. Waste water is generally discharged without treatment,
causing pollution in rivers and streams downstream of major population centers.
2.03      While  the  current  level  of  service in Colombia is similar to that
found in other middle-income Latin American countries, it is notable that over
the past two decades little progress has been made in improving service coverage
in terms of proportion of population served. In Colombia's urban areas, service
levels for water have not changed much from those reported for 1969, when
service levels for water were estimated at  77? (81% in 1986).  Sewerage service
levels appear to have actually declined since 1969. There has been significant
service improvement in rural areas, although existing information does not allow
a clear documentation of  the  progress  made.    On balance, sector investments
during the past 20 years were just about enough to keep pace with population
growth, but were not sufficient to bring about a significant increase in overall
service coverage.
2.04      Although substantial progress has been made in the past two decades in
reducing mortality and morbidity in Colombia, infant mortality with about
50/1,000 live births remains high.    Diseases  associated with unsafe water and
lack of adequate sanitation are still prevalent, with diarrheal diseases and
enteritis being among the five most important primary causes of deaths in all
age groups up to 14 years.   They  account for almost two-thirds of deaths among
infants in their first year and over one-third of deaths among children below
five. The provision of safe water and adequate sanitation is essential to
1/ Communities with less than 12,000 inhabitants are classified as rural.



-4-
complement other efforts by the Government in the Public Health field, if the
incidence of mortality and morbidity from water and sanitation related diseases
is to be reduced to acceptable levels.
Sector Development Targets and Priorities
2.05     Colombia had  subscribed  to  the  targets  of  the International Water
Decade that implied complete coverage oi its population with safe water and
sanitation by the year 1990, a target which obviously will not be achieved.
Recently, the Government has established a new set of ].ong-tetm targets which
call for connecting, by the year 2000, 95Z of the country's urban and rural
concentrated population to piped water systems and 80% to public sewerage.
About 50Z of the dispersed rural population is to be provided with low-cost
water and sanitation  facilities.    About  50Z  of  sewage  generated  is to be
treated. Achieving these targets would require supplying an additional 13
million people with  water  and  11  million  with  sewerage  in urban and rural
concentrated areas  and  another  3  million  people  with  water and sanitation
facilities in dispersed rural areas. To meet these objectives the total invest-
ment needs in the Colombian water  supply and sewerage sector over the 1988-2000
period would be about US$4600 million  in  1988  prices.   Annual future invest-
ments required would average about US$350 m'llion, more than twice as high as
those in the past (para.  2.07).    To  reach  these targets, the Government and
sector institutions would have to place more emphasis than in the past oi' sector
growth and remove the obstacles which have hampered more accelerated sector
development.
2.06      In accordance with the Government's policy of poverty alleviatior., the
first sector priority is to expand water and sewerage service coverage in
medium-size and small cities and towns and to provide services to the poor
neighborhoods on the fringes of the country's large metropolitan areas. A
second priority is to address the needs of agglomerated rural communities,
followed by providing water/sanitation services to the dispersed rural popula-
tion. Sewage treatment, the last among the sector development priorities, ini-
tially concentrates on correcting the most severe existing environmental degra-
dation (Rio BogotA, Rio Cauca downstream of Cali). The introduction of low-cost
sewage treatment is to be promoted whenever the financial capacity of operating
companies allows such investments.
Sector Financing
2.07     Over  the  past  ten  years,  average  annual  sector  investments have
amounted to about US$150 million equivalent (1987 prices), or about 0.4Z of GDP.
In 1987, total sector investments were about  US$150 million.  About 65Z of past
investments  were  for  water  supply,   the   remaining  35Z  for  sewerage.  A
disproportionately large share of investments (55% of total) took place in the
large metropolitan areas of BogotA, Cali and Medellin, where efficiently run
water companies had the managerial,  technical and f'nancial strength to prepare
and carry out large investment  programs.    About 35Z of total investments were
made in medium-size cities and small towns and 10% in rural areas. The
continuing dominance of the large city companies in preparing investment
packages and in attracting investment funds is reflected in the existing sector
investment program. Of the about US$820 million of sector investmerLts already
underway for the 1988-92 period, about 90Z are destined for projects in the
country's four largest cities which have 30Z  of the total population.   For the



-5-
rest of the country assured financing for future investments for the same period
amounts to only about US$80 million. Unless this lopsided balance in investment
levels is corrected, service coverage for water and sewerage in the medium-size
cities, small town and rural subsectors will fall further behind the service
situation found in the large cities.
2.08      The mairn sources  of funds for sector investments over the recent past
have been: 452 from external sources; 30% from National Government contribu-
tions; 152 from the internal generation of operating companies; and 10! from
local sources (municipalities, departments) and domestic credit. There were
considereble variations in the sources of investment funds among subsectors.
The large-city companies (Bogota, Medellin, Cali) relied heavily on external
credit (about 502) and internal generation of funds (about 352) and needed only
minor support from national and local governments and domestic credit. In
contrast, financing of investments in the medium-size city, small town and rural
subsectors depended predominantly on direct or indirect central government con-
tributions (about 45Z)  and  external  financing  (about  40Z).    The origin of
remaining funds were grants from local governments (about 102) and internal
generation (about 52). The excessive dependence in these subsectors on scarce
central government contributions and their inability to generate internally
significant amounts of funds for investment partially explain the large discre-
pancies in service coverage between the large cities and other parts of the
country.
Tariff Policy
2.09     Tariff setting for public services (water, sewerage, electricity, tele-
communications, solid  waste  collection  and  disposal)  is  controlled  by the
Government through its National Tariff Board (Junta Nacional de Tarifas, JNT).
JNT is composed of the Director of Planning, the Ministers of Finance and of the
corresponding sector and a representative of the President. Its staff, adminis-
tratively part of the National Planning Department (DNP), is headed by an Execu-
tive Secretary. Decree 3069 of 1968, founding JNT articulates the following
general tariff policy:   "Tariff  levels  should  cover  the cost of service and
provide a return sufficient to facilitate appropriately the financing of invest-
ment programs. To this effect, tariffs should be adjusted to changes in real
cost which alter the financial balance of a company and the cost of meeting
future demands". Operationally, JNT's mandate is limited to the review and
authorization  of  requests  for   tariff  adjustments  submitted  by  operating
companies. It has only limited power to impose tariff increases on operating
companies unwilling to adjust tariff levels.
2.10     In the absence of  an  effective  monitoring and control capability tor
water and sewerage tariffs, the principles of the general tariff policy stated
in Decree 3069 of 1968 have been violated more often than not in the past. Many
operating companies, often `or political  reasons,  were able to maintain tariff
levels unchanged over extended periods of time with obviously disastrous effects
on  their  finances.    Other  companies  wbich  submitted  requests  for tariff
adjustments to JNT found their  requests  denied, delayed or severely cut during
periods  when  the  Government   considered  tariff  increases  inopportune  for
political or economic reasons.   As  a  result, water and sewerage tariff levels
have been kept generally low and vary widely among operating companies, often
bearing no relationship to the financial needs of a company and the cost of
service or its customer's capacity to  pay.   The overly political management of



-6-
water and sewerage tariffs over the past two decades is one of the reasons for
the chronically deficient financial performance of rnany operating companies and
responsible for their inability to adequately maintain and operate their
facilities and generate sufficient funds for service expansions.
2.11     Alarmed by the poor financial  state  of  many sector companies and the
large discrepancies in tariff levels and structures, the Government recently has
embarked on a series of actions to make water and sewerage tariffs more
rational. First, sector companies were encouraged to submit requests for tariff
adjustments and a more responsive JNT has approved over the past six months
substantial tariff increases for imany water and sewerage companies. Secondly,
JNT introdXced the indexation of tariff levels and now authorizes automatic
monthly tariff adjustments ranging from 1.5Z - 2.5Z. Thirdly, JNT issued, under
Decree 394 of 1987, a unified tariff structure to be adopted by all water and
sewerage utilities. The new structure is adequate, making a basic consumption
affordable to all strata of the population and introduces progressively higher
tariffs with increasing consumption. The new structure, however, does not make
any statement  on  the  absolute  tariff  levels  to  be  charged.    It is also
disturbing that JNT in recent tariff authorizations has approved the low water
consumption bracket up to an unacceptable high level 40 m3/connection month.
These levels should preferably be in the 15-25 m3/connection/month range. While
the recent actions by the Government are an important step towards rationalizing
tariff levels and have already contributed substantially to a better financial
performance of many operating companies, the Government has no effective
regulatory mechanisms at its disposal for enforcing the introduction and
collection of adequate water and sewerage tariffs by operating companies.
Clearly, one of the most important elements for improving the financial
performance of the sector is the application of a consistent and adequate tariff
policy followed by national and local governments.
Manpower Aspects and Trairiing
2.12       Total  staff  in  the  water supply and sewerage sector numbers about
25,000.   The share of professionals  in  total sector staff stands at about 82.
On the average, operating companies employ about five workers/l,O0O connections,
which by regional standards is quite satisfactory. Staff productivity varies
widely among companies.   There  are  companies  (Bogota, Medellin, for example)
which have built up an excellent staff capacity in all areas of operations and
manage efficiently large water and sewerage systems with less than three
employees/l,000 water connections. On the other side of the spectrum, there are
companies with poor staff resources and inefficient operations employing more
than 10 employees/l,000 water connections.
2.13      The quality  and number of professional manpower vary widely amcag the
different areas of exDertise reR.uired in the water sector. Although it will be
necessary to sensitize the engiA;eering  community  to  the need for more economy
and realism in the formulation of projects, Colombia has in place a compara-
tiv6ly strong engineering capacity in the sector. With regards to other equally
important professional expertise (facility operation and maintenance, finance,
administration, management), there are serious deficiencies in terms of number
and quality of personnel. The upgrading of the professional capacity in these
disciplines is an essential priority for accelerated and more efficient sector
development.



-7-
2.14      Training of sector personnel has been largely neglected.  In the past,
a minimal amount, less than 12 of the sector's annual operational budget was
spent on staff training. During tne last five years, only about 4,600 sector
personnel received any kind of training.    In comparison, Brazil, which has one
of the most advanced training  programs  in the region, offered sector personnel
four times more training opportunities than Colombia.  Training in the sector is
impeded by four major constraints:   (i) lack of training policy and objectives;
(ii) inadequate mechanisms for the coordination, planning and implementation of
training  programs;  (iii)   insufficient   managerial  knowledge  of  personnel
administration  and  training;  and  (iv)  lack  of  training  resources.    The
development of a sufficiently large base of qualified sector personnel is essen-
tial for  improved  sector  development.    Therefore,  the  establishment of an
adequate permanent training capability in the sector must have high priority.
Sector Performance and Prospects for Improvement
2.15        With  some  notable exceptions (Bogota, Medellin, Bucaramanga), most
operating companies are weak. Many of them do not have the necessary financial
and managerial resources to fully satisfy demand for services and to properly
operate and maintain existing systems and facilities. The combined effects of
low tariffs, poor commercial practices  and  fast rising costs are key obstacles
to achieving and sustaining financial viability and generating sufficient
resources for investments.   Frequent,  mostly  politically motivated changes in
top and middle management positions and the absence of adequate control systems
contribute to ineffective management. These shortcomings manifest themselves in
the poor upkeep and inefficient operation of facilities. High levels of unac-
counted-for water, often in excess of 50Z, are common. Investment projects tend
to be overdesigned and tie up scarce financial resources. The application of
low-cost technologies and the rehabilitation of existing infrastructure receive
insufficient attention. The strong political influence to which most companies
are subject often prevents the implementation of unpopular measures (tariff
increases or reduction in staff, for example), which would be necessary to
transform them into financially healthy and operationally efficient public
utilities. Water and sewerage utilities providing other services (solid waste,
public markets, slaughterhouses, etc.) practice cross-service subsidy. Particu-
larly, deficits attributable to solid waste collection and disposal strain the
overall financial performance of many companies and divert funds needed "or the
operation, maintenance and expansion of water supply and sewerage services.
2.16      The generally poor performance of operating companies and the slow and
inequitable sector growth can be traced to a number of, often interrelated,
constraints brought on by the lack of commitment by the Government to formulate
and enforce appropriate sector policies and to develop strong national institu-
tions capable of guiding and supervising sector development. Inadequate plan-
ning at the central level has prevented a more balanced allocation of resources
for sector investment based on identified needs and priorities. The absence of
a clearly defined lending policy conditioning the provision of credit on efforts
by  credit  recipients  to  become   more  efficient  and  the  availability  of
unconditional grant funds from the Government resulted in the lack of incentives
for operating companies to improve their operational and financial performance
and generally stifled initiative.   Excessive political interference in the day-
to-day management and staffing of sector institutions on all levels has
prevented continuity. This, together with low level of salaries, makes these
institutions an urnattracti:s place of employment for experienced and qualified



-8-
professionals.   Finally,  the  sector  has  been  without  strong technical and
financial lead institutions capable of promoting improvements in the operational
efficiency and financial viability of operating companies and the design and
execution of  more  cost-effective  investment  projects.    In  particular, the
National Institute for Urban Deveiopment (INSFOPAL), the agency responsible for
executing national sector policy in the urban subsector, was unable to discharge
adequately its technical and financial leadership role.
2.17     The assessment of sector performance  presented in the preceeding para-
graphs depicts a sector with serious structural and attitude related problems.
It is apparent that accelerated sector growth as envisioned by the Government
(para. 2.05) will not be possible without major adjustments to the existing
policy framework and institutional environment. Fortunately, there is consider-
able potential for improved sector development since Colombia is generally bles-
sed with ample water resources; the great majority of the country's pol' lation
has the capacity to  pay  the    cost  of  services;  a re'.atively large  ool of
qualified sector professionals and technicians is available; and several exam-
ples exist of sector companies operating efficiently and providing good service.
Most importantly, however, there is growing awareness among Government and
sector officials of the key sector issues and constraints and of the need for
sector reform.
Sector Reform
2.18     The awareness of the need for change  and pressure to deliver on one of
its major development objectives--poverty alleviation through increased invest-
ments in social infrastructure sectors--prompted the Government to develop over
the past three years, with the assistance of the Bank, a Sector Reform Program
(SRP). This Program (described in detail in Chapter IV of this Report) is
designed to carry out additional investments in water supply and sewerage of
about US$600 million during the 1988-1992 period targeting those sector segments
which in the past have received less attention and where needs are greatest,
i.e.  the poor neighborhoods  of  large  and medium-size cities, small towns and
rural areas. In parallel with its investment objective, the SRP introduces
major reforms to the existing  sectoral  policy and institutional environment to
correct the deficiencies which have been at the root of the sector's past poor
performance. Among the main  reforms  are:    (a)  major changes to the sector's
institutional setup in line with the objectives of the decentralization policy
introduced by Law 12 of January 1986; (b) the adoption of a 1988-1992 Sector
Investment Program based on clearly defined objectives and priorities and
financed with high emphasis on local resources and less reliance on Central
Government grant and external loan funding; (c) the introduction of a new sector
lending policy linking the provision of credit for sector investments to a
commitment by credit recipients to improve their operational efficiency and
financial performance and specifying criteria for the cost-effectiveness and
feasibility of investment projects; (d) the review and update of technical
design criteria and norms to promote the formulation of more cost-efficient and
technically more appropriate and affordable projects; and (e) the establishment
of a permanent training capacity for sector personnel. With these reforms, the
Government expects to create the conditions necessary for meeting the sector
development targets described in para. 2.05.



-9-
III. BANK INVOLVEMENT IN THE SECTOR
Past and Ongoing Activities
3.01     Since 1968, the Bank has  made  12 loans totalling about US$425 million
for water supply and sewerage sector investments in Colombia. The Bank funds
account for about 70Z of all external resources made available to the sector.
The remaining external funds were made available predominantly by the Inter-
American Development Bank. About 80Z of total Bank loan funds (US$340 million)
were granted to five municipal water companies (BogotA, Cali, Barranquilla,
Cutcuta, Palmira) through nine separate  operations.    The Bank made three loans
totalling US$67.1 million to INSFOPAL to finance investments in intermediate-
size and small cities and to help INiSFOPAL develop into an effective technical
and financial intermediary.   The  operations  with INSFOPAL involved 36 subpro-
jects in thirty  different  cities  and  towns.    The  remaining US$ 20 million
supported rural  water  supply  through    water  supply  components  in various
integrated rural development and health and nutrition projects.
3.02     At present the Bank  supports  sector development through projects with
the EPMs in Bogota (Loan 2512-CO), CGrcuta (Loan 2470-CO) and Barranquilla (Loan
2637-CO). A US$16 million rural water supply component under the Health Inte-
gration Project (Loan 2611-CO) has been cancelled because of the imminent
abolishment  of  the  component's   executing  agency  under  the  institutional
reorganization and would be included in the proposed sector project.
3.03     The Project Completion and  Performance  and Audit Reports prepared for
five projects 2 and the supervision of ongoing projects show that in large
measure, projects have been successful in achieving their physical objectives
and, thus, have contributed importantly to the development of the water supply
and sewerage sector. The operations with the Bogota Water and Sewerage Company
were particularly successful and the Bank can be credited with helping this
company develop into a strong and efficient water utility capable of serving
nearly all of Bogota's 4.5 million inhabitants. Most beneficiaries of past Bank
loans, however, did not attain, or were unable to sustain, the institutional and
financial performance goals envisioned at appraisal. Most disappointing was the
inability of INSFOPAL to develop into a strong and efficient intermediary. This
prevented the Bank from helping shape more efficient sector policies and from
channeling more resources to the intermediate-size and small cities and town
subsector.
Sector Strategy
3.04     Given the still immense investment  requirements  of the sector and the
Government's increased emphasis on improving service coverage in its quest for
alleviating poverty, the Bank plans to continue its role as primary external
supplier of finance for sector investments.   However, continued lending for the
2/ Loan 738-CO, Palmira Water Supply Project: Report No. 4589, June 1983; Loan
1523-CO, Second Cali Water Supply and Sewerage Project; Report No. Sec.
85-029, December 1984; Loan 536-CO, Bogota Water Supply Project; Report No.
2003, March 1978; Loan PU-30,-CO, Cali Water Supply Project; Report No. 2638,
*           August 1978; Loans 860-CO and  1072-CO, Medium-size Cities and Second Multi-
City Water Supply and Sewerage Projects; Report No.6594, January 1987.



- 10 -
sector  should  be  contingent  on   the  Government's  commitment  to  sectoral
institutional and policy reforms which would allow more efficient and sustain-
able sector growth within the context and constraints of overall macro-economic
development and public  sector  investments.    The aforementioned Sector Reform
Program (para. 2.18) has been designed with the assistance of the Bank to bring
about the reforms required to address the sector's many problems and cons-
traints. It would be supported by the Bank through the provision of financing
for sector investments and  continued  advice.    The proposed sector investment
loan covering external resource needs of all sector segments through 1991 would
be the most appropriate tool for assisting the Government in improving and
expanding service and in implementing the reforms being introduced under the
Sector Reform Program.   The  sector  loan  approach  would  be continued in the
future as a means of Bank support to sustain and deepen the adjustment process
currently being undertaken by  the  Government.    To complement the sector loan
approach, the Bank may consider continuing the provision of finance for major
investment projects for the country's largest municipal companies (Bogota, Cali,
Medellin) through independent operations.
3.05     The Bank's support of the  SRP  would  complement, on the sector level,
many of the economic and policy adjustments currently being pursued by the
Government with the advice of the Bank.   These include: (a) reduction of fiscal
deficit and less reliance on external funding for public sector investments
through improved domestic resource mobilization; (b) enhancement of public
sector efficiency through institutional reform and stimulation of internal
sector savings; (c) more effective use of existing resources through the design
and execution of more cost-effective investment projects; (d) more socially-
oriented allocation of resources for public sector investments to meet basic
needs of the country's poor; and (e) creation of a more effective and responsive
sector organization taking into account the ongoing decentralization effort.
IV. THE WATER AND SANITATION SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM (SRP)
Objectives
4.01     The outline of the SRP was  approved first by the Government's National
Council for Economic and Social Policy in February 1986 and was reconfirmed by
the present Government in  November  1986.    It  has been discussed extensively
between the Government and the Bank over the past three years and incorporates
many of the recommendations made in the Bank's Sector Report of March 4, 1985.
The main objectives and the policy framework of the SRP are contained in the
Government's sector development policy letter dated May 5, 1988 (Annex 1). The
SRP policy is to:
(a) rationalize overall sector investment policy by adopting a medium-
term (1988-1992) sector investment plan with clearly identified
targets, priorities, investment levels and financing arrangements
within the constraints imposed by the restrictions on the sector's
capacity to generate resources and the public sector investment
program;
(b) adjust the financing policy for sector investments to reduce
reliance on central government contributions and external debt
and, in accordance with the policies of the decentralization



- 11 -
process, increase the share of domestic and local resources and
internal cash generation of operating companies;
(c) establish a more responsive and effective sector organization on
the national level with institutions capable of providing leader-
ship to the sector, being able to provide assistance to operating
companies and enforce policies conducive to improving sector per-
formance and sparking accelerated and efficient sector growth;
(d)  upgrade the performance of  operating companies through the intro-
duction of a more  efficient  institutional framework on the local
and regional level and  a  new  sector  lending policy linking the
provisior. of credit  to  a  commitment  by credit beneficiaries to
strengthen  their    management,  administration,  operations  and
finances and setting standards and more selective criteria for
project selection and eligibility;
(e) reduce the per capita costs of sector investments through the
formulation and implementation of more cost-efficient and appro-
priate design standards and technologies; and
(f) upgrade the level of skill of sector personnel through the crea-
tion of a sector training center and the execution of appropriate
training programs.
4.02     The main elements of the SRP described below include the:  (a) institu-
tional reorganization; (b) 1988-1992 sector investment program; (c) project
lending policy; (d) design and technology improvement program; and (e) training
of sector personnel.
Reform of Sector Organization and Institutions
4.03     Decentralization Initiative.  The passage of Law 12 of January 1986 has
transferred the responsibility for decision making and administration from the
Central Government to municipalities.    Over  the  next five years, the Central
Government will allocate about US$500 million of value added tax revenues to the
treasuries of primarily smaller municipalities with populations under 100,000.
With the transfer of these new resources, municipal governments are expected to
progressively assume more responsibility for the financing and management of
municipal  infrastructure,  including  water  supply   and  sewerage.    As  the
municipalities assume these responsibilities, the present strong involvement of
Central Government institutions in the financing and execution of municipal
infrastructure projects is to be  discontinued.   Law 12 provided the Government
with wide authority to make adjustments to the institutional framework of
sectors dealing with municipal infrastructure.    By  passing Decree 77 of 1987,
the Government made substantial changes in the organization and institutions of
the  Water  Supply  and  Sanitation  Sector.        The  changes  in  the  sector's
organization are depicted in Annex 2 and described in paras. 4.04 - 4.06.
4.04     National  Institutions.    The  adjustments  to  the  sector's national
organization mandated by Decree 77 of January 15, 1987, and regulated by Decree
1723 of September 4, 1987, constitute a major break with the past. While the
National Planning Department (DNP) continues to have responsibility for planning
and coordinating sector and overall development policy, the Sector's overall



- 12 -
management is transferred from tne Ministry of Health (MOH) to the Ministry of
Public Works and Transport (MOPT). The National Institute for Urban Development
(INSFOPAL) which was at the helm of the sector for the past three decades, but
was unable to bring about satisfactory sector development and growth is being
abolished as  of  January  15,  1989.    Likewise  the  Division  of Basic Rural
Sanitation (DBRS) of the National Institute of Health (INS), in charge of rural
water supply and the administration of the National Program for Basic Rural
Sanization (NPBRS), is to be dissolved by the same date. In replacement of
INSFOPAL and DBRS, a Directorate for Water Supply and Basic Sanitation (DWSS) is
being established in MOPT as the primary technical sector support agency with
sector wide responsibilities for planning, setting and enforcing of technical
norms, research, assistance to operating companies and training. The Central
Mortgage Bank (BCH), through its Urban Development Fund (FFDU), will take over
as primary intermediary for sector investments with responsibilities for
mobilizing  domestic  and   external   resources   for  sector  investments  and
identifying, preparing, evaluating, approving and supervising sector projects
(Chapter V).
4.05     Local Institutions.  Consistent  with the Government's decentralization
initiative, Decree 77 places the responsibility for managing water supply and
sewerage services into the hand of individual municipalities. Existing autono-
mous municipal works companies (Empresas P6iblicas Municipales, EPM) providing
water, sewerage and at times other municipal services in the country's largest
35 municipalities (covering about 40% of the total population) are not affected
by the reorganization.   The  abolishment  of  the INSFOPAL owned and controlled
system of Sanitation Works Companies (Empresas de Obras Sanitarias, EMPOS) which
provides services to about 460 smaller municipalities (covering about 16X of the
total population) and the abolishment of INS' regional offices in charge of
rural water supply development (covering about 30X of total population) will
leave about 1000 mostly small municipalities free to decide how to organize the
management of their water and  sewerage  systems.   Many of these municipalities
are too small to have the financial, managerial and technical capacity to carry
out  their  new  responsibilities  by  themselves.    The  great  challenge  and
opportunity of the institutional reform on the local level lies, therefore, in
the creation and development of an efficient institutional framework on the
departmental or regional level to provide satisfactory services. To manage
water supply and sewerage service in communities too small to justify the
establishment of an independent municipal water company, and too large to use
the National Program of Basic Rural Sanitation (NPBRS) methodology (Annex 3) as
the vehicle for sector development and management, the Government promotes the
transformation of the INSFOPAL controlled EMPO's into autonomous departmental or
regional companies.   The  establiqhment  of  these  companies,  to  be owned by
associated municipalities, is essential to avoid the fragmentation of service
management into too many and excessively small independent operating units and
to allow the efficient and professional management and operation of water supply
and sewerage services in small municipalities. The success of the institutional
reform on the local level will depend, therefore, on the willingness of small
municipalities to ioin together in departmental or regional companies of
sufficient size to take advantage of the economies of scale inherent in the
management of water and sewerage  services.   The credit policy being introduced
under the SRP provides guidance wnd incentives to departmental and municipal
governments to develop and implement appropriate and workable institutional
arrangements based on the regional company concept.



- 13-
4.06     Rural Water Supply. Decree  77  of December 1987 stipulates that rural
water supply projects will continue to be executed in accordance with the
principles of the National Program for Basic Rural Sanitation (NPBRS) which has
proven to be an excellent strategy for rural water supply development in the
past (Annex 3). With the abolition of INS' regional offices, the administration
of the NPBRS must be continued on the departmental or regional level. The
creation of strong and responsive departmental or regional rural water supply
agencies throughout the country is key to the successful implementation of the
Government's ambitious rural water supply investment program contemplated under
the SRP. Likewise, the establishment of a rural water supply unit in DWSS of
MOPT capable of providing technical back-up, assistance to and control of local
NPBRS executing units will be essential.
1988-1992 Sector Investment Program
4.07     The Government has defined, with  the  Bank's support, a sector invest-
ment program for the 1988-92 period with specific annual targets for service
coverage, investment lev.ls and financing sources (Annex 4). These targets
distinguish between major subsectors (large, intermediate and small cities and
towns and rural areas) and service type (water, sewerage). The program provides
a base line against which the Government and the Bank would be able to monitor
short- and medium-term sector investments.   It would be updated annually by DNP
and reviewed by the Bank.
4.08     Investment Levels.    An  investment  program  of  about US$820 million
(current prices) for the 1988-1992 period is currently under execution. About
US$730 million (902 of total) finance projects in the country's four largest
cities. The remaining investments are destined for medium-size cities, small
towns and rural areas.
4.09     Under the SRP,  the  Government  plans  to  invest an additional US$600
million (current prices) over 1988-1992 to be allocated among subsectors as
follows: about 712 (US$423 million) for medium-size cities and small towns; 132
(US$79 million) for large cities; and 162 (US$98 million) for the rural popula-
tion. About 652 of the resources to be provided under the SRP would support
water supply and 352 sewerage projects. In total, about US$1,420 million would,
thus, become available for sector investment over the 1988-1992 period. It
would cover about 30Z of the investment needs up to the year 2000 and represent
a major step toward the achievement of Colombia's long-term sector development
targets (para 2.05). Average annual investments would be about US$370 million
over the 1988-1992 period, more than twice the annual sector investment levels
in the recent past. The sector would be one of the major beneficiaries of the
increased social emphasis in  the  country's  Public   Investment Program.  It's
share of total public investments would rise from about 6.5Z in 1986 to almost
13Z in 1990.  In relation to    GDP, sector investment would almost double, from
about 0.5Z in 1986 to about 0.92 in 1990.
4.10     Service Coverage Targets.        As  a  result  of the Government's total
1988-1992 sector investment program, service levels on a country-wide basis are
projected to increase from a current 57Z to 632 for water supply and from 41Z to
50Z for sewerage.    About  3.8  million  additional  people would receive water
supply and  about  4.4  million,  sewerage  services.    The  US$600 million SRP
investment program alone would allow the connection of about 2.5 million
individuals to a safe water supply and about 1.8 million to sewerage. The great



- 14 _
majority of the SRP beneficiaries would live in medium-size and small cities and
towns and in rural areas.    The  above figures clearly reflect the Government's
objective of improving services in long neglected sector segments. Without the
SRP investments, service levels in the large cities would remain stable at
already acceptable levels, while they would decrease slightly in other sector
segments.
4.11     Financing Plan.  The financing  plan  for the 1988-1992 SRP  investment
program (Annex 4) aims at decreasing the role of Government transfers and
external credit for sector investments and increasing the availability of local
funds and domestic credit.   The  proposed  SRP investments would be financed as
follows:
Amount             2 of
Sources of Funds                       US$ Million         Total
Cash Contributions                        155.2             25.9
Operating Companies                      77.9             13.0
Local Government                         77.3             12.9
BCH/FFDU Loans                            444.8             74.1
National Government                      50.0              8.3
External Loans                          210.0             35.0
BCH Domestic Borrowings                  98.8             16.5
Financial Intermediaries                 66.0             11.0
FONADE                                   20.0              3.3
TOTAL                                 600.0            100.0
4.12     Given the poor  financial  position  of  the  majority of the country's
sector operating companies, the Government has decided to provide grant funds
totalling US$50 million.   These  funds  would  be  used  to soften the terms of
BCH/FFDU  loans  for  subprojects   benefitting   the  poorest  segment  of  the
population. In addition, local governments are encouraged to provide equity
contributions to operating companies in accordance with the tariff and cost
recovery principles established in the Sector Lending Policy (paras. 4.21-4.26).
These equity contributions would come from direct cash contributions from
revenueis or  from  loans  provided  by  BCH/FFDU.    In  relation  to  total SRP
investments, equity contributions from local governments would account for 40.8Z
of total SRP investments, 12.92 in cash and 27.9Z through BCH/FFDU loans (Annex
4, Attachment 10).
4.13     A  comparison  of  the  SRP  financing  plan  and  historic  sources of
financing for the medium-size cities, small towns and rural subsectors (para.
2.08) illustrates the adjustments to the sector financing policy being intro-
duced under the SRP.    While  external  credit,  with  35Z remains an important
source of financing, reliance on central Government contributions decreases from
45Z to below 10Z, domestic credit amounts to 27.5? as compared to negligible in
the past, local governments are expected to contribute about 36Z vs. 5? before,
and internal generation from operating companies increases from 5Z to about 13?.
Compared with past levels of Government support for the sector, the SRP
investments are being funded without requiring any additional appreciable burden
on the Government's public sector investment budget.



- 15 _
Subproject Lending Policy and Eligibility Criteria
4.14     To introduce the policy objectives  and  the reform measures of the SRP
on the subproject level, the Government has defined a set of criteria and
conditions which would be used by FFDU in the selection and appraisal of sub-
projects.    These  conditions  and  criteria  are  based  on  the  policies and
principles set forth in the Gov2ernment's sector development policy letter (Annex
1). They would be contained in a new Operating Manual Statement which BCH/FFDU
would adopt as its guideline for evaluating future water supply and sewerage
operations. The most important of the conditions, criteria and provisions of
the SRP lending policy are described in the following paragraphs.
4.15     Eligible Institutions.   As  a  general  principle,  the SRP adopts the
public utility arrangement as the most appropriate vehicle for the management
and operation of water supply and sewerage services in urban areas. Therefore,
one of the most important objectives of the SRP is to promote the establishment
of  autonomous,  operationally  efficient   and  financially  viable  municipal,
departmental or regional water supply and sewerage utilities. Of particular
concern is the establishment of institutional structures for the provision of
water supply and sewerage in small municipalities, commensurate with: (a) the
decentralization policy introduced by Decree 77 of 1987; and (b) the need for
concentrating service management and operation in order to take advantage of the
economies of scale inherent in the delivery of water supply and sewerage
services.   The  SRP  lending  policy  introduces  a  framework  of criteria and
incentives to bring about the institutional framework described above. To this
end, the  policy  distinguishes  between:    (a)  entities  responsible  for the
execution of investment  projects  and  the  management  and  operation of water
supply and sewerage services; and (b) sponsor institutions (municipalities and
department, for example) which assist a project executing entity by providing
equity contributions to cofinance investments.
4.16     To  qualify  as  beneficiaries  of  SRP  financing,  project  executing
entities will be required to meet the following criteria: (a) managerial,
administrative and financial independence; (b) technical capacity and financial
strength to ensure an efficient and adequate management, administration,
operation and maintenance of services and facilities; and (c) efficient size of
operations. With these criteria in mind, FFDU would determine whether or not a
proposed project executing entity has the capacity to carry out investment
projects and maintain and operate systems and facilities independently. In the
absence of such capacity, FFDU will not finance a proposed subproject unless the
entity affiliates itself with a departmental or regional company of sufficient
size and operating capacity.
4.17     The execution of Rural Water Supply Projects will require the existence
of departmental or municipal entities capable of carrying out the National
Program for Basic Rural  Sanitation  (NPBRS).   The most convenient organization
for this purpose would be the Departmental Health Service as executing agency
and the Department as borrower and intermediary of loan funds.
4.18     Institutions eligible for contracting  SRP  loan funds are all entities
qualifying as project executing agencies, i.e. municipal, departmental and
regional entities with a sufficient degree of autonomy and operating capacity.
Departmental governments can enter into agreements for the execution of rural
projects.  Other  public  institutions,  municipal and departmental goveraments,



- 16 -
urban and regional development corporations, for example, would be eligible to
obtain loan funds as sponsors for the purpose of providing complementary equity
contributions to eligible project executing agencies.
4.19     Institution8' Strengthening.   Project  executing entities are expected
to commit themselves to the  execution  of an insti utional strengthening effort
to bring its  performance  up  to  acceptable  levels.    Annex 5 lists selected
managerial, operational, administrative, and financial indicators generally
associated with satisfactory performance of water and sewerage companies. These
parameters will be used as a guide by FFDU and loan applicants to define jointly
specific performance targets to be attained during the course of project
execution and to design an Institutional Strengthening Program necessary to
achieve them. In the formulation of these targets, FFDU will consider project
type and view a company's potential for improvements taking into account factors
such as its size, the socio-economic capacity of service beneficiaries, initial
condition and the availability of human resources. As part of the institutional
development process promoted under the SRP, operating entities are expected to
improve their administrative systems and  procedures.   Special emphasis will be
given to the introduction of adequate and appropriate systems for accounting,
control, information, human resources development, and commercial operations.
FFDU will promote and assist in the introduction of uniform, sector wide
accounting and management  information  systems.   The institutional development
plan agreed to between an operating entity and FFDU would be reflected in the
subproject description and a list of monitoring indicators to be included in the
subproject agreement between FFDU and a beneficiary subproject executing agency.
4.20     Project  Types.    Given   the   wide  discrepancies  existing  in  the
institutional capacity and financial conditions among the sector's operating
entities, a distinction would be made between four subproject types with
different conditionality in terms of subproject scope and expected financial and
operational performance:
(a) Type A - Regular Projects in urban areas carried out by existing
municipal, and regional operating companies which have reached a
reasonably efficient level of operational and administrative
performance and an adequate level of financial viability. These
companies would be eligible for receiving financing for major
water supply and/or sewerage expansion projects.
(b)  Type  B  -  Rehabilitation   Projects   carried  out  by  existing
financially  and   operationally   weak   municipal  and  regional
companies  which  have  to   undergo  a  major  institutional  and
financial rehabilitation before being able to qualify for a Type A
project.   The  main  element  of  a  rehabilitation project would
include the rehabilitation and repair of existing facilities and
the  execution  of   institutional   and  financial  strengthening
efforts. A rehabilitation project generally would have a duration
not exceeding two years and total investments would be less than
US$50 per connection existing at the time of project initiation.
(c) Type C - Transition Projects designed specifically to facilitate
the  reorganization  of   the   institutional  framework  for  the
management and operation of water supply and sewerage services in



- 17 -
municipalities where services are provided by an EMPOS or directly
by  the   municipal   government.        In   some   of  the  larger
municipalities, the reorganization would require the establishment
of a municipal water supply and sewerage entity meeting the afore-
mentioned institutional  eligibility  criteria.    In  most cases,
however, the reorganization would involve the transformation of an
existing INSFOPAL-owned EMPOS into an independent, viable regional
entity owned collectively by member municipalities. Transition
projects would support the financing of: (i) inputs needed
(studies, technical assistance, training, equipment) to establish
a functional regional or municipal operating entity; (ii) water
supply and sewerage infrastructure rehabilitation and expansi3n in
selected municipalities; and (iii) studies and designs for follow-
up projects. Transition projects would be executed by existing
EMPOS  or,  in  special   cases,   by  departmental  or  municipal
governments. A transition project would have an execution period
not exceeding three years.  Upon its completion, the new operating
entity  would  be   expected   to   be   legally  established  and
operationally functional.
(d)  Type D - Rural Projects  carried  out by departmental or municipal
governments through an administrative unit capable of executing
subprojects in rural communities in accordance with the NPBRS
methodology and  financing  arrangements.    A  rural water supply
project would finance: (i) strengtilening of the NPBRS unit; and
(ii) the promotion and execution of projects in individual rural
communities.
4.21     Tariff Policy and Cost Recovery.    The  financial policy to be pursued
under the SRP reaffirms the principle of recovery of the cost of water supply
and sewerage operation and of investments. Nevertheless, the present financial
capacity, institutional strength and the quality of service provided by many
water companies would not allow their full compliance with the cost recovery
principle at this time.   Particularly companies in smaller municipalities could
not be expected to raise existing tariffs to the levels required to recover all
investment costs, given the poor service provided, large investment needs to
overcome decades of neglect and the limited capacity of the population to pay.
Many of the newly elected Mayors, now directly responsible for the provision of
water supply and sewerage services in their jurisdictions have indicated the
immediate improvement of water and sewerage services as the most urgent priority
and expressed their determination to use part of the value added tax (IVA)
resources now becoming available to the municipalities under Law 16 to invest in
water supply and sewerage system expansions.
4.22     In this situation, the  Government  has  adopted  a policy (Annex 1) of
encouraging municipal governments to use IVA funds in support of the investments
needed to bring water supply  and  sewerage  services up to an acceptable level.
At the same time, the Government  has  taken the position that IVA contributions
to the sector should not substitute a reasonable tariff effort by operating
entities. As a minimum, such entities would be required to adjust tariffs to
levels sufficient to fully cover operation and maintenance costs, working
capital needs and the higher of depreciation and payment of present debt. Each
operating entity would also be required to make a cash contribution to project
investments and assume a part of the debt service obligation. The size of these
contributions  would  depend   on   an   operating  entity's  present  financial



- 18 -
conditions, the potential for tariff increases, investment needs and quality of
service provided. The Government expects that the use of IVA funds for spctcr
investments would be discontinued after the mcst urgent initial investments have
been completed and a reasonably adIequate service has been attained. The
Government's policy has been accepted as the only realistic way to revive a
severely undercapitalized sector and to bring rapidly acceptable services to the
country's poor population. Based on this policy, the Government and FFDU have
agreed on minimum levels of contributions to investments from the internal
generation of project executing  entities.    These  levels,  to be reflected in
FFDU's Operating Manual Statement, would vary depending on an entity's initial
financial condition, project type (para. 4.20) and communitv size as an
indicator of the socio-economic capacity of beneficiaries.
4.23     For Type A projects, the following levels of contributions would apply.
For cities with more than 800,000 people (BogotA, Cali, Medellin, Barranquilla),
the company would be required to contribute at least 252 from its internal
contributions to total project cost and in addition assume loan obligations for
at least 50? of  total  project  cost.    Local  authorities would be allowed to
provide equity contributions for up to 252 of total project cost, primarily to
support investments in poor unserved neighborhoods (Agua Blanca in Cali and Zona
Suroccidental  in  Barranquilla,  for  example).    In  intermediate-size cities
(300,000-800,000), equity contributions by local governments would be limited to
so5 of total project cost and project executing entities would be required to
contribute at least 15Z of project cost from their internal generation. In
medium-size cities (80,000-300,000) and small cities (30,000-80,000) equity
contributions from local governments would be limited to 602 and 70Z of total
project cost, respectively and minimum cash contributions to investments of 102
and 52, respectively would be  required.   Regional companies providing services
generally to communities below the 30,000 population limit would be required as
a minimum to contribute 52 of total project cost in cash and to repay 152 of
BCH/FFDU loan.
4.24     For Type B  projects,  small  and  short  duration projects designed to
rehabilitate the institutional and financial capacity of particularly weak
companies, financing would rely heavily on contributions from local governments.
Equity contributions up to 902 of total project cost would be accepted. The
executing entity would be required to contribute, over the life of the project,
a minimum of 5? of total project cost from its internal generation.
4.25     For Type  C  projects,  designed  to  facilitate  the  creation  of new
departmental, regional or municipal companies, participating municipalities and
departmental Governments would provide 95Z of total financing. Tariffs in each
muricipality would be required to be sufficient to contribute 52 of investment
cost.   In  general,  no  assumption  of  loans  would  be  required  as the new
departmental or regional companies would not yet exist at the beginning of the
project. For Type D projects, communities with a population of less than 12,000
would be required to contribute 152 of project cost in form of cash, labor and
materials. In addition, it would assume a minimum of 152 of the debt service.
The rest would be financed through equity contributions from local governments.
4.26     Recovery  of  investments  through   revenues  generated  by  operating
companies would be, on average, about 602 of total SRP Program costs (Annex 4,
Attachment 10). The remaining funds would be provided by local governments in
the form of equity  contributions.    SRP  financing  and cost recovery policies
would greatly require more financial discipline from operating entities compared



- 19 _
to pre-SRP practices. For the first time, all companies would be forced to
cover operating costs, working capital needs, the higher of depreciation and aad
debt service and contribute a minimum 5Z to investments in order to be eligible
for loan funds from BCHIFFDU.   Equity contributions wou]d be made entirely from
the resources of local governments unlike in the past whei such contributions
were distributed by the Central Government in an uncontrolled fashion. The use
of financial intermediaries by BCH/FFDU, assures the repayment of loan funds
made available to project executing agencies and local governments. Interest
rates would be positive in real  terms.   Under pre-SRP conditions, debt service
obligations often were not met, as financial intermediaries (INSFOPAL) were
unable to fully collect amortization and interest payments and interest rates
charged tended to be highly subsidized.
4.27     Tariff Setting  Mechanisms  and  Approvals.    In  the  past, delays in
approving adequate tariff levels by JNT and the implementation of such tariffs
were among the main reasons for the poor financial condition of sector companies
and their inability to carry out  inve qtment  projects  in a timely faahion.  To
avoid these shortcomings during the execution of the SRP Program, the Government
(JNT, DNP) agreed during negotiations  that:  (a) BCH/FFDU during the subproject
appraisal process would seek  JNT's  opinion  on  the viability of tariff action
proposed in the financial projections  submitted  by the project entity, and (b)
as a condition for subloan signature, it would be required that JNT has issued a
satisfactory tariff resolution and  the  project  entity has implemented in full
the tariff levels authorized by JNT.
4.28     Service cross-subsidies.  Operating  companies providing services other
than water supply and sewerage will be expected to attain financial self-
sufficiency for the  services  provided.    To  this effect, operating companies
providing other services would be required to commit themselves to adopt
measures, including the adjustment of tariffs and fees, to meet the above
condition. Loan funds would be mada available to assist operating companies in
improving solid waste operations.
4.29     Payment of Other Public  Services.    Sector operating companies in the
past have often failed to pay for other public services (electricity, social
security, etc.). In particular, the electricity sector's financial performance
has been affected deeply by the failure of sector operating companies to pay
their electricity bills. Therefore, the SRP credit policy requires water supply
and sewerage companies to strengthen their finances to the extent that they are
able to pay in full and on time, rates and fees due other public enterprises.
As a condition for disbursing funds under a sub-loan, FFDU would require that
beneficiary companies enter into agreements to repay existing debt and are
current  on  their  payments  to  other  public  enterprises.    The  SRP policy
encourages sector operating companies to bill and obtain payment for services
provided to nitional, departmental and municipal institutions.
4.30     Management  Stability.    Frequent   changes   in  the  management  and
professional  staff  contribute  significantly   to   the  poor  management  and
administration  of  sector  companies.    The  lending  policy  requires  sector
companies to maintain stability in the companies' management and higher level
professional staff.
4.31     Financing Arrangements and Conditions.    Credit from BCH/FFDU or other
sources to project executing agencies and cofinanciers will be limited to 80? of



- 20 -
total projec'. cost.   The  financing  gap  is  filled by cash contributions from
operating entities and equity contribu,tions from local government in accordance
with the limits established for  each  project  type.   Interest rates and terms
applied by BCHjFFDU are those specified by the National Monetary Board (para.
6.11).   The  Government  has  provided  US$50  million  in  support  of the SRP
investment program. These funds would be used to reduce interest rates for
subprojects benefitting the poorest segment of the country's population.
Interest rates will be adjusted periodically to ensure that they are sufficient
to cover the cost of funds to BCH/FFDU and administrative expenses. BCH/FFDU
loan funds would be rediscounted through financial intcrmediaries which would be
responsible for loan collection and for that purpose would require the pledging
of revenues of loan beneficiaries.
4.32     Project Eligibility.  Projects would  be eligible for financing if they
are:
a)  technically sound, i.e  present  a  least  cost  solution, are based on
acceptable  demand  projections   and   design  parameters,  take  into
consideration adequately the rehabilitation of existing facilities and
use cost-efficient and appropriate technologies;
b)  institutionally acceptable,  i.e.  the  project  executing  entity must
demonstrate sufficient capability to carry out the project and commit
itself to the implementation of an institutional strengthening program;
c)  financially viable, i.e. the project financing plan must be assured and
the project executing entity's financial performance must meet the
conditions of the lending policy;
d)  economically justified, i.e.  project  design represents the least-cost
solution; and Type A subprojects would ve required to yield a financial
rate of return of at least 1OZ;
e)  socially acceptable, i.e. provides services  at affordable costs to the
poor segment of the population; and
f)  environmentally  acceptable,   i.e.   major  undesirable  environmental
effects are mitigated through appropriate remedial action.
4.33     Project Supervision.   FFDU  would  be  responsible for supervising the
execution of physical project components and for monitoring compliance with the
provisions in the subproject agreement between FFDU and project executing
agencies. Most important among the provisions contained in the subproject
agreement would be:   (a)  the  project  description, incluetng an institutional
development and training component; (b) a list of annual administrative,
operational and financial monitoring indicators; (c) financial covenants; and
(d) a satisfactory  management  clause.    The  subproject agreement would state
clearly FFDU's obligation to suspend disbursements, or even cancel subloans, in
case subborrowers are in prolonged and substaatial incompliance with covenants
in subproject agreements.
Design and Technology Improvements
4.34     The current design standards and procedures are outdated and often lead
to elevated per capita  costs.    Likewise  the  technologies employed are often



- 21 -
inappropriate and more costly than  necessary.    The SRP, therefore, includes a
program of review and update of design parameters and procedures (water consump-
tion, demand forecast, staging of construction, design horizons, network design,
etc.) and technologies (water and sewage treatment, sewage collection, etc.)
with the objective of promoting the design of least-cost and technologically
more appropriate projects.
Training
4.35     The Government and sector officials are  conscious of the need for more
intensive and better focused training of sector personnel at all levels as a key
element for the more efficient operation and administration of sector companies
and the formulation of more  appropriate and cost-effective investment projects.
In response to the obvious need for upgrading training, the Colombian Associa-
tion of Sanitary and Environmental Engineers (ACODAL) with the support of and in
coordination with the Government and operating companies has created on June 19,
1987, the National Training Center for the Water Supply and Sanitation Sector
(CENAGUAS). A priority objective of the SRP is to develop CENAGUAS into the
sector's central planning and "nordinating agency for training, while making use
to the extent possible of e%Jat:r; facilities and training materials. Under the
direction of CENAGUAS, trainng   f  about  35Z  (8000  persons) of the sector's
managerial, technical, and adwii. strative staff  over the 1988-1992 period is an
important objective of the SRP.
V. THE BORROWER AND EXECUTING UNIT
Introduction
5.01     In accordance with Decree 77, the  Central Mortgage Bank (BCH) will act
as financial intermediary for the water supply and sanitation sector with its
Urban Development Fund (FFDU) responsible for the'evaluation and supervision of
sector projects. For the proposed sector Project, BCH and FFDU will be the
Borrower and Executing Unit, respectively.
The Borrower - BCH
5.02     BCH was founded in 1932  by  legislative  decree and is a stock company
(sociedad an6nima).   It  is  87t  owned  by  Banco  de  la  Repdblica, with the
remaining 13Z of its shares held by public and private financial institutions.
The purpose of BCH is to guide, finance and execu.e works aimed at implementing
the government's housing and urban 'development policies. To accomplish this,
BCH raises pu'lic and private funds, which it earmarks for the financing of the
construction and acquisition of homes and for the execution of regional and
urban  development  projects.    BCH  ranks  fourth  among  all  Colonmbian banks
(exceeded only by Banco de la Republica,  Caja Agraria and Banco de Colombia) in
terms of asset amounts.   Its  assets  as  of  December 31, 1986 amounted to the
equivalent of US$1,020 million, about 8Z of the banking system's total assets.
5.03     BCH is governed  by  an  eight-member  Board  of Directors, composed of
representatives of the public and private sectors and chaired by the Minister of
Finance and Public Credit.   BCH's  day-to-day  management rests in the hands of
its General Manager and five deputy managers, including a deputy manager for
FFDU.  At present,  BCH  has  about  3,370  employees,  of which about 2,800 are



- 22 -
assigned to 51 branch offices and the rest, about 570 staff members, work at
headquarters in Bogoto.
5.04     BCH's accounting  and  record  keeping  is  computerized  and reliable.
Four-year budgets and lending programs are revised annually and submitted to the
national government for review and comment. BCH is examined continuously by the
Superintendent of Banking (Superintendencia Bancaria) to ensure compliance with
banking laws and regulations.    BCH  has  its  accounts  audited annually by an
internationally-known accounting firm (Arthur Anderson for 1986 and 1987) and
intends to continue this practice.
The Executing Unit - FFDU
5.05     Established in 1968, FFDU, the  proposed project's executing unit, is a
subdivision of BCH which offers financing to municipalities and departments as
well as to other eligible public enterprises for investments in urban develop-
ment and sanitation works. FFDU is responsible for the coordination of project
preparation, the evaluation of project feasibility and project supervision.
Although it must submit loan proposals to the BCH Board of Directors for review
and approval, FFDU has considerable operational autonomy within BCH. FFDU has
its own systems for reporting, budgeting, control and project monitoring.
5.06     Current Portfolio.  As of December 31, 1986, FFDU had total outstanding
loans of about Col$21,000 million (US$102 million equivalent). This represented
about 12% of the total loans of BCH. Between 1983 and 1986 FFDU approved loans
for (60 projects amounting to Col$44,613 million (US$300 million equivalent).
Of this amount, Col$24,371 (US$160 million equivalent) million had been
disbursed by year-end 1986. FFDU's recent lending has been concentrated in two
sectors: sanitation (water supply, sewerage and solid waste removal) and urban
transport. Of FFDU's total 1983-86 disbursements, 442 were for sanitation and
31% for urban transport operations.    The  remaining  25Z  was for a variety of
other urban infrastructure  investments.    The  sectoral  composition of FFDU's
recent lending reflects its priority of assisting local government in improving
basic infrastructure  and  public  services.    Three  years  ago, FFDU replaced
INSFOPAL as the Country's largest financier of sanitation projects in Colombia.
It recently provided funding for several larger water supply projects including
one in Cali costing US$10 million and another in Santa Marta amounting to US$6
million. FFDU has acquired considerable experience as intermediary for external
loans. At present it is executing a second municipal infrastructure investment
project with financing from the Inter-American Development Bank (US$60 million,
75% of loan funds committed) and another project funded by German Kreditanstalt
fUr Wiederaufbau (DM6.5 million, 80 of loan funds committed).
5.07     Sources of Funds.  In the  past, FFDU's primary sources of funding were
external borrowings and government loans. As indicated above, FFDU has been the
beneficiary of two Inter-American Development Bank loans totalling US$ 74
million and a DM6.5 million loan from the Kreditanstalt fUr Wiederaufbau. In
1983, FFDU received a Col$12,500 million (US$80 million equivalent) loan from
the Colombian Government to finance urban infrastructure projects. FFDU also
raises funds through the issuance of its own Urban Development Bonds (UDBs).
These are tradeable debentures, offered to municipalities, which have a three-
year n.aturity and a nominal yield of 22-24Z. Although the yield on such deben-
tures is substantially below market rates, the holder is entitled to borrow from
FFDU three times the face value of the bond and to pay a rate of interest lower



- 123 -
than FFDU's normal lending rate. As of year-end 1986, the volume of UDBs out-
standing was US$5.5 million equivalent. In the future, as a means of capturing
a portion of the growing sales tax (IVA) transfers being made available to muni-
cipalities, FFDU intends to increase substantially the issuance of UDBs.
5.08     Another important source of  funds  for  FFDU are Urban Formation Bonds
(UFBs). The issuance of UFBs was authorized in April 1987 by the Government as a
way of tapping the deposits of Colombian saving and loan institutions (UPAC
funds) to finance urban development works. UFBs are tradeable debentures, which
offer market interest rates (index6d for inflation plus 42) at a seven-year
maturity. They are issued by BCH to savings and loan institutions in amounts
determined by each institution's shortfall in meeting minimum compulsory housing
portfolio allocation quotas as established under the UPAC system. Resources
captured through the issuance of UFBs are to be channelled by BCH to FFDU for
investment in urban infrastructure including water supply and sanitation
projects. By the end of 1987, the volume of UFBs outstanding was expected to
reach the equivalant of US$10 million.   FFDU estimates that in the near future,
annual sales of UFBs should average about US$25 million equivalent.
5.09     FFDU On-lending  Procedures  and  Conditions.    FFDU  operates through
financial intermediaries (commercial banks and financial corporations) by redis-
counting the loans such intermediaries make to municipalities, departments and
other eligible borrowers for urban infrastructure investments. The proportion
of rediscount varies between 75Z-85Z depending on the size of the city; the
larger the city, the larger the  discount.   Under this arrangement the partici-
pating financial intermediary provides from its own resources the difference
between the rediscounted amount provided by FFDU and the loan amount made avail-
able to the sub-borrower.    Financial  intermediaries  handle directly with the
sub-borrower all loan administration tasks including the establishment of
guarantees, which in all cases involves the pledging of a portion of the sub-
borrower's revenues, the preparation and signature of the loan contract, the
timely disbursements of loans funds and the collection of debt service payments.
All activities associated with the  recovery  of  debt from the subborrowers are
the sole responsibility of the financial intermediary. For assuming these risks
and responsibilities, financial  intermediaries  from  of  1.5 to 2.5 percentage
points on the rediscounted amount provided by FFDU and a yield determined by the
3-month Certificate-of-Deposit rate (CDT) plus 4-5? on the balance of loan funds
provided from their own resources.
5.10     FFDU lends  in  accordance  with  regulations  issued  by the country's
Monetary Board (Junta Monetaria, JM).    JM  Resolution  No. 53 of September 25,
1987 establishes the following currently valid lending conditions (Annex 6):
variable interest rates ranging from CDT + 5 points for larger municipalities;
CDT + 3 for medium-size municipalities; and CDT + 2 for small municipalities;
maturity of 12 years; and 3 years of grace. In addition, there is a commitment
fee of 0.5? on the undisbursed balance and an administrative fee of IZ of the
loan amount. For borrowers holding Urban Development Funds (UBDs), FFDU offers
preferential rates which are 2 percentage points less than regular rates. The
above rates apply to the portion of the loan that is rediscounted by FFDU. As
the financial intermediaries through which FFDU rediscounts its loans earn
between 1.5-2.5 percentage point, the net rates received by FFDU range from CDT
plus 3.5 to minus 0.5? for non-preferential borrowers to CDT plus 1.5 to minus
3.5? for  preferential  borrowers.    The  non-rediscounted  portion  is lent by
financial intermediaries at CDT plus 4.Z to 5?. The final average nominal rates



- 24 -
to borrowers, thus, range from CDT minus 0.252 to CDT plus 5Z depending on the
size of the municipality and whether or not the Borrower holds UDB. At the
September 1987 CDT level of 26? and with interest charged at the end of the
quarter, the effective rates charged to borrowers for FFDU loans, exclusive of
fees and charges, would be as presented in Table 5.1.
Table 5.1
Interest Rates on BCH/FFDU Loans based on CDT Rate of 261
Borrowers          Borrowers
Loan Recipient                       not holding UDBs   holding UDBs
Large Municipalities                     34.82               32.6Z
Medium-Size Municipalities                32.6Z              30.6Z
Small Municipalities                     31.4Z               28.3Z
5.11     Considering that the "prime" market lending r:ate (generally CDT plus 3%
charged quarterly in advance) is. currently  352 (effective) and that the infla-
tion rate in Colombia (12 months ending December 1987) is about 26?, FFDU rates
charged to borrowers are positive in real terms and approach "market" rates.
5.12     Organizational and Institutional Capacity.         Over the past ten years,
FFDU has developed into Colombia's most efficient and important lender for muni-
cipal infrastructure projects.   Its  generally  young,  but highly educated and
motivated staff enjoys an excellent reputation in the Sector and prides itself
in promoting and executing high quality projects. An institutional assessment
of FFDU confirmed that it indeed is an organization capable of assuming its
expanded role as primary lender and intermediary for sector investments in
Colombia. Also noted, however, is the need for FFDU to expand and strengthen
its staff resources, to define more clearly its lending policy and to improve,
streamline and systematize its organization and operating procedures. BCH's and
FFDU's management, conscientious of the need to grow and to improve its
operational capabilities has embarked on an institutional strengthening effort
to address the above concerns (Annex 7).
5.13     BCH Management Order No. 98 of September 15, 1987, gave rise to a major
reorganization of FFDU. The new organization establishes FFDU as a Department
(Subgerencia) of BCH with four Divisions reporting to FFDU's administrator. The
Credit Division for municipal development has responsibility for all operational
project related work.   At  headquarters,  the  Director  of the Credit Division
heads two credit  departments  each  of  which  supervise four regional offices.
These eight regional offices,   strategically located throughout the country and
attached to BCH branch offices, carry out the operational work (project identi-
fication, preparation, supervision) in their areas of responsibility under the
supervision and  control  of  headquarters  staff.    The  Division of Technical
Development  at  headquarters  in  BogotA   is  staffed  with  technical  sector
specialists (economists, engineers, financial analysts, institutional develop-
ment experts, etc.) who do policy  related  work and support the Credit Division
in its operational work.   FFDU's  operations  are guided by a Planning Division
and supervised by an  Operational  Control  Division.   FFDU's new organization,
already largely in place, is very  well  suited to the agency's new and expanded
responsibilities.  A particularly advantageous  facet of the new organization is
the decentralization of routine operational work to regional units allowing easy
and continuous contact with FPDU's clients.



- 25 -
5.14     BCH Management Order No. 98  also  authorizes a major increase in staff
and sets specific staffing targets for December 1987 and June 1988. Compared to
a pre-reorganization total of 50 . FFDU's professional staff was to grow to 82
(50 at headquarters and 16 at regional units) by the end of 1987 and is
projected to increase to 89 (57 at headquarters and 16 at regional units) by
mid-1988. In addition, FFDU will continue to supplement its in-house staff
capacity with consultants. As an extraordinary measure to speed up the prepara-
tion of a project pipeline for the SRP, FFDU is about to contract, with UNDP
financing, the assistance of 12 sector specialist consultants for an 18-month
period. Concurrently, FFDU, led by its Division for Technical Development, has
initiated a major effort to improve and streamline its operating and administra-
tive procedures and to upgrade its human resources (Annex 6). These efforts
would be supported under the proposed project. The institational strengthening
effort currently being undertaken by FFDU is judged sufficient to allow FFDU to
discharge its new responsibilities and to carry out the proposed project. The
Govermnent and FFDU are considering obtaining a US$100 million Bank loan in
support of a US$275 million municipal sector project. Appraisal of this project
is tentatively scheduled for  FY  1989.    The  preparation and execution of the
municipal sector project would require a further major expansion of FFDU's staff
capacity.
Financial Analysis of BCH/FFDU
5.15     BCH operates under special  regulations  which  allows it to index both
its mortgage credits and liabilities to the public, through the use of 'constant
purchasing power units (UPAC)" linked to the consumer price index. Interest
rates (both lending and borrowing rates) are subject to ceilings, but are
expressed as margins additional to the monetary adjustments of the UPACs.
Margins on mortgage loans range from 2 to 5 percentage points higher than those
on corresponding liabilities, thereby enabling BCH to maintain a positive spread
on its overall lending operations.
5.16     An analysis  of  BCH's  financial  structure  and  condition (including
results for the FFDU) is provided in Annex 8. BCH has, as of December 31, 1986,
US$1,020 million equivalent  of  total  assets.    Of  this amount, about US$840
million equivalent or 82% were in the form of mortgages and urban development
(FFDU) credits. The remaining assets on BCH's books at year-end 1986 (18% of
the total) included mainly financial investments, construction holdings and
fixed assets. Delinquencies in BCH's mortgage loan portfolio are relatively
high, reflecting payment problems experienced in recent years by many mortgage
borrowers, especially those at  the  lower-income  levels.   The volume of BCH's
mortgage loans past due by more than four months equalled 182 of total mortgages
at year-end 1986. However, BCH's provisions for doubtful loans, at 6Z of total
mortgages, appears adequate as most of the mortgages are fully collaterized.
FFDU's loan portfolio has not experienced any arrearage since the financial
intermediaries through which the FFDU rediscounts its loans are required to pay
off the loans even in cases in which the final borrower has not made payment.
BCH's principal sources of funding are UPAC and traditional savings deposits,
which together totalled US$750 million equivalent or 73Z of total resources as
of December 31, 1986. External borrowings, which have been used only to finance
FFDU investments, accounted for just 3Z of total BCH resources as of year-end
1986. BCH maintains a line of credit with Banco de la Republica which it has
drawn upon for relatively modest amounts of funding since 1984 to meet
unexpected liquidity demands. BCH's equity position, at 5Z of total assets at



- 26 -
year-end 1986, is considered adequate. Also BCH's earning performance, in spite
of some deterioration since  1983,  remains  satisfactory.   For 1986, BCH's net
income was US$3.1 million equivalent or 0.32 of average assets.
5.17     At negotiations,  BCH  presented  the  Bank  with preliminary financial
results for 1987 and financial projections for the period 1988-92. A summary of
these results and projections is provided in Annex 8. As of December 31, 1987,
BCH total assets reached US$955, million equivalent (Pesos 1.451 million).
FFDU's portfolio continued to grow in 1987, reaching the equivalent of US$112
million at year-end. It represented 13Z of total BCH loans outstanding. BCH's
financial projections show that its financial condition and performance would be
maintained at satisfactory levels over the next few years. For 1992, when most
of the proposed loan should be disbursed, BCH would continue to have an adequate
capital ratio (about 4Z of total assets) and profitability. The projections
also show that FFDU's lending is expected to play an increasingly important role
in BCH's overall operations. By end-1992, FFDU loans as a proportion of BCH's
total footings would equal 28Z, reflecting mainly the increased resources to be
directed to FFDU through the Bank-financed project.
Potential Creation of Regional Development Bank
5.18     During the 1987 legislative period, the Government sent to Congress for
consideration a bill proposing the creation of a Regional Development Bank
(Fondo de Desarrollo Territorial, FDT). This FDT was to become the major finan-
cial intermediary for future municipal and regional infrastructure development
investments, including those for water supply and sanitation. FFDU was to be
separated from BCH and made the nucleus of FDT. The Government's proposal did
not pass before the legislative period expired in mid December 1987, as
Congress' time was taken up by other legislative initiatives. During the next
legislative period beginning in June 1988, Congress can be expected to again
conaider the creation of the FDT.    Should the FDT be established, intermediary
arrangements for the proposed project would change. The Bank would be prepared
to examine the possibility of a transfer of the Project to a future FDT.
However, the Bank would be able to decide on such transfer only on the basis of
a full appraisal of the capacity of the FDT after it has actually been
established, capitalized and staffed.
VI. THE PROJECT
Origin
6.01     The proposed project  grew  out  of  an  intensive dialogue between the
Government and the Bank leading to the formulation of the SRP (Chapter IV) which
the  proposed  project  seeks  to  help  implement.    The  Government requested
financing for the project per letter dated September 23, 1986.
Project Objectives
6.02     The main objective of the proposed project is to underpin the implemen-
tation of the SRP by financing a US$430 million slice of the Government's US$600



- 27 -
million 1988-1992 SRP sector investment program and help the Government in
bringing  about  sectoral  institutional  and  policy  reforms.    Its  specific
objectives are to assist the Government in:
(a) providing by the end of 1992 water supply services to about 1.9
million additional people and sewerage services to about 1.3
million additional people, most of whom belong to the poorer
segment of the country's population;
(b) introducing a new lending policy designed to: (i) reinforce the
adjustments to the sector financing policy; (ii) promote greater
operational efficiency and financial viability of water and
sewerage companies; and (iii) stimulate the preparation and execu-
tion of more cost-effective investment projects;
(c) strengthening the institutional framework at the national level
through the: (i) promotion of a strong financial intermediation
capacity (BCH/FFDU) capable of enforcing the provisions of the new
lending policy; (ii) introduction of adequate global sector plan-
ning (DNP); and (iii) development of a strong technical support
and monitoring agency (DWSS of MOPT);
(d)  promoting, at the  departmental,  regional and/or municipal level,
the development of  companies  of  sufficient size and operational
and financial autonomy to operate efficiently water and sewerage
systems;
(e) reviewing and updating technical norms, design parameters and
technologies for the future preparation of more cost-effective and
appropriate investment projects; and
(f)  establishing a permanent human  resources development capacity for
all levels of sector personnel and strengthening the performance
capability of sector personnel by developing and implementing a
comprehensive training program.
6.03     Given the magnitude and  complexity  of  the sector reform being under-
taken by the  Government  and  considering  the  continuing need for substantial
external resources for the foreseeable future, the project would be viewed as a
first in a series of a long-term joint Government-Bank efforts to introduce and
maintain better sector institutions and policies and to bring adequate water and
sewerage service coverage to all segments of the country's population.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
6.04     With the assistance of the Bank, the Government has embarked on a major
reform of sector policies and institutions in order to initiate accelerated and
more socially-oriented sector development (Chapter IV).  Continued Bank support,
both through the provision of financial resources and advice, would be critical
to further develop and strengthen the reforms being undertaken under the SRP.
Withiout Bank support, the introduction and enforcement of the SRP sector lending
and financing policies and the development of key institutions (FFDU, DWSS) most
likely  would have  less  chance  for  success.    The objectives of the project
coincide with the Government's and the Bank's country and sector strategies.



- 28-
Providing lower income groups with increased access to adequate water and
sanitation services under the proposed project is a high social and political
priority of the Government in its effort to alleviate poverty. The Bank's
involvement in the project would further some of the most important objectives
of the Banks's country strategy, particularly rationalizing public expenditures
and investment control, stimulating domestic resource mobilization and promoting
more efficient public sector management and pricing policies.
Project Description
6.05     The Project would include the following components:
Component A - Investment Subprojects, including a line of credit to be adminis-
tered by FFDU in the execution of an entrusted 6J subprojects involving the
rehabilitation and expansion of water supply and sewerage systems, pre-
investment studies and institutional strengthening of project executing agencies
in some 400 communities; and the upgrading of solid waste collection and
disposal operations in about 10 cities, where municipal companies provide this
service in addition to water supply and sewerage.
Component B - Strengthening of FFDU's Operating Capacity including the execution
of a program of staff training and the preparation and implementation of: (a) a
comprehensive Operating Manual Statement reflecting SRP policies; (b) Project
preparation and evaluation guidelines; and (c) improved and computerized manage-
ment systems for lending and supervision;
Component C - Strengthening of DWSS and the Execution of Studies to Improve
Sector Efficiency, including the execution of a program of staff training and:
(a) the review and update of existing technical norms and parameters for the
design, construction and maintenance of water and sewerage facilities; (b) the
preparation  of  guidelines   for   the   application  of  low-cost  appropriate
technologies; (c) the preparation of a study to update and strengthen NPBRS
procedures for rural water supply; and (d) the preparation of a sector
inventory.
Component D - Training, including: (a) the establishment and strengthening of a
National Training Center (CENAGUAS) through: (i) the construction of training
facilities at Bogota's San Diego Water Treatment Plant; (ii) purchase of
training equipment and materials; (iii) development and organization of manage-
ment and technical training programs for sector personnel; and (iv) a program of
training of trainers; and (b) the execution of a training program for about 8000
sector managers and staff.
6.06     About 80 individual subprojects would  be carried out under Component A
of the Project. Average subproject cost would be about US$6 million, ranging
from a minimum of US$0.5 million to a maximum of about US$30 million.
Subprojects carried out by regional companies and rural subprojects would
include works in several communities. It is estimated that, in total, some 400
communities would benefit from investments under the Project. Financing would be
provided for all inputs needed to carry out a subproject, including the
acquisition of equipment and materials, civil works, consulting services for
investment studies for follow-up projects, supervision of construction and
institutional development and training. All subprojects meeting the SRP lending
policies and criteria (para. 4.14-4.31) would be eligible for financing under



- 29 -
the Project. All subsectors (large, medium-size and small cities and towns and
rural) would be covered. Assurances were obtained from BCH/FFDU at negotiations
that subprojects submitted by companies which are at present executing projects
with financing provided by external or domestic lenders (BogotA, Cali, Medellin,
Barranquilla, Cucuta), however, would be eligible only, if their objectives are
complementary  to  and  do  not   interfere   with  the  execution  of  and  the
conditionality established for such ongoing projects. Financing for solid waste
collection and disposal services would be made available to an estimated 10
municipal companies which provide this service in addition to water supply and
sewerage and need investment funds to upgrade this service and make it
financially self-sufficient.
Project Cost
6.07     The total cost of the Project is estimated to be about US$435.0 inillion
(Table 6.1). Of this total, about US$430 million (99Z of total) would be
directed towards financing investment subprojects under Component A. US$5.0
million (about 1.OZ of total cost) would fund components B, C and D of the
project. The foreign exchange cost of the project is estimated at US$150
million, about  35Z  of  total  project  cost.    Annual  investments by project
component are presented in Annex 9.   Project costs include provision for taxes,
estimated to amount to about US$20 million.
Table 6.1
Project Cost Estimate
(US$ million)
Z of
Component                        Local      Foreign    Total    Total
(A) Investment Subprojects              281.5       148.5      430.0     98.9
Water Supply                      137.5       112.5     250.0      57.5
Sewerage                           97.5        32.5     130.0      29.9
Solid W6aste                        2.0         3.0        5.0      1.1
Institutional Development          11.7         0.3      12.0       2.8
Supervision of Construction        16.0         -         16.0      3.7
Pre-Investment Studies             14.0         -         14.0      3.2
Training                            2.8         0.2        3.0      0.7
(B) Strengthening FFDU                    1.5         0.5        2.0      0.5
(C) Studies by DWSS                       1.0         0.5        1.5      0.3
(D) Training Center                       1.0         0.5        1.5      0.3
Total                             285.0       150.0     435.0    100.0



- 30 -
Table 6.2
Financing Plan
Project Component                 TOTAL
A         B         C        D
US$       US$       US$      US$      US$       2 OF
Sources of Funds            Million  Million  Million  Million  Million   TOTAL
Cash Contributions            111.2      1.0                        112.2     25.8
Operating Companies         55.8       -         -        -        55.8     12.8
Local Government            55.4       -         -        -        55.4     12.7
FFDU                         -         1.0       -        -         1.0      0.2
Loan Funds                   318.8       1.0       1.5      1.5    322.8      74.2
National Government         50.0       -         -        -        50.0     11.5
BCH Domestic Resources      67.5       -         -        -        67.5     15.5
Financial Intermediaries   41.3        -         -        -        41.3      9.5
FONADE                      14.0       -        -         -        14.0      3.2
Bank Loan                  146.0       1.0      1.5       1.5    150.0      34.5
Total                    430.0       2.0      1.5       1.5    435.0    100.0
6.08     The Project's financing plan is  presented  in Table 6.2.  The proposed
Bank Loan of US$150 million would finance the estimated foreign exchange cost of
the project.   Component  A  of  the  Project  (investment subprojects) would be
financed from:
(a)    cash contribution  (US$111.2  million,  25.9Z  of  total  cost) by
operating companies (US$55.8  million,  132) and local governments
(US$55.4 million, 12.9Z); and
(b)    from BCH/FFDU loan funds (US$318.8 million, 74.1X) raised from the
following sources: the Bank (US$146 million, 34Z); grant from the
National Government (US$50 million, 11.6Z); FONADE (US$14 million,
3.22); BCH resources through the sale of bonds and other revenues
(US$67.5 million, 15.7X); and contribution from BCH's financial
intermediaries (US$41.3 million, 9.6Z).
6.09     BCH/FFDU and the Bank would finance Component B (US$2.0 million) with a
contribution of US$1.0 million  each.    During negotiations, the Government has
indics:ed its willingness to finance components C and D frovi its budget. In
view of the urgent necessity to carry out these project components in an orderly
and timely fashion,however, the Bank would allocate amounts to assure the
financing of these components in case the Government's budget contributions
would not be forthcoming in a timely fashion. Upon completion of components C
and D, any undisbursed amounts of the Loan originally allocated to these
components would be transferred to Component A of the Project.
6.10     To ensure the  viability  of  the  Project's financing plan, assurances
were obtained at negotiations from the Government, that it would budget and
disburse in a timely manner the contributions required for the execution of
components A, C and D in accordance with annually updated projections of
financing needs. Regarding the financing of preinvestment studies by FONADE
under Componet A of the Project, it was agreed during negotiations that the



- 31 _
conclusion of an agreement between FONADE and FFDU satisfactory to the Bank
would be a condition of effectiveness of the Bank Loan.
Foreign Exchange Risk and BCH/FFDU Relending Arrangements and Terms
6.11     BCH/FFDU would make credit available to eligible subborrowers under the
terms, conditions and criteria defined in the SRP lending policy (paras.
4.23-4.25). BCH/FFDU would continue to discount loan funds through financial
intermediaries so as to guarantee the repayment of loans (para. 5.09). Current
interest rates, variable and pegged to the weekly adjusted market-based
Certificate of Deposit rate (para. 5.10) and fees are projected to be sufficient
to allow BCH/FFDU to cover its cost of domestic and external borrowings and
administrative expenses, on the condition that no extraordinary devaluations of
the Col$ vs. other currencies occur in the future. At negotiations, agreement
was reached with the Government and BCH that BCH's interest rate and fee
structure would be reviewed semi-annually and, if necessary, adjusted to ensure
that it is sufficient to cover all of BCH/FFDU's and financial intermediaries'
costs associated with the raising of external and domestic resources for
onlending and administrative expenses.    The  Government's contributions to the
Project would be used to soften the interest rates for BCH/FFDU's second and
third window (para. 5.10) destined to support subprojects benefitting the
poorest  segment  of  the  country's  population.    Agreement  was  reached  at
negotiations that such softer interest rates would be positive in real terms,
i.e. at least  equal  to  domestic  inflation.    The  Government  has agreed to
compensate BCH/FFDU against the foreign exchange risk associated with future
extraordinary devaluations exceeding the rate of domestic inflation. BCH and
the Government are still defining the specific conditions to be contained in the
agreement, but have assured the Bank  that this agreement would be finalized and
signed promptly.    The  presentation  of  the  agreement  between  BCH  and the
Government on covering the foreign  exchange  risk  would be a condition for the
signature of the Loan.
Legal Instruments for Relending
6.12     Legal instruments to be used in  the provision of loans by BCHIFFDU for
Component A of the Project would include: (a) participation agreements between
BCH/FFDU and financial intermediaries; (b) subloan agreements between financial
intermediaries and subproject executing agencies and cofinanciers (municipal or
departmental governments); (c) sponsor agreements between cofinanciers and
subproject executing agencies; and (d) subproject agreements between BCH/FFDU
and subproject executing  agencies.    The  subproject  agreements would require
subproject executing agencies to carry out subprojects in accordance with the
conditions and criteria  negotiated  with  BCH/FFDU.   Specific conditions which
would be included in subproject agreements are listed in Annex 10. The
presentation of draft standard agreements satisfactory to the Bank would be a
condition of effectiveness for  the  Bank  Loan.   Assurances were obtained from
BCH/FFDU during negotiations, that it would employ legal agreements satisfactory
to the Bank for all subprojects financed under Component A of the Project. No
disbursements of the Bank loan would be made, unless onlending agreements
satisfactory to the Bank have been concluded.
6.13     Loan funds  for  components  C  and  D  of  the  Project  would be made
available from BCH/FFDU to MOPT and CENAGUAS under agreements satisfactory to
the Bank.  These agreements  would  establish:    (a) the obligation by MOPT and
DWSS to carry out components C and D, respectively satisfactory to the Bank; and
(b) the arrangements for the financing of these components. The conclusion of
these agreements would be a condition of effectiveness of the Loan. The



- 32 -
Government, would commit itself to repay to BCH/FFDU any disbursements from the
Bank Loan made by BCH/FFDU for components C and D of the Project.
Implementation Specifics
6.14     In support of the implementation of the SRP and to ensure the efficient
execution  of  the  Project,   the   following   specific  conditions  would  be
established.
6.15     Investment Program Review:    The  1988-1992  sector investment program
(Annex 4) provides the base line against which the Bank would monitor short- and
medium-term sector development and  financing.    DNP, in coordination with FFDU
and MOPT, would annually update the entire Sector Investment Program and
Financing Plan in terms satisfactory  to  the  Bank.   In this regard, not later
than August 31 each year, DNP would present to the Bank a report on the status
of execution of and proposed revisions to the sector investment program.
Assurances tu; this effect were obtained from the Government during negotiations.
6.16     Subproject Lending Policy  and  BCH/FFDU Operational Manual Statements:
BCHIFFDU woula be the primary intermediary for investment funds channeled to the
sector from the Government budget and external loans from international multi-
and bilateral financing agencies.    The  conditions and criteria for subproject
lending and eligibility establi.shed in the Government's policy letter (Annex 1)
would apply for all sector investments, regardless of the source of financing.
As a condition of effectiveness of the Bank Loan, BCH/FFDU would adopt an
Operating Manual Statement for its water supply and sewerage operations approved
by the Government and satisfactory to the Bank, which would set the specific
conditions, criteria and policies w'hich BCH/FFDU would employ in evaluating the
acceptability of subborrowers and subprojects (para. 4.14). During negotiations
assurances were obtained from BCH/FFDU that no substantial changes would be
introduced in FFDU's Operating Manual Statement which, in the Bank's opinion
would adversely affect the execution of the Project.
6.17     Strengthening of  BCH/FFDU's  Operating  Capacity:    The  upgrading of
FFDU's staff resources  and  operating  procedures  and systems, supported under
Component B of the Project (para. 6.05), is essential to the success of the
Project. Assurances were obtained from BCH/FFDU at negotiations that it would
carry out the institutional strengthening plan in accordance with a Plan of
Action and time table agreed to between FFDU and the Bank during negotiations
(Annex 7). At negotiations, assurances were obtained from BCH/FFDU that it
would maintain and, if necessary, add staff sufficient in number and with
appropriate skills and experience to carry out the Project in an expeditious
manner.
6.18     Establishment of DWSS and  Execution  of  Component C.  The Directorate
for Water Supply and Basic Sanitation has not yet been established, but MOPT
has, following the directives given in Decree 1723 of September 4, 1987,
submitted to the Government's Civil Service Administration (CSA) an organization
chart and a staffing schedule, both satisfactory to the Bank. CSA is expected
to decide on MOPT's proposal by October 31, 1988. Thereafter MOPT would be able
to initiate the establishment of DWSS and the appointment of staff. At
negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government that DWSS would become
functional and be fully staffed by -io later than June 30, 1989, in accordance
with a plan of action agreed to negotiations (Annex 11). It was further agreed
during negotiations that DWSS would present to the Bank by no later than March
31, 1989 a detailed plan of action and a time table for the execution of
Component C of the Project.



- 33 -
6.19     Establishment of CENAGUAS and Execution  of  Training Program:  On June
19, 1987, several sponsor agencies, among them the Colombian Association of
Sanitary and Environmental Engineers, several water companies and suppliers and
contractors interested in sector development,  decided to establish the National
Sector Training Center (CENAGUAS).  At that time by-laws were agreed and a Board
of Executive Directors was appointed.  Physical facilities have been provided to
CENAGUAS by the Bogott Water Company  without cost.  At present, CENAGUAS' Board
is advancing th, legal and  administrative  process required to obtain CENAGUAS'
status as a non-profit  organization.    During  Negotiations it was agreed that
CENAGUAS would become functional with key positions staffed by not later than
March 31, 1989 in accordance with a plan of action agreed to during negotiations
(Annex 12). It was further agreed that the agreement between BCH/FFDU and
CENAGUAS (para. 6.13) would establish CENAGUAS' obligation to present to the
Bank by not later than March 31, 1989, a plan of action and time table
satisfactory to the Bank for the execution of Component D of the Project.
6.20     Tariff Policy:  Assurances were  obtained  from the Government that its
National Tariff Board (JNT) would review prior to the approval of sub-loans by
BCH/FFDU, proposed investment projects and, if necessary, authorize promptly any
tariff adjustments necessary to ensure the financial feasibility of the project
and the financial viability of the Project Executing Agency in accordance with
the criteria established in BCH/FFDU's Operating Manual Statement (para. 6.16).
With respect to the establishment of limits for the first consumption bracket
established in Decree No. 394 of February 26, 1987 (para. 2.11), it was agreed
during negotiations that JNT would, by no later July 1, 1989, present to the
Bank a study recommending appropriate limits taking into account factors such as
household size, consumption habits and regional and climatic conditions. The
conclusions of the study would be employed for all tariff resolutions approved
by JNT after January 1, 1990.
6.21     Institutional Reform:  Decrees  77  of  Januiary  15,  1987, and 1723 of
September 4, 1987, regulates the reform of sector institutions and presents a
time table for the actions required to implement Lhe new sector organization.
Assurances were obtained from the Government at negotiations that it would
proceed with the institutional reforms as outlined in these decrees.
6.22     Monitoring  of  Sector  Company  Performance:    In  the  absence  of a
comprchensive monitoring of the performance of sector utilities (para. 2.11),
DNP would develop and implement a monitoring system which would describe the
status of performance of all entities providing water supply and sewerage
services. Indicators to be monitored would relate to service coverage and
quality, operational and financial performance, tariff levels and turn-over in
management  positions.    Assurances  were   obtained  from  the  Government  at
negotiations that DNP would carry  out a systematic and comprehensive monitoring
of company performance and by the end of each year, beginning in 1989, publish a
report on the status of performance of sector entities operating water supply
and sewerage services. It was further agreed that DNP would present to the
Ba;ik, by not later  than  December  31,  1988,  a  format  of the report and the
monitoring indicators to be employed as  well  as the methodology to be followed
in collecting the data required for the preparation of the report.
6.23     Preparation and Maintenance  of Subproject  Pipeline:    Over the past
year, a team of engineers, financial analysts and institutional specialists
financed by a grant from UNDP have been working with DNP and FFDU in the
promotion and preparation of a pipeline of subprojects. A survey of existing
EPMs and most departments indicated significant potential demand for sector



- 34 -
investments in all parts of the country, but also identified an acute shortage
of well prepared subprojects. So far, FFDU has identified a tentative list of
subprojects with a total cost of about US$350 million. At negotiations BCH/FFDU
presented executive project summaries for five subprojects with a total
estimated cost of about US$40 million which are in an advanced state of
preparation and are expected to  be  approved  by  October  30,  1988.   A major
effort, however, is needed to transform identified project ideas and needs into
a pipeline of fully prepared and feasible subprojects, ready for appraisal by
FFDU. To boost its immediate project preparation capacity, FFDU has obtained
UNDP financing for about 200 man-months of consultants (12 sector specialists
for 18 months) who would assist FFDU staff in helping potential subborrowers to
prepare subprojects. FONADE funds are available to interested water utilities
for the financing of consultant services for subproject preparation. After an
initial pipeline has been established with the help of the afore-mentioned UNDP
financed consultants, FFDU's regular staff would be capable of maintaining a
subproject pipeline to meet the investment targets established under the SRP.
6.24     Monitoring FFDU's Performance:    Annex  13 presents annual performance
and operating indicators FFDU would be expected to meet during the execution of
the project. These indicators fall into the following categories: (a) loan
amounts to be approved, committed and disbursed; and (b) anmounts of local
resources to be mobilized by BCH and financial intermediaries and Bank loan
proceeds to be disbursed.   Monitoring  indicators would be reviewed and updated
annually.
6.25     Reporting:  FFDU for  Components  A  and  B, MOPT  for Component C and
CENAGUAS for Component D, would prepare semi-annual progress reports to be
submitted by September 30 for the semester ending June 30 and by March 31 for
the entire  previous  year.    Progress  reports  would  not  only describe past
achievements and compare them to appraisal projections, but also would provide a
critical assessment of problems and issues arising during project execution.
They would propose adjustments and remedial actions in case of unsatisfactory
progress. The format of progress reports would be developed jointly by the Bank
and individual project executing agencies after loan signature. Each of the
project executing agencies would submit completion reports to the Bank no later
than six months after the closing date of the loan. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that progress reports and completion reports satisfactory to the
Bank would be submitted.
6.26     Annual Program Assessment:   Based  on  the September Progress reports,
the Bank, the Government and selected project executing agencies would conduct
in October/November of each year a formal joint assessment of progress made in
reaching the objectives of the SRP program and in the implementation of the
Project. The annual review would provide a forum to critically assess program
and project  issues  such  as:    sector  investment  programming and financing;
institutional reform; performance of FFDU and other project executing agencies;
interest rates; overall performance of subproject beneficiaries and their
compliance with subloan covenants; tariff and cost-recovery policy; and the
quality of  subprojects  prepared.    The  discussion  and  analysis of problems
identified in the past would lead to the formulation of adjustments and, if
necessary, plans for remedial actions satisfactory to the Bank. The Government
and BCH/FFDU provided assurances at negotiations that they would execute the
action plans agreed to during the Annual Program assessment to the satisfaction
of the Bank.



- 35 -
6.27     Auditing.  BCH would continue  to have its financial statements audited
annually by external auditors satisfactory to the Bank (para. 5.04). The terms
of reference of the external auditors would be reviewed by the Bank to ensure
that they include the auditing of the Special Account and statement of expendi-
ture records. The audit of FFDU and BCH financial statements would be presented
to the Bank by no later than April 30 of each year. Subproject executing
entities would be required to submit audit reports to BCH/FFDU prepared in a
manner satisfactory to the  Bank.    By  no  later  than  June  30 of each year,
beginning in 1990, FFDU would present to the Bank a report satisfactory to the
Bank on the audits of subproject executing entities. About 20Z of subproject
audit reports would be reviewed by the Bank on a selective basis. Assurances
from BCH/FFDU were obtained at negotiations that it would comply with the audit
requirements described above.
6.28     Subproject Approval and Monitoring  by  the  Bank.   During the initial
period of project implementation, the Bank would carry out a thorough review of
all subprojects being proposed by FFDU to reach a clear understanding of
subproject issues between the Bank and FFDU. To this end, the Bank would review
prior to the approval by BCH/FFDU's loan committee and regardless of project
cost: (a) the first two subprojects of each of the four basic Project types
(para. 4.20); and (b) all subprojects exceeding a cost of US$6 million
equivalent. All other subprojects would be reviewed ex-post on a selective
basis; i.e. after the subloan documents have been signed. For Bank review, FFDU
would prepare for each subproject a Projezt Executive Summary (Annex 14)
summarizing the key information required to judge whether or not a project meets
th;. technical, financial, institutional and economic feasibility conditions and
subproject selection criteria specified in BCH/FFDU's Operating Manual Statement
(para.  6.16).    The  Bank  would  reserve  the  right  to  deny  financing for
subprojects which, in its opinion, do not comply with the above criteria.
Assurances were obtained from FFDU at negotiations that it would comply with the
above described subproject review arrangements.
6.29     The Bank would closely monitor subproject implementation to ensure that
projects are executed as appraised and that project executing agencies are
complying with the provisions of the project agreement with FFDU. This review
would be selective and primarily directed towards problem projects identified in
FFDU's semi-annual progress reports. Assurances would be obtained from BCH/FFDU
at negotiations that it would suspend disbursements and, in extreme cases,
cancel loans to beneficiaries who are in prolonged incompliance with important
provisions of the on-lending documents.    The  Bank  would reserve the right to
suspend disbursements for subprojects which, in its opinion, are not complying
with important provisions of subproject agreements.
Procurement
6.30     Procurement  would  be  carried  out  by  subproject executing agencies
under the control  of  FFDU.    Although  these  agencies  would group contracts
together to the extent practical, the relatively small size of subprojects and
the distribution of subprojects all over the country would result in mostly
small civil works contracts.    Therefore,  with  the  exception  of a few large
contracts for treatment plant construction or large transmission mains, foreign
contractors are not expected to be attracted to participate in the bidding for
civil works. Contracts for most equipment (pumps, vehicles, water meters, plant
equipment, instruments, electrical equipment) are expected to be won by foreign
manufacturers, while those for pipes and accessories are likely to be awarded to



- 36 -
local firms. Qualifying domestic suppliers of goods would be given a preference
of 15Z of the c.i.f. bid price under International Competitive Bidding (ICB)
procedures.
6.31     Civil works contracts larger  than  US$2.0 million equivalent and goods
contracts, including those let under institutional development programs larger
than US$300,000 equivalent would be procured through ICB. Local procedures,
reviewed and accepted by the Bank, would be used to award contracts with
estimated costs below these livits.   For the procurement of goods, Local Compe-
titive Bidding (LCB) acceptable to the Bank would be employed for contracts
between US$20,000 and US$300,000 and local shopping based on price quotations
from at least three local bidders for contracts for less than IrS$20,000. For
civil works, contracts between US$200,000 and US$2.0 million would be awarded
through LCB and contracts below US$200,000 would be awarded on bids requested
from at least three  qualified  local  contractors.    Under the above described
procurement arrangements, contracts for about 44Z of total project cost would be
awarded through ICB. Consultant services would be contracted in accordance with
Bank guidelines. Table 6.3 presents a summary of project cost by procurement
method.
Table 6.3
Project Cost by Procurement Method
(US$ million)
Project Element            <--------Procurement ilethod------->
ICB             LCB        Other          Total
- -----------US$ million------------
Equipment, Materials           140.0            72.0       20.0a/         232.0
(49.0)          (25.2)     (7.0)           (81.2)
Civil Works                     46.0            88.0       20.0a/         154.0
(16.2)          (30.8)     (7.0)          (54.0)
Consulting Services              -                         45.0bI/c        45.0
_               -       (12.8)           (12.8)
Training                         -               -          4.0             4.0
-               -        (2.0)            (2.0)
Total                        186.0           160.0      89.0            435.0
(65.2)          (56.0)    (28.8)       (150.0)
NOTE:  Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by the Bank.
a/     Local shopping.
b/     Proposals from short-list of consultants.
c/     Includes amounts for items financed  by  FONADE (about US$14 million) and
procured under its own procedures.



- 37 _
6.32     Subborrowers would use standard  bidding  documents  based on the model
documents published by the Bank.    The  limits  for prior review of procurement
documentation  (bidding  documents,  proposed   award,  contract)  by  the  Bank
(US$300,000 equivalent for equipment/materials contracts and US$2.0 million
equivalent for civil works contracts) would result in a coverage of about 60? of
the total estimated value of goods contracts and about 30? of civil works
contracts. Procurement documentation for contracts below the above limits would
be subject to selective ex-post review, except for the first three LCB contracts
for the acquisition of goods and civil works for which all procurement
documentation would  be  subject  to  prior  review.    Documentation  for these
contracts would not be submitted to the Bank, but would be retained by BCH/FFDU
for periodic inspection by Bank staff. Limits on type of procurement and review
thresholds and the distribution of project cost by Procurement methods are
presented in Annex 15. BCH/FFDU agreed at negotiations that it would adhere to
the Procurement arrangements described above and that it would use exclusively
the standard bidding documents satisfactory to the Bank.
Disbursements
6.33     The Government and FFDU intend to  make a determined effort to complete
the Project by the end of 1992, as indicated in the Project investment schedule
(Annex 9). Meeting this deadline appears feasible barring the occurrence of
unforeseen events.    Previous  experience  with  sector  projects  in Colombia,
however, points to the likelihood of delays in project execution. Therefore the
disbursement schedule of the Bank loan (Annex 15) has been set at 6.5 years
reflecting IBRD standard disbursement profiles for past sector projects. The
closing date of the project would be December 31, 1994.
6.34     For the financing  of  subprojects  covered  under  Component  A of the
Project, BCH/FFDU would continue its practice of rediscounting its loans through
public or fiaancial institutions as intermediaries (para. 5.09). These interme-
diaries would disburse funds to subproject executing agencies and cofinancing
agencies: (a) for eligible subprojects, i.e. subprojects accepted by the Bank
in accordance with established review procedures (para. 6.28); and (b) against
e_igible expenditures, i.e. contracts for goods and services procured in accor-
dance with procurement arrangements agreed to with the Bank (paras. 6.30-6.32).
On a Project wide basis, total loan funds disbursed by financial intermediaries
would amount to about 75Z of total cost for Component A (para. 6.09). On
average, about 15? of the disbursed funds (about 11% of total component cost)
would be provided from an intermediary's own resources and the remaining 85Z
(64? of total component cost) would be funds provided by BCH/FFDU for
rediscount. The Bank would disburse to BCH/FFDU 552 of the rediscounted amounts
so as to finance 352 of the total cost of Component A (para. 6.09'. For
Components B of the Project (para. 6.05), the Bank loan would finance 50Z of
expenditures for consulting services, training and the acquisition of equipment
and 100? of expenditures for Components C and D.
6.35     To facilitate the  disbursement  of  the  Bank  loan, BCH/FFDU would be
given access to a US$ denominated Special Account opened in Colombia's Central
Bank. The Special Account would be limited to a ceiling of US$15 million, the
maximum quarterly Bank  disbursement. expected.    The  Bank would replenish the
Special  Account   against   disbursements   made   by   BCH/FFDU  to  financial
intermediaries for expenditures related to specific eligible contracts. For
contracts with a total cost of less than US$200,000 equivalent for goods and



- 38 -
less than US$500,000 equivalent for civil works disbursements would be made on
the basis  of  Statement  of  Expenditurec.    All  procurement and disbursement
documentation for these contracts would be retained by BCH/FFDU for selective
review by Bank staff during Project supervision. These records would be audited
during  FFDU's  annual  audit.    Assurances  were  obtained  from  BCH/FFDU  at
negotiations  that  it  would   adhere   to  the  above  described  disbursement
arrangements and record keeping obligations.
Environmental Aspects
6.36     While the provision  of  sewerage  services  will improve environmental
conditions in project areas, the extension of water supply and sewerage services
might increase the pollution load on receiving waters downstream of project
beneficiary communities. The effect on water quality will vary widely depending
on local conditions such as the additional flow of sewage resulting from the
project and the pre-project state of degradation and assimilative capacity of
receiving water bodies.    For  most  projects,  the  effects of the incremental
sewage flow on existing water quality conditions is expected to be small; for
others, they may lead to a significant deterioration. The preparatory work for
each project under the SRP credit policy would require an analysis of the
effects of the project on water quality in the receiving water and specific
recommendations on how to deal with them (para. 4.31). This analysis and the
recommendations would be reviewed jointly by the subproject beneficiary and FFDU
to determine the most appropriate course of action to alleviate receiving water
degradation. In cases where serious pollution impacts are expected, the Bank
would be consulted on the  measures  proposed.    As a matter of policy, project
beneficiaries would be encouraged to construct sewage treatment facilities
wherever feasible and desirable.    The  financing  of  such facilities would be
eligible under the Project. Considering the incipient stage of sewage treatment
in Colombia and the financial weakness of most of the project beneficiaries,
however, the treatment of sewage would be made mandatory only in those cases
where the additional pollution load resulting from the project would lead to a
clearly unacceptable deterioration in receiving water quality, ir.terfere with
the beneficial use of water downstream, or affect international waters. With
these safeguards, adverse environmental effects arising from the project are
expected to be negligible.
Project Benefits and Justification
6.37     The proposed project would directly benefit some 3.2 million people who
would receive water and/or sewerage  connections.    The great majority of these
beneficiaries would belong to the poor segment of the country's population. In
addition, the rehabilitation and operational improvement to existing facilities
would provide better and safer services to an unknown, but appreciable number of
people. The project investments would also contribute significantly to improved
public health and the standard of living among the population receiving services
under the Project. The implementation of the SRP supported under the proposed
loan would bring significant benefits to the country's economy through sector-
internal savings brought by:    rationalization of sector investments; execution
of more cost-efficient projects with lower per capita investment costs;
improvements in the operational and administrative efficiency of eerating
companies; application of more adequate cost recovery policies; and human
resources development. Economic benefits derived from individual water supply
and  subprojects  are  difficult  to   quantify  rea,istically.    However,  the



- 39 -
requirement that sewerage subprojects shouild yield a minimum Internal Rate of
Return (IRR) of 102 should ensure that their Economic Rate of Return would be
close to the opportunity cost  of  capital  in  Colombia.   The Economic Rate of
Return would be significantly higher, since the IRR does not capture additional
social benefits and consumer surplus associated with the provision of a reliable
and safe water supply and sewerage service.
Risks
6.38     The reform of sectoral  institutions  and  policies being undertaken by
the Government is an ambitious and complex task and its successful implementa-
tion will require a sustained effort by the Government in the years ahead.
Although one of the most crucial reforms under the SRP, institutional reorgani-
zation, is already being implemented under Decree 77, the following main risks
remain: (a) inadequate levels of counterpart funds caused by Government delays
in disbursing contributions to BCH/FFDIJ or inability of FFDU/BCH to raise
sufficient funds from domestic sources; (b) delays in subproject preparation,
evaluation and execution because of insufficient operating capacity of FFDU; (c)
FFDU being forced to relax subproject conditionality, particularly in the tariff
area, because of political pressure from central and local governments; (d)
provision of concessionary and unconditional financing for sector investments by
the Government through channels other than BCH/FFDU; and (e) reluctance of muni-
cipalities to join autonomous departmental and regional companies and cofinance
sector projects.
6.39     Although the conditionality contains  remedies  and plans of actions to
address these risks (annual review of investment program and of overall program
performance, plan of action for FFDU strengthening, agreed to subproject
financing and lending policies), the Government's and FFDU's determination to
make the SRP work is the most important safeguard against these risks.
Intensive Bank supervision of the project and decisive action in case of
unsatisfactory performance by the Government, BCHiFFDU and subborrowers are
essential to safeguard against the above-mentioned risks. In this regard, the
annual program assessment (para. 6.26) would play a key role in detecting
shortcomings and in putting the Program back on track. Likewise, the review by
the Bank of individual subprojects (para. 6.28) would provide the opportunity to
reject subprojects which do not meet the SRP eligibility criteria. Considering,
however, the magnitude of the policy changes introduced under the SRP, the
complexity of the tasks being assumed by FFDU and likely political resistance
against some of the conditionality promoting the efficiency uf operating
companies (tariff aujustments, reduction of employment, for example) it is
likely that not all of the objectives of the SRP will be fully met. Also some
subborrowers most likely will fail to reach acceptable institutional and
financial improvement targets and some projects will be poorly executed. Even
so the Project   would  contribute  significantly  to  the development of a more
efficient sectoral institutional and policy framework and a better performance
of operating companies. As the proposed project is breaking new ground, it is
essential that the Government and the Bank monitor carefully its implementation
and, if necessary, not  hesitate    to  make  adjustments to the reform process.
Further, since the project is viewed as a first in a series of operations
designed to promote sector efficiency, follow-up operations would provide the
opportunity to take into account lessons learned from the first operation.



_40-
6.40     Another risk is related to  the  potential creation of the Territorioal
Development Bank (TDB) proposed by the Government (para. 5.18). The creation of
this TDB would alter the intermediary arrangements for the Project. The
transfer of the Loan from BCH/FFDU to TDB would require a reappraisal of the
current intermediary arrangements once TDB has been legally established,
capitalized and staffed. Even under the best of circumstances, i.e. the Bank
encounters the TDB as an acceptable intermediary for the Project and would
decide positively on the transfer of the loan, delays in Project execution
wcould be inevitable. Faced with the option of either going ahead with the
Project with BCH/FFDU as Borrower and intermediary, or waiting for the possible
creation of TDB, the Bank decided to choose the first option, given the
considerable uncertainty still surrounding the creation of TDB.
VII. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01     During negotiations, assurances were  obtained from the Government that
it would:
(a)  budget and disburse in a timely fashion the contributions required
for the execution of the Project (para. 6.10);
(b)  cause BCH/FFDU, through appropriate actions of its Monetary Board,
to maintain aggregate interest rates sufficient to cover the cost
of domestic and external resources and FFDU's administrative
expenses and maintain interest rates for the softer loan window
portion in real terms (para. 6.11);
(c)  cause DNP to  update  annually  the  Sector Investment Program and
Financing Plan in terms satisfactory to the Bank (para. 6.15);
(d)  cause future sector investments to  be made in accordance with the
objectives and policies established in the Government's policy
letter (para. 6.16);
(e)  cause MOPT to develop  DWSS  into  a  functional  unit by June 30,
1989, and carry out Component C of the Project in accordance with
a plan of action to be submitted to the Bank by March 31, 1989
(para. 6.18); and
(f)  cause JNT to: (i) carry out a prior review of subproject proposals
and to authorize tariff adjustments required to ensure the
financial viability of the subproject and the executing entity;
and (ii) present to the Bank by no later than July 1, 1989, a
study  on   appropriate   consumption   limits   for  the  minimum
consumption bracket (para. 6.20);
(g)  carry out  the  reform  of  sector  institutions  as  presented in
Decrees 77 of January 15, 1987, and 1723 of September 4, 1987
(para. 6.21);
(h)  cause DNP to  establish  a  sector  monitoring  system and publish
annually,  beginning  at  the  end   of  1989,  a  report  on  the
performance of water and sewerage utilities (para. 6.22); and



- 41 -
(i)  carry out jointly with the  Bank  an  annual review of the Project
and SRP Program and execute  to  the  satisfaction of the Bank the
plans of action agreed to during the Annual Program Review (para.
6.26)
7.02     During negotiations, assurances were obtained from BCH/FFDU that it would:
(a) not finance subprojects interfering with ongoing projects partly
financed by loans from the Bank or other external financial
institutions (para. 6.06);
(b)  maintain  interest  rates  sufficient  to  cover  BCH's  cost  for
obtaining domestic and external resources and administrative
expenses (para. 6.11);
(c) employ on-lending legal agreements satisfactory to the Bank (para
6.12);
(d) reflect the conditions and criteria of the Sector Lending Policy
in an Operating Manual Statement and apply them in the evaluation
of all water supply and sewerage projects (para. 6.16);
(e)  carry out the institutional strengthening plan (Component B of the
Project) in accordance with the plan of action and time table
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 6.17);
(f) maintain and, if necessary, add staff sufficient in number and
with appropriate skills and experience to carry out Component A of
the Project in a timely and expeditious manner (para. 6.17);
(g) cause CENAGUAS to become fully functional by March 31, 1989 and to
carry out Component D of the Project in accordance with a plan of
action to be submitted to the Bank by March 31, 1989 (para. 6.19);
(h) present to the Bank semi-annual progress reports (para. 6.25);
(i) execute, to the satisfaction of the Bank, the plans of action
agreed to during the Annual Program Assessment (para. 6.26);
(j) maintain separate accounts for FFDU and present audit reports of
BCH/FFDU's financial statements to the Bank (para. 6.27);
(k)  cause  subproject  executing  entities  to  carry  out  audits  of
financial  statements  and   subproject   accounts   in  a  manner
satisfactory to the Bank and present to the Bank, by no later than
June 30 of each year, a report on the results of such audits
(para. 6.27);
(1) adhere to agreed arrangements for the Bank review of subprojects
(para. 6.28);
(m)  suspend  disbursements   for   subborrowers   not  complying  with
important provisions of a subproject agreement (para. 6.29); and



- 42 -
(n) use standard bidding documents satisfactory to the Bank for
'.nternational and local bidding for the acquisition of goods and
contracting civil works (para. 6.32).
7.03     The  presentation  of  an  agreement  between  BCH  and  the Government
regarding the foreign exchange risk would be a condition for the signing of the
legal documents (para. 6.11).
7.04     The following would  be  specific  conditions  of effectiveness for the
Bank loan:
(a) conclusion of an agreement between FONADE and BCH/FFDU on the
financing of preinvestment studies (para. 6.10);
(b) presentation of standard on-lending legal agreements (para. 6.12);
(c) presentation and implementation by FFDU of an Operating Manual
statement satisfactory to the Bank (para 6.16);
(d) conclusion of an agreement between BCHIFFDU and MOPT regarding the
execution and financing of Component C of the Project (para.
6.13); and
(e) conclusion of an agreement between BCH/FFDU and CENAGUAS regarding
the execution and financing of Component D of the Project (para.
6.13).
7.05     Retroactive financing totalling US$6  million  for purchases, works and
services procured in accordance with Bank guidelines for eligible projects after
November 1, 1987 would be allowed.
7.06     With the  above  assurances,  agreements  and  conditions, the proposed
project would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$150 million to be repaid over a
period of 17 years, including five years of grace.



- 43 -
Annex 1
Page 1 of 7
COLOMBIA
Water Supply and Sewerage Sector Project
Sector Policy Letterl
Republic of Colombia
National Planning Department
Executive Office
Bogot&, D. E., May 5, 1988
Mr. Barber Conable
President
World Bank
Washington, D.C., USA
Dear Mr. Conable,
The Government of Colombia would like to apply for a loan from the World
Bank for assistance in the execution of an Adjustment Program for the Water
Supply and Basic Sanitation Sector (SRP) in support of the Government's
socio-economic development plan and its efforts to eradicate absolute
poverty.
The SRP Program seeks to increase the coverage of water supply and sewerage
services in medium-size and small cities and rural communities of the
country, thereby contributing to a reduction in the incidents of morbidity
and mortality caused by diseases related to contaminated water.
The Government, through Decree-Law (Decreto-Ley) 077 of 1987 and regulatory
decrees (Decretos Reglametarios) 1024 and 1723 of 1987 and 4503 of 1988
concerning the political, fiscal, administrative and technical
decentralization, defines and establishes duties and responsibilities for
the various entities affected by the decentralization process.
1/  Translated from the original Spanish version.



- 44 -
Annex 1
Page 2 of 7
Decree-Law 077 of 1987, transfers the responsibility for providing water
supply and sewerage services to the municipalities, orders the abolishment
of INSFOPAL and forces INSFOPAL to transfer to municipalities the ownership
it may have in the Public Sanitary Works Companies (EMPOS), in Water Supply
and Sewerage Associations (ACUAS) and in any other public service
companies. Decree-Law 077 also abolishes the Division for Basic Rural
Sanitation of the National Institute of Health and its branch offices.
Likewise, Decree-Law 077 of 1987 proposes the creation of a Directorate of
Water Supply and Basic Rural Sanitation within the Ministry of Publ'c Works
and Transport (MOPT) which will have among others, the following functions:
(i) To prepare and propose plans and general programs regarding water
supply and basic sanitation;
(ii) To issue technical guidelines regarding the design, construccion,
operation and maintenance of water supply and sanitation sy'tems;
(iii) To promote the implementation of the National Program for Basic
Sanitation for rural and small urban communities through
mechanisms of community participation and direct service
administration; and
(iv) To prepare a nation-wide physical inventory and diagnosis of the
water supply and sanitation conditions in the country.
With the financial resources being made available under the SRP and the
technical assistance to be provided, the Government expects to strengthen
the financial technical and administrative capacity of the entities in
charge of providing water supply and sewerage services.
1.       SPR Objectives
The objectives of the Adjustment Program for the Water Supply and Basic
Sanitation Sector are the following:
(a) To increase coverage of water supply and sewerage services through
the execution of an investment program of US$600 million divided
in two phases: One of US$450 million, part of which is to be
financed by the US$150 million loan requested from the World Bank;
and the other for US$150 million for the execution of a future
program. Annex 1 presents the projected investment program for
1988-1992.2
2/ Presented as Attachments 1-10 in Annex 4.



- 45 -
Annex 1
Page 3 of 7
(b) To reorganize the institutional structure of the Water Supply and
Basic Sanitation Sector in accordance with the afore-mentioned
administrative decentralization process in order to achieve the
strengthening and development of the project executing agencies.
(c) To develop means and programs to ensure the execution of
technically viable and more cost-efficient investment projects.
(d)  To implement a sector financial policy by:  (i) promoting a
stronger internal resource generation by service operating
entities; (ii) regulating subsidies to the sector from national,
regional and local sources; and (iii) financing sector projects
through a financial intermediary mechanism based on the rediscount
of domestic credits.
(e) To develop planning and monitoring mechanisms and training of
human resources in the Sector.
2.       The Project
The execution of the SRP program begins in 1988 with a first phase
investment project of US$450 million, including the IBRD loan for US$150
million.
The Project's objective is to increase the coverage of water
supply services from 57.32 to 62.0% and of sewerage services from 44% to
49Z in the 1988-1992 period.
Financial resources for the Project will be transferred through
credits at interest rates established by the Monetary Board.
3.       Executing Agency
Financial resources for the development of the water supply and
sewerage sector will be channeled through the Department for Regional and
Urban Development of the Central Mortgage Bank (Financial Fund for Urban
Development, FFDU). The specific criteria and conditions for granting
credits will be defined within a policy framework established by the
Government in this document.
To strengthen the financing mechanism to support the
decentralization process, the Government presented at the end of last year
to Congress a proposed law for the creation of a Territorial Development
Bank (TDB) linked to the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit which would
be an autonomous entity in order to guarantee its financial and
administrative independence.



- 46 -
Annex 1
Page 4 of 7
The new entity would have the authority to capture savings,
contract external credit and to channel resources from the National Budget
to finance the development of public service infrastructure and other
productive activ;ties undertaken by departments and municipalities their
decentralized entities and community action committees. It will also offer
technical assistance to institutions responsible for the provision of
public services.
If this initiative is approved by Congress, BCH will transfer to
this entity all the assets and liabilities of FFDU and the credit resources
contracted by BCH/FFDU.
4.       Institutional Framework
(a) Urban Areas
As a general principle, the Government has adopted the
autonomous public utility scheme as the most appropriate
instrument to promote water supply and sewerage services in
urban areas. Therefore, one of the most important objectives
of the SRP is the establishment of operationally efficient
and financially viable water supply and sewerage entities on
the municipal, departmental, intendencial, commissariat and
regional levels.
To be eligible for a SRP ciedit, an executing agency must:
(i) have administrative and financial autonomy; and (ii) be
technically and financially able to ensure the efficient
operation of the services under its responsibility.
(b) Rural Areas (communities with less than 12,000 inhabitants)
The execution of projects and the operation of water supply
services in communities with less than 12,000 inhabitants
will be implemented in accordance with the procedures and
criteria established by the National Program of Basic Rural
Sanitation. The Government will promote the creation of
sectoral entities for the administration and execution of
this Program.
5.       Institutional Strengthening
To ensure the efficient execution of the SRP, project executing
entities must commit themselves to the execution of programs to strengthen
their operational, technical, administrative, accounting and financial
systems.



- 47 _
Annex 1
Page 5 of 7
6.       Financing and Tariff Policy
As a general principle, the Government will encourage that
operating and investment costs are recovered from the internal generation
of resources by the entities in charge of providing public services.
However, given the financial, operational and administrative weakness of
the sector companies, especially those serving communities with low socio-
economic indicators, the Government considers it essential, as a means to
boost and overcome their backward condition, to supplement the internally
generated resources with limited transfers mostly from the resources that
the decentralization laws have made available to municipalities and regions
to facilitate their development. The expected results of the SRP Program
will, in the future permit the elimination of the need for transfers to
finance the sector expansion.
The Government wishes to highlight the recent progress achieved in
the tariff area, which includes:
(a) the adoption of a single tariff structure for water supply
and sewerage services which discourages excessive consumption
of water and relates the cost of providirg services to the
users' capacity to pay (Decree 394 of 1987).
(b)  Monthly indexation of tariffs to protect their value againsw.
inflationary effects. In addition to these monthly
adjustments there will also be discrete tariff adjustments in
order to allow companies to gradually reach the tariff and
financial targets required to assure the viability of the
project.
(c) Issue of tariff resolutions for most of the sector companies,
to maintain an adequate tariff level in accordance with the
ccst of providing service.
To ensure the stability of the tariff system and financial
viability of investment projects, the Government has adopted the policy
that the National Tariff Board will work in close coordination with the
executing agency of the SRP. Therefore, the approval of credits will be
subject to a favorable recommendation from JNT on required tariff
adjustments and their timely implementation by the executing agencies.



- 48 -
Annex 1
Page 6 of 7
7.       Cross Subsidies
In order to avoid the practice by which revenues generated from
water supply and sewerage services subsidize other services provided by the
same entity, such operating entities should seek that these services be
self-financing, that is, revenues should be sufficient to cover at least
operating costs. Likewise, there should be separate accounts for each
service.
8.       Payment to Other Public Entities
By means of the SRP, the financial strengthening of water supply
and sewerage companies will be sought in order to allow the timely payment
of other public entities, especially to the electricity sector.
9.       Administrative Stability
To ensure continuity in project execution, the SRP will promote
and support the administrative and managerial stability of sector entities,
through the development of adequate procedures and training of human
resources.
10.      Technical Improvement
Being conscious of the need to review and update existing norms
and guidelines for formulation of investment projects, the Government has
decided to create for such purpose the Directorate of Water Supply and
Basic Sanitation within the Ministry of Public Works and Transport.
11.      Training
Given the great need for training of Sector personnel, the
j           Covernment will support ACODAL's initiatives to improve, expand and develop
training programs for promoting a more efficient operation of sector
entities in technical administrative, managerial and finaacial areas.



- 49 -
Annex 1
Page 7 of 7
12.      Project Eligibility
A project will be eligible for SPR financing only if it is
technically viable, the least cost solution, institutionally acceptable,
financially viable and economically justified.
Yours truly,
Maria Merceds de Martinez
Chief, National Planning Department



- 50 -                 Annex 2
Page 1 of 4
COLOMBIA
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR PROJECT
Sector Organization
Introduction
1.       The following contrasts the  sector's  institutional  set up before and
after the reorganization defined by  Decree  77  of 1987.  The main institutions
are introduced and their functions described.
Pre-Reorganization Institutional Set-up
2.       Global Planning - is the  domain  of  the country's Concelo Nacional de
Politica Econ6mica y Social (CONPES), which is comprised of the President of the
Republic, the ministers of the economic and social sectors and the Director of
the National  Planning  Department  (DNP).    CONPES  decides  on  the country's
National Development Plan which is prepared by DNP.
3.       Sector Planning  -  The  National  Health  Plan,  part  of the National
Development Plan, includes the Water Supply and Sanitation Development Plan
which is prepared by the Ministry of Health (MOH) through its Directorate of
Environmental  Sanitation  (DISA).    Coordination  between  sector  and  global
planning is done between DISA of MOH and the Division of Sanitary Engineering
(DSE) in the Infrastructure Unit (UNIF) of DNP.
4.       National  Level  Sector  Management   is   the  responsibility  of  two
institutions:
(a) the National Institute for Urban Development (INSFOPAL) for urban
areas (communities with more than 2500 population); and
(b)  the  National  Institute   of   Health   (INS)   for  rural  areas
(communities below 2500 population) through its Division of Basic
Rural Sanitation (DBRS).
5.       INSFOPAL, an autonomous institution linked to MOH, has the functions of
detailed sector planning, financing of investment projects, providing technical
assistance to operating companies, setting and controlling technical norms,
carrying out research and coordinating sector training and development programs.
It acts as financial intermediary for  Government funds channelled to the sector
and has executed several projects financed by external lenders.  Among them were
three Bank loans (860-CO, 1072-CO and 1726-CO) for a total of US$67.1 million
which supported 36 subprojects in 30 different cities and towns.
6.       DBRS  of  INS,  another  autonomous   institution  linked  to  MOH,  is
responsible for the promotion and execution of water supply projects in rural
communities with less than  2500  population.    Rural water supply projects are
carried out under the National Program of Basic Rural Sanitation (NPBRS)
Methodology (Annex 3) which, with its reliance on community ownership and
participation has been an effective vehicle for promoting rural water supply.



- 51 -
Annex 2
Page 2 of 4
The NPBRS is centrally administered by DBRS at INS headquarters in Bogota which
counts on several regional offices strategically distributed throughout the
country. In three departments (Antioquia, Valle, Cauca), the responsibility for
administering the NPBRS has been delegated to departmental health services. The
NPBRS is financed primarily from Government contributions, external loan funds
and contributions from beneficiary communities.    The Bank has financed several
small rural water supply components (about US$20 million of total loan funds) in
various Integrated Rural Development and Health and Nutrition Projects.
7.       Service Operating Institutions.    There  are  five  different types of
institutional set ups for the management and operation of water and sewerage
services. They are:
(a)  Municipal Public Works  Companies  (Empresas P6blicas Municipales,
EPMs),  which  manage  services   in   the  country's  35  largest
municipalities  and  cover  about   412  of  the  country's  total
population. EPMS are autonomous municipal enterprises governed by
a Board usually headed by the Mayor and civic, political and
professional community  representatives.    In  addition  to water
supply   and   sewerage,   EPMs   offer   often   other  municipal
infrastructure  services  such  as   solid  waste  collection  and
disposal,   telephones,    electricity,    public    markets   and
slaughterhouses. To finance investment projects, EPMs depend on
their own internal generation of funds, contributions by the local
and national government, and credit from INSFOPAL and lately from
FFDU/BCH.  Some of them  (Bogota, Cali, Barranquilla, Cdcuta) have
borrowed directly from the Bank.
(b)  Sanitation Works Companies  (Empresas  de Obras Sanitarias, EMPOS)
manage service in some 460 mostly smaller municipalities covering
about 162 of the country's population. There are 23 departmental
EMPOS which provide service in a number of different communities
and 11 municipal EMPOS which operate services in one municipality
only. The EMPOS were created in 1975 as successors of INSFOPAL's
regional offices. INSFOPAL still owns more that 902 of the EMPOS'
capital and holds considerable power over their management.
(c) Water Supply and Sewerage Corporations (Sociedades de Acueducto y
Alcantarillado,  ACUAS)  operate  in   the  departments  of  Valle
(ACUAVALLE)   and   Antioquia    (ACUANTIOQUIA),   and   in   four
municipalities. They manage services in about 90 communities
representing 42 of  the  country's  total  population.   ACUAS are
autonomous  corporations  owned   by  departmental  and  municipal
governments. INSFOPAL holds about 302 of the ACUAS' shares and
has little influence over their administration;
(d) Municipal administrations run water supply and sewerage services
in some 460 most small municipalities representing about 52 of the
country's total population.    These  systems  are  managed by the
municipality without any formal ties to other local or national
sector authorities;
(e) Under the NPBRS methodology applied to communities below 2,500
populations, Community Water Committees (Juntas Administradoras)



- 52 -
Annex 2
Page 3 of 4
have the responsibility of maintaining and operating water supply
services. Currently, such committees exist in about 1800 rural
communities representing about 8Z of the total population.
Other Institutions
8.       The Urban Development Fund  (FFDU)  of  the Central Mortgage Bank (BCH)
finances  urban  infrastructure  projects.    Over  the  recent  past,  FFDU has
developed into the most important and efficient lender for water supply and
sewerage projects in the country and has replaced INSFOPAL not only as major
financier of the sector, but also as its intellectual leader. The focus of its
lending is multisectorial and concentrated on assistlag municipalities in
improving their infrastructure.   It  derives  its  funds from Government loans,
external credit and the mobilization of domestic resources from local capital
markets.
9.       The Government's  National  Tariff  Board  (Junta  Nacional de Tarifas,
JNT), administratively linked to DNP, has control over rates charged for public
services, including  water  supply  and  sewerage.    Any  tariff adjustments by
operating companies require the approval of JNT.
10.      The National Fund for Development Projects (Fondo Nacional de Proyectos
de  Desarrollo,  FONADE)  is  the   country's   main  source  of  financing  for
preinvestment  studies.    Sector  companies  rely  mostly  on  this  source for
obtaining financing for the preparation of projects.
Post Reorganization Institutional Set-up
11.      Decree 77 of  1987  has  introduced  sweeping  changes  to the Sector's
institutional set up. They are described below:
12.      Global Planning continues to be the responsibility of CONPES and DNP.
13.      Sector Planning and Management.   The  overall management of the sector
has been reassigned from the Ministry of Health to the Ministry of Public Works
and Transport (MOPT). The two sector lead institutions, INSFOPAL and DBRS of
INS, are to be abolished by the end of January 1989. They are replaced by:
(e.)  a Directorate of Water  Supply  and Basic Sanitation (Direcci6n de
Agua Potable y Saneamiento Basico, DWSS) to be established in
MOPT. DWSS takes over INSFOPAL's technical functions and assumes
the  administration  of  the  National  Program  for  Basic  Rural
Sanitation previously managed  by  DBRS  of  INS.   In contrast to
INSFOPAL,  DWSS  does   not   have  any  financial  intermediation
authority. The NPBRS Program (Annex 3) becomes applicable to
communities with a population of up to 12000, compared to a 2500
population limit prior to the reorganization; and
(b) FFDU of BCH being designated as the principal intermediary for the
financing of sector investments.   Under a lending policy approved
by the Government, FFDU has responsibility for all project cycle
tasks including the identification, assistance in the preparation,
evaluation and supervision of sector projects. FFDU obtains funds
for financing sector projects from Government loans, external
loan, and the mobilization of domestic resources through the sale
of bonds by BCH.   Interest  rates  charoed hy BCH/FFDT1 nrp Sat hV



- 53 -
Annex 2
Page 4 of 4
the Country's Monetary Board (Junta Monetaria) such that they
cover FFDU's c)st of funds and administrative costs.
14.      Service Operating Institutions.   Decree  77 of 1987 abolishes INSFOPAL
and DBRS of INS and their local dependencies, EMPOS and DBRS' regional offices,
and delegates the responsibility for the operation of water supply and sewerage
services to individual municipalities.    This  decision  is consistent with the
Government's administrative and political decentralization policy under which
municipalities are to assume more responsibility for the management of their
affairs, including the expansion and operation of water supply and sewerage
systems. The provisions of Decree 77 will alter substantially the institutional
framework for the management and operation of water supply and sewerage systems.
While EPMs, ACUAS anc local water  committees in rural communities will continue
to exist unchanged, new organizational structures must emerge to replace
INSFOPAL's EMPOS system and the regional offices of DBRS in charge of promoting
and executing rural water supply  projects.    Decree  77 of 1987 prescribes the
following organizational structures among which municipalities can chose to
organize the management of their water and sewerage system:
(a)  service delivery directly by the municipality;
(b)  municipal or departmental companies;
(c)  regional   entities    formed    through    the   association   of
municipalities;
(d)  service delivery under contract  with  national, regional or local
entities; and
(e) local water committees in communities with a population of up to
12,000.
15.      The redifinition of the  institutional  framework which departments and
municipalities must complete by the end of January 1989 presents a unique
opportunity to create more viable and efficient local sector institutions, but
also carries the danger of the creation of an unmanageable large number of
independent operating entities too small to efficiently run water supply and
sewerage operations. From an efficiency point of view, it is important that
small  municipalities  join  together  to   form  regional  water  companies  of
sufficient size to be financially and operationally viable. Allowing small
municipalities to manage water supply and sewerage services individually would
lead to a highly undesireable proliferation of excessively small operating
units, thereby loosing the advantages of economies of scale inherent in the
management and operation of water  supply  and  sewerage services.  To avoid the
over-decentralization of sector operations, the SRP Credit Policy provides
conditions and incentives aimed at encouraging departmental and municipal
governments  to  establish   operationally   efficient  and  financially  viable
autonomous departmental or regional water and sewerage utilities.
16.      Regarding the continued  execution  of  the  NPBRS  for promoting rural
water supply, it is imperative that departmental governments create and maintain
viable administrative units capable of executing NPBRS efficiently with the
assistance and under the control of DWSS of MOPT. The most advantageous way of
preserving and strengthening the NPBRS would be to establish such units either
in the Departmental Health Services (as already done in Valle, Cauca and
Afnt 4 nnii il .



- 54 -                      Annex  3
Page 1 of 4
COLOMBIA
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR PROJECT
National Program for Basic Rural Sanitation
Introduction
1.       In the mid-1960s the National  Institute  of Health (INS) developed the
National Program for Basic Rural Sanitation (NPBRS) as an effective strategy for
the promotion and execution of water supply projects in rural communities (less
than 2500 population).    INS's  administrative  arm  for  the  execution is its
Division  of  Basic  Rural  Sanitation   (DBRS)  which  prior  to  the  sector's
reorganization employed a total of about 650 staff.  About 1O  of them worked at
DBRS headquarters in Bogota, including some  of the most experienced rural water
supply experts in the Region, and the remaining 90Z of the staff were stationed
in six regional offices distributed strategically throughout the country.
2.       In  spite  of  chronic  budget  problems  and  permanent  struggles for
recognition, DBRS of INS did a remarkable job in fostering the development of
rural water supply in Colombia.   Since  1968  DBRS has been instrumental in the
construction or expansion of some 2000 water systems and has brought or upgraded
water supply services to some 1.6 million people. Reportedly, more than 90Z of
these systems are  still  in  operation.    DBRS's  success  in  using the NPBRS
strategy to promote rural water supply has been recognized by experts outside
Colombia.
NPBRS Strategy
3.       The NPBRS strategy follows five steps in the promotion and execution of
rural water supply systems:
Step I - Study of the Community.    Once a community has expressed the desire to
obtain a water system, a team of DBRS visits the community. A community
organizer prepares a socio- economic-cultural profile of the community and
assesses its attitude towards water supply and sanitation and its willingness
and financial capacity for committing itself to the construction of a water
system. A water supply engineer carries out at the same time a basic survey of
the water resources available to the community and develops a first idea and
preliminary cost estimate of a system appropriate to the needs of the community.
Step I ends with  informing  the  community  of  the  general feasibility of the
project and with an exposition of the need for community participation in the
construction of the water system.
Step II - Preparation of the Project.    In  case of a favorable reaction in the
community to the conclusions of Step I, DBRS engineers or consultants prepare
studies and designs and establish a reliable cost estimate of the project. In
preparing the designs, engineers follow a clearly defined methodology and
format, apply standard design parameters and designs for most system components.
Step III - Motivation and Organization. With the studies and designs available,
DBWS promoters obtain full community support for the project. Audio-visual



- 55 -
Annex 3
Page 2 of 4
presentations stress the advantages of having a good and safe water supply and
explain sanitary practices for water use.   Community leaders are being asked to
lend their support to the  project.    There  are meetings open to all community
members in which the pros and cons of the project and the need for self help are
discussed. At the end of Step III the community, usually represented by the
president  of  the  local  Community  Development  Committee  (Junta  de  Accifn
Comunal), is asked to sign an agreement with DBRS which defines:
(a)  the  portion  of  total  project  cost  which  the  community will
contribute in form of cash, labor, land and/or materials;
(b) the portion of the externally supplied funds supplied through DBRS
which must be repaid and conditions for repayment;
(c)  the responsibility of the  commitnity  to take over the maintenance
and operation of the system once completed;
(d)  the obligation to  elect  from  community  members  a water system
committee  (junta  administradora)   which   would  represent  the
community during the construction of the system and later become
responsible for its operation and maintenance;
(e)  the  estimated  monthly   payment   which  each  household  (cuota
familiar) would be expected to make to meet loan repayment and
maintenance and operating cost.
Step IV - Construction. After the signature of the final agreement between the
community and DBRS, the project is constructed. The community will participate
in the works by supplying materials, providing transportation, making available
land and rights of way, and through labor (pipe laying) under tht guidance of a
local foreman. The construction of more involved facilities (storage tanks,
treatment plants) is usually carried out by a local contractor hired by DBRS or
through force account.   In  some  cases,  the  commun}ity will also provide cash
either  collected  among  themselves  or   made  avail&i',le  by  local  political
authorities. DBRS keeps careful records of all community contributions.
Step V - Maintenance and  Operation.    Once  inagurated, the system becomes the
property of the  community.    The  Water  Committee  has  the responsibility to
administer, operate, and maintain it. The committee consists of three community
members--a President, Vice-President, and a Treasurer and a fourth member
usually a representative of DBRS  (normally the community organizer) who assists
the  committee  in  administrative  matters  and  makes  sure  that  it  follows
established  procedures.    The  Committee  is  responsible  for  keeping books,
collecting the 'cuota familiar', and if necessary, employing personnel for
maintaining the system.  It  also  decides  on  future system extensions and new
connections.
Service Standards
4.       The NPBRS almost exclusively  provides water through house- connections
or yard taps. DBRS explains that the high degree of community participation it
was able to obtain in the past was only possible by offering to the people the
level of service they want and are willing to pay for. And in Colombia, DBRS
asserts, people opt for piped networks with house - or yard- connections in the
vast majority of cases. According to DBRS, lower service standards, for example
stand pipes or hand pumps, do not generate the consumer enthusiasm needed to
make the NPBRS methodology work.



- 56 -
Annex 3
Page 3 of 4
Design Practices
5.       Among the design  parameters  used  by  DBRS  engineers to design rural
water systems, several appear to be excessively high, making the per capita of
constructed systems higher  than  necessary.    Design  periods  of 20 years for
system components which could be constructed in stages (storage tanks, treatment
plants) are too long. Reducing excessive per capita consumption parameters, now
in the 80-150 l/c/d range, would be another way of decreasing system costs.
With regards to the use of low-cost technologies, especially for water treatment
and disinfection, DBRS has not kept up with technology developments. Less
expensive and more easy to operate systems should be introduced.
Cost Recovery and Financing
6.       DBRS requires communities to  share  in  the cost of constructing water
systems as follows:   (a)  on  average,  communities  are required to contribute
about 15Z of total project cost; and (b) of the 85Z provided by the national or
local governments about 40Z, on average, is repaid by the community in 15 years
at 6? interest.   Loan  repayments  enter  into  departmental rural water supply
revolving funds which make available financing for other rural projects aild
loans for maintenance and operation.
Maintenance and Operation of Systems
7.       The community is fully responsible for the maintenance and operation of
the system. DBRS promoters assist and supervise the community's Water System
Committee in this task.   Often,  maintenance  is  not carried out to the extent
required, mainly because of the unavailability of DBRS promoters and the
scarcity of spare parts and materials (disinfectants).
Sanitation
8.       DBRS activities are almost exclusively restricted to water supply.  The
responsibility for promoting and carrying out sanitation programs rests with
departmental health services, which in general do not have the resources and
experience to mount  meaningful  sanitation  campaigns.    For  this reason, the
introduction of low-cost sanitation in Colombia's rural communities has not been
successful.
improvements Needed
9.       The NPBRS methodology has been  a  very effective vehicle for promoting
rural water supply in Colombia. There is agreement in the Government and in the
rural water supply community that the  NPBRS should be maintained as the vehicle
for promoting rural water supply in Colombia.   There is no doubt, however, that
the Program needs to be strengthened to become an even more effective means of
executing  rural  water  supply  projects.    In  particular,  the technological
foundation of NPBRS conceived in the 1960's needs to be updated.   The following
studies and actions should be undertaken:
(a) revision of design parameters and practices and standard designs
to reduce the per capita cost of water systems;
(b) to meet the rural water supply investment targets of the SRP, the
presence of NPBRS should be strengthen throughout the country;



- 57 -
Annex 3
Page 4 of 4
(c) maintenance and operation aspects of the program should be re-
examined with a view of providing communities more assistance and
easier access to materials and spare parts; and
(d) A more responsive institutional infrastructure for the promotion
of low-cost sanitation in rural areas should be created.
NPBRS after the Reorganization
10.      Decree 77 of January 1987  mandates  the  abolishment of DBRS of INS by
January 1989.    It  transfers  overall  responsibility  for  the  NPBRS  to the
Directorate of Water Supply and Basic Sanitation (DWSS) in the Ministry of
Public Works and Transport (MOPT) and gives the operational responsibility for
carrying out the NPBRS  to  individual  municipalities.   This institutional re-
orientation  provides  the  opportunity   for  modernizing  and  increasing  the
efficiency of the NPBRS system. The following specific actions are recommended:
(a) as required by Decree 77, a NPBRS unit should be established in
DWSS of MOPT and staffed with experienced NPBRS personnel. The
main tasks of this unit should  be:   (i) to review and update the
technological  and  institutional  foundation   of  the  NPBRS  as
outlined in para. 9; and (ii) provide assistance to and control
the operation of NPBRS operating units on the departmental level;
(b) strong units capable of efficiently administering the NPBRS should
be established in each department. The most advantag2ous home for
these units would be the Departmental Health Service, which would
allow a better integration of water supply, sanitation and public
health related functions.



-58 -                 Annex 4
Page 1 of 5
COLOMBIA
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SZCTOR PROJECT
1988 - 1992 Sector Investment Program
Introduction
1.       DNP has prepared a  five-year  sector  investment program and financing
plan  covering  1988-1992  which   presents   targets  for  annual  investments,
beneficiaries and service levels by subsector (water, sewerage). A distinction
is made between five categories of municipalities in accordance with their sizes
Category                            Population
I   Large Cities 1/                        >1,000,000
II   Hedium-size Cities            100,000 - 1,000,000
III   Small Cities                     30,00U - 100,000
IV   Towns                             12,000 - 30,000
V   Rural Conunities                          <12,000
1/ Bogota, Cali, Medellin
The target investment levels shown in the Sector Investment Program presented in
the following are an expression of intent as to the level of resources to be
made available to different population segments.   They would govern the process
of  assigning  financial  resources  and  selection  of  projects.    The Sector
Investment Program is the blueprint against which the Bank and the Government
vould measure progress in meeting medium-term sector development objectives.
Population (Attachment 1)
2.       Based  on  the  results  of  the  1985  census,  Attachment  1 presents
population projections through 1992 distinguishing between the above-mentioned
five population groups. The Country's population is projected to grow at about
2.12 per year; from a current 30.6 million to almost 34 million by year-end
1992.
Total Sector Investments 1988 -1992 (Attachment 2)
3.       Total sector investments are expected to reach  US$1,420 million during
the 1988-1992 period.   They  are  divided  into  two  components:  the Existing
Investment Program and the Sector Reform Program (SRP) Investment Program.



- 59 -
Annex 4
Page 2 of 5
4.       The Existing Investment Program (EIP)  of about US$820 million includes
all projects which are already under execution or are already fully prepared and
have financing assured. A detailed description and listing of these projects
are included in the Project File. The most important of them ares
Projected 1988-1992
Project                Financing Source                 Investmnts
(US$ million)
BogotA IV                         IBRD/Local                              260
Medellin, Rio Grande              IDB/Local                               190
Cali-Agitablanca                  Japan's EXIM Bank/IDB/Local             300
Barranquilla                      IBRD/Local                               25
C(cuta                            IBRD/Local                               20
FFDU-Sector                       IDB/FFDU/Local                           40
The EIP has been reviewed  and  found  acceptable  by the Bank during the Public
Expenditure Review of 1987. Almost 902 of the EIP financed investments are in
Colombia's largest three cities (Bogota, Cali, Medellin).
5.       The SRP Investment  Program  includes  additional investments of US$600
million during 1988 - 1992.    In  contrast  to  the  EIP which favors the large
cities, the SRP Investment Program targets the remaining sector segments in
about equal proportions.
The Sector and Public Sector Investment Program.
6.       Table 1 presents sector  investment  levels  within  the context of the
country's overall public investment program.    The  indicators shown in Table 1
express clearly the Government's desire to accelerate the development of the
water and sewerage  sector.    The  sector's  share  of  the total public sector
investment program more than doubles, from 6? in 1987 to 12.7Z in 1990.
Likewise the sector's share of GDP is expected to grow from 0.452 in 1987 to
0.85? in 1990 and reaches investments levels comparable to those in other
middle-income countries where serious attempts are made to provide adequate
water supply and sewerage services to all segments of the population. With
respect to total social infrastructure investments, sector investments become
dominant even more than in the past rising from 40.2? in 1987 to 65.8? in 1990.
Table 1 - Sector and Public Sector Investment Program
1986      1987       1988       1989      i99i
Total Public Sector
Investment Program
(US$ million) a/            2,322      2,533      2,652     2,738      2,761
Social Infrastructure
Investments
(US$ million) a/              322        378        444        537       535
Sector Investments
(US$ million)                 150        152        195        250       352
Z Sector/Total Public Inv.       6.50      6.70       7.30       9.100    12.70
2 Sector/Social Infrastr.       36.70     40.20      43.90      46.60     65.80
2 Sector/GDP                     0.37      0.45       0.54       0.65      0.85
al  From Bank projections in Public Sector Expenditure Review Report dated
September 1, 1987.



- 60 -
Annex 4
Page 3 of 5
Water Supply
7.       Investments (Attachment 3).  About  US$850  million, about 60Z of total
sector investments, support  the  water  supply  subsector.   The composition of
water supply  investments  mirror  those  for  total  sector  investments.   The
existing water supply investment program (about US$492 million) favors the large
cities, while the SRP investments illustrate the Government's increased emphasis
toward medium-size and small cities and towns and rural areas.
8.       Beneficiaries (Attachment 4).  Based on FFDU's experience with previous
projects, the following per capita cost estimates were applied to convert
investments levels to the number of people which will receive services:
-------------------US$/CAPITA-----------------
Type of Service           1988        1989       1990      1991       1992
Urban                  130        134.6     139.3      144.2      149.2
Rural                   80         82.8      85.7       88.7       91.8
The projection of per capita costs  assumes  as 3.52 annual increase, about half
of the projected international inflation  rate.    Real reductions in per capita
costs due to more cost-effective project designs are assumed to offset half of
the  increases  because  of  inflation.    The  per  capita  costs  include  all
expenditures required to the construction of water supply systems; i.e.
equipment,  materials,  civil   works,   taxes,   and  consulting  services  for
supervision of construction and  preinvestment  studies.    The per capita cost-
beneficiary relationship was found to be not applicable to investments in the
large cities. Most of the projects ongoing in the large cities include major
infrastructure components (tunnels, large transmission mains, reservoirs) which
will serve a large number of people to be connected beyond 1992. Therefore,
beneficiaries for large city investments were calculated based on the assumption
that a 96Z service level would be maintained.
9.       The total number of additional  people  to receive water supply, all by
house connection, from the total investment program is estimated at about 3.8
million: 1.3 million from the existing investment program and 2.5 million from
the  SRP  Tnvestment  Program.        SRP  investments  yield  substai1L'a"ly  n'ut
beneficiaries than  the  existing  investments.    This  apparent discrepancy is
explained by the fact that  the  per  capita  cost for rural investments is less
than for urban systems  and  that,  as  mentioned  above, the investments in the
large cities provide benefits to people way beyond 1992.
10.      Service Levels (Attachment  5)        Total  water supply investments are
expected to boost country-wide water supply coverage from a current 57Z to about
63Z. The balancing effect of the SRP investments become apparent by comparing
projected service levels with and without SRP investments. With the Existing
Investment Program alone, overall service levels are projected to decrease from
57.3Z in 1987 to 54.8 in 1992.   The SRP investments would considerably increase
service levels in all sector segments outside of the large cities. Service
levels would increase from 72? to 83Z in medium-size cities; from 63? to 77Z in
small cities; from 52Z to 64? in small towns; and from 27? to 30Z in rural
areas.



- 61 -
Annex 4
Page 4 of 5
Sewerage
11.      Investments (Attachment 6).  About  US$570 million would be invested in
sewerage during 1988-1992.   Again  the  composition of the sewerage investments
mirrors that  of  the  total  'nvestment  program.    Of  the  US$328 million of
investments in the existing investment program, almost 902 are destined for the
country's large cities.    The  US$240  million  sewerage SRP investment program
provides funds primarily to medium-size and small cities and towns.
12.      Beneficiaries (Attachment ;)
The following US$ per capita costs were used to convert investments to
beneficiaries:
1988      1989       1990      1991       1992
120     124.2      128.5     130.0      137.6
As for water supply, per capita costs  are assumed to escalate at 3.52 per year.
The total of beneficiaries of sewerage investments are projected to be 4.4
million; 2.6 million from the existing and 1.8 million from the SRP investment
program.
13.      Service Levels (Attachment 8).   Under the existing investment program,
the main beneficiaries  would  be  people  living  in  the  large cities; there,
service levels are projected to  increase  from  a  current 761 to 91Z.  Service
coverage  in  other  population  segments  actually  would  decline.    The  SRP
investments, in contrast, would result in significant coverage increases in the
intermediate size cities (from 53.9Z in 1987 to 61.8Z in 1992), in the small
cities (from 482 in 1987 to 58.0Z in 1992) and in the small towns (from 35.42 in
1987 to 44.62 in 1992). Coverage in rural areas is not increasing appreciably,
as the construction of conventional sewerage systems in rural areas in most
cases would not be appropriate.
Financing Plan
14.      The 1988-1992 SRP investments would  be financed as follows (Attachment
9):
(a) 25.g9 from cash contributions provided by project executing
entities (132) and local governments (12.9Z); and
(b)  74.12 from BCH/FFDU  loan  financing  coming from external sources
(352),   BCH   domestic    borrowings   (16.5Z),   BCH   financial
intermediaries  (11.OZ)  and   FONADE   (3.3Z)  and  the  National
Government (8.32).
15.      Given the poor financial  position  of  most  water supply and sewerage
companies, the SRP encourages local government to provide equity contributions
to weak companies up to the limits established under the SRP Lending Policy.
Equity contributions come from local government in form of cash contributions
from revenues and borrowings from  BCH/FFDU.   Based on projections of financing
plans by community category, the distribution of financing between operating



- 62 -
Annex 4
Page 5 of 5
companies and local governments is as follows (Attachment 10):
(a) 59.32 from operating entities (132 cash and 46.3Z BCH/FFDU loans);
and
(b)  40.72 from local governments (12.92 cash and 27.9Z BCH/FFDU loans)
in form of equity contributions to operating entities.



- 63 -
Annex 4
Attachment 1
COLOMBIA
WATER SUPPLY AND SEVERAGE SZCTOR PROJECT
Population Projections
Population ('000)
Growth
Populationa/  Rate 1       1987    1988    1989    1990    1991        1992
CAT. I           2.5       8,316   8,524   8,737   8,900   9,180    9,409
CAT. II          2.5       5,155   5,284   5,416   5,551   5,690    5,832
CAT. III         2.5       2,048   2,099   2,152   2,206   2,261    2,317
CAT. IV          3.0       2,085   2,148   2,212   2,279   2,347    2,418
CAT. V           1.5      12,991  13,186  13,384  13,584  13,788   13,995
TOTAL         2.1       30,597  31,243  31,903  32,578  33,268   33,973
SOURCE: Departamento Nacional de Planeaci6n, based on 1985 census results.
a/  Category I   - Large cities: Bogota, Cali, Medellin.
Category II  - Medium-size cities 100,000 - 1,000,000
Category III - Cities 30,000 - 100,000
Category IV  - Towns 12,000 - 30,000
Category V   - Rural Communities (<12,000 population).



- 64 -
Annex 4
Attachment 2
COLOMBIA
WATER SUPPLY AND SEIERlGE SECTOR PROJECT
Total Sector Investments 1988-1992
(Current US$ million)
(A) Existing Investment Program
2 OF
CATEGORY        1988    1989    1990    1991    1992   TOTAL        TOTAL
I           146      158      220     150       56     729       88.9
II             17      14        6       6        6       49       6.0
III              6       6        2       0        0       14       1.7
IV              6       6        2       0        0       14       1.7
V              6       6        2       0        0       14       1.7
TOTAL          181     190      232     156       62      820     100.0
(E.) SRP Investment Program
Z OF
CAlEGORY        1988    1989    1990    1991    1992   TOTAL        TOTAL
I             2        7       13      17       40      79       13.2
II              5      23       44      60       90     222       37.0
III              3      12       20      28       40     103       17.2
IV              3      10       20      25       40      98       16.3
V              2       8       23      30       35      98       16.3
TOTAL           15      60      120     160      245      600     100.0
(C) Total Investment Program
z OF
CATEGORY        1988    1989    1990    1991    1992        TOTAL   TOTAL
I           148      165      233     167       96      808      56.9
II            22       37       50      66       96      271      19.1
III              9      18       22      28       40       117      8.2
IV              9      16       22      25       40      112       7.9
V              8      14       25      30       35      112       7.9
TOTAL          195     250      352     316      307    1,420    100.0



- 65 -
Annex 4
Attachment 3
COLOMBIA
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWRAGE SECTOR PROJECT
Water Supply Investments 1988-1992
(Current US$ million)
(A) Existing Investment Progra
Z OF
CATEGORY          1988    1989    1990    1991    1992   TOTAL   TOTAL
I            87.0    94.8   132.0    90.0    33.6   437.4          88.9
II            10.2      8.4     3.6      3.6      3.6    29.4        6.0
III             3.6      3.6      1.2     0        0        8.4       1.7
IV             3.6      3.6     1.2      0        0        8.4       1.7
V             3.6      3.6     1.2      0        0        8.4       1.7
TOTAL         108.0   114.0   139.2    93.6    37.2   492.0    100.0
(B) Proposed SRP Investment Program
X OF
CATEGORY         1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    TOTAL   TOTAL
I             1.2      4.2     7.8    10.2    24.0        47.4    13.1
II             3.0    13.8    26.4    36.0    54.0    133.2    37.3
III             1.8      7.2    12.0    16.8    24.0        61.8    17.2
IV             1.8      6.0    12.0    15.0    24.0        58.8    16.3
V             1.2      6.8    13.8    18.0    21.0        60.8    16.3
TOTAL           9.0    38.0    72.0    96.0   147.0    362.0   100.2
(C) Total Investment Program
Z OF
CATEGORY          1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    TOTAL  TOTAL
I             88.2    99.0   139.8   100.2    57.6    484.8   56.9
II             13.2    22.2    30.0    39.8    57.6    162.8   19.1
I   III          5.4    10.8    13.2    16.8    24.0         70.2    8.2
IV              5.4      9.6    13.2    15.0    24.0        67.2    7.9
V              4.8      8.4    15.0    18.0    21.0        67.2    7.9
TOTAL          117.0   150.0   211.2   189.8   184.2    852.2  100.0



- 66 -
Annex 4
Attachment 4
COLOMBIA
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR PROJECT
Beneficiary Population - Water
('000)
(A) Existing Investment Progrun
CATEGORY                 1988    1989    1990    1991    1992   TOTAL
I                   161      158      206      153      140     818
II                     78      62       26       25       24     215
III                     28      27        9        0        0       64
IV                     28      27        9        0        0       64
V                     45       43      14        0       0       102
TOTAL                   340      317     264      178      164   1,263
(B) SRP Investment Prograr
CATEGORY                 1988    1989    1990    1991    1992   TOTAL
I                      2       7       12       17      100     138
II                     23     103      190      250      362     928
III                     14      54       86      117      161      432
IV                     14      45       86      104      161     410
V                     15      58      161      203      228     665
TOTAL                    68     267      535      691   1,012   2,573
(C) Total Investment Program
CATEGORY                 1988    1989    1990    1991    1992   TOTAL
I                   163      165      218      170     240      956
II                   101      165      215      275      386   1,142
III                     42      81       95      117      161     496
IV                     42      72       95      104      161     474
V                     60     101      175      203      228     767
TOTAL                   408      584     798      869   1,176   3,835



- 67 -
Annex 4
Attachment 5
COLOMBIA
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR PROJECT
Service Levels - Water
(2 of population served by house connection)
(A) Existing Investment Progruu
CATEGORY        1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992
I         96.0    96.0    96.0    96.0    96.0    96.0
II         71.9    71.6    69.9    68.6    67.4    65.8
III         62.7    62.5    62.2    61.1    59.6    58.2
IV         52.1    51.8    51.6    50.5    49.0    47.6
v         26.8    26.7    26.7    26.4    26.0    25.6
TOTAL        57.3    57.2    57.0    56.6    56.0    54.8
(B) Total Investment Program
CATEGORY        1987    1988    1989    1990    1991       1992
I         96.0    96.0    96.0    96.0    96.0        96.0
II         71.9    72.1    73.4    75.4    78.4        83.1
III         62.7    63.2    65.3    68.0    71.6        76.8
IV         52.1    52.5    54.2    56.8    59.6        64.4
V         26.8    26.9    27.2    28.1    29.2        30.4
TOTAL        57.3    57.4    58.1    59.3    60.7        62.9



- 68 -
Annex 4
Attachment 6
COLOMBIA
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR PRGJECT
Sewerage Investments 1988-1992
(Current US$ million)
(A) Existing Investment Progr
Z OF
CATEGORY        1988      1989    1990   1991    1992   TOTAL    TOTAL
I           58.0    63.2    88.0    60.0    22.4   291.6       88.9
II            6.8     5.       2.4     2.4     2.4    19.6       6.0
III            2.4     2.4      0.8     0       0        5.6      1.7
IV            2.4     2.4      0.8     0       0        5.6      1.7
v            2.4      2.4     0.8     0        0       5.6      1.7
TOTAL         72.0    76.0    92.8    62.4    24.8   328.0    100.0
(5B) SRP Investment Program
Z OF
CATEGORY        1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    TOTAL   TOTAL
I            0.8     2.8      5.2     6.8    16.0    31.6      13.2
II            2.0     9.2    17.6    24.0    36.0    88.8       37.0
III            1.2      4.8     8.0    11.2    16.0    41.2      17.2
IV            1.2     4.0      8.0    10.0    16.0    39.2      16.3
V            0.8      3.2     9.2    12.0    14.0    39.2      16.3
TOTAL          6.0    24.0    48.0    64.0    98.0   240.0    100.0
(C) Total Investment Progrum
Z OF
CATEGORY        1988    1989    1990    1991    1992   TOTAL    TOTAL
I           58.8    66.0    93.2    66.8    38.4   323.2       56.9
II            8.8    14.8    20.0    26.4    38.4   108.4       19.1
III            3.6      7.2     8.8    11.2    16.0    46.8       8.2
IV            3.6     6.4      8.8    10.0    16.0    44.8       7.9
V            3.2      5.6    10.0    12.0    14.0    44.8       7.9
TOTAL         78.0   100.0   140.8   126.4   122.8   568.0    100.0



- 69 -
Annnex 4
Attachment i7
COLOMBIA
WATER SUPPLY AND SEVERAGE SECTOR PROJECT
Beneficiary Population - Sewerage
('000)
(A) Existing Investmunt Progrsm
CATEGORY                 1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    TOTAL
I                   483      508      684      461      163    2,299
II                     57      45       19       18       17       156
III                     20      19        6        0        0        45
IV                     20      10        6        0        0        45
V                     20      19        6        0        v-       45
TOTAL                   600      601     721      479      180    2,590
(B) SRP Investment Progrsm
CATEGORY                 1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    TOTAL
I                      7      22       40       52      116      237
II                     17      74      137      184      261      673
III                     10      39       62       86      116       313
IV                     10      32       62       77      116      297
V                      7      26       72       92      102      299
TOTAL                    51      193     373      491      711    1,819
(C) Total Investment Progra
CATEGORY                 1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    TOTAL
I                   490      530      724      513     279    2,536
II                     73     119      156      203      279      830
III                     30      60       68       86      116       360
IV                     30      51       68       77      116      342
V                     27      45       78       92      102      344
TOTAL                   650      805   1,094      971      892    4,412



- 70 -
Annnex 4
Attachment 8
COLOMBIA
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR PROJECT
Service Levels - Sewerage
(A) Existing Investment Progrm
CATEGORY        1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992
I          76.3    80.1    83.4    89.6    91.2    91.3
II          53.9    53.7    53.2    52.2    51.3    50.3
III          48.0    47.7    47.5    46.5    45.5    44.4
IV          35.4    35.3    35.1    34.4    33.4    32.4
V          13.4    13.3    13.3    13.1    12.9    12.7
TOTAL         41.1    42.2    43.2    44.5    45.1    44.7
(B) Total Investment Program
CATEGORY        1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992
I          76.3    80.1    84.3    90.1    93.7    94.4
II          53.9    54.0    54.8    56.3    58.5    61.8
III          48.0    48.3    49.9    51.7    54.2    38.0
IV          35.4    35.8    37.0    38.9    41.1    44.6
V          13.4    13.4    13.5    13.9    14.4    14.9
TOTAL         41.1    42.3    44.0    46.4    48.4    50.0



- 71-
Annex 4
Attachment 9
COLOSIA
WATUR SUPPLY AND SZWERAGE SECTOR PEDJECT
SRP Financing Plan
Amount             Z of
Sources of Funds                             US$ Million          Total
Cash Contributions                                155.2           25.9
Operating Entities                            77.9            13.0
Local Government                               77.3           12.9
Loan Funds                                        444.8           74.1
External Sources                             210.0            35.0
National Government                           50.0             8.3
FONADE                                        20.0             3.3
Financial Intemediaries                       66.0            11.0
BCH Domestic Borrowings                       98.8            16.5
Total Sources of Funds                     600.0           100.0



- 72 -
Annex 4
Attachment 10
COLOMBIA
WATER AND SEWRAUGE SECTOR PROJECT
Financing of SRP Investments - Operating Entities vs. Local Government
Category                  Cash                  Loan                Total
VSS       x         US$         z       US$         z
Operating Entity
I               19.8      25.0       55.2      70.0      75.0       95.0
II               33.3      15.0      122.1      55.0    155.4        70.0
III                5.2       5.0       51.5      50.0      56.7       55.0
IV                4.9       5.0       34.3      35.0      39.2       40.0
V               14.7      15.0       14.7      15.0      29.4       30.0
Subtotal           77.9      13.0      277.8      46.3    355.7        59.3
Local Government
I                4.0       5.0        0         0         4.0        5.0
II               33.3      15.0       33.3      15.0      66.6       30.0
III               15.5      15.0       30.9      30.0      46.4       45.0
IV               14.7      15.0       44.1      45.0      58.8       60.0
V                9.8      10.0       58.8      60.0      68.6       70.0
Subtotal           77.1      12.9      167.2      27.9    244.3        40.7
Total           155.0      25.9      445.0      74.1    600.0       100.0



_ 73 -
Annex 5
COLOMBIA
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR PROJECT
Target Performance Indicators
Operational Performance:
Unaccounted for- water <0.35
Production metering: lOOZ
Meter coverage >60Z or more depending on local conditions
Bacteriological and physico-chemical water quality meeting quality standards set
by the Ministry of Health.
Routine leak detection and repair program in place.
Preventive maintenance program in effect.
Administrative Performance
Number of employees for 1000 connections: <5 for gravity systems and <6 for
pumped systems.
Ratio of employees in administration to total number: <.4
Management information system producing relevant information on time.
Cost accounting system.
Adequate personnel management and training systems.
Commercial performance
Ratio collection to billings >.9.
Monthly sales in accounts receivable <2.5 months.
Responsive customer service.
Financial Performance
Operating ratio <.60
Financial return on revalued fixed assets >4%
Balanced cash flow (operating revenues sufficient to meet operating costs,
working capital needs, debt service obligations and contributions to
investments).
Debt service coefficient <0.5
Liquidity index >1.0.
Services other than water supply and sewerage utility operating costs for
municipal multi-service companies.



sa
YmTFt SUFPLY AMDSEmAW  SCTGR ln
Teurs sod Cenditi oe e FFDU Lowe ,
Loan Amount
Rediscounted to     Non-Preforentisl       Preferentlal           Spread to       Interet Rate on
Types                Financial          Interest Rate        Interest Rat3           Financial      Non-redisce"sted
Borrourb             Intormadijarit-      to Borrosr m  ro Barroow                   IntromadioceD  Funds of  tar dtry
Largest Cities               7618              CDT * C p.p.f         CDT + S p.p.             1.5X           CDT . 5 p.p.
Medium-Size Ctles            86.61             CDT + J p.p.          CDT + 1 p. p.            2. X           CDT   4 p. p.
Sm ler Cities                85.8X             CDT + 2 p.p.          CDT - 1 p. p.            2.5S           CDT * 4 p. p.
For AIll Loam-
Inspection and
Supervision Fee:g           1.8%
Comitasnt Fee:h               0.
Amortization Period          lt years
Grsa  Period                  8 Yrear
Interest  s charged at end of each quarter.
k/ In accordance with Monetary Board Resolution 5J of September 26, 1987.
i  Largest eitioe  (pop. greater than 1,600,in) include BogotA, Medellrn, Call, Burranquillu and their respectivo * tropolitan
area. Medium-sizO Citi.. (pop. between 160,060 and 1,M,666) Include Cartagena, COcuta, Bucaramng, Mananlrl, Ibege6,
Pereira, Bello, Pasto, Santa Marta, Armenia, NMivev  Palmira  VillavicencTo, Monte rf, Buenaventura, Soleded, Popeydn,
Valleduper, Barrancabermeja, Floridablance, ItaquT, Sincelojo and their respective metropolitan areas. Smaller Citie
Include all the rest.
Sm Nominal interest rate charged to borrowers ant holding Urban Development Bonds.
d/ Nominal Interest rate charsed to borrowers holding Urban Development Bonds.
I/ Spread on rediscounted portion ot loan provided by FFDU to financial intermediaries.                                                 Q 
LI Average  _-month Certificate of Deposit rate (CDT) plus 6 percentage points.
g/ Based On FFDU loan amount.
h/ Based on the undisbursed FFDU loan balance.



water Sua  Iv and S   _ Ms eoter Lam
I uetrate. of It  nt_    _ ot. eAFFMU Lamm
To Borrower                                  To FFDU
Nmoinal Raeib        EffectIy Rate           Nb-in-l gnt d       Fffedbie   le
I Non-Preferential Rates
ta 'Holding Urban
DBvelomamnt Bonds
Largest Cities               31.1                  34.U8X                 29.%                 32.6%
Medium-Size Cities           29.2X                 32.6c                  27.9                  29.6%
Small Cities                 28. 3x                 1.4%                  2656X                 2C.1X
II. Preferontial Rate.
Holding Urban
Deve lopment Bonds
Largest Cities               29.2X                 32.6X                  27.5% C9X.
Medium_-Size Citioe          27.6%                 30.6%                  25. X               -27.4X
Small Cities                 25.CX                 28.ax                  22.51                24.5X
In accordance with Monetary Board Resolution 63 of September 25, 1967; ass*mes an averag  CDT rat  of 26  (ta
of September 1967).
hi Represets the noinal  weighted-average final interest rate to borroer, taking Into account the cost of fumd.
from both FFDU and the financial intermediry. An example of this calculatiot. for a medium-sie city which
does a"t hold FFDU's Bonds isas follows:
Cost of FFDU Funds                    * 8 X x (CDT + 8S) a CDT  2.4%
Cost of Financial Intermwdinry Funds  * 233 X   (CDT + 4X) a CDTI-I-
Weighted average cost of funds to borrowr                * CDT N   3.21 a 29.2X (assuming CDT x261)
me
S  Calculated on basis that interest is charged at the end of each quartar.                                                             :X
Represents the nominal interest rate earned by FFDU on the rediscounted porton of the loan provided to the                        0
borrower. Calculated as the difftrence betnoen the FFDU nominal rate charged to the borrmor lo  the spredd
earned by the financial Intermediary.
)  Calculated on base that interet is charged at the  nd of each quarter.



- 76 -
Annex 7
Page 1 of 2
COLOMBIA
Water Supply and Sewerage Sector Project
Plan of Action for the Institutional Strengthening Program of
Subgerencia Desarrollo Regional y Urbano (FFDU) of
Banco Central Hipotecario
16.      FFDU will carry out  a  program  of institutional strengthening in
accordance with the objectives, actions and timetable presented below:
FFDU Organizational Structure and Human Resources.
17.      FFDU  will  review   and,   if   necessary   adjust,  its  present
organizational structure to the needs created by the expected growth of its
operations. To this end, BCH/FFDU is carrying out a detailed assessment of
its organizational structure and staff. The conclusions and recommendations
of this study will be presented to the Bank for comment by March 31, 1989.
18.      To ensure that the  number  and professional qualifications of its
staff are sufficient to execute FFDU's work program in a timely and
technically sound manner, FFDU will, as part of the annual program review
present an analysis of the adequacy of its staff resources and, if found
insufficient, present a plan of action to improve detected deficiencies.
Staff Training
19.      In recognition of the need  to  provide its staff with training in
the technical, institutional, financial, economic and management aspects of
project preparation evaluation and administration, FFDU will present to the
Bank by October 31, 1988, a plan of action for the training of its staff,
including a comprehensive description of objectives and methods to be
employed, the type of training to be given, the number of staff to be
trained and a cost estimate for the training program covering the 1989-1992
period. As part of the semi-annual report to be submitted by September 30
of each year, FFDU will present an update to the training program.
Preparation of Guidelines for Project Preparation and Execution
20.      No later than December 31,  1988,  FFDU would issue guidelines for
project preparation which inform sub-borrowers of:
(a)    the criteria used by FFDU in the evaluation of Sub-projects;
(b)    the information to be submitted by potential sub-borrowers to
demonstrate the technical, financial, institutional, social,



- 77 -
Annex 7
Page 2 of 2
environmental and economic feasibility and justification of a
proposed sub-project;
(c)    model terms of  reference  to  be  followed by potential sub-
borrowers  and  their  consultants   in  the  formulation  of
investment and institutional strengthening programs, and
financial, economic and social analysis; and
(d)    detailed  guidelines  for   sub-borrowers  regarding  project
execution, reporting to FFDU, disbursements, procurement and
auditing requirements.
Preparation and Implementation of Internal Management
Information Systems (MIS)
21.      In order to  better  plan  and  control  its operations, FFDU will
prepare and implement a MIS which will allow more effectively plan and
control  the  lending  process  and   better  manage  the  supervision  and
administration of sub-projects. Consultants to BCH/FFDU are preparing the
conceptual basis for such MIS.    Based  on  the work of these consultants,
BCH/FFDU will present to the Bank, no la.er than December 31, 1988, a
description of the MIS to be developed and a plan of action for its
implementation, including a time table for executing important intermediate
steps, the need for consulting services and the acquisition of equipment
and a cost estimate. Full implementation of the MIS is scheduled for mid-
1990.



- 78 -
Annex 8
Page 1 of 4
COLOMBIA
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR PROJECT
BCH/FFDU Finances
BCH - Past Performance
1.       The BCH operates under special regulations, implemented in 1972 to
stimulate housinF and home construction, which allows it (as well as all
Colombian savings and loan institutions) to index both its mortgage credits
and liabilities to the public through the use of 'constant purchasing power
unit" (UPAC) linked to  the  consumer  price  index.   Interest rates (both
lei,ding and borrowing rates) are subject to ceilings, but are expressed as
margins additional to the monetary adjustments of the UPACs. Under the
UPAC system, BCH also is required to allocate specified percentages of the
funds it gathers to various lines of mortgage credit which are related to
the value of the homes financed.    The  interest rates that are charged on
the UPAC loans vary according to the value of the home and range from 5? to
10? above the indexing. For the UPAC funds, a 3? rate is paid for savings
accounts on top of the indexing and between 5? and 8.52 is paid for
certificates of deposit, also on top of the indexing. The current interest
rate ceiling on both UPAC deposits and mortgages is 21Z plus the margins.
2.       BCH's comparative balance sheets and income and expense statements
for the past four years (1983-86) are presented in Attachment 1. The
statements are for BCH as a whole and include the accounts of FFDU (but
exclude funds of the Social Security Institute which BCH only administers).
Further on, a separate analysis is provided of the accounts of FFDU which
represent approximately 10 of the total assets and liabilities of the BCH.
3.       As of December  31,  1986,  BCH's  total  assets amounted to about
Pesos 209,149 million (US$1,020 million equivalent), having increased at an
average annual rate  of  4.2Z    (in  real  terms)  since  1983.   The loan
portfolio, which grew in 1983-86 at 0.6? p.a. (in real terms), reached a
total of Pesos 173,192 million (US$840 million equivalent) at year-end
1986. BCH's loans are concentrated in two categories--mortgages and urban
develL,.-'ent (FFDU) credits--which combined represented 82? of BCH's total
assets at year-end 1985. The remaining assets on BCH's books at year-end
1986 >.-counted for 18X of total assets and including mainly financial
invest.ments, construction holdings and fixed assets.
4        BCH carries out  its  primary  function, mortgage lending, through
two lines of credit--the UPAC line, which is described in para. 1. above,
and the traditional line.   As  for year-end 1986, UPAC mortgages comprised
about 52Z of BCH's total loans.    Traditional mortgages, which are made at
fixed rates and are financed with savings certificates and mortgage bonds,
represented 27Z of total loans as of December 31, 1986.
5.       Delinquencies  in  BCH's   mortgage   loan   portfolio  are  high,
reflecting payment problems experienced in recent years by many Colombian



- 79 -
Annex 8
Page 2 of 4
borrowers especially those at the lower-income levels. The volume of BCH's
mortgage loans past due by more than four months equalled Pesos 28,380
million (US$138 million equivalent), or 182 of total mortgages at end 1986.
BCH's provision for doubtful loans, which in accordance with Colombian
banking regulations is based on the volume of arrears past due by 12 months
or more, stood at Pesos 10, 823 million (US$53 million equivalent), or 62
of total mortgage loans, as of December 31, 1986. This provision appears
adequate as most of the mortgage loans are fully collaterized. The
portfolio of the FFDU has not expetienced any arreage. The financial
intermediaries through which the FFDU discounts its loans to the ultimate
borrowing agencies are required to pay off their obligations when due, even
in cases in which a borrowing agency has not made payment.
6.       Since 1983, BCH's total  liabilities  have increased at an average
annual rate of 3.8Z (in real terms), reaching Pesos 299,952 million
(US$1,456 million  equivalent)  at  year-end  1986.    UPAC deposits, BCH's
principal source of funds, totalled Pesos 93,321 million (US$450 million
equivalent), or 442 of total liabilities and equity at December 31, 1986.
Other notable elements of BCL's liability structure at year-end 1986
included traditional savings certificates (Pesos 61,114 million, 31t of
liabilities and equity), rediscounts from the Banco de la Repdblica (Pesos
13,714 million: 72 of liabilities and equity), external borrowings (Pesos
5,683 million: 3Z of liabilities and equity) and other liabilities (Pesos
15,830: 82 of liabilities and  equity).    BCH  also  has a back-up line of
credit with the Banco de la Reptiblica which it has drawn upon since 1984 to
meet unexpected liquidity demands.    During  1986, when UPAC savings flows
slowed due to strong competition from other saving instruments, BCH's
borrowings from the Banco de la RepCblica's line of credit increased by
572, reaching about Pesos 9,800 million (US$47 million equivalent), 52 of
liabilities and equity by the end of the year.
7.       As mentioned  previously,  BCH  is  responsible  for administering
investments which are  funded  with  proceeds,  called Constant Value Bonds
(BVCs), from the Social Security  Institute.   At year-end 1986, the amount
of BVC funds under administration was Pesos 46,220 million (US$224 million
equivalent). BCH receives a commission of 3.0Z for administering these
funds.
8.       BCH's equity position was  boosted  in  1984 by the liquidation of
construction holdings which produced a surplus of Pesos 1,080 million and
in  1985  when  the  FFDU's   equity  (Pesos  2,440  million)  was  legally
transferred to BCH. At year-end 1986, BCH's total equity, at Pesos 9,713
million (US$47 million equivalent), was a thin but acceptable 52 of total
assets and 6t of total loans.
9.       As  an  official  institution  established  by  the  Government to
implement housing and urban development policies, BCH's primary goal is not
profit making. Nevertheless, BCH's net income after allocation of reserves
remained positive throughout the 1983-86 period, totalling Pesos 640
million (US$3.1 million equivalent) for 1986 (Attachment 2). Measured as a
percentage of average total assets, the difference between BCH's interest
income and interest expenses (net interest margin) declined from 5.3Z in
1983 to 3.52 in 1986. This drop in profitability can be traced mainly to
BCH policies which during the 1983-86 period increasingly emphasized for
social reasons loans to the lower ranges of the housing market, resulting



_ 80 -
Annex 8
Page 3 of 4
in a reduction in loan portfolio yields (measured against average total
assets, gross interest income declined from 23.7Z in 1983 to 23.22 in
1986). During 1983-86, administrative costs grew an average of 2.3% p.a.
(in real terms) due primarily to the expansion and decentralization of
BCH's  operations.    To  address   the  decline  in  profitability,  BCH's
management has instituted a series of actions which includes, inter alia,
intensified efforts to collect delinquent loans, tighter control of
administrative and operating costs, and shift toward higher margin lending.
FFDU - Past Performance
10.      As of December 31, 1986,  the  FFDU had total loans outstanding of
about Pesos 21,100 million (US$102 million equivalent). This represented
about 12Z of BCH's total loans.    Between 1983 and 1986, the FFDU approved
loans for about 660 projects amounting to Pesos 44,613 million. Of this
amount, Pesos 24,371 million has been disbursed by year-end 1986. FFDU's
recent lending has been concentrated in two sectors: sanitation (water
supply, sewerage and solid waste removal) and highways (Attachment 3). Of
FFDU's total 1983-86 disbursements, 44Z were for sanitation operations and
31X for highways.   The  remaining  25Z  was  for  a variety of other urban
works. The sectorial composition of FFDU's recent lending reflects its
priority of assisting local Governments in improving basic infrastructure
and public  services.    As  the  single  largest  financier  of sanitation
projects in Colombia, the FFDU has recently provided funding for several
larger water supply projects including one in Cali costing US$10 million
and another in Santa Marta amounting to US$6 million.
11.      FFDU's primary  sources  of  funding  are  external borrowings and
government transfers. The FFDU has been the beneficiary of two inter-
American Development Bank loans totalling US$74 million and DM6.5 million
loan from the German Government (KFW).   In 1983, the FFDU received a Pesos
12.5 million loan from the Colombian Government to finance urban works
under a program to stimulate housing and create employment (REGE). The
FFDU also raises funds through the issuance of its own Urban Development
Bonds (UBDs). This instrument, which is offered to local governments and
which confer to the holder the rights to borrow from the FFDU three times
the value of such bonds, is expected to be one of FFDUs primary mechanisms
(along with Government transfers and UPAC funds) for capturing domestic
resources for the Sector  Investment  Program.    As for year-end 1986, the
volume  of  UDBs  outstanding   was   Pesos  1,019  million  (US$5  million
equivalent). The major characteristics of FFDU's primary sources of funds
(terms and conditions of each obligation) are provided in Attachment 4.
12.      FFDU's annual  net  income  remained  positive  during the 1983-86
period and totalled Pesos 668 million (US$3.2 million equivalent) for 1986
(Attachment 5).   Measured  as  a  percent  of  average  assets, FFDU's net
operating income dropped from 7.0Z in 1983 to 2.02 in 1985, before
rebounding to a more satisfactory  3.32  in  1986.   The overall decline in
FFDU's net interest margin between 1983 and 1986 is attributable to a
measurable increase in the costs of funds particularly on external
borrowings. In 1986, for example, when the Colombian Peso depreciated
against the dollar and the German mark, the effective rate paid by FFDU on
external loans from IDB and KFW were 23% and 49%, respectively. This
compares with FFDU's 1986 overall average costs of funds of about 22Z.



- 81 -                Annex 8
Page 4 of 4
FFDU's administrative costs have remained constant at about 2.0 of average
assets during 1985 and 1986. However, it should be noted that these costs
are based on only a partial allocation of the financial and administrative
costs applicable to operating FFDU.   In effect, by decision of BCH's Board
of Directors, some personnel and other expenditures that in principle would
be chargeable directly to the FFDU are being absorbed by BCH.
13       At negotiations, BCH presented the Bank with preliminary financial
results for 1987 and financial projections for the period 1988-92
(Attachments 6 and 7). As of December 31, 1987, BCH total assets reached
US$955  million  equivalent  (Pesos   1.451  million).    FFDU's  portfolio
continued to grow in 1987, reaching the equivalent of US$112 million at
year-end. It represented 132 of total BCH loans outstanding. BCH's
financial projectiolLs show that its financial condition and performance
would be maintained at satisfactory levels over the next few years. For
1992, when most of the proposed loan should be disbursed, BCH would
continue to have an adequate capital ratio (about 42 of total assets) and
profitability. The projections also show that FFDU's lending is expected
to play an increasingly important role in BCH's overall operations. By
end-1992, FFDU loans as a proportion of BCH's total footings would equal
28Z, reflecting mainly the increased resources to be directed to FFDU
through the Bank-financed project.



- 82 -
Annex 8
Attachment 1
COLOMBIA
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR PROJECT
BCH Summary Financial Statement 1/ 21
(In million Colombian Pesos)
Balance Sheet
Assets                                    1983      1984       1985       1986
Loan Portfolio
Mortgages                             75,390   106,340   132,901    152,194
Urban Development                      8,039    17,655    18,110      20,998
Subtotal                           83,429   123,995   151,011    173,192
Other Assets                             8,312    11,793    18,352      35,957
TOTAL ASSETS                       91,741   135,788   169,363    209,149
Liabilities
UPAC Deposits                           48,126    60,106    83,077      93,321
Traditional Savings Certificates        19,489    32,044    36,952      61,114
Rediscounts                              6,516    16,169    15,288      13,714
External Borrowings                        471     1,283      2,427      5,683
Transfers                                    0     4,193      6,198      9,774
Other Liabilities                       13,302    16,421    15,953      15,830
TOTAL LIABILITIES                    87,904   130,216   160,695    199,436
Equity                                   3,837     5,572      8,668      9,713
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY       91,741   135,788   169,363    209,149
1/ Excludes funds of the Social Security Institute administered by BCH
which, at December 31, 1986, equalled Pesos 46,220 million.
2/ Audited Financial Statements.



- 83 -
Annex 8
Attachment 2
COLOMBIA
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR PROJECT
BCH
(In million Colombian Pesos)
Income Statement
1983      1984       1985       1986
Gross Interest Income                   18,290    28,081    39,220      43,983
Gross Interest Expenses                 14,204    22,625    33,837      37,351
Net Interest Income                    4,086     5,456      5,383      6,632
Non-Interest Income                        815     1,036      1,780      1,980
Administrative Expenses                  3,513     4,876      6,181      7,666
Net Operating Income                   1,388     1,616        982        946
Provisions - Loans Loss and Taxes          552       892        348        308
Net Income After Provisions              836       724        634        638
Extraordinary Income                         0     1,678      2,247          2
Net Income                               836     2,402      2,881        640
(as 2 Average Total Assets)
Gross Interest Income                     23.7      24.7       25.7      23.2
Gross Interests Expense                   18.4      19.9       22.2      19.7
Net Interest Income                      5.3       4.8        3.5       3.5
Non-Interest Income                        1.1       0.9        1.2       1.0
Administrative Expenses                    4.6       4.3        4.1       4.0
Net Operating Income                     1.8       1.4        0.6       0.5
Provisions - Loan Loss and Taxes           0.7       0.8        0.2       0.2
Net Income After Provisions              1.1       0.6        0.4       0.3
Extraordinary Income                       0.0       1.5        1.5       0.0
NET INCOME                            1.1        2.1       1.9        0.3



- 84 -
Annex 8
Attachment 3
COLOMBIA
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR PROJECT
BCH
Summary of FFDU
Disbursements by Sector, 1983-86
(In million Colombian Pesos)
Disbursement         1983       1984       1985      1986      TOTAL          Z
Water Supply and
Sewerage            847      2,155     2,565      3,859      9,426       38.7
Solid Waste           233        445        384       278      1,340        5.5
Highways            2,081      3,087      1,007     1,369      7,544       31.0
Other Urban Works  2,181       2,533        562       785      6,061       24.8
TOTAL           5,342     8,220      4,518      6,291    24,371      100.0



Annex 8
Attachment 4
COLOMBIA
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR PROJECT
FFDU - Terms and Conditions of Funding Sources a/
Years of
Total    Balance      Interest                   Term        Final
Source Of Funds                 Currency       Amount  Outstanding      Rate      Commission    Years       Payment
('000)    ('000)          (Z)          (Z)
ICT                                COL$       191,200      76,480         7.0         -            17         1993
ICT                                COL$       159,020    135,167          7.0         -            38         2013
FONADE FO-434                      COL$         1,974           -       22.0          1.5           4         1987
FONADE FO-554                      COL$        50,000     11,947        20.0          1.5           5         1989
Banco de la Repdblica-REGE         COL$   12,500,000  8,792,233         20.0          -            10         1995
Recursos B.V.C.                    COL$       700,000    500,000        24.0          -            14         1997
BID I (643-SF/CO)                  US$         18,000     18,000         2.0          0.5          25         2011
BID I (397-OC/CO)                  USS          6,000       6,000         4.0         -            30         2006
K.F.W.                             DM           6,500       5,685         4.0         0.5          30         2013
B,.#nos de Desarrollo Urbano       COL$    2,200,000  2,134,717         22.0          -             3           --
Banco de la Rep(iblica-BID II      USS         50,000           -       20.0          1.25         20         2006
a/ As of September 1987.



- 86 -
Annex 8
Attachment 5
COLOMBIA
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR PROJECT
BCH
FFDU - Income and Expenses 1983-86
(In million Colombian Pesos)
1983        1984        1985      1986
Gross Interest Income              1,105        2,635       3,837    4,557
Gross Interest Expenses              645        1,853       3,471    3,847
Net Interest Income                460          782         366       729
Administrative Costs                  12           75          28        61
Net Income                         448          707         338      668
(as 2 of average total assets)
Gross Interest Income                 16.8         20.0        20.6      20.7
Gross Interest Expenses                9.8         14.1        18.6      17.4
Net Interest Income                  7.0          5.9         2.0       3.3
Administrative Costs                   0.2          0.6         0.2       0.2
Net Income                           6.8          5.3         1.8       3.1



- 87 -
Annex 8
Attachment 6
COLOMBIA
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR PROJECT
BCH Summary Financial Results for 1987 and Financial Projections
(In million Colombian Pesos)
Balance Sheet
19871.      1988       1989      1990       1991      1992
ASSETS
Loan Portfolio
Mortgage                186,281   256,462   323,073   401,764   502,026   616,545
Urban Development        28,914    47,054    72,085   117,761   176,487   258,715
Subtotal              215,195   303,516   395,158   519,525   678,513   875,260
Other Assets              52, 364    53,179    55,125    52,820    51,181    52,996
Total Assets          267,559   356,695   450,283   572 345   729,694   928,256
LIABILITIES
UPAC Deposits             111,794   140,155   175,113   222,926   281,443   356,976
Traditional Savings
Certificates             87,884   115,534   14j,203   172,890   204,830   269,695
Rediscounts                 9,644     9,997      9,978      9,979     9,962     9,946
Urban Dev. Funds          25, 825    46,053    74,291   116,519   176,756   225,666
Other Liabilities          21,239    27,201    27,691    28,829    30,245    33,055
Total Liabilities    256,386   339,030   433,276   551,143   703,236   895,338
Equity                     11,173    17,665    17,007    21,202    26,458    32,918
Total Liabilities
and Equity          267,559   356,695   450,283   572,345   729,694   928,256
1/ Unaudited figures.



- 88 -
Annex 8
Attachment 7
COLOMBIA
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR PROJECT
BCH Summary Financial Results for 1987 and Financial Projections
(In million Colombian Pesos)
Income Statements
19872.       1988       1989       1990       1991       1992
Gross Interest Income       57,732    76,767   101,012   131,297   169,715   216,469
Gross Interest Expense    50,945    63,515    82,358   107,433   139,275   177,853
Net Interest Income        6,787    13,253    18,654    23,864    30,441    38,616
Non Interest Income          1,555      1,313      1,403      1,571      1,760      1,971
Administrtive Expenses       9,752    12,216    15,514    19,442    24,692    31,358
Net Operating Income       (885)      2,350      4,543      5,993      7,509      9,229
Provisions-Loan Losses
and Taxes                  (993)   (2,800)   (1,363)   (1,798)   (2,253)   (2,861)
Net Icome After Prov.    (1878)       (450)      3,180      4,195      5,256      6,368
Extraordinary INcome         3,329      6,683        -          -          -          -
Net Income               1,451      6,233      3,180      4,195      5,256     6,368
1/ Unaudited figures.



- 89 -
ANNEX 9
COLOMBIA
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR PROJECT
Project Investment Schedule
-----------Investments-----------
-----------US$ million-----------
Component             Total    1988   1989   1990   1991   1992
(A) Investment Projects          430.0     8.6   64.5  116.1  150.5   90.3
(B) Strengthening FFDU             2.0     0.2    1.0    0.8    -         -
(C) Studies by DWSS                1.5     0.0    0.5    0.8    0.2    -
(D) Establishment of
Training Center              1.5     0.0    0.8    0.7    0.0    -
TOTAL                   435.0      8.8   66.8  118.4  150.7   90.3
(Z of Total)            100.0      2.0   15.4   27.2   34.6   20.8



- 90 -
Annex 10
COLOHBIA
WATER SUPPLY AND SEVERAGE SECTOR PROJECT
List of Conditions to be Included in FFDU's Subproject Agreements
1.       Subproject agreements between FFDU  and project executing agencies
should contain inter alia:
(a) project description, including institutional strengthening
component;
(b)  administrative,   operational    and   financial   monitoring
indicators;
(c)  financial   viability   clause   (balanced   cash   flow  and
contribution to investment);
(d) debt limitation clause;
(e) maintain satisfactory project records;
(f) adequate insurance coverage;
(g) procurement arrangements with limit on number of contracts
and the use of standard procurement documents;
(h) disbursement arrangements;
(i) audit requirements;
(j) semi-annual reporting under format specified by FFDII
(k) project completion report;
(l) supervision of construction;
(m)  satisfactory management clause;
(n) use of qualified consultants;
(0) authorization of access to works, offices and records by FFDU
and Bank personnel;
(p) right by FFDU to suspend disbursements and, in the extreme
case, cancellation of the loan in case of no-n-compliance by
subborrower; and
(q) any other subproject specific clauses.



- 91 -
Annex 11
Page 1 of 2
COLOMBIA
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SFCTOR PROJECT
Plan of Action for the Establishment of DWSS
and the Execution of Component C of the Project
Plan of Action for the Establishment of DWSS
1.       The following presents a  tiLue  table  of  key actions required to
establish and staff the Directorate of Water Supply and Basic Sanitation
(DWSS) in the Ministry of Public Works and Transport (MOPT) by June 30,
1989.
Date Accomplished or
Action                              to be accomplished
(1)   Decree 77 containing decisions to
create DWSS in MOPT                             January 15, 1987
(2)   Submission by MOPT to the Civil
Service Administration (CSA) and the
Ministry of Finance of a proposal
regarding the specific functions,
organizational structure, staffing and
1989 budget requirements of DWSS                January 15, 1988
(3)   Approval of the proposal referred to
in (2)                                          October 31, 1988
(4)   Signature of Subsidiary Agreement between
MOPT and BCH/FFDU regarding the execution
of Component C of the Project                   October 31, 1988
(5)   Assignment of physical infrastructure
(office space, equipment, etc.) to DWSS         February 28, 1989
(6)   Appointment of key staff approved by.
CSA, i.e. Director and Unit Chiefs              February 28, 1989
(7)   Presentation of Plan of Action for
the execution of Part C of the
Project                                         March 31, 1989
(8)   Appointment of all staff approved by CSA        June 30, 1989



- 92 -
Annex 11
Page 1 of 2
Plan of Action for the Execution of Component C of the Project
2.       The plan of action to be  submitted  by DWSS to the Bank regarding
the execution of Component C of the Project should include a listing of the
various studies and investigations to be undertaken and, for each of them
the presentation of:
(a)    conceptual terms of reference  clearlv stating objectives and
results expected;
(b)    type of consultancies and consultants to be employed;
(c)    a schedule for hiring consultants, including a time table for
interumediate steps (availability of terms of reference and
letter of invitation, short list of consultants to be
invited,   proposal   of    contract   award,   duration   of
consultancy); and
(d)    a cost estimate.
3.       Regarding training of DWSS  personnel,  the  plan of action should
identify training needs and objectives and propose a schedule of specific
training activities, including a cost estimate.
4.       Regarding the acquisition of equipment, DWSS should present a list
of equipment required with cost estimates and propose a procurement time
table.



- 93 -
Annex 12
Page 1 of 4
COLOMBIA
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR PROJECT
Sector Training
Introduction
1.       The  National  Center  for  Training   in  the  Water  Supply  and
Sanitation Sector (CENAGUAS) was created by the Colombian Association of
Sanitary Engineers (ACODAL) on  June  19,  1987.   CENAGUAS is a non-profit
organization embodied with the responsibility of offering a complete range
of training, advisory and operational services in the sector. CENAGUAS'
Legal Act was signed by major water supply companies, private organizations
which provide service to the sector, and representatives of professional
groups of sanitary engineers. The establishment of CENAGUAS is also backed
by the National Apprenticeship Service (SENA), the Urban Development Fund
(FFDU) of the Central Mortgage Bank (BCH), the Ministry of Public Works and
Transport (MOPT), the Pan American Health Organization (PAHO), the Surerior
School  of  Public  Administration   (ESAP),   and  the  National  Planning
Department (DNP).   CENAGUAS  will  be  at  the  center of improving sector
training under the SRP.   CENAGUAS  is  governed by a three-member Board of
Directors composed of representatives of ACODAL and other public agencies
with a stake in sector training. It's initi.1 staff would be composed of a
full-time Executive Director, two training professionals and two support
staff.
Objectives
2.       The long-term objective of  the training component supported under
the Project is to build a permanent and integrated training capability in
the sector. Through the creation of CENAGUAS, specific objectives to be
supported under the Project would include:
(a)  establishment  of  a   central   agency   for  the  planning,
coordination and  evaluation  of  training  activities in the
sector;
(b) development of a more precise and systematic definition of
sector training requirements;
(c) preparation and implementation of appropriately designed
training programs for managers and technical staff of sector
institutions;
(d)  providing   assistance   to   sector   institutions   in  the
organization and implementation of staff training programs;
and
(e) upgrading and expansion of training facilities and equipment.



- 94 -
Annex 12
Page 2 of 4
Strategy
3.       These objectives will be achieved through:
(a)  supporting  the  establishment  of   CENAGUAS  as  a  central
planning  and  coordinating  institution  for  the  planning,
development,  administration,  delivery,  and  evaluation  of
training; and
(b) organizing and implementing training programs according to
the needs of sector instituti.ons.
4.       The  need  for  coordination  amcng  institutions  is  critical to
facilitate  the  exchange  of  technical  and  operational  experiences and
activities such as the training of instructors, development of programs,
preparation of teaching and learning mr%terials. The existence of CENAGUAS
as a national clearing house and coordination centre for all sector
training is essential to the introduct3on of effective sector training in
Colombia.
5.       Specifically, CENAGUAS' role would be to: (i) coordinate evaluate,
improve and expand existing training programs; (ii) provide, under contract
with operating companies, training courses at all levels either by
subcontracting with existing sources of training or by organizing its own
training courses; (iii) provide technical support for the organization of
training programs by government agencies, private institutions, and sector
companies; (iv) promote the transfer of experiences in institutional
development and training and technological developments among water supply
comoanies; (v) establish a national sector information and documentation
system; and (iv) execute and/or coordinate studies and research on human
resource development topics and technological advances.
Training Component
6.       Targets.   The  training  component  to  be  implemented under the
project is designed to:    (i)  assist  CENAGUAS  to develop into a central
training institution capable of meeting the afore-mentioned objectives
(para. 3); and (ii) to upgrade the performance skills of about 8,000 sector
personnel representing about 35Z of the total staff employed in the sector.
For the 1989-1992 period, the following specific training targets in terms
of personnel trained by area, have been established:
Number of
Area                                 Personnel to Be Trained
Planning                                          340
Management                                        200
Accounting                                         70
Operating/Maintenance                           3,450
Administration                                  1,530
Commercial                                      1,050
Technical                                         180
Financial                                         180
Administration and Operation
of Rural Systems                              1,000
TOTAL                                      8,000



- 95 -
Annex 12
Page 3 of 4
7.       Technical courses  would  be  organized  and  executed by CENAGUAS
using instructors and facilities available at existing institutions as well
as contracting courses with universities, training institutions and private
firms. In all cases course contents will be defined according to the
specific needs of the target group.
8.       Components.  To implement the training program, financing would be
provided  for:  (i)  upgrading   and  remodeling  physical  facilities  and
equipment at CENAGUAS'  headquarters;  (ii)  consultant  services to assist
CENAGUAS in the organizatior of a training strategy and the preparation and
implementation of specific courses; (iii) fellawships abroad for trainers
sector staff; and (iv) specific studies regarding occupational analysis,
training evaluation and follow-up.
9.       Training Facilities  ind  Equipment.    A  suitable  site  for the
headquarters of CENAGUAS has been  found  at  the San Diego Water Treatment
Plant in Bogota, where EAAB will make available an existing building which
will be converted into offices and other appropriate training facilities
such as classrooms, workshops and accommodations for trainers and trainees.
Additional training equipment, furniture, spare parts and training aids
would be provided to facilitate and improve the quality of the training
process. Based on the experience at San Diego, CENAGUAS expects to develop
in  the  future,   regional   training   centers   in  Cali,  Medellin  and
Barranquilla.
10.      Organization of Training.    Foreign  and  local consultants would
assist  CENAGUAS  in  developing   a   central  planning  and  coordination
capability and in the preparation and implementation of training programs.
Technical assistance would support:   (i)  the formulation of a coordinated
training policy and strategy; (ii) the preparation a of manpower training
needs assessment; (iii) the development of occupational analysis programs
in specific areas to improve curricula and teaching materials; (iv) the
establishment of effective coordinating mechanisms between central and
operating agencies; (v) the preparation of training agreements with
external training sources; (vi) the design of monitoring and evaluation
systems; (vii) the preparation and implementat4on of management and
technical training courses; and (viii) upgrad:ig the skills of the
personnel  in  charge  of   administering  and  implementing  the  training
programs.
11.      Scholarships.  Overseas scholarships for CENAGUAS and other sector
management and professional staff would be supported. These scholarships
would provide the opportunity for selected sector high and mid-level staff
to be exposed to technological development an.. modern administration
practices and processes in other countries in areas such as planning,
operation  of  water  production,   treatment,  distribution  and  sewerage
facilities, accounting and financial and commercial svstems.
12.      Management Training  Program.    The  management  training program
would be implemented in the context of a "Management Participatory System"
through which manager would learn to:   (i) analyze policies and technical,
organizational and financial activities; (ii) identify critical areas that
require improvements; (iii) prepare recommendations to solve identified
problems; (iv) define and carry through plans of action for implementing
proposed solutions; and (v) develop a participative management style and be



-96-
Annex 12
Page 4 of 4
capable of setting targets, manage under changing conditions and evaluate
performance by results. In preparing and executing the management training
program financing could be provided  to:    (i)  a diagnosis of the current
state  of  sector  management  to   be  prepared  with  the  assistance  of
consultants; (ii) the preparation of the management development plan; (iii)
the execution of about forty courses, seminarb and round-table sessions
which would be presented under contract by external sources, mainly local
universities with extensive experience in management training; and (iv) per
diem  ana  transportation  for  full-time   courses  held  outside  of  the
participants' duty stations.
13.      Technical Training Program.   The  technical training program will
target  supervisors,   technicians,   plant   operators,   maintenance  and
administrative personnel.  The execution of the program would include:  (i)
per diem and transportation for about 4,000 participants; (ii) per diem and
transportation for about 73 instructors for about 20 weeks per year; (iii)
the provision of training material; (iv) training to upgrade the technical
and pedagogical skills of instructors; and (v) the financing of about 145
courses on specific technical subjects to be contracted with national
training organizations.   The  content  of  these  courses would be defined
through the analysis of specific requirements of each occupational target
group.
14.      Studies.  The  training  component  would  include: (i) a training
needs assessment for the entire sector in order to facilitate the planning
and organization of the training effort; and (ii! the development and
implementation of a training monitoring and evaluation system with the
objective of incorporating lessons learned into the training process.
15.      Cost  and  Financing.    The  total  cost  associated  with sector
training during 1988-1992  is  estimated  at  US$5  million (Attachment 1).
US$1.5 million would be needed to establish CENAGUAS as a functional agency
and US$0.5 million to support CENAGUAS' operation (salaries, etc.) through
1992. The costs associated with the training of 8,000 sector staff is
estimated at US$3 million. The Bank loan would finance the costs related
to the establishment of CENAGUAS as a functional entity (US$1.5 million).
The cost related to CENAGUAS operation would come from contributions by the
Government,  ACODAL,  and   donations   from   suppliers,  contractors  and
consulting firms with interest in accelerated sector development and from
surpluses obtained through the fees paid by sector companies for training
courses attended.    As  a  general  principle,  the  costs  related .o the
preparation and implementation of specific training courses would be born
by sector companies under Component A, the proposed project would include
staff training with an estimated total cost of about US$3 million, of which
the Bank loan would finance about US$1 million.
16.      Attachment 2 presents the Plan  of  Action of the establishment of
CENAGUAS and the content of the plan of action for the execution of the
Training Component to be submitted to the Bank by March 31, 1989.



- 97 -
Annex 12
Attachment 1
COLOMBIA
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR PROJECT
Cost and Financing Schedule for Training Component
(US$ million)
Source of Financing
Total       Bank    Other
Cost Category                       Cost         Loan
(A) Physical installation and Equipment         0.80        0.80      -
(B) Technical Assistance                        0.25        0.25      -
(C) Training of CENAGUAS Personnel              0.10        0.10      -
(D) Studies                                     0.35        0.35      -
(E) CENAGUAS Operating Cost (1989-92)           0.50        -         0.50
(F) Training Coursesl/                          3.0         1.0       2.0
Total                                     5.0         2.5       2.5
1/ Financed under Component A (investment subprojects) of the Project.



_ 98 -
Annex 12
Attachment 2
COLOMBIA
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR PROJECT
Plan of Action for the Establishment of CENAGUAS
and the Execution of Component D of the Project
Plan of Act?.on for the Establishment of CENAGUAS
1.       The following presents a  time  table  of  key actions required te
establish Centro Nacional de  Aguas  (CENAGUAS)  as  a functional agency by
March 31, 1989.
Date Accomplished or
Action                              to be accomplished
(1)   Formal decision to create CENAGUAS by
ACODAL and other private and public
institutions interested in promoting
sector training                                June 19, 1987
(2)   Approval of CENAGUAS' By-Laws                  June 19, 1987
(3)   Establishment of CENAGUAS' Executive Board   June 19, 1987
(4)   Conclusion of study financed by FFDU
to estimate training needs and physical
and financial requirements for the
establishment of CENAGUAS                     March 31, 1987
(5)   Legal creation of CENAGUAS as
autonomous non-profit institution              June 30, 1988
(6)   Appointment of General Manager                 June 30, 1988
(7)   Signature of Agreement with Bogota
Water Company on use of physical
installation at San Diego
Water Treatment Plant                          July 30, 1988
(8)   Approval by CENAGUAS' Board of organiza-
tional structure, staffing schedule,
manual of functions and 1989 Budget           August 31, 1988
(9)   Signature of Subsidiary Agreement with
BCH/FFDU regarding the execution of the
training component (Part D of the
Project)                                     October 31, 1988



- 99 _
(10)   Presentation by CENAGUAS of a plan of
action for the execution of the
training component of the Project to
BCHIFFDU                                     February 28, 1989
(11)   Presentation by BCH/FFDU of the
above-mentioned plan to the Bank              March 31, 1989
(12)   Appointment of staff according to
approved staffing schedule (action 8)         March 31, 1989
Plan of Action for the Execution of the Training Component
2.       CENAGUAS' plan of action for  the  execution of Component D of the
Project to be submitted to the Bank by no later than March 31, 1989 will
include the following information:
(a)  a list of  equipment  needs  and  a  description of the works
required to convert the existing facilities at the San Diego
Water Treatment Plant into a functional training center;
(b)  a procurement time  table  and  cost  estimates regarding the
items mentioned in (a) above;
(c)  a  training  schedule   for   CENAGUAS  personnel  indicating
training objectives, methodology and cost;
(d)  for  each  of  the   consulting  services  required  for  the
exeuction of the component, the presentation of: conceptual
terms of reference, types of consultancies to be selected, a
time  table  for  hiring   consultants  including  dates  for
intermediate steps (availability of terms of reference, short
list of consultants, proposed contract award, duration of
consultancy) and a cost estimate.



_ 100 -
Annex 13
COLOMBIA
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR PROJECT
Mciitoring Indicators fo, FFDU a/
1988    1989   1990    1991    1992
Investments (US$ million)               8.6    64.5   116.1   150.5    90.3
Disbursements (US$ million)b/           6.0    45.1    81.3   105.4    63.2
Loans Amounts Committed by FFDUb/
(USS million;                        42.0   140.0   154.0    14.'       -
Number of Subprojects
Approved                              8       26      32       14
a/ For the execution of Component (A) of the Project.
b/  70Z of investments, including contributions by financial intermediaries
and FONADE.



- 101 -
Annex 14
Page 1 of 4
COLOMBIA
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR PROJECT
Documentation Required for the Review of Subprojects by the Bank
1.       For each subproject FFDU will  provide a brief and concise project
evaluation report with the content summarized below. Back-up information,
more detailed reports, feasibility studies and designs should be kept by
FFDU and tade available Lo the Bank upon request.
2.       For a single-commuuity project  with  an  EPM as ex3cuting agency,
the evaluation report should contain:
(a) description of project executing agency;
(b)  description of pre-project service conditions and problems;
(c) project objectives;
(d) population and demand projections (Annex)
(e) project beneficiaries;
(f) project description, including a discussion of alternatives
evaluated and presentation of least-cost solution;
(g) project cost estimate with appropriate contingencies;
(h) project implementation and procurement schedule;
(i) project financing plan;
(j) institutional assessment and plan of action of improvement of
company's management, administration and operation;
(k)  financial  analysis  and  projections,  in  form  of  summary
financial statements (Annex);
(1)  tariff analysis;
(m) economic and social analysis and justification;
(n) list of administrative, operational and financial monitoring
indicators;
(o) procurement arrangements;
(p)  arrangements for supervision of construction;
(q) accounting arrangements;



- 102 -
Annex 14
Page 2 of 4
(r) disbursement arrangements; and
Cs) environmental impact statement.
3.       In addition, FFDU would provide:
(a)  resolution  by  the  National   Tariff   Board  (JNT)  and  a
demonstration that authorized schedule of tariff adjustments
are sufficient to allow  the beneficiary to generate internal
funds as shown in financial projections;
(b) proof that project executing entity has applied tariff levels
authorized by JNT;
tc) legal agreements, including:
(i) FFDU - financial intermediary;
(ii) FFDU - cofinancers (Departments/Municipalities)
(iii) FFDU - project executing agency;
(iv) project executing agevcy - financial intermediary
(v) project executing agency - cofinancers;
'd) in case of cofinancing, evidence that cofinancing required is
assured;
(e)  for  multi-service  companies,   plan   for  financial  se.'.f-
sufficiency  for  services   other   than  water  supply  and
sewerage; and
(f) solid waste feasibility study, if financing for this service
is to be provided.
4.       For a  multi-community  project  with  a  departmental or regional
company as executing agency the evaluation report should contain:
(a) global information on project executing agency, including:
(i) description  of   agency,   institutional   setting  and
arrangements with member communities (map);
(ii) institutional  assessment   and   plan   of  action  for
improvements;
(iii) pre-project service conditions and problems in member
comunities;
(iv) project objectives;
(v) population and demand projections;
(vi) project beneficiaries;
(vii) project description, including institutional streng-
thening program;



- 103 _
Annex 14
Page 3 of 4
(viii) project implementation and procurement schedule;
(ix) project cost estimate and financing plan;
(x) tariff analysis;
(xi) financial analysis and projections;
(xii) monitoring indicators;
(xiii) procurement arrangements;
(xiv) auditing arrangements;
(xv) disbursement arrangements;
(xvi) arrangements for supervision of construction; and
(b) for each subproject a concise profile, including:
(i) Description of project and service conditions (map);
(ii) population and demand projections;
(iii) project beneficiaries;
(iv) project description;
(v) project cost;
(vi) project implementation schedule;
(vii) project financing plan;
(viii) tariff analysis;
(ix) economic/social analysis and justification;
(x) monitoring indicators
(xi) environmental impact statement.
5.       In addition, FFDU would provide:
(a)  resolution by the  National  Tariff  Board (JNT) and demonstration
that authorize' tariff levels are sufficient to allow the company
to generate internal funds as shown in financial projections;
(b)  proof that project executing  entity has implemented tariff levels
authorized by JNT;
(c)  legal arrangements analogous to those listed in para. 3(b); and
(d)  evidence that cofinancing is assured.



- 104 -
Annex 14
Page 4 of 4
6.       For rural projects,  FFDU  would  provide  information on the executing
unit analogous to para. 4(a), and describe in detail the capacity of the
executing unit to carry out the Basic Rural Sanitation Program and measures to
tmprove such capacity.
7.       For each rural subproject,  a  brief  project profile would be provided
containing the following documentation which is customarily prepared as part of
the project preparation methodology followed under the National Program of Basic
Rural Sanitation:
(a) technical and socio-economic project evaluation, including-
(i) description of community, service conditions, water resource
condition (map);
(ii) socio-economic characteristics of community and prospects for
development;
(iii) project objectives;
(iv) population and demand forecast;
(v) project description with design parameters;
(vi) cost estimate;
(vii) financing plan with leve' of cost recovery from community;
(viii) projection  of  maintenance  and   operation  cost  and  debt
service;
(ix) calculation of "cuota familiar";
(x) institutional arrangements for continued supervision of an
assistance in the maintenance and operation of the system;
(b) signed agreement between community and project executing
agency; and
(c) agreements between community and potential cofinancers.
8.       In addition, all  legal  agreements  analogous  to those listed in
para. 3(b).
9.       For multi-community projects, subproject profiles for a minimum of
40Z of the total number of subprojects to be financed under the projects
should be available initially.    The  documentation for the remaining sub-
projects would be prepared and submitted later on during project execution.



- 105 -
Annex 15
COLOMBIA
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR PROJECT
Limits on Type of Procurement and Prior Review Thresholds
(US$ '000)
Type of              Prior            Estimated              Type of
Procurement           Review            Contract             Procurement
-Limit              Value
Goods                       >300              >300               ICB \a
(equipment,                                 20-300               LCB \_
pipes, vehicles,                           <20              Local Shopping \c
materials)
Civil Works                >2000             >2000               ICB \a
200-2000               LCB \U
<200         Local Shopping \c
a/  International competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Guidelines.
b/ Local competitive bidding with foreign bidders having the opportunity
to participate.
c/ Price quotations from at least three qualified local bidders.



- 106 -
Annex 16
COLOMBIA
.- .
-   WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR PROJECT
Loan Disbursement Schedule
Quarterly
Bank Fiscal Year        Disbursement         Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter Ending       (USS million)      USS miiion       2 of Total
FY 89
Sept. 30, 1988                 0                  0               0
Dec. 31. 1988                  1.5                1.5             1.0
March 31, 1989                 1.5                3.0              2.0
June 30, 1989                  1.5                4.5             3.0
FY 90
Sept. 30, 1989                 1.5                6.0             4.0
Dec. 30, 1989                  3.0                9.0             6.0
March 31, 1990                 4.5               13.5              9.0
June 30, 1990                  6.0               19.5            13.0
FY 91
Sept. 30, 1990                 6.8               26.3            17.5
Dec. 30, 1990                  7.5               33.8            22.5
March 31, 1991                 8.2               42.0             28.0
June 30. 1991                 10.5               52.5            35.0
FY 92
Sept. 30, 1991                12.0               64.5            43.0
Dec. 30, 1991                 15.0               79.5             53.0
March 31, 1992                13.5               93.0            62.0
June 30, 1992                 10.5              103.5            69.0
FY 93
Sept. 30, 1992                 9.0              112.5            75.0
Dec. 30, 1992                  7.5              120.0            80.0
March 31,                      7.5              127.5             85.0
June 30, 1993                  7.5              135.0            90.0
FY 94
Sept. 30, 1993                 3.0              138.0            92.0
Dec. 31, 1993                  3.0              141.0            94.0
March 31, 1994                 3.0              144.0             96.0
June 30, 1994                  3.0              147.0            98.0
FY 95
Sept. 30, 1984                 1.5              148.5            99.0
Dec. 30, 1994                  1.5              150.0           100.0



- 107 -
Annex 17
COLOMBIA
WATER SUPPLY AND S3W3RG  SECTOR PJECT
Allocation of Loan Proceeds
The proposed disbursement categories, the allocation of Loan funds and
the disbursement percentages are as followss
Amount of
Loan Allocation          Z Expenditures
(Expressed in                to be
Category             Dollar Equivalent)             financed
(1) Goods, civil works,           146,000,000        55  of tIe amounts disbursed
services and training under                      by the Borrower under Parti-
Component A of the Project                       cipating Loans
(2) Goods, consultants' services   1,000,000         50?
and training under Component
B of the Project
(3) Goods, consultants' services   1,500,000         100o
and training under Component
C of the Project
(4) Goods, civil works, con-        1,500,000        100?
sultants' services and
training under Component D
of the Project
TOTAL
150,000,000



- 108 -
Annex 18
Page 1 of 2
COLOtBIA
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in Prolect File
1.       Evaluacion de la Ejecuci6n Presupuestal 1987 y Presupuesto
1988-1992, Banco Central Hipotecario, no date.
2.       Ejecui6n Presupuestal 1987, Fondo Financiero de Desarrollo Urbano,
Banco Central Hipotecario, January 1988.
3.       Proyecciones 1988-1992, Fondo Financiero de Desarrollo Urbano,
Banco Central Hipotecario, March 1988.
4.       Presupuesto 1988, Banco Central Hipotecario, no date.
5.       Resoluci6n Numero 53 de 1987, Junta Monetaria de la Repuiblica de
Colombia, September 25, 1987.
6.       Aspectos Financieros del Programa de Acueducto y Saneamiento
Ambiental, Fernandc:!, Motta y Asociados, Bogoti, September 1987.
7.       Informes de Auditoria del BCH/FFDU para Aiios 1987 y 1986, Arthur
Anderson y Cia., Colombia, May 22, 1987.
8.       Orden de Gerencia No. 98, Reorganizaci6n de la Subgerencia de
Desarrollo Regional y Urbano, Banco Central Hipotecario, September
15, 1987.
9.       Estatutos del Centro Nacional de Agual (CENAGUAS) and Acta de
Constituci6n de CENAGUA, June 19, 1987.
10.      Decree 77 of January 15, 1987 and Decree 1723 of September 4,
1987.
11.      Draft Agreement Republic of Colombia-BCH Regarding the Proposed
Bank Loan, April 19, 1988.
12.      Decree 394 of February 26, 1987, Establecimiento de una Estructura
Nacional de Tarifas para los servicios de Acueducto y
Alcantarillado, Departamento Nacional de Planeacion.
13.      Estado Actual del Sistema de INSFOPAL, Informe No. 1, National
Planning Department, no date.
14.      Anilisis Institucional de la Estructura del Sector de Agua Potable
y Saneamiento de Colombia, National Planning Department, December
1984.



- 1W9 -
15.      Transforencias do los Derechos Socialos y Reostructuraci6n de la
Deuda de Largo Plaso de las Empressa del Sistema INSFOPAL,
Documento 2336-UINF, National Planning Department, July 29, 1987.
16.      Resoluciones y Decrotoc Relacionados con *I Servicio do Acueducto
y Alcantarillado, Junta Nacional do Tarifas, National Planning
Department, no date.
17.      Progrem, de Ajusto Soctorial Sector do Agua Potable y Saneamiento
Ambiontal, Documonto 2282-UINF, National Planning Department,
October 27, 1986.
18.      Ley 12 de 1986:  Nuevos Recursos par& los Municipios, Documonto
DNP, UDRU, DEU, National Planning Department, February 4, 1986.
19.      Plan Financiero del Proyeeto de Ajuste del Sector Agua Potable y
Saneamiento Bisico (PAS) y Garantia do la Naci6n para Respaldar
las Operaciones de Cridito Externo con la Banc& Multilateral,
Document 2363, National Planning Department, April 12, 1988.



,s. I   7f'                                      ;                                                                                IBRD 1837
7'4                                               COIA                             MAY 1984
IAIA ICA HAITI r DOMINICAN lIP
HONDIJAS
COLOMBIA                                                                         12-- 'NICARAGUA
ICA,              VENEUELA    ,
PANAMA      w2 VEFEZEGAU/AIA
ATIANkho V                                             (   ~  ~ ( a*t r, GUIANA
soira-~~L..                    /                               E-r CUAOOE)r\ 
Cortgo- . a                Vl W . .........J
X~~~~~~4 J                                                      ..%       - >t 9 PRG<A
PANAMACrl/w                                                    li,     /                 o 
./   f    / 2   \  t k A  't;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SLIIA1
t"  -,\-      Et--k~~~~~t-RT[    C'--
ARAuiCA A.-t,
fAN AMA2_                      5) -f '                                                         AE     A  5  IA S A N A R E
/1  /Ifw.~EL                               t                                          I~jRT E  so.' owa.oow www. wwowo s.ow    .~.t w~  so .A  a A
,.-(Aw                                                                                                                   w   err . .  o' .c,wIan        o-
8-^OSabirO ff 3 Ar\IANtIA . .  !  sRAuC
CPX                                                     4  2> /-A  T A |_ 
A,I kU  C)A        611 I                                                                        L) -  A   N   A
:,\f"^ ,, ........I <                                                                                    /'> 
K   F
'-Ks~       fl l     !  P FS |
*.                                CA ,f.,                                                           L.-.                               L  t
0.
O- E C U A DOR                                ,                                                       '           |
\         7 ) _                     ,>                                 \                   M ILES
Urban Populo,won of Cents, Towns     Elevot.ons (nesers)                                                       F                  I '
;           5,000,000 persons    ,    I                                                                                        100  150  200  250
2.000,000                    3,000       %w                                                             o         KILOMETERS
_ 0_ oooo               !    0oo  0                           A M  A 7 0 N   S
O5000|                                                                                                    B           R A  Z I L
0     Notwonol Cap.wal                                       *    --_f .
     Cwt.es ond Towns wilh Papulat,on Over 40,000
Mown Hwghways                                   p    E    R
-   -   Deportmenlol Bound.ores
Internalwonal Brsundorwes                                                    j  
-8-474-                                                                                    ,-.4
7S*                                               74*                                       id.4



