Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 17197
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR PROJECT
(LOAN 2961-CO)
November 17, 1997
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Department
Country Management Unit 4
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   =    Colombian Peso (Col $)
EXCHANGE RATE EFFECTIVE MAY 24,1988
US$1.00 = Col$287.75
Col$1.00 = US$0.03475
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
BCH           Central Mortgage Bank
CENAGUA    National Water Center
CONPES       National Council on Economic and Social Policy
CRAS         Water and Sanitation Regulatory Commission
DAPSB         Drinking Water and Basic Sanitation Directorate of the MOPT
DNP          National Planning Department
DWSS          Directorate of Water Supply and Sanitation
EAAB         Bogota Water Supply and Sewerage Company
FFDU          Urban Development Finance Fund
FINDETER    Regional Development Finance Corporation
FONADE       National Fund for Development Projects
INS          National Health Institute
INSFOPAL    National Institute for Municipal Development
MDE           Ministry of Economic Development
MOPT          Ministry of Public Works and Transport
MSP           Ministry of Public Health
PSP           Private Sector Participation
SENA         National Training Service
SSPD          Superintendency of Domestic Public Services
Vice President                            Shahid Javed Burki
Director, Country Management Unit         Andres Solimano
Director, Sector Management Unit          Sri-Ram Aiyer
Task Manager                              Menahem Libhaber



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE ..............................................................;i
EVALUATION SUMMARY .............................................................                                                       ii
PART  I: PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION  ASSESSMENT .......................................................1
1.  STATEMENT  OF OBJECTIVES ..............................................................1
2. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES . .............................................................2
3. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .......... ...............5
4. PROJECT  SUSTAINABILITY ..............................................................8
5. BANK  PERFORMANCE ..............................................................9
6. BORROWER  PERFORMANCE .............................................................                                     10
7. ASSESSMENT  OF OUTCOME ..............................................................                                   12
8. FUTURE  OPERATIONS .............................................................                                        13
9. KEY LESSONS LEARNED  ..............................................................                                     15
PART  II: STATISTICAL  ANNEXES .............................................................                                         17
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS .............................................................                             17
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS ............................................................. 18
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE ............................................................. 18
TABLE 4: LoAN DISBURSEMENTS: CUMuLATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL ..............                                                   19
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ................ .......................... 20
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION .................................................... 2 1
TABLE 7:  STUDIES INCLUDED IN THE PROJECT .............................................................. 22
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS ............................................................. 22
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING ............................................................. 23
TABLE 9:  ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN ............................................................... 24
COLOMBIA .............................................................                                                    25
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS ........................................................ ...... 25
TABLE 11: COvPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS .................                                                 31
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES:  STAFF INPUTS ............................................................. 31
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS                                     .......................................... 32
APPENDIX A PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ................ 33
APPENDIX  B   AIDE  MEMOIRE  ............................................................. 8 1
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR PROJECT
LOAN 2961 - CO
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Water Supply and Sewerage Sector
Project in Colombia, for which Loan 2961-CO of US$150 million equivalent was approved on June 16,
1988, and became effective on August 16, 1989.
The loan was closed on December 31, 1996, 24 months later than the original closing date
(December 31, 1994). Final disbursement took place on May 1997, at which time a balance of US$
5,470,434 was canceled. Cofinancing for the project was provided by the National Government and by
FINDETER (Local Loans).
TIhe ICR was prepared by Mr. Menahem Libhaber (LCSFP) and by Mr. German Silva
(Consultant) of the Latin America and the Caribbean Region, and-reviewed by Mr. Eugene D. McCarthy
(ex-Division Chief, LA3EI) and Mrs. Maria Victoria Lister (Quality Assurance, LCSFP).
Preparation of this ICR began during the Bank's final completion mission in May 1997. It is based
on material in the project files. The borrower contributed'to the preparation of the ICR by working closely
with the team which prepared the ICR and by providing comments on the draft ICR, which have been
incorporated into the final document. The Borrower comments are included as Appendix A.



- ii -
EVALUATION SUMMARY
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR PROJECT
LOAN 2961-CO
COLOMBIA
Introduction
i.    Colombia, with a population of about 36 million inhabitants, 70% of which is urban, has made
impressive strides in expanding its water and sanitation sector in the past decade. Over 76% of the
population has now access to drinking water, while sanitary sewerage covers 64% of households in the
country. The coverage levels in the four biggest urban centers of Bogota, Medellin, Cali and Barranquilla,
which together account for 30% of the population, is substantially higher, at 88% for water and 85% for
sewerage. The demand for improving and expanding the water supply and sewerage services is still high.
Nevertheless, major institutional problems persist, having their origin in highly politicized utility companies
which lack operational autonomy and have limited accountability for their performance. A new regulatory
framework conducive to efficiency improvements, expanded private sector participation in the delivery of
public services, greater accountability, and more arm's length relationship between utilities and local
politicians was legislated by the Government as the Domestic Public Services Law (Law 142) enacted in
July 1994. The Government's main sector goals are to: (a) restructure the existing institutions; (b) increase
national household coverage of water and sewerage services; (c) improve the quality of drinking water from
public systems; and (d) formulate and initiate implementation of wastewater treatment strategy for its
largest cities. Since 1975 the Bank has made 13 loans, totaling about US$707 million, for water supply
and sanitation services development in Colombia.
Statement of Project Objectives
ii.    The main objective of the project was to underpin the implementation of the first sector reform
program (SRP) by financing a US$ 430 million slice of the Government's US$ 600 million 1988-1992
sector investment program and help the Government in bringing about sectoral, institutional and policy
reforms. Its specific objectives were to assist the Government in:
(a) Providing by the end of 1992 water supply services to about 1.9 million additional people and
sewerage services to about 1.3 million additional people, most of whom belong to the poorer
segment of the country's population;
(b) Introducing a new lending policy designed to: (i) reinforce the adjustments to sector financing
policy; (ii) promote greater operational efficiency and financial viability of water and sewerage
companies; and (iii) stimulate the preparation and execution of more cost-effective investment
projects;
(c) Strengthening the institutional framework at the national level through the: (i) promotion of a
strong financial intermediation capacity (BCH/FFDU) capable of enforcing the provisions of



- iii -
the new lending policy; (ii) introduction of adequate global sector planning (DNP) and (iii)
development of a strong technical support and monitoring agency (DWSS of MOPT);
(d) Promoting, at the departmental, regional and/or municipal level, the development of companies
of sufficient size and operational and financial autonomy to operate efficiently water and
sewerage systems;
(e) Reviewing and updating technical norms, design parameters and technologies for future
preparation of more cost-effective and appropriate investment projects; and
(f) Establishing a permanent human resources development capacity for all levels of sector
personnel and strengthening the performance capability of sector personnel by developing and
implementing a comprehensive training program.
Achievement of Objectives
iii.    As a result of institutional changes that occurred within Colombia's water and sanitation sector
during the project implementation period, the loan had to be amended three times. Although the basic
objectives of the project were retained, the investment program was reduced from US$ 430 million to US$
285 million. Nevertheless, the Borrower provided more counterpart funds than planned and finally, the
total investment under the project amounted to US$ 419.7 million. Project objectives were not fully
achieved. FFDU and FINDETER financed the execution of 401 subprojects which are now completed,
benefit more than 450 Colombian municipalities, and have most probably achieved the goal of providing
water supply and sewerage services to 1.9 million and 1.3 million additional inhabitants, respectively.
Although the infrastructure works were executed, several of them suffered from problems of conception,
design or operation. The project positively contributed to initiating the change in the culture of financing
water supply and sanitation projects by assisting the implementation of the first sector reform of 1986, and
it provided inspiration and guidance for the second sector reform introduced by Law 142 of 1994.
However, the objectives of institutional strengthening and financial self-sufficiency of the sector companies
were not achieved in most of the subprojects, and the sector development and training programs under
component C were subject to delays. Nevertheless, all these programs have been initiated, are under
implementation and will be completed in early 1998, through complementary Government financing.
FINDETER has not estimated the rates of return for each of the subprojects, since the small size and the
small amount of investment in most of them would make it relatively costly to carry out such estimates, and
since, given that they are water supply and sanitation projects which form a basic social necessity, the
investment decision was not based only on economic considerations. In any case, since a minimum rate of
return of 12 per cent was used in the evaluation methodology for each credit transaction and since the
works were dimensioned with a view of minimum cost, FINDETER estimates that in general, the rate of
return of 10% set as a goal in the SAR was achieved for each subproject.
Major Factors which Affected Project Implementation
iv.   Implementation of the project was negatively affected by a number of factors:
* Institutional changes at the sector level: The institutional changes which occurred in
Colombia's water sector during the loan implementation period disrupted execution and led to
successive amendments to the loan agreement. Instability and lack of continuity resulted in the



- iv-
loss of much of the sector's institutional memory as well as staff and with technical and
operating experience, and this in turn caused delays in execution. Responsibility for the sector
and for executing the project lay initially with FFDU and two other newly-established entities,
namely DAPSB and CENAGUA. Internal problems within those agencies led to their
replacement during the course of project execution by other, equally new agencies,
FINDETER and the MDE, that had no institutional background or experience in the sector.
These changes had a detrimental impact on project implementation and caused delays.
*  Project formulation and design problems: The AT-PAS program [Technical Assistance -
Sector Adjustment Program] executed by DNP under Component B was aimed at providing
technical assistance to municipalities in the preparation of projects, but the results were on the
whole not satisfactory. The preparation of subprojects was not financed by the loan and the
quality of the pre-investment studies and designs was, in many cases, not satisfactory.
*  Cofinancing grants: Resources from the national cofinancing grant system, which originated
from parliamentary appropriations, introduced distortions to project objectives as a result of
being allocated on the basis of political criteria, without being subject to the same conditions as
those attached to the Bank loan proceeds. This introduced a disincentive for business-oriented
performance on part of the sector companies and resulted in distorting one of the loan's most
important objectives, namely promoting the creation and strengthening of self-sufficient
municipal service companies.
v  Political interference: Regional and local politicians intervened repeatedly in decisions
regarding the execution of infrastructure works. This feature of the institutional environment
cannot be overlooked, but is difficult to eradicate as long as the operation of services is not
privatized. Political intervention also interfered with FINDETER's performance. In the early
years of its operation, FINDETER's management was guided by technical criteria, and was
supported by expert staff transferred from FFDU. Unfortunately, during the last years of
project implementation this situation changed as political criteria influenced investment
decisions, in part because of FINDETER's new role in handling large amounts of cofinancing
grants. As a result, key experienced personnel were withdrawn, and FINDETER was used as
a political instrument.
*  Failure to change the focus with respect to strengthening the service providing entities:
During project preparation, the focus of the institutional strengthening programs was personnel
training and building up the administrative and financial capacity of the existing service
companies. Privatization was not recognized at that time as an institutional development
strategy and the project was not designed to promote private sector participation. In recent
years it was recognized that the traditional approach to institutional development was not
effective and the overall Bank's approach to institutional improvement in the water sector has
evolved to focus on promoting private sector participation. In several subprojects, the Bank
succeeded in inducing the incorporation of the private sector into the service companies. Such
are the cases of Cartagena and Barranquilla. The project, however, was not restructured to
adapt to Law 142 of 1994, i.e, to assist in incorporating private sector participation in a
significant number of companies.



v -
Project Sustainability
v.     Frequent institutional changes within the sector led to the loss of institutional memory, staff and
technical and operating capacity. At present, the availability of capable managers, technical and operating
staff to operate and maintain the water supply and sanitation systems is insufficient. Sector sustainability
is therefore uncertain. The sustainability of the project will depend primarily on the commitment of local
leaders, mayors, governors and politicians to cooperate in the future - during a period in which the
provision of services has ceased to be the obligation and responsibility of the Government but rather the
obligation and right of the community - to ensure that these services are provided efficiently, and that the
systems are properly operated and maintained. Community participation is a prerequisite for institutionally
stable and financially self-sufficient sector companies. The following are essential elements consolidating
the institutional setup and for ensuring that the works executed under the project become sustainable: (a)
providing advisory services provided to the companies regarding their obligations and responsibilities; (b)
providing information to the communities on their rights and duties as consumers; (c) continuous
monitoring and control by the new supervisory entities recently created under Law 142 (the CRAS and the
SSPD) over compliance with preparation of management and results programs and over adequate
performance; (d) the effective handling of technical, human and financial resources; (e) tariff adjustments
to ensure financial self-sufficiency; and (f) ensuring compliance with programs to reduce UFW. Adoption
of strategies for promoting private sector participation in the provision of services is also a key element for
the future sustainability of the sector companies.
Bank Performance
vi.    The identification, preparation and appraisal of the project by the Bank was based on previous
familiarity with the water and sanitation sector in Colombia, in which it had carried out 13 lending
operations since 1975. As a result of the unsatisfactory performance of the water sector during the
previous two decades, the Government was implementing, with the active participation and advisory
services of the Bank, an important program of institutional reform to improve the sector's management.
Through the project, the Bank helped to finance a portion of the Government's investment program in
water supply and sanitation for the years 1988-1992. The staff appraisal report (SAR) clearly identified
the sector priorities, defined the strategies and established the specific conditions for carrying out the
project and for assisting in restructuring the sector. It also identified the risks and proposed remedies to
mitigate them. An assessment of the results shows that the risks where correctly identified. The size of the
loan was appropriately dimensioned. There is no doubt that the loan significantly contributed to changing
the financing and implementation culture of projects in the sector. During the project implementation
period, organizational changes took place in the Bank. This led to frequent changes of task managers and
resulted in loss of continuity and of institutional memory, changes of management styles and on emphasis
on project implementation. It had a negative impact on the relations with the Borrower. A total of 15
supervision missions were carried out during the eight years of project implementation, utilizing 171 staff-
weeks.
vii.   The Bank played an important role in inducing the institutional development of the water company
of Cartagena through the incorporation of the private sector in the provision of the water and sewerage
services in this city. In addition to the important positive impact of this Private Sector Participation (PSP)
process on the city of Cartagena, it has the significance of being the first PSP process in the water sector in
Colombia and is helping in paving the way for similar processes in other cities in the country. The Bank
had a crucial role in ensuring the success of the privatization process by promoting ideas, extending



- vi -
technical assistance, convincing the political decision makers to support the institutional change acting as
an important catalyst to accelerate the implementation of the PSP process, and serving as a mediator in the
negotiations of the PSP contract. Overall the Bank's performance has been satisfactory.
Borrower Performance
viii. The National Government supported the project and adopted important institutional reforms that
established a clear legal framework for decentralized operations and for regulating and supervising the
water and sewerage service companies (Law 142 of 1994). Nevertheless, while that reform is conceptually
valid and well conceived, the institutional design still needs to be improved. There is no clear identification
of the executing agency responsible for providing technical assistance to the municipalities and utilities in
preparing their projects and in verifying their technical and financial feasibility. The performance of FFDU
and especially FINDETER in tenns of management, processing and disbursement of a large number of
subprojects (401 compared to 80 envisaged in the SAR) was very satisfactory. These institutions were
able to implement the new loan policy in the midst of a process of profound institutional change, and they
succeeded in mobilizing, allocating, controlling and disbursing resources and in supervising the execution
of 401 subprojects throughout the country. This represents an important accomplishment and demonstrates
a high level of administration capacity. Nevertheless, FINDETER was not very strict in reviewing the
designs submitted by the municipalities and the utilities, it failed to insist on tariff changes, and it did not
impose compliance with all of the requirements for institutional strengthening. It should, however, be noted
that it is doubtful that the institutional improvement objectives of the project were realistic and achievable,
and the resources allocated for implementing these objectives were not sufficient. FINDETER was active
and involved in the subprojects during the procurement stage of goods and works. Nevertheless, it was less
active during the execution stage, when it made only a few visits to the subproject sites, usually, only when
serious problems occurred, and was not at all present during the stages of project start up and operation.
FINDETER was inflexible in granting supplementary financing for subprojects in cases of cost overruns,
with the result that several subprojects remained incomplete and the municipalities could not mobilize the
small additional resources required to complete the works and put the systems into operation. Overall the
perfonmance of FINDETER has been satisfactory.
Assessment of Outcome
ix.    Overall, the project results can be regarded as moderately satisfactory. A total of 401 subprojects
were executed, compared with only 80 envisaged in the SAR. Infrastructure works were executed in 450
municipalities, compared to an expected number of 400, and the beneficiary population of three million, set
as a goal in the SAR, has, most probably, been achieved. In many cases, the newly constructed or
rehabilitated systems are operating satisfactorily, have contributed to improving the quality of services,
have favorably benefited the respective communities and resulted in extending the provision of water and
sewerage services to consumers who without the project had no chance of receiving these services.
Nevertheless, several of these works suffered from problems of inadequate concept, design or operation.
The project assisted the implementation of the first reform of the water sector carried out through Law 77
(liquidation of INSFOPAL) and Law 12 (the decentralization Law). It supported the resulting institutional
change in the sector, and the creation of municipal service companies, and contributed to changing the
culture whereby the municipalities used to depend on the central Government to resolve their water supply
and sanitation problems.



- vii -
x.    The institutional strengthening programs were not implemented in most of the sector companies. It
should, however, be recognized that the achievement of the institutional objectives of the project is a
difficult task and it is doubtful that the respective targets were ever realistic in the first place. During the
period of project implementation, both the Bank and the Government policies with respect to institutional
aspects of provision of domestic public services were re-oriented towards promoting the involvement of
private capital and managerial capacity. The loan, together with the new directions and strategies with
respect to PSP adopted by the Bank during the project implementation period, had a positive impact on
inducing the second reform in the sector, i.e., on the formulation and enactment of the Domestic Public
Services Law (Law 142 of 1994), which opened the way to private sector participation. Although progress
achieved in privatizing the sector companies was sporadic, the project had an important role in initiating a
wave of PSP processes which will result in a significant improvement in the sector's performance in the
future. In some municipalities, such as Cartagena, Barranquilla and Santa Marta, an impressive
institutional development is being achieved in the framework of the project by incorporating the private
sector in the provision of the water and sewerage services. The Cartagena case is of special importance,
since for the first time, the water and sewerage services in one of Colombia's major cities have been
privatized and are being managed by an experienced European private operator. Similarly, it is the first
case in which the recommendation of Law 142 has been applied in providing public services through a
company constituted as a shareholder corporation (Sociedad por Acciones, article 17 of the Law). The
Cartagena model, which has been successful, serves as an example to many other companies in Colombia
and is paving the way for the implementation of Law 142 and the promotion of PSP in the sector. In this
sense, the project had an important impact on the institutional development of the water and sanitation
sector companies by showing the beneficial impact of PSP.
xi.    The sector development and training studies under component C were subject to setbacks and
delays and have not yet been completed. Nevertheless, all of them have been initiated and are under
implementation. MDE has managed to mobilize the required resources which will ensure the completion of
the activities of Component C by the first quarter of 1998, and so the project has induced the compliance of
component C.
Future Operations
xii.   Future Bank operations should attempt to address the main sector problems. i.e., institutional
weakness at the sector management level, instability and poor management capacity of the sector
companies, inadequate capacity of the sector companies in terms of preparation, design and supervision of
projects, and the lack of training opportunities for all personnel. It is indispensable to put in place
mechanisms for improving the quality of project formulation, design and budgeting, and for supervising the
execution of works, without undermining the autonomy of the municipalities under the decentralized
system. Future operations will depend on the availability of such mechanisms. Participation of the private
sector in the provision of water and sewerage services through various models of association with the new
enterprises created under Law 142 appears to offer the best prospects for achieving institutional
improvement and stability in the sector companies, and is undoubtedly the route that will be adopted by
many enterprises. Support for such initiatives, which will help to improve operational efficiency of water
companies is a priority area for future Bank operations. The initiative adopted in the formulation of this
loan to establish a permanent system for training water-sector personnel was an appropriate and necessary
strategy. Unfortunately, its implementation was not implemented under the project. Given the scarcity of
trained personnel within the sector after ten years of institutional changes, the training problem should be
addressed on a permanent and institutionalized basis. Technical and financial support should be provided



- viii -
to SENA and to universities, to mount a long-term training program for the sector. With the growing
presence of the European operating utilities in Colombia, training programs should also be developed with
these utilities, especially in areas of commercial and operational management. Since the Loan Closing
Date, FINDETER continued to: (i) supervise the performance of the completed subprojects; (ii) finance
similar subprojects with its own resources; and (iii) implement an institutional improvement program. It
has also requested a new Bank loan for the Second Municipal Development Project.
Key Lessons Learned
xiii.   Reform of utility collateral must be undertaken by bringing to an end the pledging of Government
transfers as a collateral for revenue earning projects, but instead pledging utility revenues from user
charges. This should be embedded in the collateral legislation and apply to all sector pledging, not just for
loans rediscounted by FINDETER. This will serve as an incentive for the commercial banks to perform
serious due diligence in appraising utility credit worthiness and ensure business-oriented perfonnance of the
borrowing utilities. This form of pledging could, however, be waived for small municipalities, where the
corporate structure of the utilities might have limited scope for revenue generation.
xiv.   Resources of the national cofinancing grant system, which originate from Congress appropriations,
have introduced distortions to project objectives as a result of being allocated on the basis of political
criteria, without being subject to the same conditions as those attached to the Bank loan proceeds. This in
tum has introduced a disincentive for business-oriented performance on the part of the sector companies
and resulted in distorting one of the loan's most important objective, namely that of promoting the creation
and strengthening of self-sufficient municipal service companies. The cofinancing funds should be
allocated as matching grants when central fine-tuning of local sectoral performance is needed, while their
allocation should always be based on transparent criteria.
xv./   FINDETER's management, staffing and project appraisal and supervision capability have
deteriorated sharply with growing political considerations entering into decision making because of its new
role in handling large cofinancing grants. This hampered its credibility and its leadership in the sector
reformn. In addition to resolving the cofinancing problems, clearer staffing criteria should be used by
FINDETER, based on education, experience and managerial capacity.
xvi.   The successful experience of institutional improvement through private sector participation in
Cartagena and Barranquilla indicates that PSP is the most promising strategy for achieving institutional
improvement in the sector companies. Mechanisms to finance TA activities for supporting the
implementation of PSP processes should be put in place (either by DNP, MDE or FINDETER), so as to
increase the number of companies which have incorporated the private sector in the provision of the water
and sewerage services. In addition, FINDETER should develop mechanisms which will permit private
concessionaires to have access to FINDETER's resources.
xvii.  The preparation of subprojects was not financed by the loan and the quality of the pre-investment
studies and designs was, in many cases, unsatisfactory. Loan proceeds should be allocated to finance
subprojects preparation and FINDETER should provide mechanisms for improved review of designs and
supervision of implementation, so as to ensure the sustainability of these investments. This should
preferably be done through setting standards by FINDETER for project preparation and then facilitating
borrowers and financial intermediaries to hire specialized consultants to meet these standards, rather than
undertaking these steps directly by FINDETER's own staff.



- ix -
xviii. FINDETER was inflexible in granting supplementary financing for subprojects in cases of cost
overruns, with the result that several subprojects remained incomplete and the municipalities could not
mobilize the small additior.al resources required to complete the works and put the systems into operation.
It is recommended that in the future FINDETER be more flexible in providing supplementary financing,
whenever it is warranted.
xix.   Community participation mechanisms were not practiced under the water and sewerage sector loan
and there was no real participation in the subprojects on part of the communities, so that in many cases the
communities were not committed to their subprojects. Community participation is an important factor in
the success of projects of this type, and it is strongly recommended that community participation
mechanisms be incorporated into FINDETER's future operations.
XX.   Technical assistance activities should be demand driven. It is clearly a service that benefits the
recipient, and it should not be subsidized. Financing should be provided by FINDETER to its borrowers to
address their specific technical assistance needs, thus FINDETER should serve more as an advisor and
facilitator to borrowers rather than be involved in direct provision of technical assistance. In this respect,
FINDETER should establish strategic alliances with private and public entities for optimal utilization of
their capacity to provide technical assistance and avoid duplication. Also in this regard, FINDETER
should publish best practices in sector projects implementation through newsletters and other publication
methods, as well as serve as a clearing house on sector financing and management practices.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR PROJECT
LOAN 2961-CO
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
1.    STATEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
l .    The main objective of the project was to underpin the implementation of the sector reform
program (SRP) by financing a US$ 430 million slice of the Government's US$ 600 million
1988-1992 sector investment program and help the Government in bringing about sectoral,
institutional and policy reforms. Its specific objectives were to assist the Government in:
(a) Providing by the end of 1992 water supply services to about 1.9 million additional people and
sewerage services to about 1.3 million additional people, most of whom belong to the poorer
segment of the country's population;
(b) Introducing a new lending policy designed to: (i) reinforce the adjustments to the sector
fmancing policy; (ii) promote greater operational efficiency and financial viability of water and
sewerage companies; and (iii) stimulate the preparation and execution of more cost-effective
investment projects;
(c) Strengthening the institutional framework at the national level through the: (i) promotion of a
strong financial intermediation capacity (BCH/FFDU) capable of enforcing the provisions of
the new lending policy; (ii) introduction of adequate global sector planning (DNP) and (iii)
development of a strong technical support and monitoring agency (DWSS of MOPT);
(d) Promoting, at the departmental, regional and/or municipal level, the development of companies
of sufficient size and operational and financial autonomy to operate efficiently water and
sewerage systems;
(e) Reviewing and updating technical norms, design parameters and technologies for future
preparation of more cost-effective and appropriate investment projects; and
(f) Establishing a permanent human resources development capacity for all levels of sector
personnel and strengthening the performance capability of sector personnel by developing and
implementing a comprehensive training program.
2.    The project components are:
Component A:
The financing of Sub-projects consisting of rehabilitation and expansion of water supply
and sewerage systems, upgrading of solid waste services, institutional strengthening programs and
training.



-2 -
Component B:
A program to strengthen the Borrower's operating capabilities, including staff training and
the preparation and implementation of: (i) a comprehensive operating manual statement reflecting
SRP policies; (ii) investment project preparation and evaluation guidelines; and (iii) improved
computerized management systems for lending and supervision.
Component C:
(1)   A program to strengthen DWSS (later replaced by DNP and afterwards by MDE)
including staff training, acquisition and utilization of equipment and the carrying out of studies:
(i) to review and update existing technical norms and parameters for the design, construction and
maintenance of water and sewerage facilities; (ii) to prepare guidelines for the application of low-
cost appropriate technologies; (iii) to update NPBRS procedures and technologies for rural water
supply; and (iv) to prepare an inventory of Colombia's water supply and sewerage sector.
(2)   A comprehensive training program for the personnel of Colombia's water supply and
sewerage sector.
2. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
3.    As a result of institutional changes that occurred within Colombia's water and sanitation sector
during the project implementation period, the loan had to be amended three times. Although the basic
objectives of the project were retained, the investment program was reduced from US$ 430 million to US$
285 million. Nevertheless, the Borrower provided more counterpart funds than planned and in the end, the
total investment under the project amounted to US$ 419.7 million, i.e, similar to that originally envisioned
in the SAR. In general terms, the project objectives were not fully achieved. The institutional
strengthening programns in most of the service companies were not fulfilled, and the sector development and
training programs were subject to delays and will be completed only after the closing date of the loan. On
the other hand, new lending policy was put in place, a strong financial intermediation capacity was
developed and the sector reform supported by the project led to a second important reform which was not
envisaged in the SAR.
4.    FFDU and FINDETER financed the execution of 401 subprojects which are now
completed. Given that several subprojects involved regional programs, it is estimated that water
supply and sewerage works were executed in more than 450 Colombian municipalities. Although
the number of communities benefiting from the project is higher than that foreseen in the SAR,
some of the subprojects suffer from inadequate design, operation or insufficient capacity
problems. Four independent consultants were hired by FINDETER and DNP to evaluate 70
projects, and found that more than 50 per cent of them - a much too high percentage - were in
one or other of these situations.
5.    In its fifteen years of existence within BCH from 1975 to 1990, FFDU became the leading
source of long-term credit for municipal investment in Colombia. Its fast expansion in the late
80's, however, created conflicts of priorities with BCH's mainstream mortgage business, and
became constrained within the organizational structure of BCH. This led the Government to
transform FFDU into a self standing agency. Law 57 of November 1989 authorized the creation
of Financiera de Desarrollo Territorial (FINDETER) as a second-tier financial intermediary for



- 3 -
regional and local infrastructure investments. The new institution, legally established on May 14,
1990, took over the operations of FFDU. The Loan Agreement was amended to take into
account the change of Borrower, and the loan closing date was extended by two years (from
December 31, 1994 to December 31, 1996) to compensate for the time spent in making
FINDETER operational and transferring to it the operations of FFDU. FFDU executed 102
subprojects prior to its liquidation, but most of the information related to them was lost during the
transfer of responsibility to FINDETER and is not available at present. The only information at
hand refers to the 299 subprojects executed by FINDETER. The increase in the number of
beneficiaries of the water supply service as reported by FINDETER was 1,037,987, while that for
the sewerage services was 655,682. FINDETER estimates that if the increase in the number of
beneficiaries through the 102 subprojects executed by FFDU are also taken in account, it is most
probable that the SAR goal of increasing the water supply and sewerage services to 1.9 million
and 1.3 million inhabitants, respectively, has been achieved. Because of technical problems noted
in some of the systems that were built, it is likely that not all of the inhabitants reported as
additional beneficiaries are actually receiving service. In any case, the infrastructure works
constructed under the project have had a major impact in improving the quality of life for an
important number of the country's population, who are generally among the lowest income
groups.
6.    The loan policy adopted for this project certainly contributed to changing the financing
culture for water projects, by replacing a centralized national institution as the borrower, and
using instead financial intermediation to assign credits and making local entities (municipalities or
municipal service companies) directly responsible for cofinancing, project execution and loan
repayment. Initially, it was very difficult for the municipalities to prepare financing requests and
design sound projects, using proper project formulation criteria such as least-cost solution, or to
accept the need to establish and implement adequate tariff structures. While these shortcomings
have not been totally resolved, the project did make a positive contribution to inducing a change
and bringing about a new culture in the sector. The project was the instrument for implementing
the first important sector reform of decentralization, which in turn was the basis for the second
important sector reform legislation, namely Law 142. The project provided input for a process of
institutional change in the sector, culminating in the preparation of Law 142, the setting up of the
CRAS, the SSPD and the Water Supply Directorate within the MDE. Today the sector has a new
structure and a new legal framework. Various initiatives are underway to consolidate sector
policies, including regulatory aspects and the promotion of private sector participation. The
implementation of the new law is at the initial stage and the consolidation of the institutions
created by it has just begun. FINDETER and the Bank were both slow in responding to the need
to restructure the project to the requirements of Law 142. In 1996, the Bank tried to convince
FINDETER to undertake such a restructuring but FINDETER was slow to react and the
approaching closing date prevented the implementation of a corresponding restructuring.
7.    The objective of building up the financial intermediation capacity of BCH/FFDU to
reinforce reform in sector financing policy, to encourage greater operational efficiency and
financial viability in the sector's companies, and to stimulate the preparation of more
cost-effective investment projects was only partially achieved. This was not done, in fact, directly
through FFDU, but rather through the creation of a replacement agency, FINDETER, a step that,
as noted above, helped change the culture of the sector. Nevertheless, the new Water Supply
Directorate in MDE is still very weak: it does not have sufficient staff and, as with DAPSB and
MOPT, it has limited experience within the Ministry nor are its functions and responsibilities



- 4 -
clearly defined. It is still too early to qualify it as a "strong technical support and monitoring
entity" for the sector.
8.    The results of the four ex-post evaluation studies of a sample of 70 subprojects show that
there has been relatively little progress in institutional reform of the sector companies. While
there was some progress in decentralizing services, in most of the subprojects the goals of
institutional strengthening and financial self-sufficiency were not achieved.. The municipalities
and the municipal public service companies have neither the required staff, managerial capacity or
procedures to operate efficiently, their accounts, in many cases, form part of the general municipal
accounts, their tariffs bear no relation to the cost of the services provided nor to the need to repay
the loans, and an excessively high proportion of water consumed is not billed. The project had,
however, some significant success in institutional development by helping bring private sector
participation in some sector companies, Cartagena, Barranquilla and Santa Marta being the most
important cases among several others. These are the first cases of implementing the reform
introduced by Law 142 and they serve as an example to many other municipalities who are
currently trying to follow that route, and will most probably induce similar reforms in many other
municipalities and sector companies in the future.
9.    The executing agencies of component C (DWSS, DNP and MDE) were unsuccessful, for
a variety of reasons, in achieving the intended objectives (i.e., improving the water sector policy,
executing sectoral studies and implementing a training program for the sector personnel). At the
first stage, the responsibility for executing this component was assigned to DAPSB, which was
created for that purpose. However, because it was located within a ministry whose responsibility,
tradition, technical capabilities and interest lay in the transport sector, it was not able to achieve
its objectives and responsibilities as the executing agency of this component. The DAPSB was
replaced by the DNP in October, 1992, which was also no more successful. The MDE took over
responsibility for executing this component in March 1994. As a result of problems with
incorporating the loan resources into its budget, it was not able to make commitments and
disbursements until the second half of 1996. For this reason, by the loan closing date, financing of
the sector development studies with those resources had only started; the same was true for the
revision of technical standards, the national sanitation inventory and the selection of appropriate
technologies for water purification. All these activities are under implementation and will be
completed after the loan closing date. Consequently, the proposed objective was not fully
achieved. Nevertheless, the contracts for all the studies have been signed and the studies are
underway. MDE has mobilized alternative sources to finance them and they will be completed by
mid 1998.
10.   FINDETER has not estimated the rates of return for each of the subprojects, since the
small size and the small amount of investment in most of them would make it relatively costly to
conduct such estimates, and since, given that they are water supply and sanitation projects, which
are considered a basic social necessity, the investment decision was not based only on economic
considerations. In any case, given the fact that a minimum rate of return of 12 per cent was used
in the evaluation methodology for each credit transaction and that the works were dimensioned to
have a minimum cost, FINDETER estimates that in general the rate of return of 10% set as a goal
in the SAR was achieved for each subproject.
11.   Total disbursements under the Bank amounted to US$ 144.5 million, representing 96.3
per cent of the loan. The value of the total investment was US$ 418.7 million, a figure which is



- 5 -
close to the initial SAR forecast, and which includes the investment of local resources by
FINDETER, which exceeded the planned level of US$ 140.1 million. Project execution by
component was as follows:
* Component A: US$ 141.2 million (96.7% of the planned amount of US$ 146 million).
* Component B: US$ 0.75 million (75% of the planned amount of US$ 1 million).
*  Component C: US$ 2.6 million (87% of the planned amount of US$ 3 million).
3. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
12.   Implementation of the project was hampered by a number of factors:
(a) Institutional changes: The combination of frequent and radical institutional changes within
Colombia's water sector during the project implementation period disrupted execution and led to a
series of amendments to the loan agreement, creating instability and lack of continuity among the
entities and personnel responsible for project execution, and resulted in delays in execution. These
changes also resulted in the loss of institutional memory and replacement of staff, and resulted in loss
of a great part of the technical and operational capacity in the service providing companies. At present,
with the exception of the companies in the major cities, their managerial, technical and operations staff
capability to maintain and operate the systems is deficient. During project inception, FFDU was
responsible for the sector and for executing the project. This entity was a relatively new executing
agency, with a good reputation for promoting and executing high-quality projects. However, it was
replaced by the new regional development financial agency FINDETER, as envisaged in the SAR. The
implementation of component C was assigned to two other entities, DAPSB and CENAGUA, which
were replaced after a short period by two other new agencies, DNP and the MDE, that had no
institutional background or experience in the sector. These changes resulted in problems and delays in
the implementation of the program. The major institutional changes which occurred were the
following:
At the time the project was identified, the country's institutional system was based on
centralized national agencies that were responsible for planning, financing and execution of
infrastructure works, and in many cases for their administration and operation, acting through
regional entities reporting to the central agency. In the water sector, CONPES, DNP and MSP
set overall policy and prepared sectoral plans, and INSFOPAL and INS were the national
entities responsible for implementing them. The systems were administered and operated by
municipal public utility companies (EPMs), in 35 major cities accounting for 51 per cent of the
national population; Sanitation Works Companies (EMPOS), reporting to INSFOPAL which
held 90 per cent of their capital (covering 26 per cent of the population); Water Supply and
Sewerage Corporations (ACUAS), autonomous enterprises owned by the municipal or
department governments in which INSFOPAL held less than 30 per cent of the capital
(covering 4 per cent of the population); and small municipalities, rural communities and
communes that ran their own water and sewerage systems (19 per cent of the population).
During preparation of the loan, the Decentralization Law (12 of 1986) was enacted. This Law
transferred to the municipalities the responsibility for setting up, administering and operating
their own water and sewerage systems.



-6 -
* Law 77 of 1987 and its regulating decrees abolished INSFOPAL and the Water and Basic
Rural Sanitation Division of INS, and created DAPSB under MOPT, an entity with experience
in highway construction, which was made responsible for technical assistance and overall
planning in the water and sanitation sector. The Government decided that financial resources
for the sector should be channeled through BCH's FFDU, and in the SAR it was stated that
the executing agency for components A and B of the loan would be FFDU, while component C
would be executed by the new DAPSB and component D would be executed by CENAGUA, a
new entity to be created for this purpose.
* As a result of Law 75 of 1989, the Regional Development Finance Corporation, FINDETER,
was created as a second-tier financial internediary responsible for administering investments
for regional and municipal infrastructure works. This was part of the decentralization reforn,
which the project was designed to assist. As a result of that Law's provisions, FFDU was
liquidated, and this led to an amendment of the Loan Agreement to reflect the replacement of
FFDU by FINDETER as the executing agency of components A and B, and to reduce the
investment program under these components from US$ 430 million to US$ 285 million, while
still maintaining the amount of the Bank loan. The transfer of responsibility from FFDU to
FINDETER caused a delay of two years in project implementation. In addition, because of
internal conflicts within CENAGUA, the agency responsible for implementing component D, it
was decided to merge components C and D under one category, and assign the responsibility
for its execution to DAPSB.
*  In October 1992, the Loan Agreement was amended again, to transfer the responsibility for
executing component C from DAPSB to DNP, a non-executing entity that was responsible for
the overall sector planning.
*  As a result of a new institutional reforn in the sector introduced in mid 1994 through Law
142, responsibility for the water and sanitation sector was assigned to the Ministry of
Economic Development (MDE). In November 1993, as part of the preparation of the new
reform, the Loan Agreement was amended once more to replace DNP with MDE with
responsibility for implementing component C. As a result of budget allocation problems, the
change from DNP to MDE led to a delay of two years in the implementation of component C.
*  Law 142 of 1994 - the Law of Domestic Public Services - introduced the second fundamental
reforms legislation of the water sector, particularly with respect to promoting competition in
the provision of services, regulating monopolies and encouraging private sector participation,
as well as establishing a new financial policy to clarify the role of water tariffs and subsidies.
The Water and Sanitation Regulatory Commission (CRAS) was created as a dependency of
the MDE, responsible for promoting competition among the suppliers of these services, for
supervising monopolies, establishing tariff-setting formulas and setting service quality
standards. The Superintendency of Domestic Public Services (SSPD) was created as the
supervisory agency. Although the sector has now a defined structure and a legal framework,
the process of transformation of the sector companies has just begun (the last date for
transforming the service companies into joint-venture corporations had to be extended by 18
months to December 1997) and there are no guidelines nor instruments to promote and support
any serious and systematic approach to privatization in the sector. The project, which was
structured to assist the 1987 reform, was not restructured to adjust to Law 142. In 1996, the
Bank attempted to induce a restructuring aimed at assisting the privatization of the sector
companies, but the response of FINDETER was too slow and the restructuring was not
implemented.



-7 -
(b) Project formulation and design problems: Originally, it was planned that the Borrower would reach
an agreement with FONADE to fund the pre-investment studies needed to prepare the project, but this
never happened. The AT-PAS program executed by DNP provided technical assistance to
nunicipalities to formulate their projects, but the results were not on the whole satisfactory.
Apparently, during the project formulation phase, there was no real participation on the part of the
communities, so that in many cases they were not committed to their subprojects. FINDETER was
created to operate as a second-tier bank, and its role was to ensure the efficient management of
financial resources. Yet, in light of the technical weakness of municipalities in formulating projects,
FINDETER, in promoting its "product", came to assume the function of providing technical
assistance, but has not done it with the required commitment and attention. The submission of detailed
designs to FINDETER by the municipalities was an indispensable precondition for having their credit
requests considered and processed, yet it seems to have been treated more as a formality than as a
substantive requirement. Most of the smaller municipalities had never been responsible for
administering their own public services, they had no experience or capacity to execute projects
properly, they had no culture that would recognize the importance of sound pre-investment work, and
they were certainly in no position to make all the investments needed to achieve high-quality project
design. In general, design work was contracted out to individual consultants, local or regional, many of
whom seem to have lacked sufficient experience, and FINDETER, which assumed a technical role to
some extent, did not provide sufficiently effective mechanisms for proper supervision and review of the
designs. It is apparent that during the execution phase, FINDETER did not provide the careful
monitoring that the physical execution of the subprojects required, and has not conducted any
subsequent follow-up during the operating phase. There is almost no documentation in the
municipalities on the projects that were executed nor on the changes that were made to them, and there
are no "as-built" plans. This reflects problems related to the supervision of works and lack of
understanding by the municipalities about the importance of having the technical information on the
subprojects being constructed .
(c) National Cofinancing system: The funds provided by the National Cofinancing System supplied the
counterpart funds for executing the works. Since these funds were allocated by the congress, however,
the allocation criteria were based on broad political considerations and they tended to introduce
distortions into project objectives, by being allocated without any institutional or financial performance
conditions, unlike the Bank loan funds. In practice, they became a decisive factor in selecting and
formulating the subprojects. The cofinancing resources that were allocated directly by the congress
members in accordance with regional policies, as well as the local counterpart funds, which came
mainly from the municipal budgets and the pledging of municipal revenues (transfers from the national
budget) rather than from any effort or financial responsibility on part of the service companies
themselves, tended to distort one of the most important objectives of the loan, which was to encourage
the creation and strengthening of self-sufficient municipal service companies. Instead, the availability
of cofinancing resources relieved the service companies of their commitments to adjust their tariffs, to
carry out Unaccounted For Water (UFW) reduction programs, and to improve their administration and
operations so as to be able to repay their loans.
(d) Political interference: While there are no concrete cases cited in the ex-post evaluation reports, views
gathered during the preparation of this ICR indicate that intervention by regional and local politicians
in the decision-making process related to the infrastructure works carried out, as well as intervention in
the municipal affairs and in the management of the service companies, did occur. This feature of the
institutional environment cannot be overlooked, yet is difficult to eradicate as long as the operation of
services does not have sufficient autonomy, ideally through privatization. This interference occurs in
many different ways: generally, electoral concerns or private interests are allowed to take precedence
over technical, economic and community welfare considerations. Politically elected officials - mayors



-8 -
and municipal council members - tend to manage and direct resources allocated from the cofinancing
system to specific municipal works that are of personal interest to them. They all intervene, in one way
or another, in appointing municipal and service company staff. As a result of this atmosphere, regional
politicians play an active role in investment decisions, since they are able to assign cofinancing funds to
projects in regions or municipalities of particular interest to them. Moreover, since the time required to
prepare and execute many of the subprojects exceeds the lifetime of a single civic administration, the
subprojects may frequently be interrupted or changed when a new mayor with different interests and
priorities is elected and seeks to redirect municipal funds to other works. In other cases, if the mayors
belong to different political groups from those that approved the cofinancing resources in congress, or
if the projects that have been selected are not of particular interest to them, they can hold up execution
by refusing to release counterpart resources for them. Political intervention also interfered with
FINDETER's performance in the early years of its operation, FINDETER's management was guided
by technical criteria, and was supported by expert staff transferred from FFDU. Unfortunately, during
the last two years of the project this situation changed: key, experienced personnel were withdrawn,
and FINDETER was used as a political instrument, probably because of its role in handling large
amounts of cofinancing grants.
(e) Failure to changes the focus with respect to strengthening the service providing entities: During
project prcparation, the main focus of the institutional strengthening programs was on personnel
training and building up the administrative and financial capacity of the existing service companies.
Involvement of the private sector was not recognized at that time as an institutional development
strategy and the project was not designed to promote private sector participation. In recent years it was
recognized that the traditional approach to institutional development was not effective and the Bank's
overall approach to institutional improvement in the water sector has been changed to focus on
promoting private sector participation. In several subprojects the Bank succeeded in inducing the
incorporation of private operators into the service companies. Such are the cases of Cartagena and
Barranquilla. In its later stages the project, however, was not modified to adjust to Law 142 (which
came in effect in mid 1994), i.e, to assist private sector participation in a significant number of
companies.
4. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
13.   Frequent institutional changes within the sector led to the loss of institutional memory,
staff and technical and operating capacity. At present, the availability of capable managers,
technical and operating staff to run and maintain the water supply and sanitation systems is
insufficient. Sector sustainability is therefore uncertain.
14.   Despite the successes achieved in executing the project works, frequent personnel changes
in the sector companies, resulting from political intervention, particularly at times of change of
municipal administrations, and the frequent interference of local politicians in the companies'
management decisions, are causing the continuous loss of competent, knowledgeable personnel.
This casts doubt on the sustainability of the systems that have been constructed.
15.   The sustainability of the project will depend primarily on the attitude and commitment of
local leaders, mayors, governors and politicians to cooperate in the future, during a period in
which the provision of services has ceased to be the obligation and responsibility of the
Government but rather the obligation and right of the community to ensure that these services are
provided efficiently, and that the systems are properly operated and maintained. Community
participation is a prerequisite for institutionally stable and financially self-sufficient sector
companies and is also required for the effort of UFW reduction. Sustainability will ultimately



-9 -
depend on more effective and efficient administration, which will be put in place when consumers
recognize that they have the right to demand high quality services when they are required to pay
adequate tariffs.
16.   The following are essential elements for ensuring that the institutional setup is
consolidated and that the works executed under the project become sustainable: (a) providing
advisory services to the municipal companies about their obligations and responsibilities; (b)
providing information for the communities on their rights and duties as consumers; (c) continuous
monitoring and control by the new supervisory entities recently created under Law 142 (the
CRAS and the SSPD) in regard to compliance with preparation of management and results
programs and over adequate performance of the companies; (d) handling effectively technical,
human and financial resources; (e) implementing regular tariff adjustments to ensure financial self-
sufficiency; and (f) ensuring compliance with programs to reduce UFW. Adoption of strategies
for promoting private sector participation in the provision of services is also a key element for the
future sustainability of the sector companies.
5. BANK PERFORMANCE
17.   The identification, preparation and appraisal of the project by the Bank was based on
previous familiarity with the sector in Colombia, in which it had already carried out 13 lending
operations with INSFOPAL, EAAB (the water company of Bogota) and the Municipalities of
Cali, Cuicuta, Barranquilla and Palmira. During project identification and preparation, the
Government initiated a profound institutional reform to decentralize governance, for the purpose
of enhancing efficiency and contributing to poverty reduction. A key element of the sector
strategy was the provision of infrastructure services, with an investment program of US$ 600
mnillion in the water supply and sanitation sector during the period 1988-1992. As a result of the
unsatisfactory performance of the water sector during the previous two decades, the Government
has been implementing, with the active participation and advisory services of the Bank, an
important program of institutional reform to improve sector management. Through the project,
the Bank assisted in financing a portion of the Government's investment program in water supply
and sanitation.
18.   The staff appraisal report (SAR) clearly identified the sector priorities, defined the
strategies and established the specific conditions for carrying out the project and for assisting with
restructuring the sector. It also identified the risks and proposed remedies to mitigate them. The
size of the loan was appropriately dimensioned. There is no doubt that the loan significantly
contributed to changing the financing and execution culture of projects in the sector.
19.   The main risks identified in the SAR were the following:
* Inadequate levels of counterpart funds caused by Government delays in disbursing
contributions to BCU/FFDU, or inability of BCH/FFDU to raise sufficient funds from
domestic sources;
  Delays in subproject preparation, evaluation and execution because of insufficient operating
capacity of FFDU;



- 10-
*  Relaxation of subproject conditionality, due to political pressures from central and local
governments, particularly with regard to need for tariff increases;
*  Provision of concessionary and unconditional financing for sector investment by the
Govermment through channels other than BCH/FFDU;
*  Reluctance of municipalities to join autonomous departnental and regional companies and
cofinance sector projects; and.
*   The possibility of creation of the Regional Development Financing Agency [Financiera de
Desarrollo Territorial], which would lead to delays in project implementation.
20.   The assessment of the results shows that the risks were correctly identified and that the
main problems were caused by the last four risks.
21.   During the project implementation period, organizational changes also took place in the
LAC region and in the Bank. This led to frequent changes of Task Managers and resulted in loss
of continuity and of institutional memory, changes of management styles and in the priority
attributed to implementation efforts. It had a negative overall impact on the relations with the
Borrower.
22.   At the end of 1994, after the enactment of Law 142, the Bank identified the need to assist
the sector in implementing the reform formulated by the Law, but tried first to do it through a TA
loan to MDE. This approach was not successful and in 1996 the Bank attempted to restructure
the project in order to make it responsive to the new Law. Also this attempt was not successful
because of slow response of FINDETER and difficulties in extending the loan closing date to
enable implementing the new activities proposed under the restructuring.
23.   The Bank played an important role in inducing the institutional development of the water
company of Cartagena through supporting the incorporation of the private sector in the provision
of the water and sewerage services in. this city. In addition to the important positive impact of this
PSP process on the city of Cartagena, it has the significance of being the first PSP process in the
water sector in Colombia and is helping to pave the way to similar processes in other cities in the
country. The Bank had a crucial role in ensuring the success of the privatization process by
promoting ideas, extending technical assistance, convincing the political decision makers to
support the institutional change, acting as an important catalyst to accelerate the implementation
of the PSP process and serving as a mediator in the negotiations of the PSP contract.
24.   A total of 15 supervision missions were carried out during the eight years of project
implementation, utilizing 171 staff-weeks. Both the back-to-office reports and the project files
allow easy tracking of project implementation, problems encountered, monitoring of compliance
with legal covenants and the plans of action agreed upon. Overall, the Bank's performance was
satisfactory.
6. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
25.   The National Government supported the project and adopted important institutional
reforms that established a clear legal framework for decentralized operations and for regulating
and supervising the water and sewerage service companies (Law 142 of 1994). Nevertheless,



while that reform is conceptually valid and well conceived, the institutional design still needs to be
improved. It witl be difficult for MDE to impose its policies while it has no direct influence on the
allocation and management of resources within the sector. FINDETER, which manages the
resources, reports to the Ministry of Finance and not to MDE.
26.   DNP was not successful in executing component C. The AT-PAS technical assistance
program executed by DNP was intended to provide assistance to the municipalities in the
processes of transforming their water companies and in the preparation of projects. This program
contributed significantly to the initial structuring of the project, but, because of budget
restrictions, did not achieve the expected outcome in terms of TA.
27.   The performance of FFDU and especially FINDETER in terms of management,
processing and disbursement of a large number of subprojects (401 com.pared to 80 envisaged in
the SAR) was very satisfactory. These institutions were able to implement the new loan policy in
the midst of a process of profound institutional change, and they succeeded in mobilizing,
allocating, controlling and disbursing resources and in supervising the execution of 401
subprojects throughout the country. This represents an important accomplishment and
demonstrated a high level of administration capacity, particularly while taking into consideration
that FINDETER was a new institution created during the project implementation period.
Nonetheless, it must be noted that:
*  FINDETER was not very strict in reviewing the designs, the technical specifications and the
evaluations submitted by the municipalities.- Apparently the mayors looked on the designs as
merely a formal requirement that had to be met, rather than as a key element for the success of
their subprojects.
  FINDETER was not successful in insisting on tariff changes.
*  FINDETER was inflexible in granting supplementary financing for subprojects in cases of cost
overruns, with the result that several subprojects remained nearly complete and the
municipalities could not mobilize the small additional resources required to complete the works
and put the systems into operation.
*  FINDETER was actively involved in the subprojects during the stage of procurement of goods
and works. Nevertheless, it was less active during the execution stage, when it made only few
visits to the subprojects sites, usually, only when serious problems occurred.
  FINDETER did not follow-up subprojects during the start up and operational phases.
28.   FINDETER did not impose compliance with all of the requirements for institutional
strengthening. Even though these requirements were not being met, it continuously postponed
the deadlines for compliance, probably, for the purpose of not stopping works already under way
and continuing disbursements. In many cases, subprojects were finished without complying with
institutional strengthening conditions. It should, however, be noted that it is doubtful that the
institutional improvement objectives of the project were ever realistic and that the resources
allocated for, implementing these objectives were not sufficient. Overall, the performance of
FINDETER has been satisfactory.



- 12-
7. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
29.   Overall, the project results can be regarded as moderately satisfactory. A total of 401
subprojects were executed, compared with only 80 envisaged in the SAR. Infrastructure works
were executed in 450 municipalities, compared to an expected number of 400, and the beneficiary
population of three million, set as a goal in the SAR, has, most probably, been achieved.
Nevertheless, several of these works suffer from problems of inadequate concept, design or
operation.
30.   In general terms, FINDETER's borrowers did not comply with the performance plans
agreed upon with FINDETER. In many cases they did not implement the tariff increases agreed
upon. Approximately 50 per cent of the subprojects suffered cost overruns, and the lack of
supplementary financing had a negative effect on the results of some of these subprojects. About
85 per cent of subprojects experienced delays in execution, and the average execution time for the
subprojects evaluated was 60 per cent higher than the time estimated during preparation.
Nevertheless, in spite of the delays in execution and of other problems encountered, the majority
of the project works were successfully implemented. In many cases, the newly constructed or
rehabilitated systems are operating satisfactorily, have contributed to improving the quality of
services, have favorably benefited the respective communities and resulted in extending the
provision of water and sewerage services to consumers who without would have had no prospect
of receiving these services.
31.   The project assisted the implementation of the first reform of the water sector, carried out
through Law 77 (liquidation of INSFOPAL) and Law 12 (the decentralization Law). It supported
the resulting institutional change in the sector, and the creation of municipal service companies,
and contributed to changing the culture whereby the municipalities used to depend on the central
Government to resolve their water supply and sanitation problems. Given the fact that
FIRNDETER used a minimum rate of return of 12 per cent in the evaluation of each of the
subprojects and that the works were dimensioned with a view of identifying and implementing the
least-cost solutions, FINDETER assumes that the rates of return for each of the subprojects
reached the target levels set out in the SAR for water supply projects.
32.   During the period of project implementation, both the Bank and the Government policies
with respect to institutional aspects of provision of domestic public services were re-oriented
towards promoting the involvement of private capital and managerial capacity. The loan, together
with the new directions and strategies with respect to PSP adopted by the Bank during the project
implementation period, had a positive impact on inducing the second step in reform of the sector,
i.e., the formulation and enactment of the Domestic Public Services Law (Law 142 of 1994).
This law obliged companies to: (a) transform into shareholder corporations or into industrial and
commercial state enterprises that are financially self-sufficient; (b) formulate and implement
management and results plans; and (c) be supervised by a public services superintendency
(SSPD). Thus it opened the way to private sector participation. Although the progress achieved
in privatizing the sector companies has been sporadic, the project did have an important role in
initiating a wave of PSP processes which should result in significant improvement in the sector's
performance.



- 13 -
33.   The institutional strengthening programs were not implemented in most of the sector
companies. It should, however, be recognized that the achievement of the institutional objectives
of the project is a difficult task and it is doubtful that the respective targets were ever realistic in
the first place. During the project preparation period, the idea of PSP was not applied in
developing countries and Law 142 did not then exist, so that the opportunity to achieve
institutional improvement through the instruments utilized by the project was limited. Even so,
the idea of institutional improvement has had an impact which can be built on in the future,
utilizing the PSP approach and the instruments of Law 142. It should be recognized that in some
cases, such as Cartagena and Barranquilla, an impressive institutional development was achieved
in the framework of the project by incorporating the private sector in the provision of the water
and sewerage services. The Carrtagena case is of special importance, since for the first time the
water and sewerage services in one of Colombia's major cities have been privatized and are being
managed by an experienced European private operator. Similarly, it is the first case in which the
recommendation of Law 142 has been applied in providing a public services through a company
constituted as a shareholders corporations (Sociedad por Acciones, article 17 of the Law). The
Cartagena model, which is working well, serves as an example to many other companies in
Colombia and is paving the way to implementation of Law 142 and to the promotion of PSP in
the sector. In this sense, the project had an important impact on the institutional development of
the water and sanitation sector companies.
34.   The sector development and training studies under component C were subject to setbacks
and delays and have not yet been completed. Nevertheless, all of them have been initiated and are
under implementation. MDE has managed to mobilize the required resources which ensure the
completion of the activities of Component C by the first quarter of 1998. The resulting product
will contribute to the process of the institutional, technical and environmental consolidation of the
sector. For the first time, reliable information regarding the sector's most relevant indicators will
be available. In addition, on the basis of the information obtained in the training courses
implemented under the project, a national training plan was formulated in a structured manner.
This plan includes the formal training program in the sector, and MDE has signed a contract with
SENA, which will carry out this program on a permanent basis. The formation of operators and
administrators and their subsequent certification as qualified personnel will support the objective
of achieving sector susutainability.
8. FUTURE OPERATIONS
35.   Since the Loan Closing Date, FINDERER continued to: (i) supervise the performance of
the completed subprojects; (ii) finance similar subprojects with its own resources; and (iii)
implement an institutional improvement program. It has also requested a new Bank loan for the
Second Municipal Development Project. Although implementation of the reform prescribed by
Law 142 is in its initial stage, the situation of the sector and its enterprises is expected to steadily
improve in the medium term. Future Bank operations should attempt to address the main sector
problems. i.e., institutional weakness at the sector management level, instability and poor
management capacity of the sector companies, inadequate capacity of the sector companies in
terms of preparation, design and supervision of projects, and the lack of training opportunities for
all levels of personnel.
36.   Law 142 provides that, effective December 1997, all utility enterprises be transformed into
either share holding companies or organized as public-sector industrial and commercial



- 14 -
enterprises; in addition, each of them must furnish the CRAS with a study demonstrating their
entrepreneurial viability. Future Bank operations would be undertaken with these new
enterprises, once they have been restructured and adjusted financially and operationally in
accordance with guidelines set forth by the CRAS.
37.   The responsibility for the sector's development has been transferred from MOPT to MDE.
The institutional structure within MDE has still not achieved a design which allows for
undertaking real leadership in adopting policies and implementing them on a national scale. It
might be worthwhile to consider other options for assigning the responsibility for the sector, such
as creating an administrative department under the Presidency, or a special water sector.
administration unit under DNP that would assume the functions of executing sectoral plans,
providing technical assistance in areas in which FINDETER cannot be active, promoting private
sector participation in provision of the water and sewerage services and monitoring compliance
with the management plans of the sector companies. If the government decides to leave the
responsibility for the sector with MDE, technical strengthening should be provided to that
Ministry so that it can cope with the functions and responsibilities assigned to it. For that
purpose, sufficient resources must be made available to MDE so that needed external advisory
services can be hired, to provide technical assistance to the municipalities in formulating their
projects, and to compile, continuously update and analyze sectoral data which would serve as the
basis to define policies, formulate strategies and subsequently evaluate the results. In that respect
MDE and FINDETER should better coordinate their activities and programs, since in practice
FINDETER is the executing agency for the sector policy formulated by MDE.
38.   It is important to put in place mechanisms for improving the quality of project formulation,
design and budgeting, and for supervising the execution of works, without undermining the
autonomy of the municipalities under the decentralized system. Moving ahead with future
operations will depend on such mechanisms being put in place.
39.   Participation of the private sector in the provision of water and sewerage services through
various models of association with the new enterprises created under Law 142 appears to offer
the best prospects for achieving institutional improvement and stability in the sector companies,
and is undoubtedly the route that will be adopted by many enterprises. This has already occurred
in the case of the water companies of Cartagena and Barranquilla. Support for such initiatives,
which will help to improve operational efficiency of water companies, should be given in future
Bank operations. Water and sewerage companies in large and medium size cities are attractive
for the private sector. It is in smaller cities - remote, with no technical or managerial capacities,
and where political interference is most prevalent - where the efforts to attract private
participation should be directed. A favorable environment for PSP should be developed for such
cases by: (a) merging of small neighboring utilities to create regional companies; (b) increasing
competition by reducing the stringent requirements for prior experience of the private sector and
thus encouraging buildup of local capacity; (c) providing concessional financing terms to small
utilities that incorporate the private sector; (d) providing technical assistance in preparing the PSP
processes; and (e) providing transparent subsidies for non-profitable utilities (it is better to
provide transparent subsidies to efficient companies than to provide indirect and permanent
subsidies to inefficient and politicized companies).



- 15 -
40.   The initiative adopted in the design of this loan to establish a permanent system for
training water-sector personnel was an appropriate and necessary strategy. Unfortunately, it was
not fully implemented under the project. Given the scarcity of trained personnel within the sector
after ten years of institutional changes, the training problem should be addressed on a permanent
and institutionalized basis. Technical and financial support should be provided to SENA and to
universities, to mount a long-term training program for the sector.
9. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
41.   FINDETER's involvement in the sector has not provided enough leverage to improve
poorly performing utilities, and commercial banks (both under F1NDETER programs or through
their own lending or bond guarantee business) have done little due diligence in appraising utility
creditworthiness because they could rely on the pledge of Government transfers and had littJe risk.
The financial risk management through a pledge on transfers, which has no relation to the utility
business revenues, is a disincentive for appropriate business-oriented management of the sector
companies and is the reason for lack of improvement in the utilities performance. The way to
improve performance would be to: (a) have utilities rather. than municipalities as the final
borrower; and (b) put a stop to the use of pledges on Government transfers as a collateral for
revenue earning project, but rather pledge utility revenues from user charges. This should be
embedded in the collateral legislation and apply to all sector pledging, not just for loans
rediscounted by FINDETER. This form of pledging should, however, be waived for small
municipalities, where the corporate structure of small utilities have limited scope for revenue
generation.
42.   The mechanism of allocating cofinancing grants, which is based on political criteria, and
the fact that these grants were provided without any conditionality, introduced distortions and
disincentives for achieving one of the most important objectives of the loan, i.e., to encourage the
creation and strengthening of self-sufficient municipal service companies. Instead, the availability
of cofinancing grants relieved the service companies of their commitments to adjust tariffs, to
carry out UFW reduction programs, and to improve their administration and operations so as to
be able to repay the loans. The way to resolve this problem, although not likely to be acceptable
to the Government, would be to set transparent grant allocating criteria and apply to these grants
the same conditions as to the credits provided by FINDETER. The cofinancing funds should be
allocated as matching grants when central fine-tuning of local sectoral performance is needed.
43.   FINDETER's management, staffing and project appraisal and supervision capability have
deteriorated sharply with growing political considerations entering into decision making because
of its new role in handling large cofinancing grants. This hampered its credibility and its
leadership in the sector reform. In addition to resolving the cofinancing problems, clearer staffing
criteria should be used by FINDETER, based on education, experience and managerial capacity.
44.   The successful experience of institutional improvement through private sector
participation in Cartagena and Barranquilla indicates that PSP is the most promising strategy for
achieving institutional improvement in the sector companies. Mechanism to finance TA activities
for supporting the implementation of PSP processes should be put in place (either by DNP, MDE
or FINDETER), so as to increase the number of companies which have incorporated the.private
sector in the provision of water supply and sewerage services. In addition, FINDETER should



-16 -
develop mechanisms which will permit private concessionaires to have access to FINDETER
resources (under FINDETER's 1990 charter they would have to borrow through the
municipalities and this would raise process costs and result in a disincentive).
45.   The preparation of the subprojects was not financed by the loan and the quality of the
pre-investment studies and designs was, in many cases, unsatisfactory. Loan proceeds should be
allocated to finance subproject preparation and FINDETER should provide mechanisms for
improved review of designs and supervision of implementation, so as to ensure the ststainability
of investments. This should preferably be done through setting standards by FINDETER for
project preparation and then facilitating borrowers and financial intermediaries to hire specialized
consultants to meet these standards, rather than conducting these steps directly with
FINDETER's own staff. FINDETER should require that its borrowers have available the
management and results plan, as required by Law 142, as a condition for eligibility. It should
improve the procedures for evaluation of subprojects and utilize monitoring indicators for
performance follow-up, cooperate closely with other actors in the sector (MDE, DNP, Ministry of
Finance), improve supervision, extend its involvement to start up and operation stages of each
subproject and prepare a completion implementation report for each one.
46.   FINDETER was inflexible in granting supplementary financing for subprojects in cases of
cost overruns, with the result that several subprojects remained nearly complete and the
municipalities could not mobilize the small additional resources required to complete the works
and put the systems into operation. It is recommended that in future FINDETER be more flexible
in providing supplementary financing, when it is warranted.
47.   Community participation mechanisms did not take place to any extent under the water and
sewerage sector loan and there was no real participation in the subprojects on part of the
communities, so that in many cases the communities were not committed to their subprojects.
Community participation is an important factor in the success of sector projects of this type, and it
is recommended that community participation mechanisms be incorporated in FINDETER's
future operations.
48.   Technical assistance activities should be demand driven. It is clearly a service that
benefits the recipient, and it should not be subsidized. Financing should be provided by
FINDETER to its borrowers to address their specific technical assistance needs, thus FINDETER
should serve more as an advisor and facilitator to borrowers rather than be involved in direct
provision of technical assistance. In this respect, FINDETER should establish strategic alliances
with private and public entities for optimal utilization of their capacity to provide technical
assistance and avoid duplication. Also in this regard, FINDETER should publish best practices in
sector projects implementation through newsletters and other publication methods, as well as
serve as a clearing house on sector financing and management practices.



I.                                            .                                  r        
...............     ........._            __            ..................................................   ................ .... .....    
hr a                                                    tI             I o            I        >B
o[:1H El o                        0                           O ,  O O
if
0000                                              oooooooo   
.   .                      -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
o~~~~~~ Owuu.tooot>i ooozzoooOron                                                  U)



-18-
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LoANs
Loan                 Purpose                Year of Approval        Status
Preceding Operations
1072-CO    Second-Multi-City Water Supply and       1975         Completed in
Sewerage Project                                      1982
2470-CO    Cucuta Water Supply and Sewerage         1984          Completed in
Project                                               June, 1995
2637-CO    Barranquilla Water Supply Project        1985          Canceled on Nov.
1991
2512-CO    Fourth Bogota Water Supply and           1985          Completed on
Sewerage Project                                      April 1993
Following Operation
3336-CO    Municipal Development Project            1991          Loan Closing
date Dec. 3 1,
1997
3952-CgJ  Santaf6 I -Water Supply & Sewerage        1995          Loan Closing
3953-COJ  Rehabilitation Project                                  date Jun. 30,
___________________________________ ________________2003
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in project cycle  Date planned         Date Loan           Actual Date
_____________ __  Agreement Assumption
Identification              Feb-86 1/                               October-87
(Executive Project Summary)
Preparation                 May-86 1/
Appraisal           Dec-86 1/           26-May-88           26-May-88
Negotiations           Sep-87                                28-April-88
Board Presentation      Mar-88 2/           16-June-88          26-Sep-91
Signing                                 8-Feb-89            8-Nov-91
Effectiveness                             16-Aug-89            29-Jul-92
Project Completion      31-Dic-94           30-Jun-94            30-Jun-96
Loan Closing          31-Dec-94         31-Dec-96 3/          31-Dec-96
1/    Initiating Memorandum
2/    Final Executive Project Summary
3/    First Loan Agreement



- 19 -
TABLE 4: LoAN DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL
89      90       91.       9Z:0         ...9,  E.9l!96.  .
Appraisal Estiate4 5      19.5     52.5   103.5  135.0   147.0  150.0  150.0 .150.0
Loan Agreement          0.0    15.0       15.0    38.0   60.5    90.5  117.5  140.0  150.0
Assumption                  I_I
Actual                  0.0    15.0       15.0    15.0  43.7    86.8  123.4  1355.  144.5
Actual as % of loan   0.0%  100.0%   100.0%   39.5%/  72.2%   95.9% 105.0%  96.8%  97.0"!
Agreement         I      _     _     _    _I
Date of final disbursement  May 1997
Disbursehmt ScheduLe
1600.
140.0
1 r
800                                                                     4  Lan Agre4 tAs iT an
600                                                                   -U-Aclda % of Loen Ageen-st
4100
0.0
1       2       3       4       5       6       7       8       9



- 20 -
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Key Implementation Indicators          Estimated                      Actual
l_______________________________          (1988)
Increase in water provision    Additional 1.9 million        Additional 1.04 million
inhabitants served in 1992   inhabitants served by 299
subprojects implemented by
FINDETER. The number of
additional inhabitants served by
102 subprojects implemented by
FFDU is unknown* but
FINDETER estimates that the
target was achieved in 1996.
Increase in sewerage provision  Additional 1.3 million       Additional 0.66 million
inhabitants served in 1992   inhabitants served by 299
subprojects implemented by
FINDETER. The number of
additional inhabitants served by
102 subprojects implemented by
FFDU is unknown* but
FINDETER estimates that the
_____________________________ =___:___==________=___=___=   target was achieved  in  1996.
As a result of the loss of institutional memory in the transition from FFDU to FINDETER, no data are
available regarding the 102 subprojects implemented by FFDU.



- 21 -
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION
Key performance indicators for      Estimated in SAR                    Actual
companies receiving subloans as
defined in the SAR          _
- Unaccounted for Water                   <0.35                        unknown*
- Production metering                     100%                         unknown*
- Meter coverage                          >60%                         unknown*
- Bacteriological and
physico- chemical          Meeting quality standards set by
water quality              the Ministry of Health.                  unknown*
- Routine leak detection and
repair program              In place                                unknown*
- Preventive maintenance
program.                    In effect                               unknown*
* Information is unavailable to FINDETER. 401 subprojects have been implemented while only 80 have
been programmed in the SAR. Consequently FINDETER had difficulties in monitoring operation. The
operating indicators have, most probably, not been achieved for most of the subprojects.



- 22 -
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN THE PROJECT
Study                  Purpose as defined at           Status        Impact of study
appraisal/redefined
Review and update of        Review and update of technical   In execution     No impact yet
existing technical norms    standards
Preparation of guidelines for  Application of low cost      In execution      No impact yet
application of low cost     appropriate water treatment
appropriate technologies    technologies
Update and strengthen       Development of basic rural       Partially done    None
national program for basic    sanitation                     by DAPSB
rural sanitation procedures
Preparation of a sector     Generate information about       In execution     No impact yet
inventory                   sector installations
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS
Item              Appraisal Estimates        Loan Agreement          Actual/latest estimate
(US$M)                 Assumption                  (US$M)
(US$M)
Local Foreign  Total  Local    Foreign  Total   Local   Foreign    Total
Costs  Costs            Costs    Costs            Costs   Costs
CAT. 1-Goods, civil works,    284.0    146.0  430.0    134.0    146.0   280.0   274.3     141.2  415.5
consultants' services and
training under Part A of the
project
CAT.2-Goods, civil works,    1.0      1.0    2.0       1.0      1.0     2.0      0.8        0.8    1.6
consultants' services and
training under Part B of the
project
CAT.3-Goods, civil works,
consultants' services under:
(a) Part C.l of the project  0.0      1.5    1.5       0.0      1.5      1.5     0.0        1.7   1.7
(b)PartC.2 oftheproject      0.0      1.5    1.5       0.0      1.5      1.5     0.0        1.7   1.7
TOTAL                      285.0    150.0  435.0    135.0    150.0   285.0   275.1        144.5  419.7



- 23 -
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING
Appraisal Estimate       Loan Agreement         Actual/latest estimate
(US$M)                Assumption                 (US$M)
(US$M)
Foreign  Local  Total  Foreign   Local  Total  Foreign   Local
Source     Costs   Costs  Costs   Costs   Costs  Costs   Costs    Costs   Total
Loan funds
IBRD            150.0    0.0   150.0   150.0    0.0   150.0   144.5        0.0    144.5
fational       0.0    50.0   50.0    0.0        0.0    0.0       0.0      0.0     0.0
Government
BCH Domestic            67.5   67.5              0.0    0.0                0.0     0.0
Resources
Financial               41.3   41.3    0.0       30.3   30.3      0.0      35.7    35.7
Intermediaries
FONADE                  14.0   14.0    0.0       0.0    0.0       0.0      0.0     0.0
FINDETER own                             0.0     0.0    0.0       0.0      0.0     0.0
sources
Total Loan      150.0   172.8  322.8   150.0    30.3   180.3   144.5    35.7   180.2
funds__           _ _  __ _ _  __ _ _ _ _ _ _  __ _ ___                      _ _
Cash
Contributions
Operating               55.8   55.8    0.0       35.0   35.0      0.0     67.4    67.4
Companies
Local                   55.4   55.4    0.0       35.0   35.0      0.0      4.9     4.9
Governments
FFDU                     1.0    1.0      0.0     0.0    0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0
Govt. through
Findeter
(cofinancing)                            0.0     34.5   43.5      0.0     113.7   113.7
FINDETER own                             0.0     0.2    0.2       0.0     25.8    25.8
sources
OTHER                                                             0.0     27.7    27.7
sources
Total Cash       0.0    112.2  112.2    0.0    104.7  104.7.0   0.0       239.5   239.5
Contributions
TOTAL           150.0   285.0  435.0   150.0   135.0  285.0   144.5    275.2   419.7



- 24 -
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
Because of the large number of subprojects (401) and lack of information, FINDETER could not calculate
the resulting rate of return of each project. Since water supply and sanitation are considered as basic social
services, FINDETER's decision on investment did not take in consideration the economic justification.
However, FINDETER estimates that the SAR target rate of return of 10% for each subproject was
achieved for most of the subprojects.



COLOMBIA
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR PROJECT (Loan 2961-CO)
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Original     Revised
Covenant   Present    Fulfillment   Fulfillment
Agrment   Section       Type       Status       Date          Date                 Description                         Comment
LA          2.01          3          C                                 Loan for US$150 Million
LA         2.02 (a)       3          C                                 Loan withdrawals according to Schedule
LA_2_02_(a)                                                            Iof LA.                             __________________
LA         2.02 (b)       3          C                                 FINDETER to open and maintain
Special Account in dollars for Parts A, B
and C of Project. Deposits and
withdrawals from Special Account to be
governed by Schedule 6 of LA.
LA  2.03  5  C                               Closing Date to be December 31, 1996,
LA__       2.03                                                        or later date set by Bank.
LA          3.01 (a)      5          C                                 FINDETER to cany out parts A
.______ ______   ______ ______               _______  (supbrojects) and B (TA to itself).
(b)       S          C                                 FINDETER to relend to Govt. funds   DWSS has been replaced by the Water
from Categ. (3) of Sch. 1 for Part C (TA   and Sanitation Directorate of the
to DWSS) under Sub. LA             Ministry of Development. Legal
FINDETER/GOVT. acceptable to Bank.  agreement has been recently finalized
_______  ,______  _______  _________  to  reflect this.
(C)                  C                                 FINDETER to enter contractual
arrangements (Participation
Agreements) with each Financial
Intermediary for Part A of the Project.
(d)       5          C                                 FINDETER to enter into Subproject
Agreement with each Eligible Project
Entity and Sponsor Agency for
I Subprojects under Part A of Project.    I
.J     . (e)            CP     __________  _________  FINDETER to enter into agreement with  Preinvestment for preparation of



Original     Revised
Covenant   Present    Fulfillment   Fulrillment
Agrment   Section       Type       Status       Date          Date                 Description                         Comment
FONADE, establishing FONADE's      subprojects has been financed through
obligation to finance pre-investment  AT-PAS (Part B of the project) and
studies to be carried out by Eligible  regional and local funds.
Entities as part of Subprojects.
(flJ      2          C                                 FINDETER to use repayments of
principal of Participating Loans not
required for Bank Loan repayments
exclusively for loans to Financial
Intermediaries for same purposes, under
similar terms and conditions.
3         C                                  Govt. to have contractual agreement
with agent(s) satisfactory to Bank, for
handling contracting of consultants,
procurement of goods and training under
Part C (Training/TA) of Project.
(g)                  C                                 FINDETER to perform all obligations
with FONADE, SLA, Partic. Agrmnt.
Sub-proj. Agrmnt.
(h)                                                    FINDETER to carry out Part B (TA to    Final tranche (IJSS 250,000) to be
5         C                                  FINDETER) according to a plan of   prepared and sent to the Bank for
action and timetable, satisfactory to  comments and approval
Bank.
3.02 (a)      5          C                                 FINDETER not to approve Subprojects
for loan financing which may have
negative effect on execution of Ongoing
_________  Projects or their finance.
LA          3.02 (b)      2         CP                                 Wenever apprisa of a Subproje       JNT abolished and replaced by
.    )                                                    Windicates need for a tariff adjustment,    Regulatory Commnission which has
FINDETER will request rif  pretim.  given autonomy to utilities to approve
approval of such adjustment before  tariff increases subject to ex-post
approval_of_such_adjustment_before  review. FINDETER continues to



- 27 -
Original     Revised
Covenant   Present    Fulfillment   Fulfillment
Agreement   Section     Type       Status       Date          Date                 Description                        Comment
approval of a Subloan; this should not be  require  iff adjustments as a
approved if JNT rejects adjstmnt.  condition of disbursement.
LA         3.03                         _                              No later than March 31 and September FNDETERprepared a combined
30 of each year, FINDETER to ept r    report focusing on substance and
toprepare   statistical analysis. For some
and send to Bank progress reports on  statstalreadysis. pleteom
Parts A and B of the Project to include:   subprojects already completed,
Amts. commtd. and disbd. under     FINDETER prepared also a final
Subloans, # and type of Subloans, under  execution report. Next reports should
prep. and exec., physical progress,  focus more on impact.
compliance with Subproj Agremnts.,
repayments and arrears for Subloans and
Partic. Loans.
LA         3.04           2          C                                 All FINDETER lending operations,    For lending operations, FINDETER
including those using funds from third   charges DTF +1.5. First tier Banks
parties which it administers in any  onlend at DTF+5%. Occasionally
capacity to be according to terms and  FINDETER also has grant windows
conditions of Schedule 7 of this LA  for concessionary assistance which
(Redis. DTF+.5%he; Onln.DTF+5/.).    combine with the loans and have the
__R_dis_ DT_ +1_5%___ Onln_DT_________ same operation terms and conditions.
LA          3.05(a)       5          C                                 FINDETER agrees that unless agreed
with the Bank, Participating Loans wiln
be made according to procedures and
terms and conditions of the Operating
Manual Statement and Schedule 5 of
this Agreement.
LA          3.06(a)       5          C                                 Procurement of goods, works and
services financed by Loan to be governed
by Schedule 4 of this Agreement and
5______          _________ _________   Section 3.02 of the Guarantee Agremt.
LA          3.06(b)                  C                                 For such procurement, FINDETER and
Project Entities to use standard bidding
_ _ _ _ _ ___   documents



Original      Revised
Covenant   Present    Fulfillment   Fulfillment
Aemment   Section         Type       Status        Date          Date                  Description                           Comment
LA          3.07(b)                    C                                   FINDETER to coordinate with MOPT in  Not applicable. MOPT has been
preparation of a completion report of the  replaced by the Ministy of
works financed by Loan               Development for preparation of this
report. and FINDETERhas
coordinated with this Ministry
LA          3.08(a)        5           C                                   By November 15 each year, FINDETER,
Govt. and Eligible Project Entities to
exchange views with Bank as per Sec.
2.07 of Guar. Agremt.
LA          3.08(b)         5          C                                   FINDETER to carry out any action plan
of Govt. required by such exch.
LA          3.09           5           C                                   Subloans to be made according to
Schedule 5 of this Agreement.
LA          4.01           5           C                                   FINDETER to maintain procedures and                                          a
separate records and accounts needed to                                     0
monitor and record progress and
procurement of Parts A and B of Project
and each Subproject (including
costs/benefits) and to reflect operations
and financial conditions of FINDETER
LA          4.02(a)(i)      I          C                                   Have the records, accounts, statements,
including Special Accounts, audited by
independent auditors.
LA             (a)(ii)      1          C                                   Furnish to Bank copies of (A) audited
financial statements and (B) report of
audit by auditors within four months of
end of fiscal year (by April 30).
LA             (b)(i)                  C                                   For SOEs, (i) keep separate records and
accounts of expenditures; (ii) keep until
at least one year after Bank gets audit,
. _________  _________  _________  __________    ____________  ___________    all supoorting  records: (iii) allow    access



Original      Revised
Covenant   Present    Fulfillment   Fulfillment
Agreement   Section      Type       Status       Date          Date                  Description                          Comment
to Bank; (iv) ensure that auditors
provide a separate opinion as to whether
SOE and controls, etc., can be relied
upon to support the related withdrawals.
LA          4.03           1          C                                  Not later than June 30 each year,
FINDETER to send Bank a report on
audits of the financial statements of the
Eligible Project Entities and of their
separate records and accounts
maintained for the Project funds.
LA          4.04(a)        2          C                                  For each fiscal year after Dec. 31, 1990,  For 1993 ROEQ boosted to 13%,
FINDETER to earn annual ROEq in line  primarily because of capitalization
with minimum ratios (91/0; 92/3; 93  from the National Government
on/5%) agreed with the Bank.
LA          4.04(b)        2                                             By March 30 and Sept. 30 each fiscal
year, FINDETER to prepare forecasts
and review whether it would meet above
ratios for current and following years
and send the results to the Bank.
LA          4.04(c)        2          C                                  If analysis shows ratios would not be
met, FINDETER to take necessary
measures, including changing its
lending policies to meet such
requirements.
LA          Sch. 4                    C
LA          Part A. 1      5          C                                  Except as per Part C below, goods and
works to be procured according to
Sections I and 11 of "Guidelines" of May
1985.
LA          Part C. 1                 C                                  Civil Works between US$ 200,000 and
$2M and Goods between USS 20,000



Original     Revised
Covenant   Present    Fulfillment   Fflrment
Aeement   Section       Type       Status       Date         Date                 Description                         Comment
and $ 300,000 can be via LCB
acceptable to Bank.
LA          Part C. 2                C                                 Civil Works less than US$ 200,000 and
Goods less than US$ 20,000 may be
procured via comparison of price
quotations from at least 3 sources with
._________ ________  ________ _________                           procedures acceptable to Bank.
LA          Part D. 6     5          C                                 Awards to go to lowest evaluated bidder.
LA          Part E.       5          C                                 All ICB and first 2 of other contracts for
l(a)                                                      Civil Works and Goods to follow
procedures of paras. 2 and 4 of
Appendix 1 of the Guidelines. For
payments to be made from Special
Account, 2 confirmed copies of contract                                a
to be sent to Bank.
LA          Part E.       S         C                                 For SOE expenditures, contracts to be
I(c)                                                      retained according to Section 4.01(b)(ii)
of LA.
LA          Sch.4         5         C                                 Consultants to be employed in line with
Sec.1I                                                    'Guidelines for Use of Consultants' of
August 1981.
I      Accounts/audits                           8       Indigenous people                         C      covenant complied with
2      Financial performance/revenue             9       Monitoring, review, and reporting         CD    complied with after delay
generation from beneficiaries             10      Project implementation not covered        CP    complied with partially
3      Flow and utilization of project funds             by categories 1-9                         NC    not complied with
4      Counterpart funding                        11     Sectoral or cross-sectoral
5      Management aspects of the project          12     Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy
of executing agency                              regulatory/institutional action
6      Environmental covenants                    13     Other
7      Involuntary resettlement



-31 -
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
No significant lack of compliance with applicable Bank Operational Statement (OD or OP/BP).
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
Stage of              Planned               Revised                Actual
Project Cycle      Weeks       US$       Weeks       US$        Weeks       US$
Appraisal to Board                                                      21.5    $49,768
Board approval through                                                   8.6    $20,933
effectiveness
Supervision                                                            171.0   $457,804
Completion                                                               6.0      16,450
TOTAL                                                                 _315.8    798,756



-32 -
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Stage Of Project   Month/Year Number Of  Days In   Specialization   Performance          Type Of
Cycle                      Persons      Field    Represented 1/    Status 2/       Problems 31
Identification     Sep-85         3         30           SE,
Identification         Apr-86         1          3            SE
through                Nov-96         3          33       EN,FNA,SE
Appraisal               Jan-87        2          38         EN,FNA
Sep-85        3          30           SE
Apr-86         1          3           TS
Nov-86         3         33       EN,FNA,ECN
Feb-87         1          4           SE
Mar-87         1          6            SE
Appraisal
through                                                         _
Board Approval
Board Approval         Feb-89         1          6            EN
through
Effectiveness
Supervision
Feb-90        1           5                           1
Jul-90        2          10        EN,FNA             3       CLC
Nov-90         3         51         EN, FNA            2
Aug-91         1          5         EN, FNA            1
Oct-91        1           1         UP, EN            2
Nov-91         3         54        UP, EN,EN          2        TP
Jun-92                                                2       TP
Nov-92         3         54      FNA,SE, ECN          2        TP, TA, SP
_  Jun-93                                       _          2     TP, TA, SP
Mar-94         3         39       ECN, SE, EN         2        TP, TA, SP
Jul-94        1          5            SE              2       TP, SP
Oct-94        3          27      ECN, SE, EN          2       TP, SP
Jan-95        1          2            SE              2       TP, SP
May-96         1                       SE              S       TP,SP
Jul-96        2          20         SE, EN            S       TP, TA, SP
TOTAL                          44        459
1/ FNA-Financial Analyst., EN-Engineer, SE-Sanitary Engineer, ECN-Economst, UP-Urban Planner.
2/ Overall Rating Status: 1-No significant Problems, 2-Moderate problems, 3-Major Problems, S-Satisfactory.
3/ TP-Training Progress, TA-Technical Assistant, SP-Study Progress, CLC=Compliance Legal Covenants.



- 33 -
APPENDIX A
PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
FINDETER - FINANCIERA DE DESARROLLO TERRITORIAL S.A.
[Regional Development Finance Corporation]
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
LOAN 2961-CO
Introduction
The policy established in the Potable Water and Basic Sanitation Sector Adjustment Plan
sought to provide widespread access to water and sewerage services in a political context
of decentralization. The basic objectives were to strengthen the sector entities
institutionally, increase water and sewerage coverage, improve water quality, promote
sanitation, and achieve financial independence of the water and sanitation.
To attain these goals, it was also necessary in addition to the reform of the service
companies, to consolidate a managing body for the sector to lead the planning and
institutional development process, and make sufficient funding available using suitable
financial instruments, with credit provided through FINDETER being the Government's
tool developed for this purpose.
In evaluating the results of the Sector Adjustment Plan (PAS) partly financed by the
World Bank, it should be stressed that the potable water and basic sanitation sector was
immersed in an adjustment and improvement process that led to its decentralization in
1987. It remained in a state of legal and administrative limbo for several years while the
departmental companies reporting to INSFOPAL (EMPOS) were liquidated, and mayors
with little experience faced the challenge of managing and upgrading complex systems that
required some minimum technical, financial and institutional conditions to deliver decent
services. Since then, FINDETER, the Ministry of Economic Development, the National
Planning Department and the World Bank have been devising criteria, providing
assistance, and channeling funding for the sole purpose of improving the coverage and
quality of services through the design and implementation of comprehensive projects that
comply with all the requirements. The process has been difficult and has had to deal with
weak management capacity in municipalities, lack of awareness regarding the provision of
public services and, in some cases, political interference.
In evaluating the results of the program, it should be pointed out that there is no intent to
criticize the institutions working in the sector since, despite the shortcomings, without the
efforts made by FINDETER and other entities, the sector would be even farther behind
than it is at present.



- 34 -
The experience acquired by sector entities during the project implementation should also
be underlined, since it will within a short time permit them to design new strategies to
effectively strengthen the sector through high quality, sustainable future investments.
The formulation and presentation of projects evaluated and financed by FINDETER
complied with the policy guidelines of the PAS and some of them had been expeditiously
approved by the World Bank. Also, most of the methodological guidelines used by
FINDETER for the technical, financial, and institutional evaluation of the projects were
based on instruments developed by the Urban Development Finance Fund (FFDU).
Despite the institutional weakness that has marked the sector, the Government made
major efforts to improve the situation and in 1994 it promulgated Law 142 and began to
consolidate institutions to implement it, namely the Potable Water and Basic Sanitation
Directorate, the Superintendency of Domestic Public Services, and the Water and
Sanitation Regulatory Commission, which report to the Ministry of Economic
Development.
Law 142 establishes that residential public services should be managed under a business
standpoint that ensures the efficient provision of services in a context of competition and
financial sustainability, through effective rate structures and low costs.
With this new legal framework, Colombia is working to improve management in the
potable water and basic sanitation sector with a view to the efficient provision of domestic
public services.
1.    Project Objectives, Concept, Design and Scope
The general objective of the project was to achieve systematic improvement in the potable
water and basic sanitation sector in accordance with the central government's policies
contained in the Potable Water and Basic Sanitation Sector Adjustment Plan - the PAS.
The general guidelines of the project were consistent with the priorities in the sector
identified by the Government.
As to its conception, design and scope, the program suffered from the outset from a lack
of clarity regarding players and interlocutors, since even before the original loan
agreement was signed with the BCH-FFDU it was already expected that a new agency
would be established to replace FFDU.
It was difficult to achieve the goals established in the program since agencies such as
CENAGUA, which was supposed to implement the training component, and FONADE,
which was to handle preinvestment, did not participate, leading to delays in project
implementation.



- 35 -
With respect to the investment component, initially under the responsibility of FFDU and
later under that of FINDETER, the program failed to consider the changes made in the
institutional and legal frameworks, including the change in the implementing agency, to
say nothing of the problems that were encountered in fulfilling some of the prerequisites
common to most of the subprojects, such as updating and applying a new tariff structure
based on the principle of self-financing of services, and the indiscriminate installation of
individual water meters, without taking into account the special characteristics of the
clients or institutional realities in the sector.
One structural weakness in project implementation was the inability to consolidate the
potable water and basic sanitation sector institutionally on the national level, which had a
marked impact on investments, since the sector lacked clear national leadership with
regard to investments in the technical aspects of the systems and particularly with regard
to institutional matters.
The sector reported to a variety of agencies and ministries until 1994, when the Potable
Water and Basic Sanitation Directorate was established under the Ministry of Economic
Development.
2.    Project Implementation
Project implementation by FINDETER encountered some difficulties, which are described
below.
i     In view of the institutional shortcomings in the sector, FINDETER had to take on
roles outside its area of responsibility, as the leader of sector policy (a logical
consequence of its project management) and supervisor of compliance with those
policies. It played an important role in identifying institutional gaps in the project,
as well as acting as a regional development corporation (review of income levels,
portfolio, functional areas in administrative entities, tariffs, etc.) and was involved
to some extent in dimensioning the projects through the application of criteria for
optimum investment size.
*     The program was based on suitable conceptual frameworks, but in fact information
on the systems is so scarce that parameters such as coverage, loss levels, etc., are
difficult to quantify, with the result that few real indicators were available to
evaluate the program's impact.
*     Most of the projects were presented to FINDETER with studies and designs
prepared by consultants who often did not have sufficient technical capacity, which
forced FINDETER to review and adjust the projects to fit to its requirements.



- 36-
*     The lack of management capacity in local administrations forced FINDETER to
take part in many processes that are the responsibility of the borrower, in order to
ensure that progress would be made in implementing the project.
*     The lack of continuity in program management by the World Bank, which changed
task managers and criteria during implementation.
*     The lack of reliable inventories and the small importance attached to them by local
administrations, which in many cases led to the loss of institutional memory in the
beneficiary municipalities, and to the deterioration of the quality of the projects.
*     The high turnover of staff in the local administrations and the short time that
mayors remain in office hamper the formulation and implementation of
medium-and long-term programs and disrupt the continuity of development plans.
This also limited the scope of institutional development actions.
Low participation by the beneficiary communities in formulating the solutions
adopted by the project meant that aspects such as tariff adjustments and individual
metering were difficult to implement.
Financial capacity became an obstacle to making all the necessary improvements
and therefore not all system components were optimized.
*     The thresholds established by type of bid resulted in handling a large volume of
procurement processes. These processes led to delays in project execution that
would not have occurred had national legislation been used.
*     A comprehensive sector information system to preserve the institutional memory
of the projects was not consolidated.
Despite the above, a high percentage of implementation of the physical investments was
achieved, resulting in an appreciable improvement in water and sewerage services, as
described below:
*     Extension of water services to 1,037,987 inhabitants and sewerage services to
655,682.
*     Environmental sanitation was provided in localities that did not have adequate
solid or liquid waste disposal systems. Eight sewage treatment systems were
rehabilitated and 38 new sewage treatment systems were constructed with project
financing.



- 37 -
With respect to water quality, FINDETER provided funding to build 60 new
treatment plants, optimize 92, and rehabilitate 13. A consolidated summary of the
program's basic information fiches is attached, which provides data on the
achievements of the projects in the program financed by FINDETER.
The loans granted through FINDETER have fostered a financial culture that strengthens
the decentralization process, making municipalities less dependent on the central
Government by encouraging them to seek alternative funding sources, and promoting
better collection of tax and non-tax revenues.
Considerable local funding from municipalities and departments was committed under the
program. They contributed counterpart resources of treatment of US$82,983,000 as
compared to a budgeted US$70,000,000.
The loan also led to the mobilization of complementary funds from the Government (PAS
fund) and other sources such as the PNR, the CVS-BCH Trust, the Emergency Plan,
Netherlands-PAS, the Colombian-Netherlands Agreement, etc., for the amount of
US$17,374,000.
3.    Bank and Cofinancing Agencies Performance
As noted earlier, there were also changes in the Bank during the program which had some
effect on its implementation. They even led to the loss of institutional memory regarding
certain decisions made with regard to the program, particularly the changes that occurred
when FINDETER took over the loan, replacing BCH-FFDU.
FINDETER considers that the Bank, during its supervisory activities, did not appreciate
the difficulties have emerged arisen and therefore did not provide FINDETER with
assistance to overcome them. Consequently the program was not adjusted to reflect the
changes in the environment, institutional changes, the type of borrower, or the nature of
the company administrating the services.
One of the rigidities of the project was the institutional development plan adopted, which
was indiscriminately repeated in most of the projects and was only partially attained, as
can be seen from the evaluation of the results.
With respect to the cofinancing agencies, although in some cases contributions were not
made as budgeted in the project's financial plan, the contribution from supplementary
sources was significant. Also, the delays in the projects made more counterpart funding
necessary, which the borrowers could not always obtain.
The role played by the Government as cofinancer through the non-reimbursable PAS fund,
which provided some US$98,643,000 to supplement the loan, is worth emphasizing, since
the funds facilitated the implementation of comprehensive projects with larger impacts.



- 38 -
The cofinancing fund was managed through FINDETER, which was made the
Government's trustee under very strict regulations that required the material existence of
comprehensively designed projects and compulsory compliance with management
indicators and the application first of loan proceeds and own funds in order to
subsequently obtain cofinancing.
FINDETER disagrees categorically on this point with the report prepared by the Bank.
Although it is true that a large part of the funds of the National Cofinancing System is
specifically earmarked in the Government's budget, the PAS non-reimbursable fund has
been an effective tool for combining credit with cofinancing and for channeling allocations
in technical terms. Furthermore, the non-reimbursable funds now managed by the
Cofinancing Funds played no part in financing the program's projects.
4.    FINDETER's Performance
During the project FINDETER promoted a culture of integrated projects in local
governments and service companies through the examination and appraisal of technical,
economic, financial, institutional, and environmental aspects.
As the project's implementing agency, FINDETER demonstrated substantial
administrative and management capacity, handling a large volume of operations (over 400)
and processes.
Despite the results with regard to institutional development, FINDETER worked on this
aspect to promote the establishment of service management companies and encourage
clients to examine their financial and administrative potential, with regard not just to
service provision (tariffs) but also to management of the local entity as such, and to
achieve the financial and administrative independence of the services, which were
generally managed by the same entity.
Furthermore, notwithstanding the problems encountered in the formulation stage,
FINDETER provided strong support for finding comprehensive solutions to the problems
identified, and during the process of reviewing the designs it even suggested alternatives
for investments that were more economic and better suited to the municipalities, based on
their particular characteristics and financial situations.
In directing the operation FINDETER has taken an eminently technical approach, and has
always sought to replace retiring staff with personnel with academic training, experience,
and management skills, and therefore it rejects the subjective and incorrect affirmation in
the Bank's report in number 13 of the section entitled "Major Factors Affecting the
Project" relating to political interference, which seriously clouds the relationship between
the Bank and FINDETER.



-39 -
It should be noted that the Bank's 1994 World Development Report (page 103) underlines
FINDETER's work as a municipal credit institution that operates as a discount agency,
stressing that: "The system's success has depended on the quality of FINDETER's staff
and that of the intermediaries through which it lends. Under the control of the Ministry of
Finance, it has been relatively insulated from political pressures".
5.    Recommendations
For future operations, FINDETER feels that the following should be kept in mind:
5.1   With regard to project financing:
Consider allocating additional funding to projects which for justifiable reasons
have been unable to find counterpart funds or alternative sources of financing, in
order to ensure their full completion. This has been formalized in FINDETER's
new credit regulations.
*     Increase the amount of funding earmarked for the sector to ensure that projects
will have a significant impact on the optimization of systems.
*     Readjust the institutional development strategy for projects since entities must be
made aware of the importance of the institutional component during the project
cycle, and coordinate the management and sectorial aspects of institutional
strengthening policies at the national level.
*     FINDETER should study how to classify its market by type of borrower (public,
private, with or without management capacity, degree of project complexity, etc.)
in order to optimize the funds invested in the processes of project appraisal,
approval, and monitoring, and to readjust the technical assistance it provides.
*     FINDETER should devise strategies to enable borrowers to improve project
formulation. It has been involved in pilot programs as local monitor and project
promoter, through which it works very closely with municipalities in the project
formulation process, financing studies and designs to ensure that investment
projects are of high quality and better tailored to requirements.
5.2   With regard to the World Bank:
*     Review the thresholds and procedures of procurement, which have weighed
heavily on project execution times.
*     The Bank should strengthen the Resident Mission as the first line in solving
problems, monitoring projects more closely, and issuing timely non-objections to
contracting processes.



-40 -
Clear procedures should immediately be established between FINDETER and the
Bank, respecting communications channels, to avoid misunderstandings between
the two or with sub-borrowers.
6.    Lessons Learned
The design of sector programs should focus on an analysis of the institutional framework
in which a project must develop, in order to scale its objectives. Projects should have the
flexibility to adjust to changing conditions.
Indicators for measuring project performance should be clearly defined from the earliest
stages of an operation, since they guide and optimize the task of monitoring the
investments.
The shortcomings detected are an opportunity for FINDETER to re-think certain
processes and functions in the different project stages, and should also act as a
springboard for the different players in the sector's new institutional framework to
decisively take up the roles assigned to them and to permit communities to participate in
project formulation, implementation, and operation.
7.    Future Actions
As part of its policy for continuing improvement, FINDETER has taken major steps to
upgrade its project management and strengthen its position as a development credit
agency. These actions include:
Program for the sustainability of projects in the potable water and basic sanitation
sector, which takes a team-learning approach in order to optimize project
management with community participation.
Program to improve focus, which includes the following projects: organizational
strengthening, operational harmonization of credit and cofinancing, establishment
of a marketing organization, strengthening of planning, dissemination and client
education, management information system, financial administration system.
Development of new financial products and more flexible financial conditions than
those applied at present.
Redefinition of the direction and scope of technical assistance and review of
procedures for granting loans.
Analysis of public and private co-participation in FINDETERs operations.



-41 -
*     Action plan to strengthen environmental management in projects financed by
FINDETER.
*     Updating of instruments and indicators for project formulation, presentation,
evaluation (including ex-post evaluation) and monitoring.



-42 -
FINDETER
S.,8,cierade Desanollo Ten&,A.1 S.A.
Santafe de Bogota D.C., junio 24 de 1997             001- 00392
Doctor
EUGENE McCARTHY
Jefe Divisi6n de Medio Ambiente y Desarrollo Urbano
Departamento III
Regi6n de America Latina y el Caribe
BANCO MUNDIAL
Washington D.C.
Asunto:     Prestamo 2961 - CO
Informe de Cierre de Proyecto
Apreciado sefior McCarthy:
Anexo estamos enviando el informe de cierre del programa de la referencia que
contiene las apreciaciones de FINDETER sobre los resultados del mismo, asi como
comentarios al Informe de junio 9 de 1997 preparado por el Banco Mundial.
Cordialm  t
HEC OR QUINTER ARREDONDO
Pres /ente/
Anexo.      Lo nunciado
Copia a:    Sr. Menahem Libhaber - Banco Mundial
Presidencia
Folder Prestamo 2961-CO
Correa O./Esperanza B./Jacqui.-



- 43 -
FINDETER
financiera de Desa,rollo Tenftonal S.A.
FINANCIERA DE DESARROLLO TERRITORIAL S.A.
INFORME DE CIERRE DE PROYECTO
PRESTAMO 2961 CO
INTRODUCCION:
La politica establecida en el Plan de Ajuste del Sector de Agua Potable y Saneamiento
Basico buscaba generalizar el acceso a los servicios de agua potable y saneamiento basico,
en el contexto de la politica de descentralizaci6n, teniendo como objetivos basicos, lograr el
fortalecimiento institucional de las entidades del sector, aumentar las coberturas de
acueducto y alcantarillado, mejorar la calidad del agua y promover el saneamiento
ambiental de los sistemas de aguas servidas y lograr la independencia financiera de los
servicios.
Para el logro de estas metas, se requerfa ademas de las reformas institucionales a las
entidades prestadoras de los servicios, la consolidaci6n de un ente rector en el sector que
orientara el proceso de planeaci6n y desarrollo institucional y la aplicaci6n de recursos
suficientes con herramientas financieras adecuadas, siendo el credito a traves de
FINDETER la herramienta concebida para este ultimo prop6sito por el gobiemo.
Al entrar a evaluar los resultados del PAS financiado parcialmente con recursos del Banco
Mundial, vale la pena resaltar que el sector de Agua Potable y Saneamiento Basico ha
estado inmerso en un proceso de ajuste y mejoramiento, que llev6 a su descentralizaci6n en
1987, permaneciendo durante un par de afios en un limbo juridico y administrativo,
mientras se liquidaron las empresas departamentales adscritas al INSFOPAL (EMPOS) y
que los alcaldes se enfrentaron sin conocimiento ni experiencia previa al reto de manejar y
mejorar unos sistemas complejos que requerian unas condiciones minimas en materia
tecnica, financiera e institucional para entregar un buen servicio. FINDETER, el Ministerio
de Desarrollo Econ6mico, el DNP y el Banco Mundial han venido desde entonces
disefiando criterios, prestando asistencia y orientando recursos con el uinico proposito de
elevar las coberturas y la calidad de los servicios mediante la formulaci6n y puesta en
marcha de proyectos integrales que cumplieran con todas las exigencias. Este proceso ha
sido dificil y se ha enfrentado con la debil capacidad de gesti6n de las localidades, la escasa
cultura en tomo al suministro de bienes piublicos en nuestra poblaci6n y en algunos casos,
con interferencias de caracter politico.
Asi mismo, para poder evaluar los resultados del programa se debe aclarar que no se trata
de criticar a las instituciones que de una u otra forma han intervenido en el sector, teniendo



-44 -
FINDETER
Fimmiem de DesanoIo Ten;ifto    S.A.
en cuenta que a pesar de los vacios, sin los esfuerzos realizados tanto por FINDETER como
por otras entidades el retraso en el sector seria de magnitudes aun mayores
Igualmente, vale la pena destacar la experiencia adquirida por las entidades del sector
durante la ejecuci6n del proyecto, que a muy corto plazo les permitira diseniar nuevas
estrategias orientadas a fortalecer de manera efectiva el desarrollo del sector a traves de la
sostenibilidad y calidad de las inversiones futuras.
Se destaca que la formulaci6n y presentaci6n de los proyectos evaluados y financiados por
FINDETER cumplieron con los lineamientos de la politica del PAS y algunos de ellos
contaron con el concepto favorable expreso del Banco Mundial. Adicionalmente, gran parte
de los lineamientos metodol6gicos utilizados por FINDETER para la evaluaci6n tecnica,
financiera e institucional de los proyectos se derivaron de los instrumentos desarrollados
por el FFDU.
Igualmente se observa que pese a la debilidad institucional que ha caracterizado al sector, el
gobierno hizo esfuerzos importantes para mejorar esta situaci6n y en 1994 expide la ley 142
de 1994 y se comienza a consolidar una entidad rectora del sector con la creaci6n de la
Direcci6n de Agua Potable y Saneamiento Basico, la Superintendencia de Servicios
P(iblicos y la Comisi6n de Regulaci6n para Agua Potable y Saneamiento Basico, adscritas
al Ministerio de Desarrollo Econ6mico.
La Ley 142 establece la necesidad de manejar los servicios puiblicos domiciliarios con
esquemas empresariales, que garanticen la prestaci6n eficiente de los servicios, en un
Ambito de competencia y sostenibilidad financiera a traves de estructuras tarifarias
eficientes y bajos costos en la prestaci6n de los servicios.
Con este nuevo marco legal el pais aspira a mejorar la gesti6n en el sector de Agua Potable
y Saneamiento Basico en el marco de la prestaci6n eficiente de los servicios publicos
domiciliarios.
1. OBJETIVOS, CONCEPCION, DISEN4O Y DIMENSIONAMIENTO DEL
PROYECTO:
Los objetivos generales bajo los cuales se concibi6 el proyecto fueron adecuados al
pretender alcanzar un mejoramiento integral del sector de Agua Potable y Saneamiento
Basico, conforme a las politicas del gobiemo nacional en el Plan de Ajuste del Sector de
Agua Potable y Saneamiento Basico - PAS,



-45 -
AM
FINDETER
Fin-nciers de OcsarroIIO T-ito-il S.A.
Los lineamientos generales del proyecto fueron coherentes con las prioridades identificadas
por el pais en el sector.
En cuanto a su concepci6n, disefio y dimensionamiento, el programa adoleci6 desde el
inicio de falta de claridad sobre los actores e interlocutores, partiendo del hecho de que
antes de la firma del primer contrato de prestamo con el BCH-FFDU, ya se preveia la
creaci6n de una entidad nueva que reemplazaria al Fondo Financiero de Desarrollo Urbano.
El cumplimiento de las metas establecidas por el programa fue dificil toda vez que la
participaci6n de entidades como CENAGUA para ejecutar el componente de capacitaci6n
y de FONADE para preinversi6n no se dio, implicando retrasos en la ejecuci6n del
proyecto.
En lo que respecta al componente de inversi6n, a cargo inicialmente del FFDU y luego de
FINDETER, el programa no consider6 los cambios que a nivel de los marcos
institucionales y legales se dieron, incluyendo el cambio en la entidad ejecutora, ni mucho
menos los problemas que surgieron para la puesta en marcha e implementaci6n de algunas
condiciones comunes a la mayoria de subproyectos como la actualizaci6n y aplicaci6n de
una nueva estructura tarifaria acorde con los criterios de autocosteabilidad de los servicios y
la implantaci6n indiscriminada de micromedici6n, sin tener en cuenta las caracteristicas
particulares de los clientes y la realidad institucional del sector.
Una debilidad estructural en la ejecuci6n del proyecto fue el no poder consolidar
institucionalmente a nivel nacional el sector de agua potable y saneamiento basico, factor
que incidi6 notablemente en el impacto de las inversiones al carecer el sector de un
direccionamiento claro a nivel nacional, no solo en la orientaci6n de las inversiones en los
aspectos tecnicos de los sistemas sino especialmente en lo referente al tema institucional.
De hecho el sector ha sido adscrito a varias entidades y ministerios hasta que en 1994 se
configura la Direcci6n de Agua Potable y Saneamiento Basico adscrita al Ministerio de
Desarrollo Econ6mico.
2. IMPLEMENTACION DEL PROYECTO
La implementaci6n del proyecto por parte de FINDETER, tuvo algunos inconvenientes que
se describen a continuaci6n:



-46 -
FINDETER
Finandira de Des-1ollo Tnitonal S.A.
Frente al vacio institucional en el sector, FINDETER tuvo que asumir papeles que
extralimitaban sus funciones, como direccionador de la politica sectorial (l6gicamente a
traves de su gesti6n alrededor del proyecto), como fiscalizador del cumplimiento de esas
politicas, jugando un papel importante en la identificaci6n de los vacios institucionales
del proyecto y del ente territorial como tal (revisi6n del estado de las rentas, cartera, de
las areas funcionales de la entidad administradora, tarifas, etc.) y en alguna medida en el
dimensionamiento de los proyectos aplicando criterios de dimensionamiento 6ptimo de
las inversiones.
* El programa parti6 de marcos conceptuales adecuados pero en la realidad, la informaci6n
sobre los sistemas es tan deficiente que parametros como coberturas, nivel de perdidas,
etc., son dificiles de cuantificar Ilevando esto a la ausencia real de indicadores para la
evaluaci6n del impacto del programa
. La mayoria de los proyectos lleg6 a FINDETER con estudios y disefios ya realizados,
por consultores que muchas veces no tenian la suficiente capacidad tecnica, lo que
obligaba a la revisi6n y ajustes de los proyectos por parte de FINDETER tratando de
adecuarlos a las exigencias de la entidad.
* La poca capacidad de gesti6n de las administraciones locales lo que oblig6 a FINDETER
a intervenir en muchos procesos que son responsabilidad del prestatario, para poder
garantizar el avance en la ejecuci6n del proyecto.
* La falta de continuidad en el manejo del programa por parte del Banco Mundial al tener
diversos interlocutores y criterios durante su ejecuci6n
* Ausencia de una interventoria seria y poca valoraci6n de su importancia por parte de las
administraciones locales, lo que en muchos casos llev6 a la perdida de la memoria
institucional del proyecto en los municipios beneficiados y al deterioro en la calidad de
los proyectos.
* La alta rotaci6n de personal en las administraciones locales y el corto periodo de los
alcaldes restringe la formulaci6n e implementaci6n de programas de mediano y largo
plazo, siendo poca la continuidad en los planes de desarrollo. Esto limit6 igualmente los
alcances de las acciones de desarrollo institucional.
. La poca participaci6n de la comunidad beneficiaria dentro de la soluci6n planteada con
el proyecto llev6 a que aspectos como el ajuste tarifario y la micromedici6n fueran de
dificil implementaci6n.
* La capacidad financiera llega a ser en un momento determinado un obstaculo para que se
lleven a cabo todas las mejoras necesarias por tanto no se llegaron a optimizar todos los
componentes de los sistemas.
. Los limites establecidos por tipo de licitaci6n obligaron al manejo de un volumen
apreciable de informaci6n sobre procesos de contrataci6n. Estos procesos conllevaron
demoras adicionales en la ejecuci6n de los proyectos en comparaci6n con la legislaci6n
nacional



-47 -
FINDETER
inanci,a de Dearroti}, Te,on iM S.A.
* No se logr6 consolidar un sistema de informaci6n integral del sector que permnitiera
acumular la memoria institucional de los proyectos.
No obstante lo anterior, las inversiones fisicas lograron un alto porcentaje de cumplimiento,
propiciando una mejora sensible en la prestaci6n de los servicios de acueducto y
alcantarillado que a continuaci6n se destacan:
* Ampliaci6n de cobertura en acueducto a 1.037.987 habitantes y de alcantarillado a
655.682 habitantes.
* Se logr6 el saneamiento ambiental de areas en localidades donde no existia una adecuada
recolecci6n ni disposici6n de excretas y aguas residuales, financiando la optimizaci6n de
8 sistemas de tratamiento y la construcci6n de 38 sistemas nuevos de tratamiento en
alcantarillado.
* En cuanto a la potabilidad del agua, FINDETER dio recursos para construir 60 sistemas
nuevos de tratamiento, optimizar 92 y rehabilitar 13. Se anexa el consolidado de las
fichas de informaci6n basica del programa que contiene datos relacionados con los
alcances previsto de los proyectos financiados por FINDETER dentro del programa.
Adicionalmente se destaca que el credito otorgado a traves de FINDETER, ha impulsado
una cultura financiera que fortalece el proceso de descentralizacion promoviendo la menor
dependencia de los municipios del nivel central, al buscar fuentes alternas de recursos, a la
vez que ha incentivado una mejora en los recaudos por concepto de ingresos tributarios y
no tributarios.
Asi mismo, se logr6 comprometer dentro del programa importantes recursos de tipo local,
propios de los municipios y departamentos, que hicieron esfuerzos por colocar recursos de
contrapartida por US$82.983.000 frente US$ 70.000.000 presupuestados
El credito permiti6 a su vez la movilizaci6n de recursos complementarios provenientes de
la Naci6n (Fondo PAS) y otras fuentes como el PNR, Fiducia CVS-BCH, Plan de
Emergencia, Holanda-PAS, Convenio Colombo Holandes, etc., que ascendieron a US$
17.374.000
3. DESEMPENO DEL BANCO Y DE LAS ENTIDADES COFINANCIADORAS:
Como se anot6 anterionnente, durante la ejecuci6n del proyecto, tambien hubo cambios en
el Banco que de alguna manera incidieron en la ejecuci6n del programa.



- 48 -
FINDETER
Fin4,,d.a de Desollo Tcnitonial S.A.
Esto conllev6 inclusive a la perdida de la memoria institucional sobre algunas decisiones
que se tomaron alrededor del programa, en especial los cambios que se dieron cuando
FINDETER asumi6 el prestamo en reemplazo del BCH-FFDU.
FINDETER considera que el Banco dentro de su labor de supervisi6n no logr6 evidenciar
las dificultades que se presentaron y por tanto FINDETER no cont6 con su asistencia para
enfrentar estos obstaculos, no permitiendo que el prograrna se adecuara de conformidad
con los cambios que sucedieron en el entorno, los cambios institucionales, asi como al tipo
de prestatario o caracteristica de la empresa administradora.
Dentro de las rigideces del proyecto se resalta el esquema de desarrollo institucional
adoptado, el cual se replic6 indiscriminadamente en la mayoria de proyectos, siendo su
alcance parcial tal como se evidencia en la evaluaci6n de resultados.
En relaci6n con las entidades cofinanciadoras, cabe destacar que aunque en algunos casos
los aportes de otras entidades no se dieron de acuerdo con lo presupuestado en el plan
financiero del proyecto, si hubo una concurrencia importante de fuentes complementarias.
Adicionalmente, los desfases presentados en los proyectos requirieron de mayores recursos
de contrapartida que no siempre pudieron conseguir los prestatarios.
Vale la pena resaltar el papel de la Naci6n como entidad cofinanciadora a traves del Fondo
No Reembolsable PAS, el cual aport6 alrededor de US$98.643.000 como recursos
complementarios al credito que sin duda alguna facilitaron la ejecuci6n de proyectos
integrales y de mayor impacto.
Este fondo se manej6 a traves de un encargo fiduciario que la Naci6n hizo a FINDETER,
teniendo una reglamentacion muy estricta, en la cual se requeria de la existencia real de un
proyecto integralmente concebido, siendo obligatorio cumplir con unos indicadores de
gesti6n y con la ejecuci6n en primera instancia de los recursos del credito y los propios para
disponer en iiltima instancia de los recursos de cofinanciaci6n
En este punto FINDETER disiente categ6ricamente de las afirmaciones hechas en el
informe preparado por el Banco, porque si bien es cierto que una gran proporci6n de los
recursos del Sistema Nacional de Cofinanciaci6n tienen destinaci6n especifica en el
presupuesto de la Naci6n, el Fondo No Reembolsable PAS ha sido una herramienta eficaz
de combinar credito con cofinanciaci6n y de orientar de manera tecnica la asignaci6n de los
recursos. Adicionalmente, se deja constancia que los recursos no reembolsables ahora
manejados por los Fondos de Cofinanciaci6n no tuvieron participaci6n en la financiaci6n de
los proyectos del programa.



- 49 -
AMr
FINDETER
Financiera de Desanollo Tenfronal S.A.
4. DESEMPE19O DE FINDETER.
Durante la ejecuci6n del proyecto FINDETER fue un promotor de la cultura del proyecto
integral en los entes territoriales y empresas prestadoras de servicios, a trav6s de la
consideracion  y  evaluaci6n  de  los aspectos  tecnicos, econ6micos, financieros,
institucionales y ambientales.
FINDETER como ejecutor del proyecto demostr6 una gran capacidad de administracion y
de gesti6n manejando un alto volumen de operaciones (mas de 400) y de procesos.
No obstante los resultados de la implantacion del desarrollo institucional, la labor de
FINDETER se dirigi6 en este aspecto a que se crearan empresas administradoras de los
servicios, a que el cliente revisara su potencial financiero y administrativo no s6lo en tomo
a la prestaci6n del servicio (tarifas) sino en todo lo relacionado con la gesti6n del ente
territorial como tal y a lograr la independencia financiera y administrativa de los servicios
que normalmente eran manejados por una misma entidad.
Asi mismo, a pesar de los problemas encontrados en la etapa de formulaci6n, FINDETER
apoy6 fuertemente la conformaci6n de soluciones integrales a los problemas identificados,
Ilegando incluso en el proceso de revisi6n de los disefios, a plantear alternativas que
permitieron Ilevar a cabo inversiones mas econ6micas y adecuadas para los municipios, de
acuerdo con sus caracteristicas particulares y con sus condiciones financieras.
FINDETER ha direccionado la operaci6n con un enfoque eminentemente tecnico, buscando
siempre reemplazar a los funcionarios que se han retirado de la entidad con criterio de
formaci6n academica, experiencia y perfil gerencial por lo cual la entidad rechaza la
afirmaci6n subjetiva e inexacta que se consigna en el informe preparado por el Banco en el
numeral 13 del capitulo, "Factores que afectaron el proyecto", relacionada con la
interferencia politica, la cual desdibuja notablemente la relaci6n que se ha mantenido entre
el Banco y FINDETER.
Cabe anotar que en el Informe sobre el Desarrollo Mundial 1994 del Banco Mundial
(pagina 110), se destaca la labor de FINDETER como instituci6n de credito municipal a
traves del sistema de descuento, enfatizando que: "El exito del sistema se debe a la calidad
del personal de FINDETER y de los intermediarios a traves de los cuales otorga sus
creditos. Al estar bajo el control del Ministerio de Hacienda, se ha mantenido relativamente
aislada de las presiones politicas".



- so -
A)V
FINDETER
-iner. de Desroko TeMdal S.A.
5. RECOMENDACIONES:
Para futuras operaciones FINDETER considera importante tener en cuenta lo siguiente:
5.1 En relaci6n con la financiaci6n de proyectos:
* Contemplar el otorgamiento de recursos adicionales a proyectos que por razones
justificables no hayan podido garantizar la concurrencia de aportes de contrapartida o de
fuentes altemas, para garantizar la terminaci6n efectiva de los proyectos. Esto ya qued6
formalizado en el nuevo reglamento de credito de FINDETER.
* Para lograr el desarrollo de proyectos que generen un impacto significativo en la
optimizaci6n de los sistemas, es necesario que se intensifique el nivel de recursos
destinados al sector.
* Reorientar la estrategia de desarrollo institucional en los proyectos teniendo en cuenta
que se debe afianzar en la entidad la importancia del componente institucional en el ciclo
del proyecto y coordinar con el nivel nacional las politicas a implementar para el
fortalecimiento institucional en los aspectos gerenciales y sectoriales:
. FINDETER debe estudiar c6mo segmentar su mercado por tipo de prestatario (puiblico,
privado, con o sin capacidad de gesti6n, nivel de complejidad del proyecto, etc.) de tal
manera que se optimicen los recursos que se invierten en el proceso de evaluaci6n,
aprobaci6n y seguimiento de los proyectos, y se reoriente la asistencia tecnica que se
presta.
. FINDETER debe formular estrategias para el fortalecimiento de la formulacion de
proyectos por parte de los prestatarios. En este campo la entidad ha incursionado en
programas piloto como el Monitor Local y los promotores de proyectos, a traves de los
cuales la entidad hace un acompaaiamiento muy cercano al municipio en el proceso de
formulaci6n del proyecto, financiando estudios y disenos que permitan contar con
proyectos de inversi6n de mejor calidad y mas ajustados a los requerimientos de la
entidad.
5.2 En relaci6n con el Banco Mundial:
* Revisar los limites y procedimientos para la contrataci6n de los proyectos, lo que ha
tenido un peso significativo en los tiempos de ejecuci6n de los mismos.
. El Banco debe fortalecer la Misi6n Residente como interlocutor de primera instancia
para resolver problemas, para fortalecer el acompaniamiento de los proyectos y para la
emisi6n oportuna de no objeciones a procesos de contrataci6n.



-51 -
Al44
FINDETER
F;aceade les ,H.l T,.twi.1 S.A .
* Desde un comienzo se deben establecer procedimientos claros entre FINDETER y el
Banco, respetando los canales de comunicaci6n para evitar confusiones entre el Banco,
FINDETER y los subprestatarios.
6. LECCIONES APRENDIDAS:
La concepci6n de los programas sectoriales debe hacer enfasis en el analisis del marco
institucional en el que tendra que moverse el proyecto para asi dimensionar sus objetivos.
Asi mismo, los proyectos deben tener la flexibilidad de ajustarse a las condiciones
cambiantes del entomo.
Los indicadores de medici6n del desempenio de los proyectos deben definirse claramente
desde la concepci6n de la operaci6n. Esto orienta y optimiza la labor de seguimiento de las
inversiones.
Las deficiencias detectadas constituyen una oportunidad para que FINDETER replantee
algunos procesos y funciones alrededor de las etapas del proyecto, pero tambien debe ser la
ocasi6n para que los diferentes actores que involucra el nuevo marco institucional del
sector, asuman decididamente los roles que tienen asignados y se ofrezca el espacio de
participaci6n que requiere la comunidad en la formulaci6n, ejecuci6n y operaci6n del
proyecto.
7. ACCIONES FUTURAS
Dentro de una politica de mejoramiento continuo, FINDETER ha emprendido acciones
importantes para mejorar su gesti6n alrededor del proyecto y fortalecer su posici6n de
entidad financiera de desarrollo. Dentro de estas acciones vale la pena destacar:
* Programa de Sostenibilidad de Proyectos en el Sector de Agua Potable y Saneamiento
Basico a traves de la metodologia de proyectos de aprendizaje en equipo para optimizar
la gesti6n de proyectos con participaci6n de la comunidad.
* Programa de Mejoramiento Enfocado el cual incluye los siguientes proyectos:
fortalecimiento  organizacional, armonizaci6n  operacional credito-cofinanciaci6n,
creaci6n de la organizaci6n de mercadeo, fortalecimiento de la planeaci6n, divulgaci6n y
formaci6n de clientes, sistema de informaci6n gerencial, sistema de administraci6n
financiera.
* Desarrollo de nuevos productos financieros y flexibilizaci6n de las condiciones
financieras actuales.
9



- 52 -
FINDETER
H.macie.a de Dew-arell Tcmtorial S.A.
* Redefinici6n de la orientaci6n y alcance de la asistencia tecnica y revisi6n de los
procedimientos para el otorgamiento de credito
* Analisis de la coparticipaci6n publico-privada en la operaci6n de FINDETER
* Plan de acci6n para el fortalecimiento de la gesti6n ambiental en proyectos financiados
por FINDETER.
. Actualizaci6n de instrumentos e indicadores de formulaci6n, presentaci6n, evaluaci6n
(incluida la evaluaci6n ex-post) y seguimiento de proyectos.



- 53 -
b       FINANCIERA DE DESARROLLO TERRITORIAL S.A. - FINDETER                     Pagina 1 de 4
oA tL,    VICEPRESIDENCIA DE PROYECTOS
DMSION DE DESARROLLO TECNICO                                     Fecha. 23/06/1997
INFORME DE GESTION DE PROYECTOS
SECTOR: AGUA POTABLE Y SANEAMIENTO BASICO
SUBSECTOR: ACUEDUCTO
CONSOLIDADO NACIONAL                             Periodo del: 01/01/1990      Al: 31/12/1996
f Categoria: TODAS
Estado: TODOS
Unea: BM
t -infomiaci6n. General
(a. Numero de municipios beneficiados:     229)
b. Numero de proyectos segun tipo.-
Nuevo Sistema:      50
Ampliaci6n / Optimizaci6n:   179                                  -_
Rehabilitaci6n:    34                                           -
Poblaci6n (hab.):  37,422,791
Extensi6n Territorial (km.2):  2,070,408
c. Poblaci6n con servicio.-
(No. de habitantes)
Antes del proyecto:           9,776,424        Despues del proyecto:          10,814,411
Incremento:             1,037,987                  Potencial:          12,959,736
d. Nivel de servicio.
Numero de viviendas:      2,258,022
Continuidad.-      Antes:              92 %   Despu6s:               98 %
Cobertura,         Antes:           77.38 %   Despues:             88.14 %
Capacidad          Antes:          31,649 Ips  Despu6s:           39,129 Ips
instalada,
(Litros por segundo)
Calidad del        Sistemas nuevos de tratamiento:             60
agua .-                 Amplacn / Optimizaci6n                 92
Rehabilitaci6n del sistema:           13



- 54 -
FINANCIERA DE DESARROLLO TERRITORIAL SA. - FINDETER                           PAgina 2 de 4
A       VICEPRESIDENCIA DE PROYECTOS
DMSION DE DESARROLLO TECNICO                              X           Fecha: 23/06/1997
INFORME DE GESTION DE PROYECTOS
SECTOR: AGUA POTABLE Y SANEAMIENTO BASICO
SUBSECTOR: ACUEDUCTO
I1- Componenies del Sistema
Abastecimiento.-
R         TRpo de aprovechamiento           Superficial:            34
E                                         Subterraneo:               1
H               Longitud de conduccion agua cruda (Kin):            11
A
B     Tratamiento,
I         Parcial                     No. de proyectos:              1
L         Total                        No. de proyectos:            12
Almacenamiento .-
T                                      No. de proyectos:             5
A           Capacidad incrernental de abnacenamniento en (rn3):   2,300
C
I     Distribuci6n                    No. de proyectos:             47
0
N            Longitud de conduccion de agua tratada en (Kn):        90
Longitud de redes en (Kin):         395
Abastecimiento
Ripo de aprovechamiento          Superficial:            178
o                                         Subterraneo:               1
P               Longitud de conducci6n agua cruda (Km):            114
T
Tratarniento,
I         Parcial                     No. de proyectos:             16
I         Total                       No. de proyectos:            76
z
Almacenamiento .-
A                                      No. de proyectos:            51
C          Capacidad increrental de alknacenarniento en (m3):    51,396
oN    Distribuci6n                    No. de proyectos:             99
Longitud de conducci6n de agua tratada en (Kin):      385
Longitud de redes en (Kmn):        1,098
Abastecimiento
S         Tipo de aprovechanieno           Superficial:             50
I                                         Subterraneo:               1
T               Longitud de conduccion agua cruda (Kin):           152
E     Tratamiento,
*         Parcial                     No. de proyectos:             11
A         Total                       No. de proyectos:             49
Almacenamiento.-
N                                     No. de proyectos:             60
U          Capacidad incremental de akmacenarniento en (m3):    792,784
E
v     Distribuci6n                     No. de proyectos:            41
0            Longitud de conducci6n de agua tratada en (Kin):      382
Longitud de redes en (Kmn):         646



- 55 -
FINANCIERA DE DESARROLLO TERRITORIAL S.A. - FINDETER                           Pagina 3 de 4
VICEPRESIDENCIA DE PROYECTOS
DIVSION DE DESARROLLO TECNICO                                          Fecha: 23/06/1997
_nWDVrER                                                                _
INFORME DE GESTION DE PROYECTOS
SECTOR: AGUA POTABLE Y SANEANMENTO BASICO
SUBSECTOR: ACUEDUCTO
H 11  Cotm ponentes del Sistema C Otinuac
Conexiones Domiciliarias,
Antes del Proyecto:       1,747,201
Rehabilitadas:          74,361
Incremento:          243,082
No. Total de Conexiones despues del Proyecto:   1.990,283
Micromedici6n.-
No. Medidores antes del proyecto:      663,435
No. de Medidores Rehabilitados:       22,362
No. Medidores Instalados con el Proyecto:    333,761
No. Total de Medidores despues del Proyecto:    997,196



- 56-
FINANCIERA DE DESARROLLO TERRITORIAL SA. - FINDETER                         Pagina 4 de 4
VICEPRESIDENCIA DE PROYECTOS
IF(     DMSION DE DESARROLLO TECNICO                                        Fecha: 23/06/1997
INFORME DE GESTION DE PROYECTOS
SECTOR: AGUA POTABLE Y SANEAMIENTO BASICO
SUBSECTOR: ACUEDUCTO
[l :- Infonnaci6n Financiera|
Proyectos de Inversi6n
No. de Proyectos:                  229
Valor Credito:        $88,537,004,418
Valor Contrapartida:       $11,885,133,867
Valor Cofinanciaci6n:                  $0
Valor Total:        $100,422,138,285
U Linea de Recursos Especifica .-                    $
t                        ~~~~         ~    ~~~~~~BM    :   89.082,457.255 



-57-
FINANCIERA DE DESARROLLO TERRITORIAL SA. - FINDETER                     Pigina I de 3
A         VICEPRESIDENCIA DE PROYECTOS
DISION DE DESARROLLO TECNICO
RNDETER                                                           -    ~ Fecha: 2310611997
INFORME DE GESTION DE PROYECTOS
SECTOR: AGUA POTABLE Y SANEAMIENTO BASICO
SUBSECTOR: ALCANTARILLADO
CONSOLIDADO NACIONAL                              Periodo del: 01101/1990     Al: 31/1211996
Categorta: TODAS
Estado: TODOS
Linea: BM
1' -- IntonniacinX 'en-eral,-;I
a. Numero de municipios beneficiados:     115
b. Numero de proyectos segun tipo.-
Nuevo Sistema:      50
Ampliaci6n I Optimizaci6n:    59                                    _          _
Rehabilitaci6n:     11
Poblacb6n (hab.):  37,422,791
Extensl6n Territorial (km.2):  2,070,408
c. Poblaci6n con servicio.-
(No. de habitantes)
Antes del proyecto:           5,079,806        Despues del proyecto:          5,735,488
Incremento:              655,682                   Potencial:           6,917,002
d. Tipo de Alcantarillado
Sanitario:           92      Pluvial:             5      Combinado:             23
e. Nivel de serviclo.-
N6mero de viviendas:       1,497,191
Cobertura .-        Antes:             69 %   Despu6s:               78 %
Disponibilidad de    Antes:         7,256     Despu6s:            11,087
Tratamiento,
(Unidades)



- 58 -
4j        FINANCIERA DE DESARROLLO TERRITORIAL SA. - FINDETER                          Pigina 2 de 3
A          VICEPRESIDENCIA DE PROYECTOS
DIVISION DE DESARROLLO TECNICO                                       Fecha: 23/06/1997
INFORME DE GESTION DE PROYECTOS
SECTOR: AGUA POTABLE Y SANEAMIENTO BASICO
SUBSECTOR: ALCANTARILLADO
R     Colectores
H                                     No. de Proyectos:             10
A                                       Longitud (Krn):             72
L     Emisarios finales
I                                     No. de proyectos:             I
T
A                                       Longitud (Kin):              0
I     Tratamiento,
O                                     No. de proyectos:             0
N
Colectores
o                                     No. de Proyectos:             38
T                                       Longitud (Kmn):            536
I     Emisarios finales
Z                                     No. de proyectos:             11
A                                       Longitud (Km):              18
Tratamiento
N                                     No. de proyectos:             8
Capacidad en Litros por Segundo:         203
S     Colectores
I                                     No. de Proyectos:            64
T                                       Longitud (Km):            490
A     Emisarios finales
S                                     No. de proyectos:            32
N                                       Longitud (Km):             54
U
E     Tratamiento
V                                     No. de proyectos:            38
Capacidad en Litros por Segundo:        3,833
Area de Drenaje en Hectareas .-3,852
Conexiones Domiciliarias
Antes del proyecto:      1,045,030
Rehabilitadas:          6,156
Incremento:         122,988
'rotal:       1,168,018



- 59-
.4b       FINANCIERA DE DESARROLLO TERRITORIAL SAL - FINDETER                        Pagina 3 de 3
A  'A.,    VICEPRESIDENCIA DE PROYECTOS
Arlor    DMSION DE DESARROLLO TECNICO
Fecha: 23/06/1997
INFORME DE GESTION DE PROYECTOS
SECTOR: AGUA POTABLE Y SANEAMIENTO BASICO
SUBSECTOR: ALCANTARILLADO
II -Intmai6  FkUr   anciem
Proyectos de Inversi6n
No. de Proyectos:                 115
Valor Cridito:        $55,052,938,443
Valor Contrapartida:        $7,942,773,152
Valor Cofinanciaci6n:                 $0
Valor Total:        $62,995,711,595
Linea de Recursos Especifica,
BM    :           $55,094,923,948



- 60 -
Republic of Colombia
Ministry of Economic Development
Santafe de Bogota, D.C.
No. 08369-2
Dr. Menahem Libhaber
Project Officer
World Bank
Washington, D.C.
Subject:       Loan 2961 CO
File:          New
Destination:   External
Origin:        B.3.0-D.0.0
Dear Dr. Libhaber:
As you requested, we have studied the preliminary version of the "Implementation
Completion Report. Colombia. Water and Sewerage Sector Project. Loan 2961-CO"
dated June 10, 1997.
In general, the document accurately describes the process of implementing the US$150
million would Bank loan approved for the Government of Colombian for the water and
sewerage sector project.
However I would like to make a few comments.
The evaluation summary reflect important matters dealt with in the main part of the ICR.
It seems to have been prepared by selecting certain sentences from the report but has
omitted relevant aspects that could be used as guidance for new Bank lending operations.
Institutional changes in the sector. The report is ambiguous with regard to the process.
On the one hand, it blames institutional changes for "many of the problems and delays
encountered in the program", but on the other, it states that those changes were one of the
program's achievements.
The subject of institutional change in the sector merits special attention. At the time the
project was formulated and prepared, change had barely begun with the promulgation of
Law 12 of 1986 and Decree Law 77 of 1987. These laws abolished the national entity
INSFOPAL, , and the service companies that reported to it, and transferred responsibility
to the municipalities.
As the ICR acknowledges, this led the Bank through this project to assist Colombia in its
objective of bringing about profound institutional change on the national level aimed at



- 61 -
ensuring swifter expansion of water and sewerage systems coverage, improve the quality
of services, and promote the development of financial intermediation capacity. This
entailed some risks for proper operation of the loan.
The changes that took place and their subsequent inclusion in the Constitution of 1991,
apart from making the Government responsible for providing efficient public services,
either directly or through the private sector, proposed a management model that assigned
precise functions to different levels of the public administration and opened the door for
private participation. The Ministry of Economic Development was given responsibility for
policy formulation, technical assistance and training, regulation of the regulatory boards,
and supervision and control of the Superintendency of Domestic Public Services.
The new model was intended, through comprehensive and coherent management and a
clear separation of functions, to overcome the traditionally inefficient management of
public services. In this context, the institutional changes introduced by the Constitution
necessarily had to rely on existing financial instruments and funds.
Obviously the changes led to disturbances in the smooth development of the project, but it
must be recognized that institutional transformation has defined a structure that will
provide future support for the sector from a long-term perspective. The Constitution,
supported by Law 142 of 1994, which still requires development since it is new, contains
important provisions such as: (a) the obligation to provide efficient services; (b) charging
users the real cost of services; (c) subsidy mechanisms to enable the very poor to gain
access to public services; and (c) community participation in the management of the
services.
Furthermore, Law 142 quite clearly defines the responsibilities of each institution in the
sector which, since they report to the Ministry of Economic Development, are well
enough coordinated to enable them to act harmoniously, despite their independence. It
can therefore be said that it was a good decision to locate the sector where it is, with the
possible exception of FINDETER which, oddly, reports to the Ministry of Finance and
Public Credit.
However, we recognize that the current Potable Water and Basic Sanitation Directorate
(DAPSB) is very weak. It was established under Decree 2152 in 1992 as part of the
restructuring of the Ministry of Economic Development, and was assigned, before the
public services law was promulgated, the responsibility of guiding and supporting the
sector. The extent of that responsibility was not fully understood and the directorate was
not provided with enough staff.
After almost three years of operation, Decree 659 of 1995 authorized the establishment of
a Special Potable Water and Basic Sanitation Management Unit to provide the Ministry of
Economic Development with a better structure to serve the sector's requirements.
Unfortunately, the country's financial situation has made it impossible for the unit to begin
work.



- 62 -
In this context, the need to extend the period for carrying out the projects financed by the
loan and from cofinancing grants resulted more from shortcomings in FINDETER's
operations than from institutional change on the national level. The World Bank loan
included an institutional development component to support the municipalities in the
process of assuming their new responsibilities. However, the institutional development
component did not have sufficient tools to offer that support because of inexperience on
the national level with local training and technical assistance requirements. The
municipalities, in turn, encountered difficulties in coping with the responsibilities assigned
to them, and no effective strategy had been devised to deal with that situation.
It must be underlined that the new national legislation and regulations have still not been
incorporated into FINDETER's processes of loan approvals and implementation. This
should be implemented in the new lending operation for FINDETER
Political and administrative decentralization. The decentralized model adopted in the
early 1980s was strengthened under the Constitution. It gives more independence to local
governments, which have been delegated responsibilities that, in some instances, have been
affected by inappropriate national policies. This has been the case with distortions in the
criteria for allocating resources from the National Cofinancing System. As mentioned in
the ICR, this has impeded overall project management and, instead of acting as an
incentive, has led to inefficiency in public service companies.
National Cofinancing System. The distortions introduced by the mechanisms for
allocating cofinancing resources discouraged local efforts to provide counterpart funds for
different stages of projects financed under the loan, which, if provided, would have
permitted financing additional phases of the subprojects and achieving an impact on
coverage, water quality, and loss reduction. The cofinancing system also hampered
reorganization and modernization of the service companies for the purpose of reducing
inefficiencies, generating internal receipts, and promoting self-financing and project
sustainability. It should be recalled that cofinancing funds are allocated to the
municipalities and not to the service companies. As a result it is difficult for the
companies to comply with their commitments to provide efficient service, since more than
just expanding nominal coverage is involved in improving efficiency.
Serious difficulties were encountered in the distribution of cofinancing resources aimed at
complying with the social expenditure objective, since many of the components of water
and sewerage works (pipes, primary distribution systems, treatment plants, sewer mains,
sanitary landfills) benefit the entire population rather than giving priority to the poor. On
the contrary, many municipalities prefer to expand coverage in high-income areas for
political reasons, and in some cases to increase their income from high tariffs charged in
high-income neighborhoods.
The mechanism for allocating funds, not supported by prior social and technical studies,
and aggravated by the fact that the cofinancing system does not force municipalities or



- 63 -
companies to carry out comprehensive projects, translates into very small and scattered
allocations that do not always improve efficiency indicators. This situation hampers
project implementation and lessens the impact in terms of coverage, water quality, liquid
wastes treatment, and solid wastes disposal in sanitary landfills.
The DAPSB presented a proposal to improve the productivity of social expenditure on
water, sewerage, and roads, which would reform the National Cofinancing System. It had
the following objectives:
*     To reduce the high cost of administering and managing cofinancing resources;
*     To improve the focus of social spending in the sector by preventing the investment
subsidies provided through the cofinancing grant from reaching the to middle and
high income groups;
*     To channel cofinancing into investments in smaller municipalities and rural areas
that do not have groups belonging to income levels 4, 5 or 6, or industrial or
commercial users; and
*     TTo promote the channeling of municipal funds and resources available under Law
60 of 1993 into "solidarity and income redistribution funds" in the municipal and
departmental levels.
Operationally it is proposed that the cofinancing funds be managed by two accounts:
-     Account 1. Would benefit smaller municipalities with large deficits in water
coverage and quality; would cofinance projects of networks, treatment plants,
sanitary landfills, and the strengthening of institutional and financial management;
could be administered by a team of ten employees of FINDETER.
*     Account 2. Would be used for the national tariff subsidy fund. It would act as a
revolving fund since, by subsidizing tariffs for low-income groups, the funds are
allocated to companies for financing investments in rehabilitation and expansion.
The beneficiaries are users from income groups 1, 2 and 3 in medium and larger
size municipalities that apply the new rate structure but which are unable to fully
cover the subsidies defined in Law 142 of 1994 for basic consumption by poorer
groups. Managing of this account would only require a systems engineer.
Transfers would be authorized by the ministry responsible for the sector and the
National Planning Department would be in charge of monitoring.
Project formulation and design. The loan operation was based on an institutional
framework very different from the one used by the World Bank in its earlier sector lending
operations to the country. Project management and the administrative structure were
totatly decentralized, and the municipalities in charge had little previous experience
(except for some larger cities).



- 64 -
Under this framework, the Technical Assistance Program for the Potable Water and Basic
Sanitation Sector (AT-PAS) was intended to: (i) foster a new culture of comprehensive
project management which would generate a large number of projects eligible for
FINDETER's financing; and (ii) strengthen departmental agencies such as departmental
water units, water boards and water institutions, among others, as one way of obtaining
economies of scale in technical assistance, training, and regional organization of service
companies to counteract the diseconomies stemming from the municipally-focused
concept of decentralization.
As the ICR notes (and the summary ignores), the AT-PAS "did contribute significantly to
the initial structuring of the project", and made it possible to modify the concepts used to
conceive, plan, design, finance, and build water and sewerage systems in Colombia, such
as the scaling of projects, analyses of technical, financial and institutional feasibility and,
more recently, environmental feasibility.
Unfortunately this new project culture was affected, as mentioned earlier, by the
Cofinancing System. Further, strengthening at the departmental level has been uneven,
depending on experience in managing the sector and the level of development in each part
of the country. Today some of the stronger departments can provide technical assistance
and can even cofinance their municipalities, while in others, support for the sector is
almost nonexistent.
As for preinvestment, FONADE was supposed to provide active support in designing
efficient projects that could be financed by FINDETER. The document makes no mention
of FONADE, it is important that it should, even though the entity did not benefit from the
loan.
Component C. The document mentions that no progress was made in this project
component. Although when on closing date, the only results that could be reported were
the training courses for water and sewer system operators and managers, the aide-
memoire of the most recent Bank evaluation missions noted that waiting until the initial
stage of the institutional reorganization process was completed would produce better
results. In our opinion, had we acted earlier we would have to begin all over again today.
Moreover, the following initiatives are expected to be completed in early 1998: the design
and introduction of a sector information system, a national sanitary inventory, review and
updating of technical standards, a model for selecting potable water treatment
technologies, preparation and updating of educational materials, and design of a system of
incentives for public service companies.
These products will undoubtedly serve as tools to promote progress in the sector's
technical, environmental, and institutional consolidation. For the first time, Colombia will
have reliable information on the status of the indicators that are most relevant for the
sector.



- 65 -
In addition, a structured national training plan has been designed based on the lessons
learned from the training courses, which contains a formal training program and with
respect to which an agreement has been signed between the Ministry of Economic
Development and the National Training Service (SENA).
The agreement was reached because the Ministry of Economic Development was able to
point to its training experience using funds of loan 2961-CO and the federal budget, which
spurred interest in institutionalizing the program and making it permanent. It is currently
structured as a program on SENA's training curriculum for operators and managers. The
program will be partly financed from the contributions made by sector companies to
SENA.
Training for system operators and managers for subsequent certification as qualified
personnel will help to depoliticize sector companies and make them more efficient. If
progress is made in this strategy and funds to support it are found, past and future
investments will undoubtedly be more sustainable.
As for the difficulties of incorporating loan funds into the Ministry of Development's
budget, it should be noted that they should not be attributed exclusively to the National
Planning Department, but also to the Ministry of Finance and FINDETER.
Lessons learned. We believe that the option of obtaining technical assistance from
commercial banks is not a viable one. Commercial banks do not yet have the necessary
know-how and have completely ignored the quality of the projects they finance.
According to World Bank studies, the Colombian financial sector is quite inefficient. It
has focused exclusively on analyzing the financial ability of the municipalities to repay their
loans. Repayments do not come from the tariffs charged for services but from municipal
taxes levied on other sectors. Most private credit operations are granted directly to the
municipalities and therefore failure to introduce proper tariff structures and inefficiencies
in service companies do not jeopardize compliance with loan commitments.
Nor do we think it advisable to completely cover subsidies for low income groups out of
the tariffs paid by higher income groups. That is only possible in markets with large
high-income groups, which is not the case in most Colombian municipalities. A subsidy
fund should be established for that purpose, financed with taxes from the increase in
property values when public service infrastructure is constructed.



- 66 -
In the document sent to Dr. Oscar Alvarado, the DAPSB made some proposals for the
Bank's consideration, which could be taken into account in the new lending operation for
the sector, if warranted. The proposals are attached as an annex.
Sincerely,
Luz Angela Mondrag6n Restrepo
Director, Potable Water and Basic Sanitation



REPUBLICA DE COLOM?BIA              - 67 -
MINISTERIO DE DESARROLLO ECONOMICO
Santafe de Bogota, D.C.,
Doctor
MENAHEM LIBHABER
Oficial de Proyecto
Banco Mundial
Washington, D.C.
Referencia    Credito 2961 CO
Radicaci6n    Inicial
Destino       Extemo
Origen        B.3.0 - B.0.0
Apreciado doctor Libhaber:
De acuerdo con su solicitud hemos estudiado la versi6n preliminar del documento 'Implementation
completion report. Colombia. Water and sewerage sector project. Loan 2961-CO", de fecha junio 10
de 1997.
El documento en forma general describe acertadamente el proceso de ejecuci6n de la operaci6n de
credito que el Banco Mundial aprob6 al gobiemo nacional por US$150 millones de dolares con destino
al proyecto sectorial de suministro de agua potable y alcantarillado en Colombia.
No obstante lo anterior me perrnito hacer algunas observaciones.
El resumen de evaluaci6n no refleja aspectos importantes tratados en el informe (ICR). Parece
elaborado mediante la selecci6n de algunas frases de dicho informe, olvidando incluir asuntos
relevantes que deberian orientar nuevas operaciones de cr6dito del Banco.
Transformacion institucional del sector: El informe considera en forma ambigua este proceso. De
un lado culpa, a la transformacion institucional de 'muchos de los problemas y atrasos del programa",
y del otro, la registra como uno de los logros a los que contribuy6 el Proyecto.
El tema de la transformaci6n institucional del sector, nos merece especial atenci6n. Para la epoca de
formulaci6n y preparaci6n del proyecto, el proceso de transformaci6n apenas se iniciaba con la
expedici6n de la Ley 12 de 1986 y del Decreto Ley 77 de 1987. Estas normas ordenaron la liquidaci6n
del Insfopal, entidad nacional, y de las empresas prestadoras de servicios que eran dependientes de
ella, transfiriendo dicha responsabilidad a los municipios.
Tal como lo reconoce el ICR, lo anterior motiv6 al Banco a acompanar al Pais, a traves de este
Proyecto, en su objetivo de realizar la drastica transformaci6n del marco institucional en el nivel
nacional, para garantizar una mas rapida ampliaci6n de las coberturas de acueducto y alcantarillado,
mejorar la calidad de los servicios y de sus entidades prestadoras, y promover el desarrollo de la
capacidad de intermediaci6n financiera. Ello implicaba algun riesgo para la correcta operaci6n del
credito.



REPUBLICA DE COLOMBIA               - 68 -
MINISTERIO DE DESARROLLO ECONOMICO
Los cambios ocurridos y su posterior inclusi6n en la Constituci6n Politica Nacional de 1991, ademas
de responsabilizar al Estado de la prestaci6n eficiente de los servicios publicos, directamente o a
traves de particulares, propuso un modelo de gesti6n asignando funciones precisas a los distintos
niveles de la administraci6n publica y abri6 las puertas de la participaci6n del sector privado. Al nivel
ministerial le asign6 la responsabilidad de la formulaci6n de las politicas, la asistencia tecnica y la
capacitacid6n; la regulaci6n a las comisiones de regulaci6n; y la vigilancia y el control a la
Superintendencia de Servicios P6blicos Domiciliarios.
Este nuevo modelo busca que mediante un manejo integral y coherente, con una clara separacion de
funciones se de respuesta al manejo tradicionalmente ineficiente de los servicios publicos. En este
contexto, la transformaci6n institucional introducida por la Constitucidn, necesariamente tenia que
apoyarse en los instrumentos de financiaci6n y los recursos existentes.
Obviamente, el cambio introdujo trastomos en el normal desenvolvimiento del Proyecto, pero no
puede desconocerse que la transformaci6n institucional defini6 una estructura que apoyara el futuro
del sector dentro de una perspectiva de largo plazo. La Constituci6n Nacional soportada por la Ley
142 de 1994, que por ser nueva requiere aun desarrollo, contiene elementos tan importantes como: a)
la obligacidn de prestar los servicios en forma eficiente, b) cobrar a los usuarios el costo real del
servicio, c) defini6 mecanismos de subsidio para que la poblaci6n mas pobre acceda a los servicios
publicos, y d) permiti6 a las comunidades participar en la gesti6n.
De otra parte y en forma bastante clara defini6 las competencias propias de cada entidad relacionada
con el sector, las cuales por pertenecer al Ministerio de Desarrollo Econ6mico, y no obstante su
independencia, cuentan con las instancias de coordinaci6n suficientes para actuar arm6nicamente.
Ello nos permite afirmar que fue un acierto ubicar al sector en donde esta, con la posible excepci6n
de Findeter, que de manera extrana es una entidad adscrita al Ministerio de Hacienda y Cr6dito
P6blico.
Debemos reconocer sin embargo, que la actual Direcci6n de Agua Potable y Saneamiento Basico -
DAPSB es muy debil. Fue creada mediante el Decreto Ley 2152 en 1992, dentro de un proceso de
reestructuraci6n del Ministerio de Desarrollo Econ6mico, asignindole en forma anticipada a la
expedici6n de la ley de servicios publicos, la responsabilidad de orientar y apoyar el sector,
desconociendo la magnitud de tal responsabilidad y dimensionando su planta de personal en forina
por cierto reducida.
Despues de casi 3 anos de operaci6n, mediante Decreto 659 de 1995 se autoriz6 la constituci6n de la
Unidad Administrativa Especial de Agua Potable y Saneamiento Basico, para dotar al Ministerio de
Desarrollo Econ6mico de una mejor estructura para atender los requerimientos del sector.
Lamentablemente la actual situaci6n fiscal del Pais no ha permitido su puesta en marcha.
En este contexto de transformaci6n institucional, la ampliaci6n de los plazos de ejecuci6n de los
proyectos financiados con recursos de credito y de cofinanciaci6n, se explica mas en deficiencias de
la operaci6n de la FINDETER que en la transformaci6n institucional en el orden nacional.
Precisamente, el credito del Banco Mundial incluy6 un componente de desarrollo institucional, para
apoyar a los municipios en el proceso de asumir las nuevas funciones. Lo que debe reconocerse es
que el componente de desarrollo institucional no cont6 con instrumentos suficientes para ofrecer
dicho apoyo debido a la inexperiencia del nivel nacional en las exigencias de la capacitaci6n y
asistencia tecnica a las entidades territoaales. Estas ultimas a su vez, registraban ineficiencias en
asumir las responsabilidades asignadas situaci6n para la cual no se cont6 con una estrategia
eficiente.



REPUBLICA DE COLOMlIA               - 69 -
MINISTERIO DE DESARROLLO ECONOMICO
Esta referencia es importante para destacar que la nueva legislaci6n y regulaci6n nacional aun no ha
sido incorporada a los procesos de aprobaci6n y ejecuci6n de los creditos de la FINDETER, tal como
debe buscarse en la nueva operaci6n de credito.
Descentralizaci6n politico - administrativa: El modelo descentralista adoptado a partir de los
primeros anos de ia d6cada de los 80, se fortaleci6 por mandato constitucional, dando mayor
autonomia a los entes territoriales locales. Al amparo de esta autonomia, se han delegado
responsabilidades al nivel territorial que en algunos casos han sido afectadas por desafortunadas
politicas nacionales. Tal ha sido el caso de las desviaciones en los criterios de asignaci6n de recursos
con los cuales ha operado el Sistema Nacional de Cofinanciaci6n. Esto, tal como se describe en el
ICR ha impedido un manejo integral del proyecto, y en vez de servir como incentivo, ha promovido la
ineficiencia de las empresas de servicios publicos.
Sistema Nacional de Cofinanciaci6n: La distorsi6n introducida por los mecanismos de asignaci6n
de los recursos de cofinanciaci6n, desestimul6 el esfuerzo local para aportar contrapartidas que
permitieran financiar fases de proyectos financiados con credito con el fin de lograr el impacto en
coberturas, calidad del agua, control de perdidas. Con el sistema de cofinanciaci6n tampoco se ha
logrado la transformacion y modemizaci6n de las entidades prestadoras, para lograr disminuir las
ineficiencias, la generaci6n intema de recursos, la autofinanciaci6n y la sostenibilidad de los
proyectos. Recuerdese que la cofinanciaci6n es a los municipios y no a las entidades prestadoras, lo
que dificulta compromisos de eficiencia en la prestaci6n, pues no se trata solo de ampliar coberturas
nominales.
Se presentaron serias dificultades para la adecuada distribuci6n de los recursos de cofinanciaci6n
para cumplir su objetivo de gasto social, ya que las obras de acueducto y alcantarillado, en muchos
de sus componentes (conducciones, redes matrices, plantas de tratamiento, colectores, rellenos
sanitarios), benefician a toda la poblacion y no en forma prioritaria a la poblaci6n pobre. Por el
contrario, muchos municipios prefieren ampliar coberturas en zonas de los estratos altos, por criterios
politicos y en algunos casos para mejorar el recaudo tarifario.
El mecanismo de asignacion de las partidas, que no estn soportadas en estudios o presupuestos
sociales y tecnicos previos, agravado por el hecho de que el sistema de cofinanciaci6n no obliga a
municipios o empresas a ejecutar proyectos integrales, se traduce en partidas muy pequenias,
dispersas que no siempre logran mejorar los indicadores de eficiencia. Esta situaci6n dificulta la
ejecuci6n de los proyectos y por supuesto disminuye el impacto en coberturas, calidad de agua,
tratamiento de aguas residuales o en disposici6n de residuos en rellenos sanitarios.
La DAPSB present6 una propuesta para la mejorar la productividad de la inversi6n social en
acueducto, alcantarillado y vias para reformar el Sistema Nacional de Cofinanciaci6n, con los
siguientes objetivos:
* Reducir los altos costos de administracion y funcionamiento de la gesti6n de los recursos de
cofinanciaci6n.
* Mejorar la focalizaci6n del gasto social en el sector, evitando que el subsidio a la inversi6n, a
traves de la cofinanciaci6n, se oriente a estratos socioecon6micos medios y altos.
* Concentrar la cofinanciaci6n a la inversi6n en los municipios menores y en zonas rurales que no
cuenten con estratos 4,5,6 o usuarios industriales y comerciales.
* Incentivar la asignaci6n de recursos propios municipales y de la Ley 60 de 1993 a los 'fondos de
solidardad y redistribucion de ingresos" del nivel municipal y departamental.



REPUBLICA DE COLOMBIA                _ 70 -
MINISTERIO DE DESARROLLO ECONOMICO
Se propone operativamente que los recursos se manejen en dos cuentas:
* Cuenta 1: Beneficiaria a los municipios menores con alto atraso en coberturas y en la calidad del
agua, cofinanciaria proyectos de redes, plantas de tratamiento, rellenos sanitarios y fortalecimiento
empresarial. Su administraci6n podria ser desempefnada por 10 funcionaros de la FINDETER.
* Cuenta 2: Destinada al Fondo Nacional de Subsidios a la tarifa. Este fondo actuaria como fondo
rotatorio pues al subsidiar la tarifa de la poblaci6n de menores ingresos, los recursos entran a las
empresas para financiar inversiones en reposici6n y expansion. Los beneficiarios son los usuarios
de los estratos 1, 2, y 3, de los municipios medianos, intermedios y mayores que apliquen la nueva
estructura tarifaria, y que no puedan cubrir totalmente, los subsidios definidos en la Ley 142 de
1994 para el consumo basico de los pobres. Este fondo requeriria unicamente de un ingeniero de
sistemas. El ordenador del giro seria el ministero responsable del sector y el seguimiento estaria a
cargo del Departamento Nacional de Planeaci6n
Formulaci6n y disefio de los proyectos: La operaci6n de credito partia de un marco institucional
bien diferente al que manej6 el Banco Mundial en sus anteriores operaciones de cr6dito sectoriales en
el Pais. Se enfrento con una estructura de gesti6n y administraci6n de proyectos totalmente
descentralizada bajo la responsabilidad municipal, sin mayor experiencia previa en este nivel
(excepto algunos municipios mayores).
En este marco el programa de Asistencia Tecnica al Sector de Agua Potable y Saneamiento Basico
AT-PAS, se dirigi6 a i) impulsar la nueva cultura de manejo integral de proyecto, generando un
numero importante de proyectos financiables por Findeter; ii) fortalecer las instancias que a nivel
departamental surgieron como las unidades departamentales de agua, institutos de agua, secretarias
de agua, entre otras, como una alternativa para lograr economias de escala en la asistencia t6cnica y
la capacitaci6n y organizaci6n regional de las entidades prestadoras para contrarrestar, las
deseconomias derivadas de la concepci6n municipalista de la descentralizaci6n.
Lo anterior como lo indica el ICR, (y lo ignora el resumen) "contribuy6 en forma importante en la
estructuraci6n inicial del Proyecto", y permiti6 modificar los conceptos bajo los cuales se concebian,
planeaban, disefnaban, financiaban y construian acueductos y alcantarillados en Colombia, tales como
el dimensionamiento de proyectos y los analisis de viabilidad tecnica, financiera e institucional, y mas
recientemente la viabilidad ambiental.
Esta nueva cultura de proyecto, lamentablemente se vio afectada, como se indic6 atras por el
Sistema de Cofinanciaci6n. De otro lado el fortalecimiento del nivel departamental ha sido desigual
de acuerdo con los antecedentes y la tradici6n del manejo del sector, y el nivel de desarrollo de cada
zona del Pais. Hoy algunos departamentos fuertes, pueden brindar asistencia tecnica e incluso
cofinanciar a sus municipios, en otros donde el apoyo al sector es casi inexistente.
En cuanto a la preinversi6n, era el Fonade la entidad que debia apoyar activamente la generaci6n de
proyectos eficientes y financiables por Findeter. El documento no hace menci6n alguna a esta
entidad. Seria importante hacer alguna referencia a este tema, si bien la entidad no fue beneficiada
por el credito.
El Componente C: El documento menciona que no se obtuvo ningun logro en desarrollo de este
Componente del Proyecto. Aun cuando a la fecha de cierre del credito s6lo se podrian reportar como
resultados obtenidos la realizaci6n de los cursos de capacitaci6n a operarios y administradores de
acueductos y alcantarillados, las ayudas memoria de las ultimas misiones de evaluacion del Banco
reconocieron, que haber esperado a que transcurriera la etapa inicial del proceso de transformaci6n



REPUBLICA DE COLOMBIA                _ 71 -
MINISTERIO DE DESARROLLO ECONOMICO
institucional, dara como resultado la consecuci6n de mejores productos, y nos atrevemos a afirmar
que de haberlo hecho antes, hoy deberiamos estar realizandolo de nuevo.
De otra parte se encuentran en proceso y finalizaci6n, prevista para los primeros meses de 1998, el
disenio e implantaci6n del Sistema de Informaci6n Sectorial, el levantamiento del inventario sanitario
nacional, la revisi6n y actualizaci6n de las normas tecnicas, el desarrollo de un modelo de selecci6n
de tecnologias de tratamiento de agua para consumo humano, la elaboraci6n y actualizaci6n de
material pedag6gico y el disefio de un sistema de incentivos para las empresas publicas prestadoras
de servicios.
Estos productos seran sin duda herramientas que permitiran avanzar en el proceso de consolidaci6n
tecnica, ambiental e institucional del sector. Por primera vez el pais tendra informaci6n confiable
sobre la situaci6n de los indicadores mas relevantes del sector.
Ademas, con base en la experiencia obtenida en los cursos de capacitacion, se formul6 el Plan
Nacional de Capacitaci6n en forma estructurada, que contiene el programa de capacitaci6n formal y
para lo cual se suscribi6 un convenio entre el Ministerio de Desarrollo Econ6mico y el SENA.
Este convenio se logr6 debido a que el Ministerio de Desarrollo Econ6mico pudo mostrar su
experiencia de capacitaci6n con base en los recursos del Credito 2961 CO y del presupuesto
nacional, lo que fundament6 precisamente el interes de institucionalizar y darle permanencia al
programa. Se estructura actualmente un programa curricular con el SENA para el adiestramiento de
los trabajadores (operadores y administradores). La financiaci6n parcial del programa de formaci6n se
lograra con base en los aportes de las empresas del sector al SENA.
La formaci6n de operadores y administradores de los sistemas, para su posterior certificaci6n como
personal calificado, ayudara al objetivo de despolitizar y volver eficientes a las entidades que prestan
los servicios del sector. Sin duda, si se continua avanzando en esta estrategia y se logran recursos
para apoyarla, se obtendra la sostenibilidad de las inversiones realizadas y por realizar.
En cuanto a las dificultades de incorporaci6n de recursos provenientes del credito al presupuesto del
Ministerio de Desarrollo, es necesario aclarar que ellas no se debieron s6lo al DNP, sino al Ministerio
de Hacienda y a Findeter.
Lecciones aprendidas. No nos parece saludable la opci6n de encargar exclusivamente a la banca
comercial de la asistencia tecnica. Hasta la fecha estas entidades no cuentan con Know how y han
ignorado completamente la calidad de los proyectos por ellas financiados.
El sector financiero colombiano, bastante ineficiente, segun estudios del Banco Mundial, se ha
concentrado exclusivamente en el analisis de las condiciones financieras de los municipios que
permitan garantizar el repago de los cr6ditos, cuyas fuentes no son las tarifas, sino los ingresos
municipales por impuestos cobrados a otros sectores. La mayoria de las operaciones de cr6dito
privado son concedidas directamente a los municipios. Por tanto la no aplicaci6n adecuada de las
estructuras tarifarias y las ineficiencias de las entidades prestadoras no pone en riesgo el
cumplimiento de los compromisos de credito.
Tampoco nos parece pertinente cubrir en forma total por recaudo tarifario, los subsidios a los estratos
bajos. Esto s6lo es posible en los mercados donde hay estratos altos y tal condici6n no se cumple en
la mayoria de municipios colombianos. Debe crearse un Fondo de Subsidios con este fin, recaudando
impuestos y contribuciones derivadas del mayor valor que adquiere el suelo al construirse la
infraestructura de servicios publicos.



REPUBLICA DE COLOMBIA               - 72 -
MINISTERIO DE DESARROLLO ECONOlMICO
En documento enviado al doctor Oscar Alvarado, la DAPSB present6 algunas propuestas para
consideraci6n del Banco, que de ser pertinentes, se tengan en cuenta en la nueva operaci6n de
credito para el sector. En el anexo se incluye la propuesta.
Cordialmente,
UZ A ELA MON RAGON RESTREPO
Directora de Agua Potable y Saneamiento Basico



REPUBLICA DE COLOMBIA             _ 73
MINMSTERIO DE DESARROLLO ECONOMICO
Direccion de Agua Potable y Saneamiento Basico
Ministerio de Desarrollo Econ6mico
PROPUESTA DE CRITERIOS PARA LA ELEGIBILIDAD DE PROYECTOS FINANCIABLES
POR FINDETER - EMPRESTITO BANCO MUNDIAL
La presente propuesta tiene como objetivo, convertir el instrumento de cr6dito del Gobiemo
Nacional en un promotor de la modemizaci6n empresarial del sector de mejoramiento de la
productividad de las inversiones.
El cr6dito del Gobiemo Nacional a cargo de la FINDETER debe garantizar el cumplimiento de las
normas regulatorias expedidas por la Comision Reguladora de Agua Potable y Saneamiento
Basico - CRA, apoyar el cumplimiento de las metas del Plan Nacional de Desarrollo en su
componente sectorial y los derechos y deberes de los usuarios en cuanto una prestaci6n eficiente
de los servicios y el pago de la tarifa.
Con este fin, la FINDETER debe ofrecer mejores condiciones a las ofrecidas por el sistema
financiero pnivado. Estas condiciones deben referirse a tasas de interes mas bajas y plazos de
amortizaci6n mas largos que los ofrecidos por el sector financiero privado. Esto es posible, dado el
menor costo de los recursos financieros onginados en credito multilateral y en el Presupuesto
Nacional y ante la posibilidad que por ley tiene la FINDETER para la pignoraci6n de rentas de las
entidades territoriales.
Por otra parte, la FINDETER debe ofrecer servicios de asistencia tecnica y capacitaci6n como
parte de los proyectos de inversi6n en infraestructura fisica ya sea directa o indirectamente
mediante la constituci6n de un esquema formal de asistencia tecnica como servicio al cliente
debidamente especializado y a costos favorables para los municipios y empresas.
Las propuestas que se presentan en este documento responden al diagn6stico sectorial que
muestra un importante avance en conexiones de acueducto, es decir en coberturas nominales, en
contraste con un alto nivel de perdidas, baja calidad del agua y continuidad del servicio, rezago
tarifario, bajos indices de eficiencia empresaral, atraso en alcantarllado y en tratamiento de aguas
residuales, perdida en economias de escala por dispersi6n y muKiplicidad de empresas
prestadoras, y baja aplicaci6n de las normas regulatorias.
Para mayor claridad en el criterio de elegibilidad, se coloca entre par6ntesis el objetivo buscado.
I. Acueducto
A. Criterios Tecnicos
1. Todos los proyectos deberan ser el resultado de un analisis de costo minimo, para lo cual
FINDETER prestara asistencia t6cnica.
2. Los proyectos deberan cumplir las siguientes condiciones:
2.1.   Para proyectos de ampliaci6n de redes de acueducto, si el agua distribuida antes del
proyecto no cumple con las normas de calidad bacteriol6gica establecidas por el
Ministerio de Salud, el proyecto debera garantizar que el 100% del agua distribuida
cumpla con las condiciones de calidad bacteriol6gica exigidas por el Ministerio de
Salud. Esto significa que podra flexibilizarse, el cumplimiento de las normas de calidad



REPUBLICA DE COLOMBIA              _ 74 -
MINISTERIO DE DESARROIIO ECONOMICO
fisico quimica de ser necesario segun las condiciones econ6micas, financieras y
culturales de cada contexto donde se ejecuta el proyecto. (salud publica)
2.2.   Si el Nivel de perdidas fisicas supera el 25% del agua producida, el proyecto debera
incorporar inversiones que garanticen llevar las perdidas tecnicas a un nivel maximo
del 18% (productividad de la inversi6n)
2.3.   Para poder financiar componentes de ampliacion de coberturas en los sistemas que
cuenten con perdidas fisicas superiores al 18% y perdidas comerciales superiores al
20%, el proyecto, si incluye ampliaci6n de coberturas, debera presupuestar inversiones
orientadas a lograr los indicadores de perdidas fisicas y comerciales ya sehaladas, del
18 y 20% respectivamente. (productividad de la inversi6n)
2.4.   Para poder financiar componentes de expansi6n de coberturas, si antes del proyecto,
las perdidas de agua en la red de conducci6n entre la bocatoma y la planta de
tratamiento superan el 10%, el proyecto debe involucrar obligatoriamente inversiones
para disminuir estas p6rdidas a un nivel de por lo menos 10% del agua cruda captada
en la fuente. (ambiental)
2.5.   El horizonte maximo de inversion en ampliaci6n de cobertura en los componentes de
producci6n y distribuci6n de agua potable sera definido, con base en las cifras oficiales
de aumento de la poblaci6n y datos de demanda incluidos en los calculos de tarifas
enviados a la Comisi6n Reguladora de Agua Potable y Saneamiento Basico y en los
Planes de Gesti6n y Resultados aprobados por el Ministerio de Desarrollo Econ6mico.
Es de observar que se tendra en cuenta la metodologia de costo minimo.
(concordancia entre regulaci6n y politicas sectoriales)
2.6.   S6lo se financiaran proyectos de mejoramiento de la calidad del agua, si la entidad
prestadora del servicio, demuestra que garantiza que sus ingresos por tarifas y
subsidios, cubren por lo menos los costos de administraci6n, operaci6n y
mantenimiento del sistema de tratamiento. (sostenibilidad del servicio)
2.7.   No se financiaran proyectos de ampliaci6n de cobertura de acueducto cuando la
diferencia con la cobertura de alcantarillado sea superior al 20% (avanzar en
alcantarillado)
3. Todos los proyectos deberan registrar en un piano y una ficha, el catastro de redes con su
respectivo equipamiento de valvulas, accesorios y conexiones. Esta exigencia es de
responsabilidad del interventor ('PIanos As Built") (Informaci6n para el seguimiento y
evaluaci6n expost)
4. Todos los proyectos deberan entregar a la Findeter, el n6mero de usuarios beneficiados por
mejoramiento de la calidad del agua, de presiones, de renovaci6n de redes y nuevos usuarios
conectados, costos, segun los objetivos de los proyectos y sus componentes. (informacion
para el seguimiento y evaluaci6n expost)
5. Todos los proyectos deberan contemplar acciones de modemizaci6n institucional de las
entidades que prestan los servicios acordes con las metas fijadas en los planes de Gesti6n y
Resultados definidos por la Comision de Regulaci6n de Agua Potable y Saneamiento Basico.
(concordancia entre regulaci6n y politicas sectoriales)



REPUBLICA DE COLOMBIA              - 75 -
MINISTERIO DE DESARROLLO ECONOMICO
B. Criterios Ambientales
1. Todos los proyectos deberan entregar informaci6n sobre el caudal de la fuente abastecedora en
periodos de verano e inviemo, el volumen de agua captada, potabilizada y distribuida en el
sistema antes y despues del proyecto. (aumento productividad inversiones ambientales)
2. Todos los proyectos deberan reservar por lo menos el 1% del costo total del proyecto para
financiar acciones de recuperaci6n y protecci6n de la fuente abastecedora. Estos recursos no
podran financiar estudios ni ejecutarse sin previa concertaci6n con las inversiones que en el
mismo sentido esten desarrollando o hayan programado las entidades ambientales a fin de
concentrar recursos y lograr mayor impacto. Si con el 1% no se logra financiar obras de
recuperaci6n o mantenimiento de la fuente abastecedora, estos recursos deberan asignarse a
la corporaci6n aut6noma regional con competencia en la zona del proyecto, con destino a la
misma fuente de agua. Podra destinarse igualmente el 1% al tratamiento de aguas residuales
del mismo sistema de acueducto. (aumento productividad inversiones ambientales, pues existe
una alta dispersi6n de fuentes y poco impacto ambiental)
3. No podran financiarse obras de captaci6n de agua en pozos que no garanticen los niveles de
recarga suficientes ni que se encuentren afectados por cuia marina, segun certificaci6n de
entidad competente. (productividad de inversi6n en ambiente y sostenibilidad de los sistemas
existentes)
4. Todos lo proyectos que capten agua subterranea deberan contar con estudios de capacidad del
acuifero realizados o avalados por autoridad competente. (sostenibilidad)
5. No podran financiarse proyectos de ampliaci6n de cobertura en localidades que sobre exploten
los acuiferos o que no cuenten con inversiones para proteger zonas de recarga, segun
informaci6n certificada por la entidad ambiental competente. (sostenibilidad)
C. ,nstitucionales. Modernizacion institucional y empresarial
i. Todas las entidades (incluidos municipios y departamentos) solicitantes de credito deber6n
certificar ante la Findeter, que la entidad prestadora del servicio, admiriistradora de las obras
financiadas con esta fuente, cuenta con Plan de Gesti6n y Resultados - PGR - aprobado por el
Ministerio de Desarrollo Econ6mico, segun lo establecido por la Comisi6n Reguladora de Agua
Potable y Saneamiento Basico - CRA - (Resoluci6n 12/95 de la CRA).
2. Para la aprobaci6n de un credito, si la entidad territorial o la empresa prestadora del servicio
domiciliario, se encuentra en proceso de entrega o aprobaci6n del PGR, deberan acreditarlo,
segun certificacion expedida por el Ministerio de Desarrollo Economico. Para el primer
desembolso, debera la entidad prestataria demostrar que la entidad prestadora del servicio,
cuenta con PGR aprobado. (garantizar cumplimiento de la regulaci6n si bien el prestatario es la
entidad territorial - Evita mantener ineficiencias en las empresas por transferencias
municipales sin costo)
3. El Municipio o departamento objeto del credito, debera exigir a la entidad prestadora del
servicio de acueducto que administra o recibe las obras financiadas con credito, registrar en
sus presupuestos el aval6o de los activos recibidos. (informaci6n y disminuci6n de rezago
tarifario)



REPUB1LICA DE COLOMBIA             - 76 -
MINISTERIO DE DESARROLLO ECONOMICO
4. Todos los municipios y departamentos que presten directamente el servicio, deben cumplir con
los establecido por la Comisi6n Reguladora de Agua Potable y Saneamiento Basico, en cuanto
a la presentaci6n de planes de gesti6n y resultados. Su incumplimiento, los excluye como
objeto de cr6dito, segun lo establecido en el art. 36.6 de la Ley 142 de 1994. (regulaci6n y
seguimiento eficiencia empresarial)
5. Las empresas oficiales que presten el servicio de acueducto, que incumplan los indicadores de
gesti6n seg(in lo establecido por la entidad reguladora y certificado por la Superintendencia de
Servicios Publicos Domiciliaros - SSPD - no podra ser objeto de credito segun lo senalado en
el art. 36.6 de la ley 142/94. (cumplimiento regulacion)
6. La entidad prestadora de los servicios publicos domiciliarios, incluidos los municipios y
departamentos que los prestan directamente, que se encuentre incumpliendo el plan de gesti6n
y resultados, segun los establezcan las entidades competentes, no podra ser objeto de cr6dito,
mientras no firmen programa de gesti6n con Superintendencia de Servicios Publicos
Domiciliarios o de recuperaci6n o reestructuraci6n con la Comisi6n Reguladora de Agua
Potable y Saneamiento Basico. (cumplimiento regulaci6n)
7. El programa de desarrollo y modemizaci6n empresarial tendra los siguientes componentes, los
cuales se determinaran con base en los diagn6sticos institucionales que se deberan presentar
para la aprobaci6n del credito y con lo establecido por la Comisi6n Reguladora de Agua
Potable y Saneamiento Basico, en los indicadores y modelos incorporados en los planes de
gesti6n y resultados y demas normas regulatorias.
a) Elaboraci6n cuantitativa y planimetrica del catastro de redes
b) Elaboraci6n del catastro de usuarios
c) Llegar al 100% de la macromedici6n
d) Elevar a por lo menos al 95% la micromedici6n en los municipios mayores e intermedios, y
asignaci6n de consumos promedio por usuarios con base en la macromedici6n en los
municipios o asentamientos menores a 12.000 habitantes.
e) Cuantificaci6n diferenciada de perdidas comerciales de las perdidas fisicas.
f) Avaluo de activos
g) Identificaci6n de costos de administraci6n, operaci6n y mantenimiento
h) Definici6n de estructura tarfaria y subsidios, segun modelos de la CRA.
i) Definici6n de sistemas de control intemo y auditorias extemas
j) Estudios de factibilidad de planes de expansi6n con base en metodologias de costo minimo
k) Definici6n de estructura organizativa institucional con racionalizaci6n de gastos de personal.
I) Procesos y Sistemnas de contratos con participaci6n privada
m) Promoci6n a la vinculaci6n de los trabajadores y los usuarios como socios de empresas
prestadoras
n) Manejo de Centros de costos
o) Sistemas de informaci6n comercial y financiera
p) Oficinas y metodologias de atenci6n al cliente
q) Fortalecimiento de los procesos de contrataci6n
r) Identificaci6n de fuentes de financiaci6n de subsidios (Predial, ingresos propios de los
municipios, cofinanciacion)
s) Programa de detecci6n de fugas y reducci6n del indice de agua no contabilizada
t) Manejo de condiciones laborales
u) B13squeda de economias de escala y aglomeraci6n en acueductos regionales y
metropolitanos
v) integraci6n vertical de los procesos industriales
w) Sistemas de informacion financiera



REPUBLICA DE COLOMBIA             _ 77 -
MINISTERIO DE DESARROLLO ECONOMICO
x) Elaboraci6n y seguimiento de planes de gesti6n y resultados
y) Acuerdos y programas de gesti6n y de reestructuraci6n
D. Financieros
1. El analisis financiero de proyectos de credito a las entidades territoriales, tendra siempre en
cuenta los ingresos derivados del recaudo tarifario de la entidad prestadora sea esta la propia
entidad territorial o la empresa prestadora. En todo proyecto se evaluara la capacidad de la
entidad prestadora para ser solidaria en el servicio al credito. (superar rezago tarifario,
superar restricciones de demanda por credito, por no capacidad de endeudamiento de la
entidad territorial)
2. Los proyectos buscaran en lo posible ser financiados por los recaudos tarifarios, segun lo
senialado en la Ley 142/94. S6lo en segunda instancia, se recurra a aportes estatales de
cualquier nivel, lo que se entendera como aportes para subsidios a los estratos y con los limites
se.nalados en la ley. (LEY 142/94)
3. Todos los proyectos con credito a las empresas o a las entidades territoriales que prestan
directamente el servicio o que transfieren a la entidad prestadora los activos y bienes
financiados con el credito, deberan considerar para el pago del servicio a la deuda, el recaudo
tarifaro correspondiente al costo financiero calculado en la tarifa que recupera los costos del
credito. (Ley 142/94 - regulaci6n)
4. Cuando una entidad territorial se endeude para transferir los activos y bienes afectos al servicio
a la entidad prestadora del servicio, debera especificar a cual titulo hace la transferencia, a fin
de que se tenga en cuenta el aporte para el cAlculo de subsidios a los estratos 1, 2 y 3, seg6n lo
establecido en el art. 87.9 de la Ley 142 de 1994. En consecuencia, el bien, activo o derecho,
debera descontarse como parte del subsidio a los estratos subsidiables y con los limites del
monto subsidiable serialado en la ley y con base en las determinaciones que en este merco,
defina el respectivo consejo municipal o asamblea departamental.
5. El 10% del Impuesto Predial Unificado de los municipios prestatarios no podra incorporarse
como ingreso para el servicio de la deuda, ni contrapartida. S6lo se aceptara como
contrapartida cuando se destine a los fondos de solidaridad y redistribuci6n de ingresos segun
lo senialado en el art.100 de la ley 142/94. (Ley 142/94)
6. En ningun caso podran aprobarse creditos para financiar subsidios liquidos, seg6n lo senalado
en el art. 100 de la Ley 142/94. (Ley 142/94)
II. ALCANTARILLADO
A. Criterios Tecnicos.
1. Todos los proyectos deberan ser el resultado de un analisis de costo minimo, en especial
cuando incluye tratamiento de aguas residuales.
2. Los proyectos deberan cumplir las siguientes condiciones:
2.1.   Cuando la cobertura de alcantarillado este por encima del 70%, no se aprobaran
proyectos que no considere tratamiento de aguas residuales por lo menos en el nivel



REPUBLICA DE COLOMBIA              - 78 -
MINISTERIO DE DESARROLLO ECONOMICO
primario siempre y cuando la fuente receptora a si la requiera y la CRA lo exija.
(ambiental, avance en cobertura)
2.2.   Todo proyecto debera justificar tecnica y econ6micamente la no necesidad de separar
redes de alcantarillado de agua lluvias de las negras. (ambiental, politica de reuso de
aguas servidas, reducci6n de costos de tratamiento)
2.3.   Para financiar componentes de ampliaci6n de coberturas en los sistemas que cuenten
con filtraciones en las redes de alcantarillado a las redes de acueducto o a las fuentes
subterranea, es obligatorio que el proyecto incluya reposicion de redes o de sistemas
contaminantes.
2.4.   El horizonte maximo de inversi6n en ampliaci6n de cobertura en los distintos sistemas
sera definido, con base en el plan de inversiones y los datos de demanda incluidos en
los calculos de tarifas enviados a la Comisi6n Reguladora de Agua Potable y
Saneamiento Basico y en los Planes de Gesti6n y Resultados. (regulaci6n)
2.5.   S61o se financiaran proyectos a la entidad territorial, si la entidad prestadora del
servicio, demuestra que garantiza que sus ingresos por tarifas y subsidios, cubren por
lo menos los costos de administraci6n, operaci6n y mantenimiento del sistema.
3. Todos los proyectos deberan registrar en un piano y una ficha, el catastro de redes con su
respectivo equipamiento. Esta exigencia es de responsabilidad del interventor (Planos As
Built")
4. Todos los proyectos deberan entregar a la Findeter, el numero de usuarios beneficiados por
renovaci6n de redes y nuevos usuarios conectados seg6n los objetivos de los proyectos y sus
componentes.
5. Todos los proyectos deberan contemplar acciones de modemizaci6n institucional acordes con
las metas fijadas en los planes de Gesti6n y Resultados definidos por la Comisi6n de
Regulaci6n de Agua Potable y Saneamiento Basico.
B. Ambientales
1. Todos los proyectos deberan entregar informaci6n sobre el caudal de las descargas en
periodos de verano e inviemo, y el sitio de vertimiento antes y despues del proyecto.
(informaci6n para seguimiento y evaluaci6n expost de inversi6n amb.ental)
2. Todos los proyectos deberan reservar por lo menos el 1% del costo total del proyecto para
financiar acciones de recuperaci6n y protecci6n de la fuente de vertimiento en recurso hidrico.
Con estos recursos no se podran financiar estudios ni ejecutarse sin previa concertaci6n con las
inversiones que en el mismo sentido esten desarrollando o hayan programado las entidades
ambientales a fin de concentrar recursos y lograr mayor impacto. Si con el 1% no se logra
financiar obras de recuperaci6n o mantenimiento de la fuente que recibe el vertimiento, estos
deberan asignarse a la corporaci6n aut6noma regional o autoridad ambiental competente en la
zona del proyecto, con destino a la misma fuente de agua que recibe el vertimiento.
3. No podran financiarse obras que viertan descargas, sin por lo menos un primer nivel de
tratamiento, cuando descarguen en la fuente de captaci6n de agua del acueducto de la misma
localidad.



REPUBLICA DE COLOMBIA              _ 79 -
MINISTERIO DE DESARROLLO ECONOMICO
C. Institucionales. Transformaci6n institucional
1. Todas las entidades solicitantes de credito deberan acreditar ante la Findeter en los proyectos,
que la entidad prestadora del servicio, beneficiaria de las obras financiadas con esta fuente,
cuenta con Plan de Gesti6n y Resultados - PGR - aprobado por el Ministerio de Desarrollo
Econ6mico, seg&n lo establecido por la Comisi6n Reguladora de Agua Potable y Saneamiento
Basico - CRA - (Resoluci6n 12/95 de la CRA). Para la aprobaci6n de un credito, si la entidad
territorial o la empresa prestadora del servicio domiciliario, se encuentra en proceso de entrega
o aprobaci6n del PGR, deberan acreditarlo, segun certificaci6n expedida por el Ministerio de
Desarrollo Economico. Para el primer desembolso, debera ia entidad prestataria demostrar que
la entidad prestadora del servicio, cuenta con PGR aprobado.
2. El Municipio o departamento objeto del credito, debera exigir a la entidad prestadora del
servicio, que se beneficia de las obras financiadas con credito, registrar en sus presupuestos el
avaluo de los activos recibidos.
3. Todos los municipios y departamentos que presten directamente el servicio, deben cumplir con
los establecido por la Comisi6n Reguladora de Agua Potable y Saneamiento Basico, en cuanto
a la presentaci6n de planes de gesti6n y resuHados. Su incumplimiento, los excluye como
objeto de credito, segun lo establecido en el art. 36.6 de la Ley 142 de 1994.
4. Las empresas oficiales que presten el servicio, que incumplan los indicadores de gesti6n segun
lo establecido por la entidad reguladora y certificado por la Superintendencia de Servicios
Publicos Domiciliarios - SSPD - no podra ser objeto de credito seg&n lo senialado en el art. 36.6
de la ley 142/94.
5. La entidad prestadora de los servicios publicos domiciliarios, incluidos los municipios y
departamentos que los prestan directamente, que se encuentre incumpliendo el plan de gesti6n
y resultados, seg&n los establezcan las entidades competentes, no podra ser objeto de credito,
mientras no firmen programa de gestion con Superintendencia de Servicios Publicos
Domiciliarios y de recuperaci6n o reestructuraci6n con la Comisi6n Reguladora de Agua
Potable y Saneamiento Basico.
6. El programa de desarrollo y modernizacion institucional tendra los siguientes componentes, los
cuales se determinaran con base en los diagn6sticos institucionales que se deberan presentar
para la aprobaci6n del credito y con lo establecido por la Comisi6n Reguladora de Agua
Potable y Saneamiento Basico, en los indicadores y modelos incorporados en los planes de
gesti6n y resultados y demas normas regulatorias.
a) Elaboracion cuantitativa y planimetrica del catastro de redes
b) Elaboraci6n del catastro de usuarios
c) Elevar a por lo menos al 90% el recaudo tarifario en los municipios mayores e intermedios,
y al 70% en los municipios o asentamientos menores a 12.600 habitantes.
d) Avaluo de activos
e) ldentificaci6n de costos de administraci6n, operaci6n y mantenimiento
f) Definici6n de estructura tarifaria y subsidios, segun modelos de la CRA.
g) Definici6n de sistemas de control intemo y auditorias externas
h) Estudios de factibilidad de planes de expansi6n con base en metodologias de costo minimo
i) Definici6n de estructura organizativa institucional con racionalizaci6n de gastos de personal.
j) Procesos y Sistemas de contratos con participaci6n privada



REPUBLICA DE COLOMBIA               80 -
MINISTERIO DE DESARROLLO ECONOMICO
k) Promoci6n a la vinculaci6n de los trabajadores y los usuarios como socios de empresas
prestadoras
I) Manejo de Centros de costos
m) Sistemas de informaci6n comercial y financiera
n) Oficinas y metodologias de atenci6n al cliente
o) Fortalecimiento de los procesos de contrataci6n
p) Identificaci6n de fuentes de financiacion de subsidios (Predial, ingresos propios de los
municipios, cofinanciaci6n)
q) Programa de fortalecimiento del recaudo tarifario
r) Manejo de condiciones laborales
s) B13squeda de economias de escala y aglomeraci6n en tratamiento de aguas residuales en
sistemas administrativos regionales, subregionales y metropolitanos
t) integraci6n vertical de los procesos industriales
u) Sistemas de informaci6n financiera
v) Elaboraci6n y seguimiento de planes de gesti6n y resultados
w) Acuerdos y programas de gestion y de reestructuraci6n
D. Financieros
1. El analisis financiero de proyectos de credito a las entidades territoriales, tendra siempre en
cuenta los ingresos derivados del recaudo tarifario de la entidad prestadora sea esta la propia
entidad territorial o la empresa o entidad prestadora.
2. Los proyectos de tratamiento de aguas residuales deberan incluir en los ingresos la tarifa y la
captaci6n de recursos provenientes de tasas ambientales (retributivas y compensatorias).
3. Los proyectos buscaran en lo posible ser financiados por los recaudos tarifarios, segun lo
senalado en la Ley 142194. S61o en segunda instancia, se recurra a aportes estatales de
cualquier nivel, lo que se entendera como aportes para subsidios a los estratos y con los limites
senialados en la ley.
4. Todos los proyectos de credito a las empresas o a las entidades territoriales que prestan
directamente el servicio o que transfieren a la entidad prestadora los activos y bienes
financiados con el credito, deberan considerar para el pago del servicio a la deuda, el recaudo
tarifanio correspondiente al costo financiero calculado en la tanifa que recupera los costos del
credito.
5. Cuando una entidad territorial se endeude para transferir los activos y bienes afectos al servicio
a la entidad prestadora del servicio, debera especificar a cual titulo hace la transferencia, a fin
de que se tenga en cuenta el aporte para el calculo de subsidios a los estratos 1, 2 y 3, segun lo
establecido en el art. 87.9 de la Ley 142 de 1994. En consecuencia, el bien, activo o derecho,
debera descontarse como parte del subsidio a los estratos subsidiables y con los limites del
monto subsidiable senialado en la ley y con base en las determinaciones que en este merco,
defina el respectivo consejo municipal o asamblea departamental.
6. El 10% del Impuesto Predial Unificado de los municipios prestatarios no podra incorporarse
como ingreso para el servicio de la deuda, ni contrapartida. S6lo se aceptara como
contrapartida cuando se destine a los fondos de solidaridad y redistribucion de ingresos seguin
lo senialado en el art.100 de la ley 142/94.
7. En ning6n caso podran aprobarse creditos para financiar subsidios liquidos, segun lo senalado
en el art. 100 de la Ley 142/94.



- 81 -
APPENDIX B
Colombia, Pr6stamo 2961-CO, Proyecto Sectorial de Agua Potable y Alcantarillado
Informe de Terminaci6n de Implementacion del Proyecto
AYUDA MEMORIA
Introducci6n
1.    Una misi6n del Banco Mundial, compuesta por el Sr. Menahem Libbaber, oficial del
proyecto, y el Sr. German Silva, consultor, visit6 Colombia durante los dias 13 y14 de mayo de
1997, con el objetivo de preparar el ICR (Implementation Completion Report) para el proyocto de
la referencia. Durante su estadia en el pais, la misi6n se reuni6 con el Presidente y los
representantes de FINDETER, asi como con la Directora Tecnica de Agua Potable y Saneamiento
Basico del Ministerio de Desarrollo Economico. La misi6n agradece a todas las personas
entrevistadas y a las instituciones visitadas por la hospitalidad y la cooperaci6n brindadas.
2.    En una reuni6n con los representantes de FINDETER, el prestatario y la agencia de
implementaci6n de las partes A y B del proyecto, la misi6n explic6 los procedimientos de la
preparaci6n del informe ICR y el cronograma respectivo. Asi mismo, la misi6n dej6 con
FINDETER un documento de Terminos de Referencia para la elaboraci6n del reporte del cierre del
proyecto (ver Apendice 1), el cual resume las reponsabilidades del prestatario en la elaboraci6n del
ICR y el apoyo que el Banco requiere de FINDETER. Los representantes de FINDETER
ofreciron una completa cooperaci6n y todo el apoyo solicitado, indicando que iniciaran
inmediatamente a recopilar la informaci6n necesaria. Se comprometieron a intentar tener la
infonnaci6n solicitada disponible al 30 de mayo de 1997, pero indicaron que se trata de mucha
informaci6n, puesto que el proyecto consiste de 401 subproyectos. La casa matriz de FINDETER
necesitara apoyo de las oficinas regionales, siendo que la ejecuci6n de los subproyectos fue
responsabilidad de las mismas y una gran parte de la informaci6n se encuentra en estas oficinas.
En paralelo al apoyo brindado al Banco, FINDETER se comprometi6 iniciar la preparaci6n de su
informe de evaluaci6n, de acuerdo con lo solicitado en el numeral 3 del Anexo 1.
3.    Siendo que la parte A del proyecto (97% del prestamo) consiste de una linea de credito
administrado por FINDETER para financiar inversiones en subproyectos con el objetivo de
rehabilitar y expandir los sistemas de acuaducto y saneamiento en alrededor de 400 comunidades,
no es FINDETER que tendra la responsabilidad para la operacio'n y mantenimiento de las obras
financiadas con fondos del proyecto, sino que las entidades prestatarias de FINDETER. Por lo
tanto, el concepto del plan operativo que debe preparar el prestatario no es aplicable en forma
directa a FINDETER.
4.    La misi6n se reuni6 tambien con la Directora Tecnica de Agua Potable y Saneamiento
Basico del Ministerio de Desarrollo Economico (Mindesarrollo), Directora de la unidad que actu6
como la agencia de implementaci6n de la parte C del proyocto. En forna similar se la explic6 los
procedimientos de la preparaci6n del informne ICR y el cronograma respectivo, y se le dej6 los
Terminos de Referencia para la elaboraci6n del reporte del cierre del proyecto ( Apendice 1). En
nombre del Mindesarrollo, la Directora se comprometi6 a brindar al Banco toda la asistencia
necesaria para preparar el ICR.



- 82 -
Resultados del Proyecto
Partes A y B bajo la responsabilidad de FINDETER
5.    Se desembolso alrededor de 97% del prestamo, la mayoria para la parte A del proyecto.
FINDETER ha demonstrado una alta capacidad administrativa en el manejo de un gran numero de
subproyectos (401) y en desembolsar la mayoria de los fondos del prestamo. A pesar de los
atrazos y otros problemas que se registraron durante la ejecucion de la mayoria de los
subproyectos, se lograron realizar las obras previstas casi en su totalidad. En muchos casos los
nuevos y rehabilitados sistemas se encuentran en funcionamiento satisfactorio; han contribuido a la
calidad del servicio y han logrado efectos favorables y beneficiosos a las comunidades. A traves de
la ejecuci6n de las obras del proyecto, se logro ofrecer los servicios de acueducto y alcantarillado a
muchas comunidades que no los disponian y que no hubieran tenido la oportunidad de obtererlos
sino hubiera sido por este proyecto.
6.    En contraste con los logros en la ejecuci6n de las obras, el logro del objetivo de
fortalecimiento institucional de las entidades administradoras de los servicios fue limitado y no se
ha logrado superar la debilidad institucional y financiera que ha caracterizado a las mismas.
Aiunque el alcance del objetivo de mejoramiento institucional fue limitado, se debe reconocer que el
logro de este objetivo es una tarea dificil. Durante la etapa de preparaci6n del proyecto las ideas
de Participaci6n del Sector Privado (PSP) no fueron difundidas y la Ley 142 no existia, asi que la
oportunidad de alcanzar el mejoramiento institucional con los instrumentos programados fue
linitada desde el inicio. Aun asi, la introducci6n de las ideas de mejoramiento institucional
tuvieron un impacto positivo que se capitalizari en el futuro, utilizando el enfoque de PSP y los
instrumentos de la Ley 142. Cabe notar que en varios casos se han adaptado los conceptos de PSP
y se ha logrado una transformaci6n institucional exitosa, tal como en los subproyectos de
Cartagena y Barranquilla.
7.    En lo que se refiere al parte B del proyecto, se utiliz6 unos US$ 750,000 para financiar el
programa AT-PAS, con el objeto de dar asistencia tecnica a los municipios en los procesos de
transformaci6n de las empresas de agua y en la preparaci6n de subproyectos. Asi mismo, se
utiliz6 parte de este componente para financiar las consultorias de evaluaci6n de los resultados del
proyecto. En los uiltimos meses del proyecto, FINDETER solicit6 y obtuvo la aprobaci6n de
Banco para utilizar recursos del prestamo para financiar ocho consultorias destinadas a mejorar su
desempefio y denominadas "programa de Mejoramiento focalizado", por un monto estimado de
US$ 300,000. Desafortunadamente, no se logro iniciar los estudios antes de la fecha de cierre del
proyecto y los fondos del prestamo no fueron utilizados para estos estudios, los cuales estan
actualmente en ejecuci6n utilizando fondos del pr6stamo 3336-CO.
Parte C bajo la Responsabilidad del Ministerio de Desarrollo
8.    La ejecuci6n del componente C fue deficiente desde el inicio del proyecto. Mindesarrollo
asumi6 la responsabilidad para ejecutar este componente en marzo de 1994, despues de una gesti6n
poco exitosa por parte de DNP y del Ministerio de Obras Piblicas. Como consecuencia de
problemas burocraticos no pudo efectuar desembolsos por parte de Mindesarrollo hasta mediados
de 1996 y los uinicos montos desembolsados fueron efectuados antes de la fecha que Mindesarrollo
asumi6 la responsabilidad de este componente. No obstante, Mindesarrollo aprovecho el tiempo
para reformular el componente y redefinir sus metas, asi como para mejorar los T6rminos de
Referencia de los estudios que hacen parte del componente. La reformulaci6n del componente



- 83 -
result6 en un crecimiento del costo del mismo, y Mindesarrollo asegur6 los fondos adicionales
necesarios. Mindesarrollo contrat6 a PNUD para nianejar los procesos de adquisici6n y
contrataci6n del componente C, y durante los seis ultimos meses de 1996 se han llevado a cabo
todos los concursos de meritos para seleccionar las firmas consultoras necesarias y se han firmado
todos los contratos para la ejecuci6n de los estudios, suponiendo que se extendrian la fecha de
cierre del proyecto y asi se ejecutarin los estudios. Desaforwnadamente, el Banco no autoriz6 la
extension de la fecha de cierre. Mindesarrollo continua con la ejecuci6n de los estudios utilizando
fiuentes alternativas de financiaci6n, de forna que la parte C alcanzara su impacto esperado, aun
que no se utiliz6 para este parta del proyecto todos los fondos que les asignar6n.
Por el Banco Mundial
,vie-m-L =Ih!aber
Oficial del Proyecto
Washington, 27 de mayo de 1997



- 84-
Anexo 1
Colombia, Prestamo 2961-CO, Proyecto Sectorial de Acueducto y Alcantarillado
TJkRMINOS DE REFERENCIA PARA LA ELABORACION DEL INFORME DE
COMPLIMIENTO DE LA IMPLEMENTACION DEL PROYECTO (ICR)
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR THE BORROWER'S INPUT TO THE
PREPARATION OF THE ICR
1.     Antecedentes
Las Condiciones generales aplicables a los contratos de Cr6dito y de Garantia, establecen en la
Secci6n 9.07 (c) Registros e Informes el compromiso del Prestatario de preparar y presentar al
Banco un Informe, con el contenido y alcance que el Banco razonablemente solicite, sobre la
ejecuci6n del proyecto, sus costos, los beneficios derivados o que se derivaran de el, y el
cumplimiento dl Banco y el Prestatario de sus respectivas obligaciones contraidas en el Convenio
de Prestamo.
El Banco realizara una Misi6n de Terminaci6n del proyecto para analizar con el Prestatario y con
las Entidades co-financiadoras del Proyecto, los aspectos mas relevantes y las ensefianzas
obtenidas durante la implementaci6n del mismo, prestar la asistencia necesaria para la preparaci6n
del informe final de evaluaci6n del proyecto y solicitar la ayuda necesaria para la preparaci6n del
ICR (Implementation Completion Report) Oportunamente el Banco avisara sobre la fecha en que
se realizara la Misi6n.
2.     Responsabilidades del Prestatario en el ICR
Las responsabilidades del prestatario comprenden:
*      La elaboraci6n de un informe final de evaluaci6n del Proyecto (No mayor de 10 paginas),
el cual sera adjuntado al ICR sin editarlo o modificarlo.
*      Prestar la ayuda necesaria al Banco para la preparaci6n del informe de terminaci6n del
Proyecto (Implementation Completion Report - ICR).
3.     Terminos de Referencia para la Elaboraci6n del ICR
El Informe final de Evaluaci6n que debe ser preparado por el Prestatario debe incluir:
*      Una evaluaci6n de los objetivos del proyecto, de su concepci6n, disenlo y dimensionamiento
asi como de su implementaci6n.
*      Una autoevaluaci6n del Prestatario sobre el cumplimiento de los compromisos durante la
ejecuci6n del proyecto.



- 85 -
*      Una evaluaci6n del desempefno del Banco y de las entidades cofinanciadoras, incluyendo la
eficacia de las relaciones entre ellos, y las ensenianzas que se pueden derivar de este
proyecto para el futuro.
4.     Asistencia al Banco para la preparaci6n del ICR
La asistencia la Banco durante la preparaci6n del ICR consiste en:
a. El sumninistro de la siguiente informaci6n sobre el proyecto:
*      Categoria 1-(Parte A)
Comparaci6n de las metas fisicas previstas y las alcanzadas para cada Subproducto.
Evaluaci6n de las condiciones de operaci6n final del sistema (Acueducto, Alcantarillado,
Plantas de tratamiento etc.) para cada subproyecto.
Opini6n sobre el resultado del fortalecimiento Institucional alcanzado en cada Empresa o
Municipio beneficiada por el Proyecto.
Resumen de las Inversiones finales realizadas, discriminadas por categorias y por fuentes,
segun el modelo que se adjunto (Tablas 8A y 8B).
*      :Categoria 2-(Parte B)
Relaciones de los bienes, servicios de consultoria y capacitaci6n realizada con cargo a esta
Categoria del proyecto, indicando las inversiones realizadas para cada uno de ellos
*      Categoria 3-(Partes C. 1 y C.2)
Relaci6n de los bienes, servicios de consultoria y capacitaci6n realizada con cargo a cada
una de las partes del proyecto incluidas en esta Categoria del proyecto, indicando las
inversiones realizadas par cada uno de ellos.
*      Una evaluaci6n de las metas alcanzadas utilizando los indicadores de desempenio
establecidos en el Anexo 5 del Staff Appraisal Report-SAR, asi como de las metas de
cubrimiento del servicio establecidas en el Numeral 4.10 del mismo SAR.
b. Suniinistrar opiniones sobre de la calidad de la contribuci6n del Banco durante todas las fases
del proyecto (feedback), desde la Identificaci6n hasta la de supervisi6n del Proyecto.
c. Participar y presentar sus opiniones durante la Misi6n de Terminaci6n.
d. Hacer comentarios al Informe de Terminaci6n (ICR) dentro de los dos meses siguientes a la
entrega preliminar por parte del Banco.



