Page  1
October 6, 1992
Dr. Rudolf Hommes
Minister
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit
Santa Fe de Bogota, D.C., Colombia
Dr. Antonio Guerra
General Manager
FINDETER S. A.
Santa Fe de Bogota, D.C., Colombia
Ref:
COLOMBIA - Water Supply & Sewerage Sector Project
(Loan 2961-CO) Amendment of Loan and Guarantee
Agreements to Substitute DWSS by DNP in the
Implementation of Part C of the Project
 Dear Sirs:
1.
This is in connection with the Loan Agreement between International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and Banco Central Hipotecario (BCH) dated as 
of February 8, 1989, as
amended by the Loan Assumption Agreement dated as of November 8, 1991, between the 
Bank and Financiera de Desarrollo Territorial S.A. (FINDETER) and BCH, and the 
Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Colombia (the Guarantor) and the Bank 
dated as of February 8, 1989, as amended by the Supplemental Guarantee Agreement dated 
as of November 8, 1991, between the Guarantor and the Bank, all for the above Project.  
Specifically, this is in connection with the Guarantor's letter UDU-DEM 723 dated 
August 20th, 1992, requesting the amendment of the Loan and Guarantee Agreements to 
replace DWSS by DNP in respect of the implementation of Part C of the Project.
2.
We are ready to accept the modifications to the Loan and Guarantee Agreement 
needed to enable DNP to fully take care of Part C. Thus, we hereby propose the 
following modifications:
3.
To the Loan Agreement:
 
-
Section  3.07 (b) is amended by replacing the word "MOPT" by "DNP".
 
-
Schedule 2. Part C (1) is amended to read as follows: "(1) A program of 
activities by 
DNP including staff training, acquisition and utilization of 
equipment and the 
carrying out of studies to develop: (i) management 
models for the administration of 
water supply and sewerage facilities; (ii) an 
information system for cost appropriate 
technologies for the construction 
and maintenance of said facilities; and (iv) 
updated procedures and 
technologies for rural water supply".
4.
To the Guarantee Agreement:
 
-
Section 2.02 (b) is amended by replacing the word "DWSS" by "DNP".
 
-
Section 2.07 (a) is amended by deleting the words "MOPT and".
 
-
Section 3.01 (a) is amended by replacing the word "MOPTI, by  "DNP".
 
-
Section 3.01 (c) is amended by replacing the date "May 31, 1989" by 
"December 31, 
1992".
 
-
Section 3.03 is amended by deleting the words "MOPT and".
 
-
Paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 3.04 are amended by replacing in both 
the word 
"MOPT" by 'IDNP".
 
Page  2
If you are in agreement with the aforesaid proposal, please sign on behalf of 
the Guarantor and FINDETER, respectively, the form of confirmation attached to this 
letter and kindly send said form duly signed to us for our records.  A copy of this 
letter is being sent to the National Department of Planning.
The aforesaid modifications to the Loan and Guarantee Agreements shall become 
effective only upon dispatch by the Bank of its notice of reception of the said form 
of confirmation, duly signed and dated.
Sincerely yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
   AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Christian Delvoie
Acting Country Director
Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED BY:                    
AND BY:
 
bY /s/ Dr. Rudolf Hommes
By /s/ Dr. Antonio Guerra
Ministro de Hacienda
Gerente General
   y Credito Publico
Financiera de Desarrollo
   Territorial S.A.
