Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
ANNEX
LOAN NUMBER
2961
CO
(Water Supply and Sewerage Sector Project)
 
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
FINANCIERA DE DESARROLLO TERRITORIAL
Dated February
8,
1989
(as amended on November 8, 1991)
 
LOAN NUMBER
2961
CO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February
8,
1989, (as amended on November 8, 1991) between 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(the Bank) and FINANCIERA DE 
DESARROLLO TERRITORIAL
(the Borrower).
 
WHEREAS
(A) Republic of Colombia (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, having been 
satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule
2
to
this Agreement, have
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project, since it is consistent
with, and supports the execution of, the Guarantor's Water Supply and Sewerage Sector
Reform Program
(SRP);
and
(B)
by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith between 
the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of
the Borrower in respect of
the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as set forth in the Guarantee
Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to
Page  2
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section
1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 
deleted
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
 
Section
1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings
:
(a)
"MOPT" 
means Ministerio de Obras P
?licas y Transporte, the Guarantor's 
Ministry of Public Works and Transport;
(b)
"JNT" 
means Junta Nacional de Tarifas, the Guarantor's National Tariff
Board;
(c)
"FONADE" 
means Fondo Nacional de Proyectos de Desarrollo, the Guarantor's
National Fund for Development Projects;
(d)
"SRP" 
means the Guarantor's Water Supply and Sewerage Sector Reform
Program set forth in the letter of the Guarantor dated May
¦5á, 1988;
 
(e)
"SIR Legislation" 
means the Guarantor's legislation containing the
institutional reorganization of the water supply and sewerage sector, as set forth in
Decree No.
77
of January
15,
1987, published in Diario Oficial on January 15, 1987; 
and Decree No.
1723
of September
4,
1987, published in Diario Oficial on September
7,
1987, both as amended to the date of this Agreement;
 
(f)
"DNP" 
means Departamento Nacional de Planeaci
›n, the Guarantor's National 
Planning Department;
(g)
"DWSS" 
means Direcci
›n de Agua Potable y Saneamiento Basico, MOPT's 
Directorate of Water Supply and Sanitation;
(h)
"Tariff Law" 
means the Guarantor's Decree Law No
.3069 of December 16, 
1968, published in Diario Oficial on January 21, 1969, Decree Law No. 149 of January 
27, 1976, published in Diario Oficial on February 23, 1976; and Decree No.394 of 
February
26, 1987, published in Diario Oficial on February 27, 1987, as amended to the 
date of this Agreement;
(i)
"Financial Intermediary" 
means any duly established financial institution
operating in Colombia which: (i) has been approved by the Borrower to participate in 
the carrying out of Part
A of the Project; and
(ii) has entered or proposes to enter into a Participation 
Agreement
(as such term is hereinafter defined) with the Borrower on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank;
(j)
"Participation Agreement" 
means the contractual arrangements entered or
to be entered into between the Borrower and each Financial Intermediary pursuant to
Section
3.01 (c) of this
Agreement;
(k)
"Subsidiary Loan Agreement" 
means the agreement satisfactory to the Bank
between the Guarantor and the Borrower referred to in Section
3.01 (b) of this 
Agreement;
(l)
"Project Entity" 
means a municipal, departmental or regional water
supply, sewerage and sanitation company or a departmental or municipal government
operating water supply and
Page  3
sewerage services through financially and administratively independent agencies or
units;
(
m
)
"Eligible Project Entity" 
means a Project Entity which is eligible to
receive financial assistance under the Project pursuant to the Operating Manual
Statement;
(n)
"Subproject" 
means a specific development project consisting of one or
more of the following
:
rehabilitation and expansion of water supply and sewerage
systems, upgrading of solid
waste services, pre-investment studies and programs for institutional strengthening of 
Eligible Project Entities, which meet the criteria set forth in the Operating Manual
Statement;
(o)
"Participating Loan" 
means a loan made or proposed to be made out of the
proceeds of the Loan by the Borrower to a Financial Intermediary under a Participation
Agreement to refinance Subloans
(as such term is hereinafter defined) 
made by such
Financial Intermediary under Part A of the Project;
(p)
"Subloan" 
means a loan made or proposed to be made by a Financial
Intermediary out of the proceeds of the Loan to an Eligible Project Entity or a
Sponsor Agency
(as hereinafter defined)
to finance the execution of a Subproject;
(q)
"Sponsor Agency" 
means any agency or entity
(other than the Borrower or a 
Financial Intermediary) which is providing or intends to provide financing, in the 
form of grants, to an Eligible Project Entity for the execution of a Subproject, with
its own resources or the proceeds of a Subloan or both;
(r)
"Subloan Agreement" 
means the agreement satisfactory to the Bank and the
Borrower entered or to be entered into between a Financial Intermediary and an
Eligible Project Entity or a Sponsor Agency providing for a Subloan;
(s)
"Subproject Agreement" 
means the agreement, satisfactory to the Bank,
entered or to be entered into by the Borrower with each Eligible Project Entity or
each Sponsor Agency pursuant to Section
3.01 (d) of this Agreement;
 
(t)
"Sponsors Agreement" 
means the agreement satisfactory to the Bank and the
Borrower entered or to be entered into by each Eligible Project Entity and a Sponsor
Agency;
(u)
"NPBRS" 
means Programa Nacional de Saneamiento Basico Rural, the
Guarantor's National Program for Basic Rural Sanitation;
(v)
"Special Account" 
means the account referred to in Section
2.02
(b) of 
this Agreement;
(w)
"Charter" 
means the Borrower's Estatutos approved by Decreto No
.
789
of
the Guarantor, dated April
17, 1990;
 
(x)
"FONADE Agreement" 
means the agreement satisfactory to the Bank between
the Borrower and FONADE referred to in Section
3.01 (e) of this Agreement;
 
(y)
"Operating Manual Statement" 
means the Borrower's Manual, satisfactory to
the Bank, providing for credit policies and conditions and operating procedures;
(z)
"Ongoing Project" 
means any investment project in Colombia's water supply
and sewerage sector being partly financed with the proceeds of a loan made by the Bank
or by another external financial institution;
(aa)
"Peso" 
means the currency unit of the Guarantor;
(bb)
"Free limit Subloan" 
means a Subloan, as so defined, which qualifies as a
free-limit Subloan pursuant to the provisions of paragraph I. 1 (b) of Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement;
(cc)
"Type 1 Subproject" 
means a Subproject, as so defined, which is to be
Page  4
carried out by an existing Empresa P
?
blica Municipal
(
Public Municipal Enterprise
)
;
(dd)
"Type 2 Subproject" 
means a Subproject, as so defined, which is to be
carried out by a Regional Water Company already existing or to be established in the
carrying out of such Sub-project;
 
(ee)
"Type 3 Subproject" 
means a Subproject, as so defined, which is to be
carried out in communities with less than
12,000
inhabitants under the NPBRS;
(ff)
"DTF" 
means an annual interest rate equal to the average interest rate
offered by private Corporaciones Financieras
(as hereinafter defined), CFCs (as 
hereinafter defined) and commercial banks in Colombia on their 90 days Certificados de 
Deposito a Turmino
(term certificates of deposit) calculated and published by the 
Guarantor, through its Central Bank
(Banco de la Rep?blica) on a weekly basis;
 
(gg)
"Corporaciones Financieras" 
means financial institutions duly established
under the law of the Guarantor; and
(hh)
"CFC" 
means each Compa
Ÿòa de Financiamiento Comercial which is a 
financial institution providing medium and short-term credit established and operating 
under the laws and regulations of the Guarantor.
 
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section
2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to one hundred fifty million dollars
($150,000,000).
 
Section
2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1
to this Agreement for expenditures
made
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule
2
to this Agreement
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
 
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Parts A, B and C of the Project, 
open and maintain in dollars a special account in Banco de la Rep?blica, on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
6
to this
Agreement.
Section
2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1996 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the 
Guarantor of such later date.
 
Section
2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
 
Section
2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate per annum for each Interest
Period equal to one-half of one percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings for the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such Interest
Period.
 
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Guarantor and the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for such
Semester.
(c)
For purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" 
means the six
-
month period commencing on each
date specified
in Section
2.06
of this Agreement, including the
Interest Period in which this
Agreement is signed.
 
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" 
means the cost of the outstanding
Page  5
borrowings of
the Bank drawn down after June
30
,
1982
, expressed as
a percentage per annum,
as reasonably determined by the Bank.
 
(iii)
"Semester" 
means the first six months or the second six months of
a calendar
year.
Section
2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on March 
1
and September
1
in each year.
 
Section
2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule
3
to this Agreement.
 
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project;
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section
3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule
2
to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out
Parts A and B of the
Project and conduct its operations and affairs in accordance with sound administrative
and financial standards and practices, with qualified management and personnel, and in
accordance with the Charter, the SRP and the Operating Manual Statement, and shall
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for Parts A and B of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall relend to the Guarantor, for purposes of Part C of the 
Project, the amounts allocated from time to time to Category
(3)
in the table of
paragraph
1
of Schedule
1
to this Agreement, under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and the Guarantor, through MOPT, which shall have
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
 
(c)
The Borrower shall enter into contractual arrangements (the Participation 
Agreements) with each Financial Intermediary participating in the financing of 
Subprojects under Part A of the
Project, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
(d)
The Borrower shall enter into a Subproject Agreement, with each Eligible 
Project Entity and each Sponsor Agency
(except in respect of Subprojects for which no
Subloan is provided to a Sponsor Agency) willing to participate in the execution of 
Sub-projects under Part A of the Project, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank, including those set forth in paragraph II B of Schedule
5
to this Agreement.
 
(e)
The Borrower shall enter into an agreement, satisfactory to the Bank and 
the Borrower, with FONADE, establishing FONADE's obligation to finance pre-investment 
studies to be carried out by Eligible Entities as part of or with regard to a
Subproject or Sub-projects.
 
(f)
The Borrower shall utilize the proceeds accrued to the Borrower from the 
repayment of principal of Participating Loans which are not required for purposes of
repayment of principal of the Loan, exclusively for making loans to Financial
Intermediaries forthe same purposes, and under similar terms and conditions as those
set forth or referred to in this Agreement and the Operating Manual Statement.
 
(g)
The Borrower shall duly perform all of its obligations under the FONADE 
Agreement, the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and each Participation Agreement and
Sub-project Agreement. Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of
amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the FONADE Agreement, the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, a Participation Agreement or a Sub-project Agreement, or any provision 
thereof.
(h)
The Borrower shall carry out Part B of the Project in accordance with a 
plan of action and a timetable, satisfactory to the Bank.
 
Section
3.02. (a) The Borrower shall not approve Subprojects for financing under 
the Loan which may, in the Bank's opinion, have a negative impact on the execution of
Page  6
Ongoing Projects or on the finances of the entity carrying out such Ongoing Project
.
(b)
Whenever the appraisal of a Subproject indicates that tariff adjustments 
would be required to ensure: (i) the financial feasibility of the Subproject; or (ii) 
that the Eligible Project Entity which would carry out such Subproject will attain the
financial condition agreed upon with the Borrower in accordance with the provisions of
the Operating Manual Statement, the Borrower shall request a preliminary ruling from
JNT regarding such proposed tariff adjustments prior to the approval of the respective
Subloan.
Such approval shall not be granted by the Borrower unless JNT's preliminary
ruling accepts the tariff adjustment proposal.
 
Section
3.03. Without limitation to the provision of Section 3.07 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall, not later than March
31
and September
30
of each year,
prepare and furnish to the
Bank a report on the progress of the execution of Parts A and B of the Project during
the immediately preceding semester ending three months before that date, of such scope
and detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, such report to include information on
amounts committed and disbursed under Subloans, number and type of Subloans under
preparation and execution, progress in physical Project execution, compliance with the
provisions of Subproject Agreements, repayments and arrears under Subloans and
Participating Loans.
 
Section
3.04. The Borrower shall carry out all lending operations, including 
lending operations utilizing funds from third parties administered by the Borrower in
any capacity such as those under fiduciary arrangements
(administraci
›n fiduciaria), 
in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in Schedule
7
to this Agreement.
 
Section
3.05. (a) The Borrower undertakes that, unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, Participating Loans will be made in accordance with the procedures and on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Operating Manual Statement and in
Schedule
5
to this Agreement.
 
(b)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation to each Subproject in 
such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Bank and the Borrower; (ii) comply 
with its obligations under this Agreement; and
(iii) achieve the purposes of the 
Project.
Section
3.06. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule
4
to this Agreement and Section
3.02 of the 
Guarantee Agreement.
 
(b)
In the procurement of goods, works and services to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the Borrower shall utilize, and shall cause the Project Entities
to utilize, standard
bidding documents satisfactory to the Bank.
 
Section
3.07. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the obligations set forth in 
Sections
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition,
respectively)
in respect of Parts A and B of the Project.
 
(b)
Without limitation to the foregoing, the Borrower shall coordinate with 
MOPT the preparation of the completion report referred to in paragraph
(c) of Section 
9.07 of the General
Conditions. 
 
Section
3.08. (a) Not later than November 15 each year, the Borrower shall 
exchange views with the Bank, jointly with the Guarantor, and any Eligible Project
Entities selected by the
Borrower and the Bank on the matter referred to, and as provided in, Section
2.07
of
the Guarantee Agreement.
 
(b)
The Borrower shall carry out any plans of action prepared by the 
Guarantor pursuant to the provisions of Section
2.07
of the Guarantee Agreement, in a
Page  7
manner satisfactory to the Bank
.
Section
3.09. The Borrower undertakes that, unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, Subloans shall be made in accordance with the
procedures set forth in Schedule
5
to this Agreement.
 
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section
4.01. The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be
maintained, procedures and separate records and accounts adequate to
monitor and record the progress of, and procurement made under
Parts A and B of the Project and each Subproject
(including its cost
and the benefits to be derived from it) and to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the
operations and financial condition of the Borrower.
 
Section
4.02. (a) The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records referred to in Section 4.01 of this Agreement, 
its accounts
and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of
income and expenses
and related statements) and the records and 
accounts for the Special Account
for each fiscal year audited in
accordance with sound auditing principles
consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank, as soon as available but in any case not 
later than four
months after the end of each such year,
(A) certified 
copies of said financial
statements for such  year as so audited and
(B) the report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the said 
records,
accounts and financial statements and the audit
thereof as the Bank shall from
time to time reasonably request.
 
(b)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
 
(i)
maintain, and cause to be maintained, in accordance with Section
4.01
of this
Agreement, separate records and accounts reflecting such
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, or cause to be retained by the Eligible Project Entities 
until at
least one year after the Bank has received the audit
report for the fiscal
year in which the last withdrawal from
the Loan Account was made, all records
(contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing 
such expenditures;
 
(iii)
enable and cause the Eligible Project Entities to enable the 
Bank's
representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit
referred to in paragraph
(a)
of this Section and that the
report of such audit
contains a separate opinion by said auditors
as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal
year, together with the procedures
and internal control involved in
their preparation, can be relied upon to
support the related
withdrawals.
 
Section
4.03. Not later than June 30 each year, the Borrower shall prepare and 
furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request, on the audits of the financial statements of the Eligible Project Entities
and of the separate records and accounts that such Entities maintain for purposes of
the Project.
Page  8
Section
4.04. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
earn, for each of its fiscal years after its fiscal year ending December
31,
1990, an 
annual return on its
equity, such return to be in accordance with the minimum ratios agreed between the
Bank and the Borrower.
 
(b)
By March 30 and by September 30 of each fiscal year, the Borrower shall, 
on the basis of forecasts prepared by the Borrower and satisfactory to the Bank,
review whether it would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph
(a) in respect of 
such year and the following fiscal year and shall furnish to the Bank the results of
such review upon its completion.
 
(c)
If any such review shows that the Borrower would not meet the 
requirements set forth in paragraph
(a)
for the Borrower's fiscal years covered by
such review, the Borrower shall promptly take all necessary measures
(including,
without limitation, changes in its lending or financing policies) in order to meet 
such requirements.
 
(d)
For the purpose of this Section and unless the Bank and the Borrower 
shall agree on a different calculation method, the return on the Borrower's equity for
any given fiscal year shall be calculated as the difference between: (i) the 
Borrower's net income before income tax for the fiscal year in question
(as such net 
income is shown in the audited financial statements of the Borrower) divided by one 
half of the sum of the value of the Borrower's equity at the beginning and at the end
of the same fiscal year; and
(ii)
the percentage variation of the Guarantor's consumer
price index during the fiscal year in question, as such index is calculated by the
Guarantor's Departamento Administrativo Nacional de Estad
òstica. 
 
(e)
For the purpose of this Section, the term "equity" 
means the sum of the
total unimpaired paid-up capital, retained earnings and reserves of the Borrower not 
allocated to cover specific liabilities.
 
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section
5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, provided, however, that if an event
specified in any of paragraphs
(b), (c) or (d) shall have occurred and be continuing, 
the suspension of the Borrower's right to make withdrawals from the Loan Account may
be limited by the Bank to withdrawals in respect of Project expenditures related to
the Financial Intermediary or Financial Intermediaries, or the Eligible Project Entity
or Eligible Project Entities, as the case may be:
 
(a)
that the Charter shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed 
or waived so as to affect, in the Bank's opinion, materially and adversely the
operations or the financial
condition of the Borrower or the Financial Intermediaries or the Borrower's ability to
carry out the Project or to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement;
(b)
a Financial Intermediary shall have failed to perform any of its 
obligations under a Participation Agreement;
(c)
an Eligible Project Entity or a Sponsor Agency shall have failed to 
perform any of its obligations under a Subproject Agreement;
(d)
a Sponsor Agency shall have failed to perform any of its obligations 
under a Sponsor's Agreement;
(e)
the SRP or the SIR Legislation shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect, in the Bank's opinion, adversely the
attainment of the objectives of the Project;
(f)
FONADE shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
FONADE Agreement;
Page  9
(g)
the Tariff Law shall have been repealed or amended to an extent which, in 
the Bank's reasonable opinion, shall adversely affect the policies set forth in the
Tariff Law or the execution of the SRP; and
(h)
the Guarantor, through its Central Bank (Banco de la Republica) shall 
have ceased to calculate or publish the DTF on a weekly basis or the DTF shall have,
in the Bank's reasonable
opinion, failed to reflect the average interest rate offered by private Corporaciones
Financieras and CFCs and Commercial banks in Colombia on their
90-day Certificado de 
Deposito a Turmino, or any
event shall have occurred which would make the application of interest rates based on
the DTF inapplicable, unenforceable or illegal in Colombia.
 
Section
5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
 
(a)
an event specified in paragraph (a) or paragraph (e) or paragraph (g) or 
paragraph
(h) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
 
(b)
an event specified in paragraph (b) or paragraph (c) or paragraph (d) or 
paragraph
(f) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, and shall continue for a 
period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section
6.01. The General Manager of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
 
Section
6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
 
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818
H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA)
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
 
For the Borrower:
Financiera de Desarrollo Territorial
Calle
16
No. 5-13 Piso 6
 
Bogota, Colombia
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Page  10
By
/s/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
FINANCIERA DE DESARROLLO TERRITORIAL
By
/s/ Jaime Garc
òa Parra
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE
1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
 
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
%
of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category             Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) Goods, civil
146,000,000        85% of the amounts
works, consultants'                         disbursed by the
services and                                Borrower under
training under                              Participating
Part A of the                               Loans
Project
(2) Goods, con-
1,000,000        50%
sultants'
services and
training under
Part B of the
Project
(3) Goods, con-
100%
sultants'
services and
training under:
 
(a)
Part C.1 of the
1,500,000
Project
(b)
Part C.2 of
1,500,000
the Project
___________
TOTAL
150,000,000
===========
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of
: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the
equivalent of $6,000,000, may be made in respect of Category (1) on account of 
payments made for expenditures before that date but after November
1,
1987; and (b) 
expenditures under a Subloan unless:
 
(i)
the respective Subproject meets the eligibility criteria set forth 
in the
Operating Manual Statement and has been approved by
the Borrower and the Bank
for financing under the Project as provided in
Schedule
5
to this Agreement;
Page  11
(ii)
the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to the Bank showing 
that: (A) the 
Financial Intermediary providing the Subloan for the 
Subproject has entered
into a valid and binding Participating
Agreement with the Borrower;
(B)
the
Eligible Project Entity and the
Sponsor Agencies have entered into a valid and
binding Sponsors
Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower with
regard
to such Subproject;
(C) the Eligible Project Entity and/or the Sponsor 
Agency or Agencies have entered into one or more valid and binding Subloan
Agreements satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower providing
(together
with
the funds to be contributed by such Project Entity and/or Sponsor 
Agency or
Agencies) for full financing for the execution of the 
Subproject; and
(D)
the
Eligible Project Entity has entered into a
valid and binding Subproject
Agreement, satisfactory to the
Bank, with the Borrower with regard to such
Subproject;
(c)
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, expenditures under a Subproject if 
such expenditures relate to works, goods or services included and financed under the
original project description and financing plan of an Ongoing Project; and
(d)
expenditures for investments in solid waste collection and disposal 
services, unless the Bank has received evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, showing
that: (i) the Eligible Project
Entity making such expenditures already provides such solid waste collection and
disposal services in addition to water supply and sewerage services; and
(ii) that 
such investments are: (A) needed to upgrade these services in terms satisfactory to 
the Bank; and
(B) aimed at making such services financially self-sufficient.
 
SCHEDULE
2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to strengthen Colombia's water supply and
sewerage sector
(the Sector) and increase the coverage of water and sewerage services 
by: (i) carrying out the
1988-1992 program for investments in the sector aimed at providing additional water 
services to about one million and nine hundred thousand people and sewerage services
to about one million three
hundred thousand people;
(ii)
carrying out the lending and financial policies set
forth in the SRP;
(iii) improving the sector's institutions at national and local 
levels;
(iv) promoting the
formulation of more cost effective and appropriate investment programs through the
review and update of current design practices and norms; and
(v)
establishing a
permanent training system for
sector personnel.
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
objectives:
 
Part A:
 
The financing of Subprojects consisting of rehabilitation and expansion of water
supply and sewerage systems, upgrading of solid waste services, institutional
strengthening programs and training. 
 
Part B:
 
A program to strengthen the Borrower's operating capabilities, including staff
training and the preparation and implementation of: (i) a comprehensive operating 
manual statement reflecting SRP policies;
(ii) investment project preparation and 
evaluation guidelines; and
(iii) improved computerized management systems for lending 
and supervision.
Part C:
 
(1)
A program to strengthen DWSS including staff training, acquisition and 
Page  12
utilization of equipment and the carrying out of studies
: (
i
)
to review and update
existing technical norms and
parameters for the design, construction and maintenance of water and sewerage
facilities;
(ii)
to prepare guidelines for the application of low-cost appropriate 
technologies;
(iii) to update NPBRS
procedures and technologies for rural water supply; and
(iv) to prepare an inventory 
of Colombia's water supply and sewerage sector.
 
(2)
A comprehensive training program for the personnel of Colombia's water supply 
and sewerage sector.
 
*     *     *
The Project is expected to be completed by June
30, 1996.
 
SCHEDULE
3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
 
On each March
1
and September
1
beginning March
1, 1994
through   September
1,
2005
6,250,000
 
________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective
dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
 
Premiums on Prepayment
The following premiums are specified for the purposes of Section
3.04
(b) of the 
General Conditions:
 
Time of Prepayment
Premium
 
The interest rate
(expressed
as a percentage per annum) 
applicable to the balance
outstanding on the Loan on
the day of prepayment
Page  13
multiplied by
:
Not more than three years
0.18
before maturity
More than three years but
0.35
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but
0.65
not more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not
0.88
more than fifteen years
before maturity
More than fifteen years before
1.00
maturity
SCHEDULE
4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in
Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
May
1985
(the Guidelines).
 
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part
A hereof, goods manufactured in Colombia may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs
2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs
1
through
4
of Appendix
2
thereto.
 
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Contracts for civil works estimated to cost less than the equivalent of 
$2,000,000 but more than the equivalent of $200,000 and contracts for goods estimated 
to cost less than the equivalent
of $300,000 but more than the equivalent of $20,000, may be procured on the basis of 
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to
the Bank.
2.
Contracts for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or less 
and contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or less, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
solicited from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
 
Part D:
 
Without limitation upon the provisions of the Guidelines, in respect of
procurement of goods, works and services:
 
1.
No requirement of local agents for foreign bidders shall be made.
 
2.
No prior registration of foreign bidders shall be required.
 
3.
No provision regarding minimum number of bidders shall be applied.
 
Page  14
4.
Bids for goods shall be evaluated on a C.I.F. basis.
 
5.
Freight costs quoted freely by each bidder shall be used for purposes of bid 
evaluation.
 
6.
Awards shall be made to the lowest evaluated bidders.
 
Part E:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to the first three contracts for goods and civil works 
procured under the procedures referred to in Part C of this Schedule under the limits
set forth in this paragraph and each contract for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $300,000 and each contract for civil works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $2,000,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of 
Appendix
1
to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be 
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the
two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to
said paragraph
2
(d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first 
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs
3
and
4
of Appendix
1
to the Guidelines shall
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank
pursuant to said paragraph
3
shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to
be furnished pursuant to paragraph
4
of Schedule
6
to this Agreement.
 
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall not apply 
to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be retained in 
accordance with Section
4.02 (b) (ii) of this Agreement.
 
2.
The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower and the Project Entities in the carrying out of
Parts A and B of the Project, the Borrower and the Project entities shall employ
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance 
with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank 
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
 
SCHEDULE
5
I. Procedures for approval for
Subloans; Other provisions.
 
1.
No expenditures for goods or services required for a Sub-project shall be 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan unless:
(a)
the Subloan for such Subprojects shall have been approved by the Bank and 
such expenditures shall have been made not earlier than ninety days prior to the date
on which the Bank shall have received the application and information required under
paragraph
2
(a)
of this Schedule in respect of such Subloan; or
(b)
the Subloan for such Subproject shall have been a free-limit Subloan for 
which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account and such expenditures
shall have been made not earlier than ninety days prior to the date on which the Bank
shall have received the request and information required under paragraph
2
(b) of this 
Schedule in respect of such free-limit Subloan. For the purposes of this Agreement, a 
free-limit Subloan shall be a Subloan for a Subproject which estimated total cost 
Page  15
shall not exceed $
6
,
000
,
000
equivalent, provided, however, that the Subloans for the
first two Subprojects Type
1, Type
2
and Type
3
submitted by the Borrower to the Bank
for financing under the Loan shall not be free-limit Subloans, regardless of the cost 
of such Subprojects.
 
2.
(a)
When presenting a Subloan (other than a free-limit Subloan) to the Bank 
for approval, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank an application, in form
satisfactory to the Bank, together
with: (i) a description of the Eligible Project Entity or Sponsor Agency and an 
appraisal of the Subproject, including a description of the expenditures proposed to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan;
(ii) the proposed terms and conditions of 
the Subloan, including the schedule of amortization of the Subloan; and
(iii) such 
other technical, financial, institutional and economic
information as the Bank shall reasonably request to ascertain if the Subproject meets
the Subproject selection criteria set forth in the Operating Manual Statement, such
application shall be presented to the Bank before the Borrower's Board of Directors
shall have formally approved such Subloan.
 
(b)
Each request by the Borrower for authorization to make withdrawals from 
the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit Subloan shall contain: (i) a summary 
description of the Eligible Project Entity or Sponsor Agency and the Subproject,
including a description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan;
(ii) the terms and conditions of the Subloan, including the 
schedule of amortization therefor; and
(iii) such other information as the Bank shall 
reasonably request.
 
(c)
Applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions of 
subparagraphs
(a) and (b) of this paragraph shall be presented to the Bank on or 
before December
31,
1995.
 
3.
Subloans shall be made on terms whereby the Borrower shall obtain, by written 
contract with the Eligible Project Entity or Sponsor Agency or by other appropriate
legal means, rights adequate
to protect the interests of the Bank and the Borrower.
 
4.
Disbursements under Subloans shall be made to each Eligible Project Entity or 
Sponsor Agency to finance specific expenditures incurred during the execution of the
Subproject.
 
5.
When tariff adjustments are required pursuant to Section 3.02 (f) of this 
Agreement, no disbursements under a Subloan shall be authorized by the Borrower unless
and until JNT has issued a
resolution approving such tariff adjustments.
 
II.
Obligations of the Sponsor Agencies under the Sponsors Agreements and Subproject 
Agreements
and of the Eligible Project Entities under the Subproject Agreements.
 
A.
Obligations of the Sponsor Agencies
 
(1)
Each Sponsor Agency shall covenant and warrant that the Sub-project to be 
carried out under the Project in such Department or Municipality is of importance to
its economic development and the
social welfare of its inhabitants, and that it will fully support the implementation
of the Project by cooperating with the respective Eligible Project Entity in the
execution of such Subprojects by
providing, promptly as needed, the funds required to enable such Entity to carry out
the Subproject and for the operation and maintenance of the facilities and services
included in such Subproject as provided in the Sponsors Agreement.
 
(2)
Each Sponsor Agency shall take, or cause its agencies and instrumentalities to 
take, all such action as shall be required to assist the Project Entity in the
performance of the obligations of such Project Entity set forth in this Schedule.
 
(3)
The Borrower shall have the right to suspend disbursements under any or all 
Subloans made to a Sponsor Agency if such Agency fails to comply with any of its
obligations under a Subproject
Agreement.
Page  16
B.
Obligations of the Eligible Project Entities
 
(1)
The Project Entities shall carry out Part A of the Project all with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial,
ecological and public utility practices.
 
(2)
In order to assist in the carrying out of Subprojects under Part A of the 
Project, each Eligible Project Entity shall employ qualified and experienced
consultants, such consultants to be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank, as
provided in Schedule
4
to this Agreement; the terms and conditions of each contract
with any such consultants, which is to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
shall be satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower.
 
(3)
(a)
Each Eligible Project Entity shall, with respect to the Part of the 
Project to be carried out by each such Entity, undertake to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery
thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by such Entity to replace or repair such
goods.
 
(b)
Except as the Borrower shall otherwise agree, each Eligible Project 
Entity shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to
be used exclusively for Sub-projects being carried out by each such Entity.
 
(4)
(a)
With respect to each Subproject being carried out by each Eligible 
Project Entity, each such Entity shall furnish to the Borrower and, if so requested,
make available to the Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the plans,
specifications, reports, contracts documents and construction and procurement
schedules for each such Subproject, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto.
 
(b)
Each Eligible Project Entity shall, with respect to each Subproject being 
carried out by each such Entity, maintain separate records and procedures adequate to
record and monitor the progress of each such Subproject
(including the cost and the
benefits to be derived from each such Subproject), to identify the goods and services 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose their use in each
Subproject.
 
(c)
Each Eligible Project Entity shall enable the authorized representatives 
of the Bank and the Borrower to visit the facilities and construction sites included
in each Subproject and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
and any relevant records and documents in respect of each Subproject.
 
(5)
Each Eligible Project Entity shall maintain a system of monitoring indicators 
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank.
 
(6)
Each Eligible Project Entity shall furnish to the Borrower, two months after 
each semester, a progress report containing all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning
each Subproject carried out or being carried out by it, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits and results to be derived from it, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Loan, the goods and services financed out of such proceeds, the
monitoring indicators and the status of compliance with the provisions of the Subloan
Agreement and Subproject Agreement.
 
(7)
Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any event not later than three 
months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose
between the Borrower and the Bank, each Eligible Project Entity shall prepare a report
satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower on the execution of the Sub-project carried 
out by each such Entity.
 
(8)
Each Eligible Project Entity shall at all times manage its affairs, maintain its 
financial position, plan its future expansion and conduct its business and
undertaking, all in accordance with appropriate business, financial and public utility
Page  17
practices, and under the supervision of experienced and competent management assisted
by adequate and competent staff and shall carry out all financial, institutional,
management and other obligations set forth or referred to in the Subproject Agreement
in a timely manner.
 
(9)
Each Eligible Project Entity shall: (a) at all times take necessary steps to 
maintain its existence and its right to carry on operations, and to acquire and retain
all rights, powers, privileges and franchises which are necessary or useful for the
purpose of complying with its obligations under this Schedule or for the efficient
conduct of its business and undertaking;
(b)
each Eligible Project Entity shall at all times operate and maintain the 
plants, machinery, equipment and other property owned or operated by it and promptly
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with appropriate
engineering and public utility practices; and
(c)
each Eligible Project Entity shall not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise 
dispose of any of the property or assets owned or operated by it, if such sale, lease,
transfer or disposition
would materially and adversely affect the efficient carrying out of the Project.
 
(10)
Each Eligible Project Entity shall make provisions satisfactory to the Bank and 
the Borrower for insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with sound public utility practices.
 
(11)
Each Eligible Project Entity shall maintain records and accounts adequate to 
reflect, in accordance with appropriate accounting practices consistently applied, its
operations and
financial condition, including separate records and accounts to reflect all resources
and expenditures with respect to the Sub-project. Such accounts shall be audited for 
each fiscal year in accordance with procedures and by auditors all acceptable to the
Bank and the Borrower. Each Eligible Project Entity shall furnish to the Borrower all 
information concerning its accounts and financial statements and the audit thereof as
the Bank or the Borrower shall from time to time reasonably request.
 
(12)
Each Eligible Project Entity shall put into effect the tariff resolutions of JNT 
and take all such action
(including timely action with respect to the filing of
appropriate applications to adjust its rates for water supply and sewerage services) 
as shall be necessary in each calendar year for such Entity to generate revenues from
operations in amounts which shall be sufficient to enable such Entity to comply with
its financial obligations under the Sub-project Agreement.
 
(13)
Each Eligible Project Entity shall procure the goods and civil works required 
for Subprojects in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
4
to this Agreement.
 
(14)
Each Eligible Project Entity shall carry out institutional development and 
training programs to enable such Entity to attain the institutional, administrative
and operational improvements set
forth in the Subloan Agreement.
 
(15)
The Borrower and the Financial Intermediary shall have the right to suspend 
disbursements under any or all Subloans made to an Eligible Project Entity if such
Entity fails to comply with any of its obligations under a Subproject Agreement.
 
SCHEDULE
6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" 
means the Categories set forth in the
table in paragraph
1
of Schedule
1
to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" 
means expenditures in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the
Page  18
provisions of Schedule
1
to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" 
means an amount equivalent to
$15,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph
3
(a) of this Schedule.
 
2.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments out of the Special Account 
shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions
of this Schedule.
 
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account may be made as follows:
 
(a)
on the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower for a deposit or 
deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested; and
(b)
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for replenishment of the 
Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. On the basis of such 
requests, the Bank shall withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special
Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special Account with
amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out of the Special Account for
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan 
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent
amounts, as shall have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for such
deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph
4
of this Schedule.
 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account for which the 
Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to paragraph
3
(b)
of this Schedule, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Bank shall reasonably request, showing that such
payment was made for eligible expenditures.
 
5.
(a)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, no 
further deposit into the Special Account shall be made by the Bank when either of the
following situations first arises:
 
(i)
the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals should 
be made by
the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in accordance
with the provisions
of Article V of the General Conditions and
paragraph
(a) of Section 2.02 of 
this Agreement; or
 
(ii)
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories,
minus the amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the
Bank pursuant to Section
5.02
of the
General Conditions with respect to the
Project, shall be equal to the
equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
 
(b)
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures
as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for any expenditure or in any amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph
2
of this Schedule; or
(ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, deposit
into the Special Account
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or
justified.
No further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until
the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
Page  19
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the
Bank such outstanding amount for crediting to the Loan Account and immediate
cancellation.
SCHEDULE
7
Terms and Conditions of the Borrower's
Lending Operations
(a)
The Borrower shall only lend to financial institutions which meet the 
following requirements: (i) receive and lend or otherwise invest, on a customary 
basis, voluntary savings from the general public;
(ii)
are subject to supervision by,
and in good standing with, the Borrower's Superintendency of Banks; and
(iii) have 
been satisfactorily accepted by the Borrower in terms of their financial soundness and
appropriate management control.
 
(b)
The Borrower's rediscount rate shall not be lower than DTF plus one and 
one-half (1 1/2) percentage points.
 
(c)
(i)
The interest rate charged by intermediaries to beneficiaries on
funds onlent by the Borrower shall be freely agreed between such intermediaries and
beneficiaries; and
(ii) the interest rate referred to in (c) (i) above may be subject 
to an interest rate ceiling provided that, unless otherwise agreed by the Bank, such
ceiling shall, at all times, be set not lower than DTF plus five percentage points and
that such interest rate ceiling ensures, in the opinion of the Bank, an adequate
participation of intermediaries in the Borrower's lending operations.
