Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 2961 CO
(Water Supply and Sewerage Sector Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated February 8, 1989
LOAN NUMBER 2961 CO
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 8, 1989, between REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA (the Guarantor) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Guarantor and Banco Central Hipotecario (the Borrower), having 
been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 
2 to the Loan Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the 
Project; and
(B)
by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and the 
Borrower, the Bank has agreed to extend to the Borrower a loan in various currencies 
equivalent to one hundred
fifty million dollars ($150,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the 
Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor agree to guarantee the 
obligations of the Borrower in
respect of such loan and to undertake such other obligations as provided in this 
Agreement; and
Page  2
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to guarantee such obligations of the 
Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 
deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement and in the Preamble to 
and Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth 
and the term "Sector Investment Program and Financing Plan" means the Guarantor's 
investment and financing plan for the Water Supply and Sewerage Sector for years 1988 
through 1992, set forth in the letter of the Guarantor to the Bank dated May 5, 1988.
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. The Guarantor declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, without 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Guarantee 
Agreement, the Guarantor hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and not 
as surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the principal of, and interest and 
other charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loan, 
and the punctual performance of all the other obligations of the Borrower,
all as set forth in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. (a) Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of 
Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor specifically undertakes, whenever there 
is reasonable cause to believe that the funds available to the Borrower will be 
inadequate to meet the estimated expenditures required for the carrying out of the 
Project, to make arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, promptly to provide the 
Borrower or cause the Borrower to be provided with such funds as are needed to meet 
such expenditures.
(b)
As part of, and without limitation to the foregoing, the Guarantor shall: 
allocate each year in its budget the amounts required by the Borrower, DWSS and 
CENAGUAS for the timely
execution of the Project in such year, on the basis of Project implementation 
forecasts satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.03. (a) The Guarantor shall, through its Monetary Board, maintain at 
all times the interest rates applicable to Sub-loans and Participating Loans as set 
forth in Resolution No. 53,
and shall continuously review and, whenever necessary, revise such interest rates so 
as to keep them positive in real terms and at levels sufficient to cover as a minimum 
the cost of domestic
and external resources of the Borrower and Financial Intermediaries applied to the 
execution of the Project and the Borrower's and Financial Intermediaries' 
administrative costs associated with their participation in the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section, "positive in real terms" means interest 
rates equal to or higher than the annual rate of inflation prevailing on the preceding 
six months, as measured by the Consumer Price Index (Indice de Precios al Consumidor) 
published by Departamento Administrativo Nacional de Estadisticas.
Section 2.04. The Guarantor, through DNP, shall:
(a)
not later than August 31 each year, furnish to the Bank for comments a 
report, of such scope and detail as the Bank shall reasonably request on the status of 
Page  3
execution of the Sector
Investment Program and Financing Plan and on any proposed revisions thereto; and
(b)
not later than September 30 each year, revise such program and plan in a 
manner satisfactory to the Bank. 
Section 2.05. The Guarantor undertakes:
(a)
that all future investments in Colombia's water supply and sewerage 
sector to be approved or financed in all or in part by the Guarantor or any of its 
agencies shall be selected and financed in accordance with the criteria, policies and 
terms and conditions set forth in the SRP; and
(b)
to exchange views with the Bank, through DNP, on any proposed amendments 
to the SRP or any part thereof.
Section 2.06. (a) The Guarantor shall, through DNP, prepare and put into effect 
a monitoring system, satisfactory to the Bank, for the financial, operational and 
administrative performance of
all entities providing water supply or sewerage services in Colombia.
(b)
Starting not later than December 31, 1989, the Guarantor, through DNP, 
shall publish an annual report on the performance of the water supply and sewerage 
sector utilities, based on the monitoring system referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section. The Guarantor shall, not later than March 31, 1989, furnish to the Bank a 
form of the annual report showing the format of the report and the monitoring 
indicators to be employed as well as the methodology to be followed in collecting the 
data required for the preparation of the report. 
Section 2.07. (a) Not later than November 15 each year, the Guarantor, through 
DNP, acting in conjunction with MOPT and JNT, shall exchange views with the Bank, 
jointly with the Borrower,
CENAGUAS and any Eligible Project Entities selected by the Borrower and the Bank, on 
the progress made in achieving the SRP objectives and the execution of the Project, 
the water supply and sewerage sector investment programming and financing, 
institutional reform, tariff policy and performance of the obligations set forth or 
referred to in the Loan and Guarantee Agreements, such exchange of views to be based 
on the reports furnished by the Guarantor and the Borrower pursuant to the provisions 
of the Guarantee and Loan Agreements.
(b)
If, as a result of such exchange of views, some problems have been 
identified in respect of which remedial action is required, the Guarantor shall 
prepare or cause to be prepared
plans of action satisfactory to the Bank to resolve such problems.
(c)
The Guarantor shall carry out, and cause to be carried out, such plans of 
action in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.08. The Guarantor shall, through JNT: (a) (i) not later than July 1, 
1989, carry out a study by consultants acceptable to the Bank and under terms of 
reference acceptable to the Bank, to determine a monthly consumption limit per 
household connection for the first category of the tariff structures (Consumo B≈sico) 
set forth in the Guarantor's Decree No. 394 of February 26, 1987, such determination 
to be made using sound sector parameters, including the size of the household, its 
consumption habits and the regional, as well as climatic conditions; (ii) promptly 
upon its completion, furnish to the Bank the recommendations of such study; (iii) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment on such recommendations; and (iv) 
taking into account the Bank's comments thereon, put into effect, not later than 
January 1, 1990, monthly consumption limits per
household connection based on the recommendations of such study; and (b) promptly 
review the requests for preliminary rulings submitted by the Borrower pursuant to 
Section 3.02 (f) of the Loan
Agreement and, if required, promptly approve any tariff adjustments which have been 
considered acceptable under such preliminary rulings.
ARTICLE III
Page  4
Execution of Part C of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Guarantor shall carry out, through MOPT, Part C of the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the carrying out of Part 
C of the Project.
(b)
The Guarantor shall cause DWSS to be fully functional and staffed not 
later than June 30, 1989 in accordance with a plan of action satisfactory to the Bank.
(c)
The Guarantor shall carry out Part C of the Project in accordance with a 
plan of action and a timetable each of which shall be provided to the Bank not later 
than May 31, 1989 in a
form satisfactory to the Bank.
(d)
(i) The Guarantor shall carry out the studies included under Part C of 
the Project under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank; (ii) promptly upon 
their completion, the  guarantor shall furnish to the Bank the recommendations of such 
studies; and (iii) the Guarantor shall afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to 
comment on the recommendations of such studies.
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of goods 
required for Part C of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
(b)
In order to assist the Guarantor in the carrying out of Part C of the 
Project, the Guarantor shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and 
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants 
shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the 
Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency", published by the Bank in August 
1981.
Section 3.03. The Guarantor, through MOPT and DNP, shall duly perform all its 
obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of the Loan 
Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Guarantor shall not take or 
concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or 
waiving any provision thereof.
Section 3.04. (a) The Guarantor, through MOPT, shall carry out the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
respectively) in respect of Part C of the Project.
(b)
Without limitation to the foregoing, the Guarantor, through MOPT, shall: 
(i) coordinate with the Borrower the preparation of the completion report referred to 
in Section 9.07 (c) of the General Conditions; and (ii) prepare and furnish to the 
Bank not later than June 30 and December 31 each year, a report of such scope and 
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request on the progress of the execution of Part C 
of the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Guarantor shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Part C of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Guarantor responsible for carrying out of Part C of the 
Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Guarantor shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for  
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four 
months after the end of each such year, the report of 
Page  5
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and  
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures under Part C of the Project with respect to which 
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, 
the Guarantor shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Minister  of  Finance  and Public Credit of
the Guarantor is designated as representative of the Guarantor for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Ministerio de Hacienda y Crådito PŒblico
Palacio de los Ministerios
BogotA, Colombia
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINHACIENDA
43289 MHAC CO
Bogota
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
Page  6
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
By /s/ Luis Fernando Alarcán Mantilla
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
