Report No. PID8683
Project Name                     Bolivia-Indigenous Peoples Development Project (@
Region                           Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sector                           Other Social Protection
Project ID                       BOPE57416
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF BOLIVIA
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF PEASANT AFFAIRS,
INDIGENOUS AND FIRST PEOPLES
Ministry of Peasant Affairs,
Indigenous and First Peoples
Sanchez Lima 2072, La Paz, Bolivia
Contact Person: Wigberto Rivero Pinto,
Minister
Tel: 591-2-374-295
Fax: 591-2-374-295
Email: vaipo@mail.zuper.net
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                December 18, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         December 12, 2000
Projected Board Date             RVP approval expected by January 15, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
A Strengths, Weakness, Opportunities and Threats (SWOT) analysis was
conducted during preparation. During the SWOT workshop, attended by more
than 100 indigenous leaders main sector issues were identified by the
participants and suggestions made on how to address them. Main sector
issues identified include: Lack of organizational capacities. One of the
main weaknesses identified relates to a self-perception of lack of
organizational capabilities and participation of rural women in community
affairs. Participants stated that divisiveness; indifference and pessimism
contribute toward poor organizational capabilities. Lack of training and
possibilities for human resource development. There are few training
programs provided in management issues resulting in few qualified
technicians and professionals    Lack of knowledge of market mechanisms and
conditions. Few economic pilot projects have been undertaken. Indigenous
organizations lack information on market potential for their products as
well as rules and regulations governing marketing of certain products
including environmental legislation. Lack of financial resources and poor
infrastructure There are no credit facilities available to indigenous
groups and most communities are isolated due to lack of road
infrastructure and communication facilities.Participants outlined a vision
of the future in which: (i) participation in local power structures would
be strengthened; (ii) territorial rights would be consolidated; (iii) an
Indigenous People's Law would be passed; (iv) a Ministry of Indigenous
Affairs would be established; (v) productive initiatives would be
self-managed; (vi) indigenous women would fully participate in all
spheres; (vii) quality basic services would be provided; (viii) indigenous
professionals and technicians would receive quality education; (ix)



environmental conditions would be enhanced and natural resources
conserved; (x) cultural values would be reinforced and, (xi) market
access for indigenous products ensured. Participants were also consulted
on the results they expected from a possible project intervention.
Expected results included: (i) indigenous groups are able to execute and
manage productive economic ventures; (ii) culturally based innovative
sub-projects are implemented with secure funding; (iii) a monitoring and
evaluation system is in place and; (iv) institutional capacities of
indigenous organizations and government agencies are strengthened. Social
inequalities and poverty are deeply rooted in Bolivian society, which has
not yet managed to overcome the colonial and republican heritage of racism
and discrimination. Most Bolivian institutions still operate under
implicit discriminatory practices. Indigenous peoples, though forming the
majority of the population, have a restricted presence in managerial
positions in government, the private sector and NGOs. Indigenous peoples
still confront economic and socio-cultural barriers in attempting access
to public and private services, ranging from health to credit.
Government StrategyGOB policies are contained in the Development with
Identity document prepared by VAIPO. It states that the GOB will aim at
improving living conditions of indigenous communities through economic
progress, political participation and cultural assertion. Implementation
of the strategy falls within the overall context of the GOB Poverty
Eradication Strategy. The Government will ensure legal security of
indigenous lands, further economically sustainable initiatives, sustain
cultural values and provide for basic services.     Main strategy thrusts
include: (i) development of infrastructure and economic opportunities;
(ii) development of social services with equity considerations; (iii)
political development and (iv) cultural development with dignity and
inclusion. Strategic instruments include: (i) preparation of a national
diagnosis; (ii) drafting of a National Development Plan; (iii) preparation
of Regional Development Plans and Indigenous Management Regional Programs;
(iii) creation of consortiums for local development and (iv)
implementation of participatory development projects.      Government
strategy has evolved over time, in many instances under pressure from
indigenous groups demanding territorial rights and better economic
conditions. A Government agency has been established and assistance has
been provided to indigenous groups in defining their territorial rights
and boundaries. Institutional strengthening of indigenous groups is being
undertaken with Bank support within the context of the Popular
Participation Law (LPP) and small-scale investments funded through the
Peasant Development Fund (FDC). Indigenous people in the department of
Beni are beneficiaries of an International Fund for Agricultural
Development (IFAD) loan to provide training and fund small-scale
investments. Indigenous communities also benefit from assistance provided
by the Government of Denmark, the Regional Program for Indigenous
Communities in the Amazon Basin based in Bolivia and the Inter American
Development Bank (IDB) funded Fondo Indigena also based in the city of La
Paz.     The project would support Government strategies aimed at
indigenous people's economic development and participation and cultural
assertion. It would strengthen the capacity of MACPIO and Indigenous
Organizations to monitor and evaluate projects and programs in the context
of the Poverty Reduction Strategy, and would implement a funding mechanism
to channel funds directly to beneficiary organizations.
2. Objectives
-2-



The objective of the project is to learn how culturally based productive
initiatives of indigenous communities can contribute to income generation
and poverty reduction. The project will finance on a pilot basis a number
of demand-driven, community or small-producer initiatives, which aim to
improve the forms and conditions in which indigenous peoples produce and
sell their products or services. The initiatives will be based on the
existing knowledge and resources of the different ethnic groups, which in
many cases provide them with a comparative advantage for improving their
insertion into the market. The project will test a mechanism for financing
these types of demands, and a system of participatory monitoring for
incorporating the lessons learned into the policy and investment measures
adopted by the Government of Bolivia (GOB). By bringing their own
worldviews and cultural perspectives into the wider effort to reduce
poverty, which GOB is implementing through the Poverty Reduction Strategy
(PRS), it is expected that indigenous peoples' needs will be met in a more
appropriate and effective manner.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Indigenous Peoples Development LIL, to be designed and implemented by
indigenous organizations, was discussed and included in the CAS. The
project would contribute to the CAS objective for the Equity Pillar which
is to raise the standards of living of the poor, in particular through:
(i) increasing social expenditure for excluded groups; (ii) improving the
efficiency and quality of social services taking into account cultural
conditions; and (iii) raising the productivity of indigenous producers.
In so doing, the project will also contribute to the Opportunity Pillar
objective of widening economic growth with better distribution.
4. Description
The project aims to contribute to changing the dominant paradigm based on
the exclusion of indigenous culture from development efforts. With the
partial exception of LPP and INRA, most development policies and projects
in Bolivia take into account only marginally the multicultural composition
of the society and the advantages provided by indigenous social capital.
Most development discourses and practices are de facto exclusionary. They
predicate, implicitly or explicitly, that indigenous culture, knowledge,
technology and resources are inappropriate for development and, thus,
defeating poverty is synonymous with ceasing to be indigenous. This is a
model based on replacement rather than inclusion. The project would be
based on the opposite premise: that well being can increase by empowering
indigenous peoples to develop from the basis of who they are and what they
have. Economic and cultural development of indigenous communities has
received scant attention in Bolivia with the exception of a limited number
of projects funded by some donors. The main learning issue is related to
the functioning of indigenous societies in a market economy on the basis
of the comparative advantage provided by their culture and social
capital. Innovations and lessons are expected to flow from: (i) the
operation of a mechanism for direct financing of communities and producer
groups; (ii) the design and self-management of subprojects by them; (iii)
the systematic provision of information and lessons on culturally based
productive initiatives to the indigenous organizations which are
monitoring the implementation of GOB's Poverty Reduction Strategy; and
(iv) the operation of an institutional framework in which indigenous
organizations share principal responsibilities with GOB in respect to
implementation and social control. The project will have 3 components:
-3 -



1. Culturally based pilot investments
The project would address community identified economic initiatives by
providing financial assistance to proposals that are culturally based,
economically, socially and environmentally viable and sustainable. It
would introduce an element of positive discrimination in favor of
initiatives presented by groups of indigenous women and further
self-management by assigning communities the responsibility for
identifying, implementing and evaluating their own productive initiatives.
Depending on the specific needs of each group of beneficiaries, technical
assistance and training (including for management, administrative purposes
and the establishment of partnerships with the private sector) would be
part of the financial package for investment ventures. Information on
marketing conditions, opportunities and potential partnerships would be
provided. Due to the experimental nature of this type of financing, the
Operational Manual would specify conflict resolution strategies and
subproject exit strategies. This component would include grant financing
of pre-investment studies, technical assistance, small works, goods and
operational costs for investments of the following types: (i) handicraft
production and marketing; (ii) ethno- and eco-tourism; (iii) productive
management of flora and fauna; and (iv) other culturally-based
investments. It would also finance preinvestment studies.
2. Poverty Reduction Monitoring and Learning
This component would be implemented jointly by MACPIO and indigenous
organizations. It includes institutional strengthening and training of
national level indigenous/campesino organizations (CSUTCB, CIDOB and
others) and their regional organizations. This strengthening would allow
these organizations and the project to accompany the implementation of
the pilot subprojects in the field for the purposes of: (i) operational
monitoring; (ii) collection of basic information necessary for the
learning process; (iii) participatory evaluation; and (iv) feedback into
the PRS's Social Control Mechanism. Systematic monitoring of the
performance, context and relations to other efforts at the local level in
which the pilot subprojects are implemented would provide indigenous
organizations with a practical model for conducting more general
monitoring of the implementation of the PRS. The institutional framework
and implementation arrangements are expected to attract further funding by
other cooperating agencies for the purposes of scaling up the support of
indigenous organizations.
3. Project management
The project would be managed by a small Project Implementation Unit (PIU)
to be created within MACPIO and responding to the Directorate of the
project. This Unit would be in charge of project coordination, financial
administration, and dissemination of lessons learned.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
GOVERNMENT               0.68
BENEFICIARIES            0.96
IDA                      5
Total Project Cost       6.64
-4-



6. Implementation
Project oversight: Guidance and oversight in project implementation would
be provided by a mixed civil society / government Directorate. The
composition of the Directorate was agreed during the consultation process
with all indigenous and campesino organizations. The Directorate will be
composed, on the indigenous side, by representatives of the Peasant
Confederation of Bolivia (CSUTCB), the Indigenous People's Confederation
(CIDOB); the Confederation of Peasant Colonizers (CSCB); the Bartolina
Sisa National Federation of Peasant Women (FSMCB-BS); and CONAMAQ. On the
part of the government, there will be representations of MACPIO, the
Ministry of Economic Development and the Viceministry of Microenterprise.
The Directorate will have the following functions: (i) define project
policies; (ii) approve and supervise the execution of the annual
workprogram and budget; (iii) approve the Operational Manual; (iv) approve
the selection of the MSE(s) and PIU personnel; (v) review and approve
progress reports; (vi) review and approve impact evaluation reports;
(vii) approve annual independent audit reports; (viii) provide information
on project implementation to the national level organizations; and (ix)
provide support for the socialization of the activities lessons derived
from implementation. Directorate approvals will be governed by an
administrative silence clause.Project coordination: A Project
Implementation Unit in MACPIO will maintain overall administrative
responsibility for the project's successful implementation, and will
ensure that lessons learned are fed back into GOB and disseminated
systematically to other government agencies, beneficiaries and the private
sector. The unit will report to the Minister of MACPIO and the Project
Directorate. When fully staffed, the PIU will include a Project
Coordinator, a Financial Administration Manager, a Project Accountant and
a Monitoring and Evaluation specialist. The latter will supervise a
second group of 7 consultants in charge of monitoring and learning.
Staffing of the PIU will be done under qualifications and TOR satisfactory
to the association, as agreed in the actions plans for the Procurement and
Financial assessments. The PIU will manage the special account and will
ensure compliance with the Bank's auditing, financial reporting and
procurement rules on the part of implementing agencies. It will prepare
annual operating and procurement plans, budgets and implementation reports
for consultation with the Directorate and IDA. Implementing agencies:
Component 1, Culturally-based pilot investments, will be managed by a
Management Services entity contracted by MACPIO, following a Quality- and
cost-based selection process, under Terms of Reference to be included in
the Project's Operations Manual. This agency would evaluate, approve,
supervise and effect progress payments against contracts for subprojects
from weekly advances for the PIU. The MSE will supervise each agreement
with beneficiaries in order to ensure the use of funds for the intended
purposes. Indigenous communities and small-producer groups would execute
the subprojects. The funds will be disbursed on the basis of the contracts
and the progress reports. Component B, Poverty-reduction monitoring and
learning, will be implemented jointly by national-level indigenous
organizations and MACPIO. The indigenous organizations will select 4
indigenous specialists who will be in charge of field monitoring for
operational and learning purposes. These specialists will work under the
Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist and his team in the central office of
MACPIO. The component will be administered by the PIU.
7. Sustainability
-5-



Subproject sustainability is expected due to the fact that beneficiaries
identify, prioritize and manage their own initiatives. Beneficiaries would
contribute a minimum of 159 of subproject costs through labor, kind, or
cash contributions. Social viability would be ensured by requiring social
consent for financing subprojects. If successful, it is expected that
indigenous organizations will promote further financing for these type of
initiatives through the mechanisms of adjustment being agreed to in the
Social Control Mechanism for the Poverty Reduction Strategy.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
One of the most important demands of civil society organizations,
including indigenous and campesino organizations, is that resources be
transferred directly to communities or small-producer organizations for
them to manage small-scale development projects. Experience so far with
this modality of funding by a handful of international NGOs, some of IFAD'
s rural development projects and the IDA-funded Participatory Rural
Investment Project in Bolivia shows that many communities have basic
capacities and social control mechanisms which, reinforced with managerial
strengthening, provide them with the necessary resources for managing
these initiatives. Support of productive activities came out as one of the
top priorities of the National Dialogue, along with investment in the
social sectors. This echoes the results of the participatory planning
efforts carried out in almost all of the rural municipalities of Bolivia,
with massive participation by local communities. Under the new
compensation policy, Bolivia is transforming its social investment funds
(FIS and FDC) into a new fund, which will be instrumental in operating
transfers between the central government and municipal governments. These
transfers will not finance small-producer groups or communities who have
entrepreneurial or small-business initiatives. A mechanism for supporting
micro-enterprise and small-business development is managed by the
Viceministry of Microenterprise, but its reach barely covers rural areas
and is restricted to technical assistance. Financing for developing
culturally based initiatives is practically non-existent.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     Y
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        No negative environmental or social impacts are
expected from project implementation. Privileging culturally based
initiatives and the use of traditional technologies would limit any
damaging environmental impacts. The project will not support the
introduction of exotic species, nor the use of any pesticides. Some minor
works may be involved but they will be restricted to artisan workshops and
small-scale, demonstrative infrastructures related to ethno- and
eco-turistic activities. The project will also finance small-scale,
non-extractive activities related to existing flora and fauna, for
example, for ethno-medical use. A simple screening mechanism will be
implemented to ensure that minor works are properly located and executed,
and that subprojects that may have negative environmental impacts are
excluded at the outset. In addition, there will be a negative eligibility
list, which will exclude activities involving protected or endangered
species, or activities in sensitive areas. Eligible subprojects involving
use of flora and fauna will require a management plan. The screening
mechanism, TOR for management plans and engineering standards necessary to
avoid environmental impacts will be included in the operational manual for
- 6 -



the project, which will be reviewed to ensure compliance with Bank
policies and best-practices. A private firm or NGO will administer
subproject screening, financing and supervision, which will be
subcontracted for that purpose under TORs agreed with the IDA. Project
operation and compliance with fiduciary rules and safeguards will be
controlled by a Directorate and, in addition, indigenous organizations and
the Ministry of Peasant Affairs, Indigenous and First Peoples will carry
out field monitoring and evaluation.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
David Tuchschneider
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (591-2) 356844
[La Paz Country Office]
Fax:   (591-2) 391038
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending December 29, 2000.
- 7 -



