Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 21345-BO
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LEARNING AND INNOVATION CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 4.0 MILLION
(US$ 5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
FOR AN
INDIGENOUS PEOPLES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
January 25, 2001
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Management Unit
Bolivia, Ecuador and Peru Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective November 29, 2000)
Currency Unit = Bolivianos
I Boliviano = US$0.16
US$1 = 6.38 Bolivianos
FISCAL YEAR
JANUARY 1 - DECEMBER 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CIDOB         Confederation of Indigenous People of Bolivia (Confederacion de Pueblos Indigenas de
Bolivia)
CSCB          Confederation of Peasant Colonizers (Confederacion Sindical de Colonizadores de
Bolivia)
CSUTCB        Peasant Confederation of Bolivia (Confederacion Sindical Unica de Trabajadores
Campesinos de Bolivia)
DUF           Unified Fund Directorate (Directorio Unico de Fondos)
FDC            Small Farmer Development Fund (Fondo de Desarrollo Campesino)
FIS            Social Investment Fund (Fondo de Inversion Social)
FMS            Financial Management Specialist
FSMCB-BS      Bartolina Sisa National Federation of Peasant Women (Federacion Sindical de Mujeres
Campesinas de Bolivia - Bartolina Sisa)
IDA           International Development Association
IFAD           International Fund for Agricultural Development
INRA          National Agrarian Reform Institute (Instituto Nacional de Reforma Agraria)
GOB           Government of Bolivia
HIPC          Highly Indebted Poor Countries
LACI          Loan Administration Change Initiative
LPP           Popular Participation Law (Ley de Participacion Popular)
LIL           Learning and Innovation Loan
MACPIO        Ministry of Peasant Affairs, Indigenous and Originary Peoples (Ministerio de Asuntos
Campesinos, Indigenas y Pueblos Originarios)
MSE           Management Services Entity
NGO           Non-governmental Organization
OM             Operational Manual
OTB            Territorially Based Organizations (Organizaciones Territoriales de Base)
PIP            Project Implementation Plan
PIU           Project Implementation Unit
PRS           Poverty Reduction Strategy
TCO           Original Community Territories (Territorios Comunitarios de Origen)
TOR           Terms of Reference
VAIPO         Vice-Ministry of Indigenous Affairs and Originary Nations (Vice-Ministerio de Asuntos
Indigenasy Pueblos Originarios)
Vice President: David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director: Isabel Guerrero
Sector Manager/Director: John Redwood
Team Leader: David Tuchschneider



Bolivia
Indigenous Peoples Development Project
CONTENTS
A Project Development Objective ................................................................2
1. Project development objective .................................................................2
2. Key  perfonnance  indicators .................................................................2
B Strategic Context .................................................................2
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project .........2
2. Main  sector issues and  Government strategy .................................................................2
3. Learning  and  development issues to  be addressed  by  the project ...............                                           ...................6
4. Learning  and  innovation  expectations .........................................                                  ........................6
C  Project Description Summary ................................................................7
1. Project components .................................................................7
2. Institutional and  implementation  arrangements ..............................................................8
3. Monitoring  and  evaluation  arrangements .................................................................                                   9
D Project Rationale ................................................................                                                                        10
E Summary Project Analysis ................................................................                                                                 10
1. Economic ................................................................                                                                  10
2. Financial ................................................................                                                                  10
3. Technical ................................................................                                                                  10
4. Institutional ................................................................                                                              11
5. Social ................................................................ 11
6. Environmental assessment ................................................................ 13
7. Participatory  approach ................................................................ 13
F Sustainability and Risks ................................................................                                                                  15
1. Sustainability ................................................................                                                            15
2. Critical Risks ................................................................  15
3. Possible Controversial Aspects ................................................................                                             16
G  Main Loan Conditions ................................................................                                                                     16
1. Effectiveness Conditions ................................................................ 16
2. Other ................................................................                                                                      16



H Readiness for Implementation ........................                          16
I Compliance with Bank Policies ........................                         17
Annexes
Annex 1.     Project Design Summary
Annex 2.     Detailed Project Description
Annex 3.     Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4.     Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary, or
Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary
Annex 5.     Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or
Financial Summary
Annex 6.     Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A.     Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table Al.    Consultant Selection Arrangements
Table B.     Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C.     Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Annex 7.     Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8.     Documents in Project File
Annex 9.      Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 10.    Country at a Glance
Annex 11.    Social assessment
Map IBRD 31131



Bolivia
Indigenous Peoples Development Project
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Bolivia, Ecuador and Peru Country Department
Date: January 25, 2001                              Team Leader: David Tuchschneider
Country Manager/Director: Isabel Guerrero           Sector Manager/Director: John Redwood
Equity Pillar Leader: John Newman
Project ID: P057416                                 Sector: Other Social Sector
Lending Instrument: Learning and Innovation Credit  Theme(s): Social Development, Capacity Building.
(LIL)
Poverty Targeted Intervention:   [x] Yes  []  No
Project Financing
Data
[ I Loan    [x ] Credit      ] Grant    I[I Guarantee   [H] Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount: SDR 4.0 million (US$5.0 million)
Proposed terms:   [ ] To be defined      [] Multicurrency      [I Single currency
[] Standard          [x] Fixed             [ ] LIBOR-based
Variable
Grace period (years):          10
Years to maturity:             40
Commitment fee:              Standard
Service charge:                0.75%
Front-end fee on IDA           None
credit:
Government                                                0.68              0.00              0.68
IDA                                                       5.00              0.00              5.00
Beneficiaries                                             0.96              0.00              0.96
Total:                                                    6.64              0.00              6.64
Borrower: Republic of Bolivia
Responsible agency: Ministry of Peasant Affairs, Indigenous and Originary Peoples (MACPIO)
Estimated disbursements (IDA FYIUS$M):
Annual        0.19         1.47        2.09         1.25
Cumulative         0.19          1.66        3.75         5.00
Project implementation period: April 2001 - March 2004
Expected effectiveness date: 04/01/01                Expected closing date: 12/31/04
Implementing agency: Ministry of Peasant Affairs, Indigenous and Originary Peoples (MACPIO)
Contact person: Wigberto Rivero Pinto, Minister
Address: Av. Sanchez Lima 2072, La Paz, Bolivia
Tel: 591-2-330707             Fax: 591-2-801-2192            E-mail: macpio@caoba.entelnet.bo
OCS LIL PAD Forn: January 5, 1998



A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The objective of the project is to learn how culturally based productive initiatives of indigenous'
communities can contribute to income generation and poverty reduction. The project will finance on a
pilot basis a number of demand-driven, community or small-producer initiatives, which aim to improve
the forms and conditions in which indigenous peoples produce and sell their products or services. The
initiatives will be based on the existing knowledge and resources of the different ethnic groups, which in
many cases provide them with a comparative advantage for improving their insertion into the market. The
project will test a mechanism for financing these types of demands, and a system of participatory
monitoring for incorporating the lessons learned into the policy and investment measures adopted by the
Government of Bolivia (GOB). By bringing their own worldviews and cultural perspectives into the
wider effort to reduce poverty, which GOB is implementing through the Poverty Reduction Strategy
(PRS), it is expected that indigenous peoples' needs will be met in a more appropriate and effective
manner.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
a) % of economically successful and socially viable pilot initiatives.
b) % increase in beneficiary community incomes.
c) % increase in the number of culturally based initiatives financed by other sources as a result of PRS
adjustments
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 17890-BO             Date of latest CAS discussion: May 21, 1998
The Indigenous Peoples Development LIL, to be designed and implemented by indigenous organizations,
was discussed and included in the CAS. The project would contribute to the CAS objective for the Equity
Pillar which is to raise the standards of living of the poor, in particular through: (i) increasing social
expenditure for excluded groups; (ii) improving the efficiency and quality of social services taking into
account cultural conditions; and (iii) raising the productivity of indigenous producers. In so doing, the
project will also contribute to the Opportunity Pillar objective of widening economic growth with better
distribution.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
A Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities and Threats (SWOT) analysis was conducted during project
preparation. During the workshop, almost 100 indigenous leaders identified the following main sector
issues and made suggestions on how to address them:
a) Lack of organizational capacities. One of the main weaknesses identified relates to a self-perception of
lack of organizational capabilities and low participation of rural women in community affairs. Participants
stated that divisiveness, indifference and pessimism contribute toward poor organizational capabilities.
This problem is compounded by the lack of training and possibilities for human resources development.
There are few training programs provided in management issues resulting in few qualified indigenous
technicians and professionals.
' For the sake of simplicity, the term "indigenous" is used in this document as encompassing a variety of
identities, which in Bolivia may be referred to as "indigenas", "campesinos" or "originarios", depending
on the region or even the situation in which a self-reference is provided.
2



b) Lack of knowledge of market mechanisms and conditions. Few economic pilot projects have been
undertaken. Indigenous organizations lack information on market potential for their products as well as
rules and regulations governing marketing of certain products including environmental legislation.
c) Lack of financial resources and poor infrastructure. There are no credit facilities available to
indigenous groups and most communities are isolated due to lack of road infrastructure and
communication facilities.
Social inequalities and poverty are deeply rooted in Bolivian society, which has not yet managed to
overcome the colonial and republican heritage of racism and discrimination. Most Bolivian institutions
still operate under implicit discriminatory practices. Indigenous peoples, though forming the majority of
the population, have a restricted presence in managerial positions in government, the private sector and
NGOs. Indigenous peoples still confront economic and socio-cultural barriers in attempting access to
public and private services, ranging from health to credit. This heritage of exclusion is reflected in the
poverty statistics. A comparison by ethnicity in terms of the probability of being poor or extremely poor
(see Table 1 below) shows that in 5 out of 6 categories the probability of being poor is worse for
indigenous than for non-indigenous individuals in urban and rural areas.
Table 1: Probability of being poor or extremely poor by group 1993-99
October 1997 survey              November 1999 survey
Main cities Other urban    Rural    Main cities Other urban    Rural
Pov. E.P. Pov. E.P. Pov. E.P. Pov. E.P. Pov. E.P. Pov. E.P.
Non indigenous          46.3  18.5  61.4  32.6  68.7  48.9  44.8  19.3  72.5  34.9  80.9  56.8
Indigenous              57.9  29.2  64.2  37.8  79.7  61.1  50.6  23.6  69.8  40.5  82.5  60.7
Source: Draft of Bolivia: Poverty Diagnostic 2000, June 30, 2000. "Pov." Is probability of being poor and "E.P." is
probability of being extreme poor.
Indigenous affiliation, controlling for household and geographical barriers, has an important bearing on
income. As Table 2 shows, in November 1999, Aymara, Quechua or Guarani people perceive between
15% and 57% less income than Spanish- or foreign-speaking individuals.
Table 2: Marginal percentage change in per capita income due to ethnicity or language spoken
[The excluded reference category is speaking Spanish or a foreign langua el
1997         M99    November 1999
Rural Small Large Large Rural Small Large
cities  cities  cities     cities  cities
Speaking Quechua                            NS   -0.13  -0.13  -0.13  -0.15   NS   -0.13
Speaking Aymara                             NS    NS   -0.21  -0.18  -0.19  -0.57  -0.32
Speaking Guarani                            NS    NS    NS    NS   -0.17   NS    NS
Source: Draft of Bolivia: Poverty Diagnostic 2000, June 30, 2000. M99 is March 1999. NS means not statistically
different from zero at the 10% level. Coefficients underlined are significant at the 10% level. Coefficients not
underlined are significant at the 5% level
Finally, an examination of trends (Table 3) shows that the gains in poverty reduction since 1993 are
mostly concentrated in the urban areas. In rural areas, though on average there has been a small decline
in the poverty gap, the proportion of the population below the poverty line has actually increased since
1997. About two-thirds of the rural population and one-third of the urban population can be classified as
indigenous, which shows that the gains in poverty reduction are concentrated on the non-indigenous
population.
3



Table 3: Trend in poverty and extreme poverty, 1993-99
1993              1997           1999 March      1999 November
Pov.  Ext. pov.  Pov.  Ext. pov.  Pov.  Ext. pov.  Pov.  Ext. pov.
Incidence of poverty: Share of the population below the poverty line
("headcount")
National                 -        -       63.2     37.9       -        -      62.72    36.82
Main cities as a whole    52.0    25.5    50.7    21.5      50.0     23.4    46.98    21.62
Other urban areas        -        -       63.7    34.3        -        -      65.80    30.88
Rural areas              -        -       77.3     58.2       -        -      81.71    58.80
Depth of poverty: Distance separating the poor from the poverty line
("poverty gap")
National                 -        -      33.43    18.59       -        -      31.15    15.40
Maincitiesasawhole   24.37    11.42    21.05    7.42    21.70        8.92     19.37    7.49
Other urban areas        -        -      31.02    13.41       -        -      32.32    13.73
Rural areas              -        -      48.69    33.69       -        -      45.82    26.26
Source: Draft of Bolivia: Poverty Diagnostic 2000, June 30, 2000. All poverty estimates are based on per capita
income, except the estimate for rural areas in November 1999 which is based on per capita consumption.
In spite of the gains derived from social investment and the rising access to health, education and water
sanitation, rural poverty remains high because of poor infrastructure and undeveloped markets. In the
highlands, restrictions in access to land diminish the potential of the agricultural sector to increase farmer
incomes. A Rural Productivity Study carried out by GOB with IDA assistance in 40 communities in the
Bolivian Altiplano and valleys found that 80% of all focus groups perceive that their agricultural
productivity has declined in the last decade. Most of these groups are immersed in perceived vicious
cycles of declining soil fertility and environmental degradation. The study also shows that development
efforts have reached a minority of farmers and that support for non-agricultural activities has been
minimal. In the lowlands, indigenous groups are securing access to territories (TCOs), but are
preoccupied with realizing their productive potentials in the market.
One of the most important demands of civil society organizations, including indigenous and campesino
organizations, is that resources be transferred directly to communities or small-producer organizations for
them to manage small-scale development projects. Experience so far with this modality of funding by a
handful of international NGOs, some of IFAD's rural development projects and the IDA-funded
Participatory Rural Investment Project in Bolivia shows that many communities have basic capacities and
social control mechanisms which, reinforced with managerial strengthening, provide them with the
necessary resources for managing these initiatives. Support of productive activities came out as one of the
top priorities of the National Dialogue, along with investment in the social sectors. This echoes the results
of the participatory planning efforts carried out in almost all of the rural municipalities of Bolivia, with
massive participation by local communities. Under the new compensation policy, Bolivia is transforming
its social investment funds (FIS and FDC) into a new fund, which will be instrumental in operating
transfers between the central government and municipal governments. These transfers will not finance
small-producer groups or communities who have entrepreneurial or small-business initiatives. A
mechanism for supporting micro-enterprise and small-business development is managed by the
Viceministry of Microenterprise, but its reach barely covers rural areas and is restricted to technical
assistance. Financing for developing culturally based initiatives is practically non-existent.
GOB policies are contained in the Development with Identity document prepared by VAIPO. It states that
the GOB will aim at improving living conditions of indigenous communities through economic progress,
political participation and cultural assertion. The Government will ensure legal security of indigenous
lands, further economically sustainable initiatives, sustain cultural values and provide for basic services.
Main strategy thrusts include: (i) development of infrastructure and economic opportunities; (ii)
development of social services with equity considerations; (iii) political development and (iv) cultural
development with dignity and inclusion. VAIPO has recently been raised to the rank of Ministry
(MACPIO) to signal a greater emphasis on satisfying indigenous demands.
4



Government strategy has evolved over time, in many instances under pressure from indigenous groups
demanding territorial rights and better economic conditions. The Laws of Popular Participation (LPP) and
the Agrarian Reform Service (INRA) have initiated the most important changes. The LPP has provided a
simple mechanism for the recognition of the juridical personality of territorially-based organizations
(OTBs), which has resulted in the registration of around 15,000 organizations, most of them representing
indigenous or Quechua and Aymara campesino communities. These organizations can now exercise the
legal representation of their communities in public and private transactions, and have legal rights over the
identification and control of public investment, in particular at the municipal level. There has been
significant devolution of responsibilities and resources to the 315 municipalities existing in Bolivia; most
of them newly created by the LPP. There has been significant IDA and other donor support for this
reform. The practice of community rights and duties and government compliance with them vary from
place to place, but the LPP has provided the basis for a fundamental transformation of the public sector in
Bolivia, promoting greater transparency, participation and accountability. The 1999 municipal elections
permitted the massive participation of indigenous peoples as candidates. Almost 60% of elected
municipal councilpersons are of indigenous origin, in contrast with less than 20% of representatives in
congress. Not one minister or viceminister considers an indigenous language as his mother tongue.
Indigenous employment in central government institutions (including prefectures) is restricted to the
lower rungs of the scale.
Institutional strengthening of indigenous groups is being undertaken with IDA and donor support within
the context of the Popular Participation Law (LPP), but is mostly aimed at local level institutions in view
of the rights and duties supported by this Law. Higher level (regional or national) indigenous and
campesino organizations receive less support. The LPP also permits the creation of indigenous districts
where the territorial boundaries of an indigenous group do not coincide with the formal jurisdictional
boundary of one or more municipalities. Since 1994, the government has supported the creation of
almost 100 indigenous districts, but less than 30 have been recognized by their municipalities, and most
of these have not received clear administrative delegations nor sufficient budgetary support. Since the
September 2000 siege of major cities, carried out by campesino and indigenous organizations, the GOB
has renewed its commitment to this policy, which will be supported through the Participatory Rural
Investment Project. The upcoming Decentralization project will also support government efforts in
consolidating a clearer relationship between indigenous territories and municipalities.
In the context of the INRA law, assistance has been provided to indigenous groups in defining their
territorial rights and boundaries and providing collective titles (TCOs), as well as titling small-holders of
Aymara and Quechua origins who have settled in the lowlands. TCO delimitation has advanced strongly
in the lowlands, where indigenous groups mobilized early demanding territories. There are now a total of
33 ethnic demands over 50 areas. Titling has been slow, but work is advancing solidly. The total area
under demand is 18.6 million hectares. In contrast to these advances, many highland indigenous peoples
perceive that the 1NRA law has done little for them, and the GOB is negotiating changes in the law with
their representatives. The convergence between the INRA and Popular Participation laws will permit
providing TCOs with jurisdictional benefits either as indigenous municipalities or districts.
The GOB is undertaking a major reform of poverty alleviation policies through the establishment of a
Poverty Reduction Strategy (in the context of the HIPC and PRSP). This strategy will provide the basis
for reorienting public investment and donor support in the future. The PRS is based on the results of the
National Dialogue, a major participatory exercise carried out in the context laid out by the LPP. A draft of
the PRS will be discussed with indigenous organizations, which are expected to include demands that
cannot be solved at the local level alone. The PRS provides for the creation of a Social Control
Mechanism in charge of overseeing the implementation of the strategy and negotiating its periodic
adjustment with GOB. At the local level, the Social Control Mechanism will be based on the vigilance
committees provided by the LPP, which articulate the demands and the oversight exercised by local
communities. At the departmental and national level, there will also be institutional instances in charge of
following up implementation and evaluating results. The institutional character, forms of participation by
5



civil society organizations and ways in which the mechanism will carry out monitoring and evaluation
activities is under discussion now by these organizations.
3. Learning and development issues to be addressed by the project:
Early on in the process of consultations, indigenous organizations focused the expected results from the
project on the following: (i) indigenous groups are able to execute and manage productive economic
ventures; (ii) culturally based innovative sub-projects are implemented with secure funding; (iii) a
monitoring and evaluation system is in place; and (iv) institutional capacities of indigenous organizations
and government agencies are strengthened. This focus was preserved and maintained in the whole
consultation process and informs the main learning issues addressed by the project.
The project aims to contribute to changing the dominant paradigm based on the exclusion of indigenous
culture from development efforts. With the partial exception of LPP and INRA, most development
policies and projects in Bolivia take into account only marginally the multicultural composition of the
society and the advantages provided by indigenous social capital. Most development discourses and
practices are defacto exclusionary. They predicate, implicitly or explicitly, that indigenous culture,
knowledge, technology and resources are inappropriate for development and, thus, defeating poverty is
synonymous with ceasing to be indigenous. This is a model based on replacement rather than inclusion.
The project would be based on the opposite premise: that well being can increase by empowering
indigenous peoples to develop from the basis of who they are and what they have.
Economic and cultural development of indigenous communities has received scant attention in Bolivia
with the exception of a limited number of projects fuinded by some donors. The main learning issue is
related to the functioning of indigenous societies in a market economy on the basis of the comparative
advantage provided by their culture and social capital. Innovations and lessons are expected to flow
from: (i) the operation of a mechanism for direct financing of communities and producer groups; (ii) the
design and self-management of subprojects by them; (iii) the systematic provision of information and
lessons on culturally based productive initiatives to the indigenous organizations which are monitoring
the implementation of GOB's Poverty Reduction Strategy; and (iv) the operation of an institutional
framework in which indigenous organizations share principal responsibilities with GOB in respect to
implementation and social control.
4. Learning and innovation expectations:
[x] Economic [ ] Financial [x] Technical [x] Institutional
[x] Social [x] Environmental [x] Participation [x] Other [legal]
(a) Economic. Learning would emerge from an analysis of the nature of the economic enterprises
created by the communities and their conditions for success. Analysis of subsistence versus market
economies and the appropriate mix within indigenous groups should provide valuable insights for the
design of new projects. At the end of the project, a full cost-benefit analysis of a sample of pilot
subprojects will be undertaken in order to ascertain the viability of culturally based productive support.
(b) Technical. Technical expectations are to (i) incorporate traditional technologies in modern production
systems; (ii) assign value to traditional indigenous products; (iii) test potential uses of flora and fauna;
(iv) try out different combinations of support for productive initiatives; and (iv) experiment with different
forms of beneficiary subproject management and organization.
(c) Institutional. Institutional learning expectations are divided in two levels. At the national project
level, the functioning of an institutional framework in which indigenous organizations and GOB share the
responsibilities for implementation will be closely monitored. The contracting of one or more MSEs for
subproject administration forms part of this innovative framework. At the local level, examining the
relationship between beneficiary groups carrying out investment subprojects and the traditional leadership
and indigenous political organizations would test the institutional viability of indigenous enterprises. This
6



would provide insights on the complexity of private versus collective interest as seen by communities and
indigenous leaders.
(d) Social. The handling of social differentiation inside the communities and the distribution of the
benefits deriving from the initiatives would provide insights into the social viability of supporting small-
business initiatives. Gender positive discrimination would provide lessons on acceptance of new or
expanded participation of indigenous women in economic initiatives and decisions within the household
and the community.
(e) Environmental. Analyzing the way in which producers manage natural resources in pursuit of profits
would provide lessons and solutions to avoid negative environmental impacts in the future.
(f) Participation. IThe success of the feedback that will be provided to indigenous organizations about
culturally-based productive initiatives depends on: (i) the flow of information between indigenous
communities and regional or national indigenous organizations; and (ii) the capacity of the latter to
properly evaluate PRS implementation and influence the corresponding adjustments.
(g) Legal. An assessment will be made on the nature of the enterprises formed by beneficiaries to
ascertain the pertinence of the existing legal forms for creating and registering private companies and
probably propose other culturally based alternatives.
If successful, the project will permit demonstrating the economic viability of culturally based productive
initiatives. Following expectations raised in the National Dialogue and the PRS, the lessons leamed from
the experience would permit the design of policy and development instruments geared at supporting the
indigenous poor in developing their potentialities from within their culture. The lessons derived from the
execution of pilot subprojects are expected to reduce the information costs for future private sector
involvement and to facilitate the formation of joint initiatives with indigenous peoples. At a minimum,
the project should demonstrate how communities and small-producer groups could manage their ownI
development initiatives. The project will aim to help mainstreaming the lessons derived from community
management. The project would provide essential infornation for the adjustment of the Poverty
Reduction Strategy and consequently permit refining donor support in Bolivia.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components: (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown)
1. Culturallv-based pilot            SY5.50                83          4.38 8
investments
2. Poverty-reduction monitoring       SY          0.67      10         0.37         7
and learning
3. Project management                 BI          0.47      7          0.25         5
Total Project Costs                               6.64    100          5.00        75
* Indicative costs include price contingencies of 5 %.
7



2. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation period: The project will be implemented over a period of 39 months, beginning in April
2001.
Executing agency: The Ministry of Peasant Affairs, Indigenous and Originary Peoples (MACPIO).
Project oversight: Guidance and oversight in project implementation would be provided by a mixed civil
society / government Directorate. The composition of the Directorate was agreed during the consultation
process with all indigenous and campesino organizations. The Directorate will be composed, on the
indigenous side, by representatives of the Peasant Confederation of Bolivia (CSUTCB), the Indigenous
People's Confederation (CIDOB); the Confederation of Peasant Colonizers (CSCB); the Bartolina Sisa
National Federation of Peasant Women (FSMCB-BS); and CONAMAQ. On the part of the government,
there will be representations of MACPIO, the Ministry of Economic Development and the Viceministry
of Microenterprise. The Directorate will have the following functions: (i) define project policies; (ii)
approve and supervise the execution of the annual workprogram and budget; (iii) approve the Operational
Manual; (iv) approve the selection of the MSE(s) and PIU personnel; (v) review and approve progress
reports; (vi) review and approve impact evaluation reports; (vii) approve annual independent audit
reports; (viii) provide information on project implementation to the national level indigenous
organizations; and (ix) provide support for the socialization of the activities lessons derived from project
implementation. Directorate approvals will be governed by an administrative silence clause. The
regulations for the functioning of the Directorate will be included in the Operational Manual.
Project coordination: A Project Implementation Unit in MACPIO will maintain overall administrative
responsibility for the project's successful implementation, and will ensure that lessons learned are fed
back into GOB and disseminated systematically to other government agencies, beneficiaries and the
private sector. The unit will report to the Minister of MACPIO and the Project Directorate. The unit will
be built on the basis of the presently-existing unit which is administering the PHRD grant being used for
project preparation. When fully staffed, the PIU will include a Project Coordinator, a Financial
Administration Manager, a Project Accountant and a Monitoring and Evaluation specialist. The latter
will supervise a second group of 7 consultants in charge of monitoring and learning. Staffing of the PIU
will be done under qualifications and TOR satisfactory to the association, as agreed in the actions plans
for the Procurement and Financial assessments. The PIU will manage the special account and will ensure
compliance with the Bank's auditing, financial reporting and procurement rules on the part of
implementing agencies. It will prepare annual operating and procurement plans, budgets and
implementation reports for consultation with the Directorate and IDA.
Implementing agencies: Component 1, Culturally-based pilot investments, will be managed by a
Management Services entity contracted by MACPIO, following a Quality- and cost-based selection
process, under Terms of Reference to be included in the Project's Operations Manual. This agency would
evaluate, approve, supervise and effect progress payments against contracts for subprojects from weekly
advances for the PIU. The MSE will supervise each agreement with beneficiaries in order to ensure the
use of funds for the intended purposes. Indigenous communities and small-producer groups would
execute the subprojects. The funds will be disbursed on the basis of the contracts and the progress reports.
Component B, Poverty-reduction monitoring and learning, will be implemented jointly by national-level
indigenous organizations and MACPIO. The indigenous organizations will select 4 indigenous specialists
who will be in charge of field monitoring for operational and learning purposes. These specialists will
work under the Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist and his team in the central office of MACPIO. The
component will be administered by the PfU.
Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements. The Financial Management Specialist for
Bolivia conducted a review in MACPIO of the accounting, controls over disbursements and resources,
planning and budgeting as well as the level of administrative staff, which will form the core of
MACPIO's PIU. MACPIO is currently executing a PIRD grant related to the preparation of the project.
It was determined that MACPIO has in place accounting and internal control systems that accord with
8



accounting standards and that reliably record and report all assets, liabilities and financial transactions,
including the use of IDA funds. The systems provide sufficient financial information for managing and
monitoring project activities. A project specific, LACI-compatible integrated financial management
system is under development. This system was developed under TORs reviewed by IDA and will be
implemented, tested and assessed by a Bank FMS before the Credit operations initiate. The Ministry will
contract external auditors satisfactory to the IDA to conduct the annual external audit of the project under
Terms of Reference which comply with the Bank's Guidelines for Project Audits, these will include field
visits to ascertain the outcomes of the expenses reported under the sub-projects.
Operational Manual: MACPIO will prepare a detailed OM, which will be approved by the Directorate of
the project. This manual will contain inter alia the following: (a) eligibility criteria for subprojects and
beneficiaries, including the environmental and cultural property filters; (b) project implementation plan
and monitoring indicators; (c) learning and dissemination strategy aimed at indigenous organizations,
GOB, international cooperating agencies, and the private sector; (d) project management, coordination
and reporting aspects, including objectively verifiable performance and learning indicators; (e) detailed
procedures for procurement of goods, consultants, management services and community participation; (f)
sample procurement documents and model contracts; (g) terms of reference for key consultants and
studies; (h) disbursement procedures; and (i) accounting system and audit aspects. IDA would review
the manual. MACPIO's adoption of the Project Operational Manual, acceptable to IDA, would be a
condition of credit effectiveness.
Project Implementation Plan: A detailed PIP, including a basic procurement plan, has been prepared for
Project Year I and examined during the appraisal.
3. Monitoring and evaluation arrangements:
Bearing in mind the learning nature of the project and the innovative characteristics inherent in the
project's institutional and implementation arrangements, a two pronged approach to monitoring has been
devised: (i) developing indigenous self-monitoring at the community and the higher organization's level;
and (ii) providing technical monitoring support. This distinction takes into account views expressed by
indigenous organizations consulted during a final participatory workshop. Indigenous leaders expressed
their views on project design placing special emphasis on the need to be fully involved in monitoring of
activities, suggesting that: (i) indigenous experts be included under project management for the purposes
of facilitating monitoring and social control, (ii) monitoring be brought closer to where projects are
implemented; and (iii) beneficiary groups should be trained in self-evaluation processes. It was
emphasized that indigenous involvement in monitoring activities ensures social control of investments to
be made thus furthering transparency and accountability.
Based on these suggestions, monitoring and evaluation activities have been included mainly under a
distinct Poverty-Reduction Monitoring and Learning component while day- to- day implementation
monitoring, and technical support has been left under the Project Management component.
The objectives of the Poverty-Reduction Monitoring and Learning component are to: (a) measure the
impact of productive indigenous initiatives funded by the project under a set of criteria to include their
social, technical, economic and institutional viability; (b) establish a methodology for following-up
inclusion of this type of indigenous demands under the PRS and assessing their implementation if
adopted. In order to achieve these objectives two regional monitoring units will be established in the
lowlands and in the inter Andean valleys and the High Plateau areas, staffed by two indigenous
monitoring specialists in each area. Training will be initially provided to these specialists on the PRS and
the mechanisms necessary for including indigenous initiatives under the strategy. Further training will be
provided to assist indigenous monitoring specialists in transferring participatory monitoring techniques to
project beneficiaries with special emphasis in the monitoring of project expenditures and income
generated. With the view to deepen the self-monitoring aspects, participatory monitoring workshops will
be convened annually. During these workshops beneficiaries will be able to analyze problems found and
9



discuss possible solutions. They will also be able to confront providers of services contracted by them
under the culturally based productive initiatives component.
Detailed monitoring and evaluation indicators will be established for: (i) the productive investment
activities; (ii) the learning and dissemination strategy; and (iii) the institutional framework. These will be
included in the OM. Other social impact and poverty reduction indicators will be determined as part of the
baseline study to be contracted at project outset, and in relation to the indicators established in the PRS.
An independent impact evaluation study will be conducted at the end of the project.
A monitoring and evaluation specialist will assist the PIU in fulfilling the monitoring requirement for the
learning process, as well as for the reporting requirements set out by GOB and IDA in terms of project
progress and fulfillment of milestones and deliverables. This specialist will be responsible jointly with an
economist and a social scientist for providing backstopping and technical support to the indigenous
specialists on the field. An information technology specialist will assist in compiling and systematizing
the information gathered.
An end-of project evaluation will be conducted and an Intensive Learning Implementation Completion
Report prepared. This report will inter alia: (i) ascertain the possibility of preparing and implementing
follow-up actions or programs with acceptable levels of risk; (ii) determine commitment of stakeholders
to the innovations introduced; (iii) evaluate community procurement approaches; (iv) evaluate the
financial analysis carried out during project implementation of beneficiary initiatives; (v) establish the
success of technical solutions tried mainly in terms of use of traditional technologies and customary uses
of indigenous products; and (vi) determine the effectiveness of using a Management Services Entity
(MSE).
D: Project Rationale:
(This section is not to be completed in a LIL PAD)
E: Summary Project Analysis: (detailed assessments for those analyses applicable
to LIL are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic: (supported by Annex 4)
[ ] Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=US$   million; ERR=  %
[ ] Cost Effectiveness Analysis
[x] Other (specify)
The project has not been subjected to an economic rate of return analysis. Cost-effectiveness of the
learning process has been ensured by: (i) dedicating most of the funding to pilot subprojects, which
underlies the approach of learning-by-doing; and (ii) by developing a learning and dissemination strategy.
A preliminary cost benefit analysis for a number of prototype indigenous initiatives that would be funded
by the project will be carried out in order to provide guidance for establishing the baseline. A full cost-
benefit analysis of pilot investments will be carried out at the end of the project.
2. Financial:                  NPV=US$                      million; FRR=    %
The project is a pilot operation and full cost recovery is not an objective. However, fiscal sustainability is
an important consideration in the design of the project. Under HIPC and the PRS, GOB is committed to
increasing the amount of resources directed at poverty alleviation in general and at indigenous poverty in
particular. Component 2 will facilitate indigenous organizations' feedback and monitoring of the
implementation of the PRS. Social monitoring should permit policy and institutional adjustments that
will increase the effectiveness of public expenditures and their sustainability.
3. Technical:
The project will pilot the improvement of existing technologies. This improvement may be based on the
10



introduction of modem technologies or the recovery of forgotten indigenous technologies. A clear
decision has been made in terms of supporting the use of indigenous knowledge and technologies. The
project would not fund the introduction of exotic species, the use of pesticides or the production of
commodities. The operation of the project will conform to all appropriate health, agronomic,
environmental and technological standards.
4. Institutional:
MACPIO has been recently created on the basis of VAIPO. MACPIO has been executing a project
funded by Denmark for the titling of indigenous territories in the lowlands. Project implementation
capacity is limited and dependent on donor support. A number of altematives were considered and
potential agencies evaluated during preparation. Implementation by the new fund, to be created by the
Unified Fund Directorate (DUF) on the basis of FIS and FDC, was rejected since the transfer mechanism
to be put in place would only finance municipal initiatives and not those coming directly from
communities and small-producer groups. The creation of a new indigenous fund, as has been proposed by
indigenous organizations, would be cumbersome and cause serious delays in project launching.
Strengthening MACPIO through the creation of a PIU under the oversight of a mixed govemment / civil
society directorate was judged to be the most viable alternative for project coordination and management.
A small unit in MACPIO has been in charge of implementing the PHRD grant associated with this
project's preparation. It would form the basis of the PIU to be established for project implementation. At
present, the Unit is composed of a Project Coordinator, a Financial Administrator, and an Economist. The
unit would be further enlarged to include a Project Accountant, an Accounting Assistant, a Monitoring
and Evaluation Specialist, a Social Scientist, an Information Specialist and 4 field supervisors in charge of
operational monitoring and learning. Draft qualifications and TOR for all personnel were agreed to
during appraisal, on the basis of the Procurement and Financial management assessments, and will be
included in the Operational Manual.
The Culturally based indigenous initiatives component would be administered by one or several
Management Services Entities, under contract with MACPIO. Besides ensuring accountability and
transparency in implementing a financial resource transfer mechanism, subcontracting this mechanism
would in itself be part of the learning process. Supervision of the MSEs will be done by the PIU.
National-level indigenous organizations would implement the Poverty Reduction Monitoring and
Learning component jointly with MACPIO. Their capacity, though variable, is generally low. The PIU
will assist them in implementing their activities and will administer the funds.
5. Social:
The Indigenous Diagnostic carried out by VAIPO with IDA funding and the process of collaboration with
indigenous organizations during project preparation permitted an assessment of the number, capacity and
intent of the main stakeholders. There are 35 ethnic groups in Bolivia, comprising an estimated 4.6
million people (58% of the total population) in the year 2000. Aymara and Quechua speakers form the
majority of the indigenous population (35% and 50% respectively). The other 15% is distributed among
32 other ethnic groups that inhabit the lowlands. An estimated 54% of the indigenous population of the
country inhabits in urban areas.2
Aymara and Quechua-speaking individuals are concentrated in the rural and urban areas of the highlands
(Altiplano and valleys), though they are increasingly migrating to the agricultural colonization and urban
areas of the lowlands as well. In the rural highlands, since the Agrarian Reform of 1953, many
indigenous communities have adopted individual forms of land tenure. Most also embarked on a process
of state-induced acculturation through the adoption of Spanish in schools and the formation of sindicatos
2 These are estimates based on projections from the 1992 Census, which did not pick up sufficient information for
determining ethnic belonging, and underrepresented the rural population. A new census, to be carried out in 2001
will provide more accurate information.
11



as the predominant form of community organization. In most cases, sindicatos follow the rotational logic
of power and representation existing in traditional Andean groups. In some parts of Oruro, North of
Potosi and the highlands of Cochabamba, persist some Andean ethnic territories which have not been
reduced to communities (ayllus), which preserve traditional systems of land redistribution and political
organization. Most Andean (Altiplano and valley) communities identify themselves as "campesinos"
(sometimes in conjunction with Aymara or Quechua), in opposition to the term "indian" or "indigenous"
used commonly before the 1952 revolution and still in use in the lowlands.
The most important lowland ethnic groups are the Guarani, Chiquitano and Ayoreo. The other 29 ethnic
groups form very small population and some are on the verge of disappearing. Lowland peoples have
succeeded in establishing large demands for territories (TCOs) which are being processed by the GOB.
In the first workshop held during project preparation, leaders of all indigenous groups and campesino
organizations outlined a vision of the future in which: (i) participation in local power structures would be
strengthened; (ii) territorial rights would be consolidated; (iii) an Indigenous People's Law would be
passed; (iv) a Ministry of Indigenous Affairs would be established; (v) productive initiatives would be
self-managed; (vi) indigenous women would fully participate in all spheres; (vii) quality basic services
would be provided; (viii) indigenous professionals and technicians would receive quality education; (ix)
environmental conditions would be enhanced and natural resources conserved; (x) cultural values would
be reinforced and, (xi) market access for indigenous products ensured.
They also decided to focus the proposed project on supporting self-management of productive
initiatives. It was further decided that testing should be focused on innovative initiatives that are based
on indigenous culture. On this basis, the indigenous specialists selected by the organizations to work in
the preparation team carried out a survey of more than 250 producers on the field. Indigenous producers
identified the following crucial aspects for implementation:
(a)    Types of subprojects: The first option was handicraft production and marketing, followed by
light agro-industry, food security, ethnotourism, indigenous medicine, communications, cultural
services, forestry and biotechnology.
(b)    Factors involved in the success or failure of initiatives: For success, emphasis was placed on:
capacity building in management; quality of products; technical assistance for production;
appropriate technology; identification and access to markets; and partnerships with the private
and public sector. For failure, they identified: weakness of economic organizations; lack of
management capacity; interference by higher-level organizations.
(c)    Potential markets: For selling products, 49% identified the national market, 20% regional
markets, and 15% international markets.
(d)    Type of organization for carrying out initiatives: Most producers (64%) prefer small enterprises;
24% community associations.
(e)    Partnerships: 59% of producers prefer to establish partnerships among indigenous peoples; 25%
considered joint ventures; and 15% aim for partnerships with the private sector, NGOs and others.
Recent evaluations of projects and programs in favor of rural and indigenous women have pointed out
that, although indigenous women still remain marginalized, there has been progress achieved towards
incorporating the gender dimension at the political and local government levels. Since passage of the LPP
a few women leaders have emerged. Following the 1999 municipal elections the percentage of women
elected officials rose to 15%. Women comprise 1 1% of OTB leadership and 10% of vigilance committee
members. There is also a growing presence of rural and indigenous women in the participatory planning
process of the LPP. 3
3Claudia de la Quintana, Cuanto hemos avanzado las mujeres en Bolivia? UNICEF/ COSUDE/ACDI/Netherlands
Embassy/UNDP.
12



Most gender assessments of rural sector projects propose to include the following in development
projects: (i) supplying technical assistance tailored to the demands of rural and indigenous women; (ii)
developing agricultural and non agricultural productive activities, (iii) stimulating the development of
financial services; (iv) and following up on the land titling process as it relates to rural and indigenous
women.
During the project preparation process indigenous groups also identified the need to fully incorporate
indigenous women in project implementation. This issue has been considered in project design. It is
estimated that 30 percent of sub-projects to be funded would benefit indigenous women groups mainly in
handicrafts and management of flora and fauna.
Potential impacts of subprojects on cultural property will be screened, ensuring that subprojects that may
have negative impacts be excluded at the outset. The screening mechanism, including the instruments
needed to avoid or address impacts on cultural property will be included in the operational manual for the
project, which will be reviewed to ensure compliance with Bank policies and best-practices.
6. Environmental assessmentl:       Environmental Category  [ ] A    [x] B   [ ] C
No negative environmental or social impacts are expected from project implementation. Privileging
culturally based initiatives and the use of traditional technologies would limit any damaging
environmental impacts. The project will not support the introduction of exotic species, nor the use of any
pesticides. Some minor works may be involved but they will be restricted to artisan workshops and
small-scale, demonstrative infrastructures related to ethno- and eco-turistic activities. The project will
also finance small-scale, non-extractive activities related to existing flora and fauna, for example, for
ethno-medical use. A simple screening mechanism will be implemented to ensure that minor works are
properly located and executed, and that subprojects that may have negative environmental impacts are
excluded at the outset. In addition, there will be a negative eligibility list, which will exclude activities
involving protected or endangered species, or activities in sensitive areas. Eligible subprojects involving
use of flora and fauna will require a management plan. The screening mechanism, TOR for management
plans and engineering standards necessary to avoid environmental impacts will be included in the
operational manual for the project, which will be reviewed to ensure compliance with Bank policies and
best-practices. A private firm or NGO will administer subproject screening, financing and supervision,
which will be subcontracted for that purpose under TORs agreed with the IDA. Project operation and
compliance with fiduciary rules and safeguards will be controlled by a Directorate and, in addition,
indigenous organizations and the Ministry of Peasant Affairs, Indigenous and Originary Peoples will
carry out field monitoring and evaluation.
7. Participatory approach:
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
The primary beneficiaries of the project would be: (i) indigenous communities and small-producer
groups, including indigenous women's groups; and (ii) higher-level indigenous organizations. Both these
groups were consulted during the elaboration of the National Diagnostic of Indigenous Peoples and
systematically involved in project preparation.
The National Diagnostic was carried out by a multi-disciplinary team coordinated by VAIPO and
supervised by IDA from 1998 to 2000. Besides specific studies, it included the following consultation
activities: (i) a survey of 307 indigenous leaders and 140 public and private organizations; and (ii) twenty
one focus group discussions in the highland, Amazonian and Chaco regions (see Annex 11).
To ensure systematic collaboration and consultation with indigenous groups, the following measures were
agreed with GOB at the outset and carried out during project preparation: (i) the formation of a Directorio
Indigena de Preparacion de Proyecto, with representatives of higher-level organizations; (ii) the
selection, by these organizations, of three indigenous specialists to form part of the preparation team in
13



VAIPO; and (iii) the realization of a structured process of consultation. Project preparation was not a
smooth process. It was affected by major indigenous and campesino mobilizations that brought the
country to a stand-still twice and impeded the work of the Directorio. Because of the unrest in the
country, there were repeated postponements for carrying out the programmed participatory planning
workshops. With the exception of the Andean specialist, the indigenous consultants have worked in
VAIPO throughout the process.
A total of 4 workshops were held with indigenous groups and organizations, with particular attention
being paid to the participation of women (see section B2 and Annex 1 1). The first workshop, carried out
in April 2000 with the participation of almost 100 leaders of 35 ethnic groups and higher level indigenous
and campesino organizations permitted the definition of a broad vision for the development of indigenous
peoples. On this basis, the leaders prioritized their demands and decided that the project should aim to
support income-generating productive initiatives.
Another 3 workshops were held in the Andean, Amazonian and Chaco regions respectively between June
and October 2000. These workshops counted with the participation of potential direct beneficiaries
(producers and producer groups) and representatives of higher level organizations in charge of economic
matters. Discussions in the regional workshops were centered on the definition of: (i) eligibility criteria
for beneficiaries; (ii) eligibility criteria for subprojects, including operational definitions of "innovation"
and "cultural basis"; (iii) probable content of subprojects; and (iv) counterpart requirements. There were
notable convergencies between all regions on most of the issues raised.
A final workshop with regional and national leaders, plus representatives of producers who assisted to the
regional workshops, was held in November 2000. This workshop focused on the following: (i) validating
the results of the regional workshops; (ii) agreeing on the project components and their specific
objectives; (iii) defining the project area; (iv) defining the institutional framework for implementation;
and (iii) agreeing on the composition and functions of the Directorate of the project.
The proposed project fully incorporates the results of the process of systematic collaboration and
consultation with indigenous producers and their organizations. The project design ensures that the main
stakeholder groups would have principal responsibility for its implementation. The project Directorate
incorporates the three national level indigenous and campesino organizations (CSUTCB, CIDOB and
CSCB) and the National Confederation of Peasant Women. These organizations would also be in charge
of implementing the Poverty Reduction Monitoring and Learning component. Indigenous communities
and producer groups will manage their own initiatives.
b. Other key stakeholders:
Key stakeholders in government include MACPIO, the Ministry of Economic Development and the
Viceministry of Microenterprise. MACPIO coordinated project preparation and the other two will be
incorporated into the Directorate of the project to ensure sectoral guidance and learning.
Other key stakeholders include potential service providers and the private sector. Their concerns and
involvement would be explored during project implementation, by incorporating them in the evaluation
process.
14



F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
(This section is not to be completed in a LIL PAD)
2. Critical Risks: (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1)
From Outputs to Objective
Beneficiaries do not have sufficient capacity to  S    Technical assistance and training in
manage their own investments                           management will be provided as
part of subproject financing.
Beneficiaries do not perceive investments as    N      Subprojects will be financed on a
their own and do not carry out proper                  demand basis; will require
maintenance.                                           significant beneficiary counterparts;
and ex ante evaluation will discard
potentially unsuccessful proposals.
Subproject beneficiaries do not receive proper  L      Subproject approval will require
community support.                                     community-wide support, and
formal community organizations
will approve disbursements.
Subprojects fail to provide positive financial    M    Subprojects will be financed on a
returns.                                               competitive basis, after the ex ante
evaluation of preinvestment studies.
National and municipal governments ignore    S         Informed participation by
participatory follow up and evaluations in the         indigenous organizations in the
adjustments to the Poverty Reduction Strategy.         PRSP social control mechanism will
be partly financed by the project.
MACPIO and indigenous organizations do not  M          Project will finance a PIU in
have sufficient capacity to ensure effective           MACPIO as well as a participatory
project implementation and dissemination.              monitoring, evaluation and
dissemination strategy.
From Components to Outputs
GOB loses commitment to agreed non-      H             Indigenous organizations and GOB
discretional rules and institutional framework         will designate members to a project
Board (Directorio), which will
oversee project implementation.
Subproject administration will be
subcontracted to a private entity.
Indigenous political organizations interfere in   H    Private entity subcontracted for
subproject selection and execution                     subproject administration will
handle investment cycle under rules
approved and enforced by Board.
Counterpart funds are not available on a timely  N     Beneficiary counterparts will be
basis.                                                 assured by financing demand-driven
proposals and by disbursing on
subprojects that comply with
counterpart requirements. GOB
counterparts will be inscribed in the
National Budget.
15



Beneficiaries have insufficient capacity to  M          The project will undertake extensive
present culturally-based demands                        promotion and the best proposals
will receive cofinancing for
preinvestment studies.
Communities and indigenous organizations are  N         Project will finance monitoring and
unwilling to follow up activities, provide              learning activities to be carried out
information and participate in evaluations              by beneficiaries and indigenous
organizations.
Personnel selection in PIU and indigenous  S            MACPIO selects on basis of TOR
organizations is not based on merit and                 and procedures agreed in OM, and
qualifications.                                         under approval by Directorio;
indigenous organizations select on
basis of OM procedures and no
objection by PIU
Overall Risk Rating                       s
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
No possible controversial aspects are foreseen.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
(i)    The Operational Manual has been approved by the Directorate of the project and adopted by
MACPIO to IDA's satisfaction.
(ii)   The independent auditors have been appointed.
2. Other: (classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements)
(i)    The establishment of Management Service Contract(s) with the entities in charge of administering
subprojects, to IDA's satisfaction, is a condition for disbursement of Component 1.
H: Readiness for Implementation
[ ] 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
[x] 1. b) Not applicable.
[ ] 2. The procurement documents for the first six month's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation; and a framework for agreement on standard bidding documents that will be
used for ongoing procurement during the project has been established.
[x] 3. The LIL's implementation plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[x] 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G): the Project's
Operational Manual.
16



1: Compliance with Bank POfolie
[xl  1. This projc(vompfiies with all applicable Bank policies.
[ ]  2. Tahe fol'owing exce    tons a oles are rewmmended for approval. TI  project complies
with all other appficable Bank pS
eam Leadr: ]David Tuchbelr
or Maugerlfirector: Jobn Redwood
cng Equity Pillar        Patrii   AhM
17



ANNEX 1: PROJECT DESIGN SUMMARY
Bolivia: Indigenous Peoples Development Project
~~~~~~~~is
Sector-related CAS Goal: Sector Indicators:             Sector / Country       (from Goal to Bank
Poverty reduction by     *  Poverty headcount ratio (%)   Reports:             Mission)
broadening growth through  disaggregated by ethnicity   *  National household   *  Sustained
greater inclusion of                                    surveys                implementation of measures
indigenous peoples.      *  Poverty gap ratio (%)                              aimed at reducing obstacles
disaggregated by ethnicity                           to broad-based economic
growth.
*  Growth rates and
macro-economic stability
are sustained.
Follow-on Development
Objective:
Community-managed
initiatives are
mainstreamed in poverty-
alleviation efforts.
Project Development      Outcome / Impact Indicators:    Project Reports:      (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:               *  % of financially successful    *  Bi-annual project    *  GOB commitment to
Learn how culturally based  and socially viable pilot   reports                community-based
productive initiatives of    initiatives                                       indigenous development
indigenous communities                                  *  Final project impact  remains strong.
can contribute to income    *  % increase in beneficiary  evaluation and ICR
generation and poverty   community incomes                                     *  Economic sector
reduction.                     .      .                                        policies are favorable for
*  % increase in the number of                        growth and not biased
culturally based initiatives                          against the poor and small
financed by other sources as a  *  PRS monitoring     enterprises
result of PRS adjustments     reports
*  GOB commitment to
*  Public investment   incorporating lessons
reports               learned in project into
poverty-alleviation policies
and financing mechanisms
* Sustained GOB
commitment to
implementing the Poverty
Reduction Strategy (PRSP)
and the Social control
mechanism
18



Output from each         Output Indicators:             Project Reports:       (from Outputs to
component:                                                                     Objective)
1. Innovative investments  *  120 pilot subprojects     *  Bi-annual project    *  Beneficiaries have
based on indigenous      implemented, of which at least 40  monitoring reports  sufficient capacity to
culture and social capita]   are managed by women       *  PSR' MTR and        manage their own
are implemented and                . 172 preinvestment studies  I              investments
tested.*12pevsmn  tde                                   ICR
tested.             carried in the first two years,                       *  Ownership and
including 12 resource inventories                     maintenance of investments
and management plans executed                         by beneficiaries
in the first two years                                *  Subprojects are socially
viable
* Subprojects are
*  Number of governmental,                           financially successful
private sector, international
cooperation and indigenous                               National and municipal
2. Effective dissemination  organizations aware of the project  *  Yearly PRS  govemments adjust the
of the experiences and   lessons                        evaluations            Poverty Reduction Strategy
lessons derived from                                                           on the basis of participatory
project implementation   *  Number of indigenous        *  Bi-annual project    follow up and evaluations
organizations receiving        monitoring reports
systematic reports to support  *  PSR's, MTR and
participation in the formal PRS    ICR
control mechanism
* 6 Participatory regional
evaluation workshops carried out
over a period of 3 years                                 Sufficient capacity in
3. Efficient project     *  One independent impact                             MACPIO and indigenous
execution                evaluation study carried out at                       organizations to ensure
end of project                *  Bi-annual project    effective project
*  Subcontract(s) with MSE(s)   monitoring reports   implementation and
signed 3 months after         *  PSRs, MTR and ICR
effectiveness
*  Subproject cycle and overall
disbursements to comply with
time and quality standards
defined in the OM
* 4 market and demand studies
carried out in the fields of
handicrafts, tourism, and
management of flora and fauna 3
months after project effectiveness
*  12 regular meetings of the
Directorate carried out over a
period of 3 years
19



Project                  Inputs: (budget for each       Project Reports:       (from Components to
Components/Sub-          component)                                            Outputs)
components:
*  US$ 5.50 million (4.38 IDA)  *  Bi-annual project    *  GOB remains committed
1. Culturally-based pilot                               monitoring reports     to agreed non-discretional
investments                                            *  PSR's, MTR and       rules and institutional
1.1. Investment                                         ICR                    framework
subproiects                                                                   *  Indigenous political
*  Handicraft production                                                        organizations do not
and marketing                                                                  interfere in subproject
selection and execution
* Ethno- and eco-tourism
*  Counterpart funds are
*  Productive                                                                   available on a timely basis
management of flora and
fauna.                                                     0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Beneficiaries have
fauna.                                                                         sufficient capacity to present
*  Other.                                                                       culturally-based demands
1.2. Pre-investment
studies
2. Poverty-reduction                                        ~~~~~~~~~~Communities and
2. Poverty-reduct ion   *  US$0.67 million (0.37 IDA)   *  Bi-annual project    indigenous organizations ire
monitoring reports     willing to follow up
2. 1. Monitoring and                                   *  PSR's, MTR and       activities, provide
2.1.aMonitoring and                                     ICR                    information and participate
evaluation of culturallv                                                       in evaluations
based productive
initiatives
2.2 Studies and
dissemination
3. Project management   US$0.47 million (0.25 IDA)     *  Bi-annual project    *  Competitive, merit-based
3.1. Proiect                                            monitoring reports     personnel selection
Implementation Unit                                    *  PSR's, MTR and
ICR
20



Annex 2: Project Description
Bolivia: Indigenous Peoples Development Project
By Component:
Project Component 1: Culturally-based pilot investments - US$5.50 million
Eligible investments
1.    The project would address community identified economic initiatives by providing financial assistance to
proposals that are culturally based, and economically, socially and environmentally viable and sustainable. It
would introduce an element of positive discrimination in favor of initiatives presented by groups of indigenous
women and further self-management by assigning communities the responsibility for identifying, implementing
and evaluating their own productive initiatives. Depending on the specific needs of each group of beneficiaries,
technical assistance and training (including for management, administrative purposes and the establishment of
partnerships with the private sector) would be part of the financial package for investment ventures. Information
on marketing conditions, opportunities and potential partnerships would be provided. Due to tho experimental
nature of this type of financing, the Operational Manual would specify conflict resolution strategies and
subproject exit strategies. This component would include grant financing of pre-investment studies, technical
assistance, small works, goods and operational costs for investments of the following types:
Pilot subprojects
(i)    Handicraft production and marketing;
(ii)   ethno- and eco-tourism;
(iii)   productive management of flora and fauna;
(iv)   other culturally-based investments.
Pre-investment studies
(i)    Feasibility studies of pilot subprojects; and
(ii)   resource inventories and management plans.
Eligibility Criteria for Beneficiaries
2.    Above investments would be financed under the following conditions and eligibility criteria:
(a)    Subprojects are presented by indigenous communities and small-producer groups with legal status;
(b)   the formal organization of the communities provides its consent and agrees to oversee subproject
execution;
(c)    beneficiaries contribute all local labor and materials, and may also contribute in money, a minimum of
15% of the cost of subprojects;
(d)    design and cost of the individual subprojects are subject to economic, financial, technical, environmental
and sustainability criteria which are included in MACPIO's Operational Manual and form part of the
TOR of the subcontractor(s) in charge of administering the component;
(e)   flora and fauna management subprojects may require Resource Inventories and Management Plans, which
would be financed as part of the pre-investment studies;
(f)    beneficiary communities and small-producer-groups inhabit in rural municipalities.
21



Disbursement mechanisms
3.    The funds would be made available to the beneficiaries in the following manner:
(a)    MACPIO would enter into one or more management service contracts with one or more private entities,
following a QCBS process, for the purpose of administering the funding for this component. The
Directorate of the project would approve these contracts.
(b)    The management service entity (MSE) would review subproject proposals and pre-investment studies.
Following a technical and field evaluation, approved pre-investment studies would be ranked according to
criteria included in the Operational Manual, and the best proposals would be approved for funding.
(c)    The MSE would sign agreements, not exceeding US$ 30,000, with eligible beneficiaries (communities or
small-producer groups) to carry out the subprojects. Beneficiaries would conduct all the procuremen t
specified for the subproject under detailed procedures included in the Operational Manual. Disbursenients
for subprojects would be carried out in tranches, on the basis of field supervision reports that would verify
the execution of works, services and equipment purchases in correspondence with the approved budget
and implementation schedule. The supervision of the subproject, approval and execution by the MSE.
through the assignment of supervision tasks for each contract would ensure the use of funds for the
intended purposes. The funds would be disbursed on the basis of the contracts and the progress reports.
Detailed procurement and disbursement procedures would be included in the Operational Manual.
(d)    The MSE would be paid a percentage fee on the basis of disbursements.
Project Component 2: Poverty-reduction monitoring and learning - US$0.67 million
4.    This component would be implemented jointly by MACPIO and indigenous organizations. It includes
institutional strengthening and training of national level indigenous/campesino organizations (CSUTCB, CIDOB
and others) and their regional organizations. This strengthening would allow these organizations and the project to
accompany the implementation of the pilot subprojects in the field for the purposes of: (i) operational
monitoring; (ii) collection of basic information necessary for the learning process; (iii) participatory evaluation;
and (iv) feedback into the PRS's Social Control Mechanism. Systematic monitoring of the performance, context
and relations to other efforts at the local level in which the pilot subprojects are implemented would provide
indigenous organizations with a practical'model for conducting more general monitoring of the implementation of
the PRS. The institutional framework and implementation arrangements are expected to attract further funding by
other cooperating agencies for the purposes of scaling up the support of indigenous organizations. 5. The
assistance and training of the organizations would include the following:
(a)    4 consultants for 3 years for field monitoring, information collection and feedback into the learning
process. These consultants would be selected by the indigenous/campesino organizations, would work in
their respective regions and would form part of the PIU in MACPIO.
(b)    6 training and consultation workshops for project evaluation and learning and for PRS adjustment.
6.    In addition, MACPIO, through the PIU would:
(a)    Hire 4 specialists for the purpose of coordinating the monitoring and learning process.
(b)    Design and operate a Monitoring and Evaluation System;
(c)    Contract an independent impact evaluation study to be conducted at the end of the project.
Project Component 3: Project management - US$0.47 million
7.    The project would be managed by a small Project Implementation Unit (PIU) to be created within
MACPIO and responding to the Directorate of the project. This Unit would be in charge of project coordination,
financial administration, and dissemination of lessons learned.
22



8.    Financing for the operation of the PIU would include the following:
(a)    3 consultants for 3 years in the following areas: coordination, financial management, monitoring and
evaluation;
(b)   Market and demand studies;
(c)    Office equipment and supplies, travel and incremental operating costs; and
(d)    Support for the development and functioning of the projects Directorate.
23



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
Bolivia: Indigenous Peoples Development Project
Culturally based pilot investments                        5.27          0              5.27
Poverty reduction monitoring and learning                 0.64          0              0.64
Project management                                        0.45                        0.45
Total Baseline Cost                                       6.36          0              6.36
Physical Contingencies                                 0              0             0
Price Contingencies                                    0.28           0             0.28
Total Project Costs                                       6.64          0              6.64
Total Financing Required                                  6.64          0              6.64
Goods                                                     0.03          0              0.03
Services                                                  1.44          0              1.44
Community subprojects                                    4.96           0              4.96
Incremental operational costs                             0.21          0              0.21
Total Project Costs                                       6.64          0              6.64
Total Financing Required                                  6.64          0              6.64
24



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
[To be completed only to the extent applicable for LIL]
Country: Project Title
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
Main Assumptions:
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
25



ANNEX 4: OTHER
- To be completed only to the extent applicable to LIL)
Country: Project Title
Summary of benefits and costs:
Main Assumpt Dns:
Sensitivity ana/ysis / Switching values of critical items:
26



Annex 5: Financial Summary
Bolivia: Indigenous Peoples Development Project
Years Ending: December 31
1. Implementation Period
Year I   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5   Year 6   Year 7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs          0.57      2.58      2.29     0.29
Recurrent Costs           0.24      0.30      0.29     0.08
Total Project Costs          0.81      2.88      2.58      0.37
Total Financing              0.81      2.88      2.58      0.37
Financing
IDA                       0.56      2.20      1.97     0.27
Government                0.15      025       0.23     0.05
Beneficiaries             0.10      0.43      0.38     0.05
Total Project Financing      0.81      2.88      2.58     0.37      0         0         0
27



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Bolivia: Indigenous Peoples Development Project
Procurement
A) Procurement Arrangements
Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out in accordance with the provisions stipulated in the
Credit Agreement and IDA's Guidelines for Procurement (published in January 1995, revised in January and
August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999) for goods; and IDA's Guidelinesfor Selection and
Employment of Consultants (published in January 1997, revised in September 1997 and January 1999) for
consultant assignments and management contracts. Standard bidding documents agreed with the GOB would be
used where applicable.
1) Procurement methods
IDA would finance community-based subprojects, consulting and management services, goods and
equipment, training and incremental operating costs. The methods described below and their estimated amounts
are summarized in Table A. The threshold contract values for the use of each method are established in table B.
Procurement of Community Subproiects
Community-based subprojects, totaling US$ 4.96 million (of which 4.00 by IDA), include technical
assistance, small works, goods and equipment, operational costs or a combination thereof. The management
service entity(ies) would sign lump-sum contracts with legally established communities or small-producer
groups to carry out approved subprojects in accordance with guidelines established in the Operational Manual
and acceptable to IDA. Grants for community-based subprojects would have a ceiling of US$30,000 and would
require beneficiary communities and small-producer groups to provide at least 25% in labor, kind, cash or a
combination thereof towards the cost of the subproject. The Operational Manual would stipulate the
requirement that procurement would be done through the comparison of three price quotations from qualified
suppliers and contractors, to the extent that this is possible.
Goods and equipment for MACPIO
The total cost of goods and equipment for the MACPIO's Project Implementing Unit (PIU) is estimated
at US$ 35,000. This amount includes office equipment, furniture and office supplies. Whenever possible,
procurement of goods and equipment would be grouped in packages to cost $35,000 or more. Procurement of
goods under contracts estimated to cost US$50,000 equivalent or less shall be based on the comparison of price
quotations (shopping) obtained from three local suppliers and would based on a model request for quotations
satisfactory to IDA.
Consulting. Management Services and Training
Consulting services under the project would amount to US$ 1.44 million (US$ 0.88 million of which
would be IDA financed). The services consist of: (i) management service contracts with MACPIO for
administering the grants for community subprojects; (ii) consulting services provided by individuals and
technical assistance by firms to MACPIO and national-level indigenous organizations; and (iii) technical
assistance services by individuals, NGOs or firms to indigenous communities and small-producer groups for
pre-investment studies.
To facilitate the work of communities and small-producer groups as to technical assistance provision,
MACPIO would prepare a list of eligible, pre-qualified consultants and NGOs from which they would be able to
contract. This list would not imply an endorsement by the project nor would it limit the eligibility of
consultants. It would be updated yearly through advertising and a special registration procedure; nonetheless,
access to enroll in the register should be open to qualified consultants during the whole year. The initial list and
contracting procedures would be included in the Project Operational Manual.
28



Contracts for consultant and management services exceeding US$100,000 per contract would be
selected on the basis of quality and cost (QCBS) in accordance with the Guidelines. For consultant services
estimated not to exceed $100,000 equivalent per contract: (i) specialized studies and performance evaluation
assignments would be selected on the basis of quality-based (QBS) methods as provided in paragraph 3.2 of the
Consultant Guidelines; (ii) financial audits would be selected on the basis of quality and cost (QCBS) method as
provided in Section 11 of the Consultant Guidelines; and (iii) services of training, procurement audits and
evaluation workshops would be selected on the basis of comparison of qualification as set forth in paragraph 3.7
of the Consultant Guidelines   MACPIO would recruit personnel for the PIU on the basis of merit and through
competitive processes. National-level indigenous organizations and indigenous communities and producer
groups would recruit individual consultants from a short list of at least three candidates. The selection would be
based on the consultant's qualifications. A sample letter of invitation, award criteria and a sample contract, all
acceptable to IDA, would be included in the Project Operational Manual. The single source selection of
consultants firms up to an aggregate amount of $80,000 would be applied when rapid selection is essential and
for very small assignments of less than $20,000.
Incremental Operating Costs
The project would finance incremental operating costs of the PIU and Regional Monitoring and
Evaluating Units (PMEUs) that include office supplies, utilities, travel expenditures, publications and
communication services. These items would be procured according to shopping procedures to the extent that
this is practical.
2) Prior Review Thresholds
The thresholds assigned for prior review are summarized in Table B below. They have been established
on the basis of a procurement capacity assessment carried out to the Project Implementing Unit and thresholds
approved for Bolivia in the CDF context. In addition to this prior review of individual procurement actions, the
project procurement plan would be reviewed and approved annually by the Bank.
B) Procurement Risk Assessment
An assessment of MACPIO's capacity assessment to administer project procurement on December 1,
2000, and findings and recommendations, as well as the action plan were cleared by the Regional Procurement
Advisor on December 5, 2000. During the assessment due consideration was given to the institutional
framework and participatory arrangements foreseen in the design of the project to be applied during project
implementation. The assessment covered the review of the legal framework which governs MACPIO's
operations in procurement and related administrative tasks; organizational units and functions; staffing; use of
procurement documents; appropriateness and dimensions of available technological infrastructure (hardware and
office equipment) and information technology and communications which provides daily support to the
agency's operations; procurement planning; management of the procurement cycle; support and control systems;
record keeping and filing systems and readiness of the PIU to issue PMRs.
The risks identified in the assessment include: (i) no previous experience on Bank procurement
procedures; (ii) the likelihood of MACPIO and indigenous political organizations interfering in subproject
selection and award contracting activities; (iii) unrealistic procurement planning due to lack of previous
experience in the use of this kind of tools. Specific actions are proposed in the capacity assessment report and
action plan attached to it for management of these risks.
The overall project risk for management of procurement is HIGH. In the context of the Bolivia Pilot, it
corresponds to assign the prior-review thresholds defined for Group C approved for Bolivia and specified in
Section A.2 above. Upgrading of this risk level for management of procurement contingent upon satisfactory
implementation of the action plan included in the agency capacity assessment report.
29



C) Procurement Plan
At appraisal, the Borrower's implementing agency developed a preliminary procurement plan for
project implementation which provided the basis for the aggregate amounts for the procurement methods (per
Table A). This plan should be approved by the Regional Procurement Advisor. At the beginning of each
calendar year, and every six months thereafter, the Borrower shall update the procurement Plan including a
detailed procurement schedule for the forthcoming semester and a preliminary schedule for the subsequent
semester.
D) Monitoring and Progress Reporting
Starting with the completion of each fiscal year of project implementation, MACPIO would prepare annual
reports on the implementation of the culturally-based pilot investment subprojects and poverty-reduction
monitoring and learning components, including results achieved on project procurement implementation. These
reports would include an updated Annual Operation Plan (POA) for implementation of the said components
during the corresponding year. The POA would provide, in turn, the basis for the preparation and
implementation of the procurement plan.
E) Frequency of Procurement Supervision
In addition to the prior review supervision to be perforned from Bank offices, the capacity assessment has
recommended to carry out two full supervision missions, including field visits. Based on the overall risk
assessment (HGH), the post review field analysis should cover a sample of not less than I in 5 contracts signed.
Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements'
in US$million e uivalent
1. Goods                         0.00         0.00        0.03a/                    0.03
_______________________   (  )  (  )  (0.02)  (  )   (0.02)
2. Consultants                                             1.44b/                    1.44
Services
(  )         (  )           (0.88)    (  )           (0.88)
3. Community                                               4.96                     4.96
Subprojects
(  )         (  )           (4.00)    (  )            (4.00)
4. Incremental                                             0.21                     0.21
operating costs
(  )  (  )         ~~~~~(0.1I0)    ()(0.1I0)
Total                                                  6.64                      6.64
(  )         (  )           (5.00)    (  )           (5.00)
Note:  N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed (includes elements procured under parallel cofinancing procedures, consultancies
under trust funds, any reserved procurement, and any other miscellaneous items). The procurement arrangement
for the items listed under "Other" and details of the items listed as "N.B.F." need to be explained in footnotes to the
table or in the text.
For details on presentation of Procurement Methods refer to OD 1 1.02, "Procurement Arrangements for Investment
Operations." Details on Consultant Services can be shown more easily in the Table Al formnat (additional to Table A,
where applicable).
30



Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan/IDA credit
Footnotes:
a/ Shopping (Local): contracts awarded on the basis of price quotations obtained from at least three local qualified domestic
suppliers.
b/ Consultant Services: contracts awarded to firms using Quality-and Cost-Based Selection Method; Quality-Based Selection
Method (up to an aggregate amount of $.24 million) and to individual consultants on the basis of comparison of qualifications
(up to an aggregate amount of $.66 million) in accordance with provisions of paragraphs 5.1 to 5.3 of the Consultants
Guidelines.
Annex 6, Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(in US$million equivalent)
_ ______ _ _    QCBS      QBS       SFB       LCS      CQ      Other   N.B.F. | _l
A. Firms                  0.54   |  0.24 |           l         l      |          {       |      0.78
(0.38)     (0.18) (  )       (  )            .  )                    (0.56)
B. Individuals                   l         l         l         l      |  0.66                   0.66
(  )  [( )   lf    l(   )    (   ) |(0.31 D_          )    (0.31)
Total    0.54        0.24                                 0.66                   1.44
(0.38)     (0.18)  (  )      (  )    (  )    (0.31)  (  )              (0.87)
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per paragraphs 5.1 to 5.3 set forth in Section V of the Consultants Guidelines).
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank credit.
31



Annex 6. Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review2
Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review3
us U$                                   | US $ millions 
1. Goods and        lll|
Works|ll 
l > $200,000           ICB              Prior review: All
$50,000<Contract<        NCB              Prior review: each
$200.000                         contract estimated to
cost $100,000
equivalent or more
<= $50,000       Price Comparison      Prior review: twice-
(LS)             yearly review of
procurement plan
Post review: random
sample of contracts
<=$30,000              CP              As provided in the
Operational Manual
As provided in the    Other methods of      As provided in the
Procurement Plan      procurement           Procurement Plan
2. Consultants
Services
Firms                 As provided in the    QCBS, QBS             Prior review: All
Consultants Selection                       TORs, short lists and
Plan                                   evaluation reports
(including full review
of technical and final
combined evaluations)
of each contract
estimated to cost
$50,000 equivalent or
more.
As provided in the      QCBS, QBS         Prior review: twice-
Consultants Selection                      yearly review of
Plan                           Consultants Selection
Plan.
Post review: random
sample of contracts
2   Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
3Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
32



Individuals                                       IC              Prior review for
Consultants: All TORs,
CVs, and form of
agreement of each
contract estimated to
cost $20,000 or more
IC             Prior review: twice-
yearly review of
Consultants Selection
Plan
Post review: random
sample of contracts
As provided in the    Other methods of      As provided in the
Consultants Selection  Selection            Consultants Selection
Plan                                        Plan
3. Amendments         Above the original                          Prior review or Post
and extensions of       amount                                    Review for
contracts                                                         Consultants, as the
______________________________________________________case may be.
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:
High
Average
Low
Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
I I.  'Fhe IDA credit of UJS$5 million is expected to be disbursed over a period of 39 months, beginning the
fourth quarter of IDA FY200 I through the second quarter of IDA FY 2004. The project completion date would
be 06/30/04 and the closing date would be 12/31/04.
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Goods                                  0.02                        70%
Consultant services                    0.83                        70%
Incremental operating costs            0.10              80% until December 31, 2002
and 60% thereaftei
Community subprojects                  3.80                100% of the amount of the
Grant
Unallocated                            0.25
Total Project Costs                    5.00
33



12.   Goods include: (i) office equipment, (ii) furniture and (iii) office supplies for MACPIO. Consultant
services include: (i) the MSE(s) contracts; (ii) specialized studies and performance evaluation; (iii) financial
audits; and (iv) services of training, procurement audits and evaluation workshops. Incremental operating costs
include: (i) office supplies, (ii) utilities, (iii) travel expenditures, (iv) publications and (v) communication
services. Community subprojects include: (i) technical assistance; (ii) training; (iii) small works; (iv) goods and
equipment, (v) production inputs; or (vi) a combination thereof.
Use of statements of expenses (SOEs):
13.   Disbursements would be made on the basis of full documentation for all expenditures under contracts
requiring prior review by IDA and amendments to contracts raising the values of such contracts above the prior
review limits (see Table B, Annex 6). Disbursements would be made on the basis of SOEs for: (i) goods; (ii)
consultant services under US$50,000; and (iii) all disbursements under community subprojects. Supporting
documents would be held in MACPIO's PIU as well as in the Management Service Entity (MSE). An action
plan has been agreed to produce PMRs for the first half of 2001 by September 30, 2001, and a conversion to
PMR based disbursements would be effected by the end of 2001.
14.   The Project Implementation Unit would advance the MSE funds for the specific payments planned for
each week and receive the due support within 14 days and in any case not effect further advances until the
outstanding advance has been returned or documentary evidence provided. The amount of the advance would
not exceed 7 days of contract execution in the aggregate number of subprojects under implementation. The total
advance outstanding would never exceed US$100,000. Under the service contract the MSE would be required to
present its annual audited financial statements to the Project Unit. Disbursements for goods and consultants
outside of community subprojects would be effected directly by the Project Unit and be supported by
corresponding documentary support. All checks would require two signatures, and be prepared on the basis of a
payment order from the Financial Administration Manager.
Special account:
15.   A Special Account in US dollars would be opened at the Central Bank of Bolivia in the name of
MACPIO with an authorized allocation of US$300,000. The counterpart portion of payments would be directed
by the Ministry through a separate counterpart local currency account to the supplier of the goods or services.
The project's most significant component is the sub-grants which would be managed by a Management Services
Outfit (MSE) under contract to the Project. This MSE would evaluate proposals from the communities by the
criteria established in the Operations manual, approve acceptable proposals and manage their execution. The
communities would select and hire the contractors of the goods, services or works considered in the sub-grants.
The MSE would determine the progress payments under the contract and effect the corresponding payments
from the weekly advances from the PIU on the basis of the requisite documentary support.
34



Annex 7: Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Bolivia: Indigenous Peoples Development
Time taken to prepare the project                  5                    11
(months)
First IDA mission (identification)            01/17/2000            01/17/2000
Appraisal mission departure                    04/24/2000           12/12/2000
Negotiations                                  05/02/2000            12/21/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                 08/01/2000            04/1/2000
Prepared by: Ministry of Peasant Affairs, Indigenous and Originary Peoples (MACPIO)
Preparation assistance: PHRD grant.
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
David Tuchschneider                              Rural Development Specialist
Vladimir Pary                                    Consultant, Rural Development
Rosa Maria Balcazar                              Civil Society Specialist
Lee Anne Adams                                   Operations Analyst
Paul Sisk                                        Financial Management Specialist
Keisgner Alfaro                                  Procurement Specialist
Luis Gazoni                                      Procurement Specialist
David Varela                                     Legal counsel
Xiomara Morel                                    FMS / Disbursement officer
Juan Martinez                                    Indigenous Development Specialist
35



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
Bolivia: Indigenous Peoples Development Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Plan de Implementaci6n del Proyecto. Diciembre 2000. MACPIO.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Procurement Capacity Assessment. December 2000. Keisgner Alfaro.
Financial Management Assessment. December 2000. Paul Sisk.
C. Other
1.- Documento Estrat6gico de Proyecto. December 2000, MACPIO.
2.- Complementary documents:
Ayuda Memoria de misi6n de enero de 2000, IDA.
Perfil de proyecto, March 2000, VAIPO.
POA de preparaci6n de proyecto, April 2000, VAIPO
3.- Memoires of project preparation workshops:
Consulta Nacional para Preparaci6n del Proyecto, April 2000, Atinchik
Consulta Regional Amaz6nica, Trinidad, September 2000, IBIS
Consulta Regional Chaquenia, Santa Cruz, September 2000, IBIS
Consulta Regional Andina, La Paz, October 2000, IBIS
Consulta Nacional, La Paz, November 2000, IBIS
4.- Project cost tables, December 2000, MACPIO.
5.- Documents elaborated by the Project Preparation Unit:
- Filtro Cultural, September de 2000. H. Romero
- Tipos de proyectos, September 2000. H. Romero
- Identificaci6n de indicadores municipales de carencia y establecimiento de indicadores de
evaluaci6n
de impacto en areas con presencia indigena, September 2000. E. Rojas
- Versiones ejecutivas de las politicas instrumentales para regiones andina, amaz6nica y chaco
oriental,
September 2000. E. Rojas
- Propuesta breve: Economia politica y politica econ6mica para pueblos indigenas y originarios,
September 2000. H. Romero
- Propuesta: Ley financiera para pueblos indigenas y originarios, September 2000, H. Romero.
6.- Prototype subprojects:
Estudio de Etonoecoturismo en B. Saavedra, December 2000, Atec
Estudio sobre artesanias, December 2000, C. Perez
Estudio de Farmacopea, December 2000, ATEC.
Estudio de Etnoecoturismo en Santa Cruz, December 2000, I. Pino
7.- Consultoria sobre sistema administrativo (Manual). December 2000, J. Imaffa
8.- Diagnostico Nacional de Pueblos Indigenas y Originarios, December 2000, J. Nufiez del Prado.
9.- Sistematizaci6n de la demanda potencial (boletas de campo), October 2000, VAIPO
10.- Borrador de Manual de Operaciones, December 2000, MACPIO.
*Including electronic files.
36



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
BOLIVIA: Sustainability of the National System of Protected Areas
1 5-Oct-2000
Difference between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                     and actual
rIsDursemenisa
Project ID      FY            Purpose                               IBRD       IDA        SF        GEF    Cancel.   Undisb.         Orig   Frm Rev'd
P055230         1999     ABAPO-CAMIRI HIGHWAY                       0.00      88.00                            0.00      87.00      22.88       0.00
P055974         1998     BO EL NINO EMERGENCY                       0.00      25.00                             000       7.11       5.84       179
P006204         1998     EDUCATION QUALITY                          0.00      75.00                             0.00     54.72      18.15       0.00
P006181         1995     EDUCATION REFORM                           0.00      40.00                             0.00     14.43       9.83       5.93
P006186         1996     ENVIND&MINING                              0.00      11.00                             000       7.45       6.20       0.79
P040110         1998     FIN DECEN & ACCT                           0.00      15.00                             0.00      6.05       -010       0.00
P060392         1999     HEALTH REFORM                              0.00      25.00                             0.00      17.67      4.44       0.00
P065902         2000     HYDROCARBON SECTOR SOCIAL &                0.00       4.80                             0.00      4.93       0.00       0.00
P062790         1999     ENVIRM.(LIL)                               0.00      32.00                             0.00     28.70       3.59       0.00
P006196         1993     INSTREF(OLDCIVS)                           0.00      50.70                            20.00      12.64     34.01      13.26
P006197         1995    INTEGRATED CHILD DEV                        0.00      20.40                             0.00       1.97      0.00       0.00
P040085         1998     LAND ADMINISTRATION                        0.00      62.80                             0.00     43.57       -0.56      0.00
P006160         1992     PARTICIPRURALINV.                          0.00      80.00                             0.00      6.33       4.51       460
P057030         1999     RD MAINT                                   0.00      41.78                             0.00      19.53     17.70       0.00
P057396         1998     REGREFORMADJCREDI                          0.00      20.00                             0.00      15.35       3.34      0.00
P006206         1996     REGULATORY REFORM &                        0.00      20.00                             0.00       3.88      3.19       5.37
PRIVATIZATION (TA)
RURAL WTR & SANIT
Total:        0.00     611.48                           20.00      331.33     133.02      31.74
37



BOLIVIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
15-Oct-2000
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                     Disbursed
IFC                           IFC
FY Approval           Company               Loan  Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan  Equity  Quasi  Partic
1976/88/90/91/95/98  BISA                   0.00    0.46    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.46    0.00    0.00
1991                 Bermejo                0.00    0.86    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00
1989/92/94/96/00     COMSUR                10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00
1999                 Caja Los Andes         1.80    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.80   0.00    0.00    0.00
1991                 Central Aguirre        0.28    0.35    0.00    0.00    0.28   0.35    0.00    0.00
1999                 Electropaz            25.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   15.00   0.00    0.00    0.00
1993                 GENEX                  0.08    0.00    0.54    0.00    0.08    0.00    0.54    0.00
1999                 Illimani              15.00    1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00
1992                 Inti Raymi             0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    5.00    0.00
1996                 Mercantil-BOL          8.57    0.00    0.00    0.00    8.57    0.00    0.00    0.00
0/89                  Minera                0.00    0.40    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.40    0.00    0.00
1996                 Telecel Bolivia        8.52    0.00    4.44   14.82    5.19   0.00    4.44   10.37
Total Portfolio:    69.25   3.07    9.98   14.82   30.92    1.21    9.98   10.37
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval          Company                       Loan    Equity    Quasi   Partic
2001                 Banco Ganadero             5000.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
Total Pending Commitment:   5000.00    0.00     0.00     0.00
38



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
Latn   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                        Ameica   middle-                                    . ...-
Boivdia  & Carlb.  Income     Delopment dlamond
1999
Pooulation. mid-year (mIitions)                     8.1       50      2.094                Life expectancy
GNP oer caoita (Atls method. USS1                 1.000     3.840     1.2OO
GNP (Atlas method US$ bilIons)                      8.1     1.95M     2.513
Averauo annual arowth. 1993-99
Poculation t%J                                      2.3       1.6       1.1
Labor force (%)                                     2.8       2.5       1.2     GNP                            Gross
per              7/           Primary
Most recent est    atest veer avallabic 1993*9)                                 capita            ,'       enrolment
Povert (% of Coooultion below national Dovertv hne)  67         -
Urban nonulatton (%oftotalaoooation)                 62        75       43
Life exDectancev at birth (vesrs)                    62        70       69
Infant mortality (oer l.000 liv bi0sl                60        31       33
Chtld mahnutrifon (% of9chfn under 5)                 8         8        15              Acoess to safe water
Access to Imoroved water wuce % of ooDulation)       80        75        88
lliteracy (% otfooDutaton aae 15*)                   15        12       16
Gross orimarv enrollment (%of soae ovuatin)          91       113      114              Bd
Male                                               95                 114        --- Lower-midde-nrcome group
Female                                             87        ..       116
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS nd LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979    19B9      19"e      1t"      .. ..             r       --.-'..'
Economic rstios'
GDP (USS blions)                            2.7     4.7       8.5       8.3
Gross domestic investment/GDP              17.9    11.6      23.1      18.9
ExDorts of ooods and servicesfGOP          29.3    22.5      20.0      17.4a
Gross domestic savinns/GDP                   ..
Gross national savinastGOP                   ..     7.1      12.1      12.3
Current acount balance/GOP                -14.9    -4.8       7.9       6.7     Dostic
Interest oevmentslGDP                      .4.8     2.0       1.7       Z0      Savings                    Investnient
Total detylGDP                             95.8    87.6      71.5      74.1
Total debt sevicexexots                    33.4    31.8      30.1      31.8                       /
Present value ofdebVGDP                      .               57.9
Present value of debtexorts                           .     317.1
Indebtedness
1979-89  1989-99    1998     It9   19ff43
(averace annual orwth)
GDP                               -0.9     4.2      6.5       0.6       6.4              tv
GNP oe caota                      -2.3      1.8     4.1      -2.2       3.1              Lower-middle-income group
Exoorts of ooods and sevices       0.3      5.4     8.8       *9.7      7.7
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979    1989      1998      1399     Growth of nvestment and GD 
(% of GDP)                                                                      40
Aanculture                                   ..      ..      18.9      18.4
Industrv                                    ..       ..      18.7      18.1    20 1
Manufacturina                               ..      ..      14.8      14 6-
Services                                     ..      ..      62.4      63.5
Private consumotion                       74.8    77.1       75.1      76.2   -20
General oovemnmentconsumotion              15.1    11.9      14.1      14.6                   GDI       e  GODP
Imoorts of aoods and services              37.1    23.2      32.4      27.1
1979489  1989-99     198      199       Growth of exports and knports I%)
(averaa7e annual orowth)
Aariculture                                  ..20
Industry                                     ..      ..
Manufacturina                               ..     4.0       2.8       3.3 .
Services                                     ..      ..                   .     o
Private consumotion                        2.9      3.6       5.5       1.9    101
General covemment consumoton               -3.8     3.4       3.5       2.6
Gross domestc investment                   -2.0    10.0      24.4    -18.2   *20
Imoorts of coods and services               1.8     6.6      18.5    -16.7                  Expors   " -mports
Gross national Droduct                     -0.3     4.3       8.8       0.1
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators In the countrv tin boldl comoared with its income-arouo averaoe. If data are missina. the diamond will
be incomolete.
39



Bolivia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                                      1939      1998     1999      Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                       15 -
Consumer prices                                ..    16.6       4.4       3.1610
Implicit GDP deflator                       19.3    13.2        7.0       2.8
Government finance                                                                s
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                               o -
Current revenue                                ..    21.2      23.9      24.6            94   95   96   97   98   99
Current budget balance                        ..       ..       1.6       2.0                 GDP deflator      0  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                              -5.7      -4.0      -4.3
TRADE
(USS mdllions)                             1979    1989        1998     1999      Export and import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                            .      723     1,105    1,051     200o0
Tin                                                 129         66       69
Zinc                                         ..    214         159      154    1,5C0
Manufactures                                 ..               195       220
Total imports (cif)                                   862     1,983    1,755    1,000
Food                                         .    .              .    .             Jd*~+   99
Fuel and energy             *                         .
Capital goods                                ..      ..         ..       ..        o
93  94  90 se  97 98          9
ExDort Dnce index (1995=100)                                     90       84
Imoort once index (1995=100)                                     79        ..                    Exports      Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                      -        -       114
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1979    1989       1998     19        Current account balance to GDP (%)
(USS millions)
Exports of goods and services               865      895      1,356    1,311      0
Imports of goods and services              1,129    1,026     2,201     1,989
Resource balance                            -264    -131       -844      -678
Net income                                  -184    -249       -160      -205
Net current transfers                        51       156       330      323       i                   -i i .
Current account balance                     -397    -225       -675      -559 
Financing items (net)                       356       85        803      602
Changes in net reserves                       41      140      -128       -42    *e
Memo:
Reserves indudina oold (US$ millions)          ..    361      1.185     1.115
Conversion rate (DEC. locallUS$)         3.OOE-5      2.7       5.5       5.8
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979    1989       1998     1999
(USS millions)                                                                    Composltion of 1999 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       2,556    4,132     6,090     6,170
IBRD                                       105     199         26        13
IDA                                        62      325      1,045     1,098          G:1.098
G: 1,261
Total debt service                           292     292        468      430
IBRD                                        10      37         16        12 
IDA                                          1        3        13        17244
Composition of net resource flows                                                    F8 668
Official grants                             51      178       232         ..
Official creditors                         114     242        102       178
Prvate creditors                           109      -18       -12       -24                    _        !
Foreign direct investment                   35     -24        872                     E- 10 D: 1,807
Portfolio equity                             0        0         ..       ..            .,07
World Bank program
Commitments                                 20      101       228       145     A- IBRO                    E -Bilateral
Disbursements                               36       79        88        82     B - IDA    D - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                         2       20        19        26     C - IMF                    G - Short-term
Net flows                                   34       59        69        56
Interest payments                            9       20        10        10
Net transfers                               25       39        60        46
Development Economics                                                                                               9/6/00
40



Annex 11: Preliminary Social Assessment
Bolivia: Indigenous Peoples Development Project
Introduction
In 1999 a grant agreement was signed between the Republic of Bolivia and IDA aimed at building the capacity
of indigenous people's organizations to design and implement development strategies, based on the
interconnection between biodiversity and indigenous cultural patrimony as an important resource for economic
development. The grant was to cover the preparatory cost of an Indigenous Development LIL. The initial
objective was to prepare an Indigenous Development Plan to include financing economic initiatives,
infrastructure and social projects by creation of a fund to finance small projects. VAIPO, the executing entity,
would be responsible for guidance, organization planning and monitoring of the indigenous participatory
process. These objectives we modified during an Identification Mission in January 2000. The Mission
determined that: (i) the proposed LIL project would be oriented toward involving indigenous groups in the
definition, monitoring and implementation of the PRSP; (ii) decision-making mechanisms would be considered
a central element in a process of indigenous demand-generation; (iii) part of these demands would be covered
through a co-financing technical assistance and capacity building mechanism; (iv) this mechanism would allow
indigenous groups to participate in the PRSP implementation and would support the learning and innovation
management inherent in the LIL. In addition, three additional measures would be undertaken: (i) an indigenous
Directorate would be created; (ii) three indigenous professionals would be incorporated to the Project
preparation team and (iii) the project would be designed through a participatory consultation process. In April
2000, the scope of the project was refined to demonstrate that culturally-based initiatives of indigenous
communities can contribute to income generation and poverty reduction.
A series of regional and national workshops with representatives of 35 indigenous people's organizations from
the three regions of the country: Andean, Amazon and Chaco-Orient of the country were organized, and a
survey administered by indigenous professional was carried out in the three identified regions. As a result of
this process, indigenous organizations defined the framework for the LIL project determining that the project
would finance indigenous communities in the rural areas from the three regions provided they fulfilled with
eligibility criteria and were centered on an indigenous cultural basis .Indigenous groups would contribute
counterpart resources in order to obtain the following objectives and expected results:
-  Demonstrate that culturally-based initiatives of indigenous communities can contribute to income
generation and poverty reduction. In addition, by bringing their own worldviews and cultural
perspectives into the wider effort to reduce poverty, which GOB is implementing through the PRS, it is
expected that indigenous peoples' needs would be met in a more appropriate and effective manner;
*  Finance on a pilot basis a number of demand-driven, community or small-producer initiatives which
aim to improve the conditions in which indigenous peoples sell their products or services;
*  Initiatives would be based on the existing knowledge and resources of the different ethnic groups, which
provide them with a comparative advantage for improving their insertion into the market;
*  Participation in local power structures would be strengthened since productive initiatives would be self-
managed and the indigenous professionals and technicians would receive quality education;
*  Indigenous women will fully participate in all spheres;
*  Environmental conditions will be enhanced and natural resources conserved.
1. Methodology of the preliminary social assessment
The preliminary social assessment is based on information gathered during the preparation of a National
Diagnosis of Bolivia Indigenous People, a survey administered by indigenous professional to the indigenous
people in the three regions of the country and a series of regional and national participatory workshops with
leaders and indigenous producers of the Andean, Amazon and Chaco-Orient regions of the country.
41



The social assessment carried out during project allowed indigenous representatives from 35 indigenous
organizations to participate directly in the definition of project objectives and expected results, the target
population, eligibility criteria for beneficiaries, culturally-based criteria, counterpart resources of the
beneficiaries, innovative character of the project, the system for monitoring and evaluation of the initiatives, and
the indigenous institutions that would be part of the Directorate as well as their responsibilities and roles.
The project team included five consultants, three of which were professional indigenous representatives of the
three regions of the country. Indigenous consultants were the direct link with the indigenous communities when
the participatory workshops were convened. In addition, they administered a survey in the three regions to
identify (i) eligible sectors to develop economic projects; (ii) factors of success or failure; (iii) vision of market;
(iv) best type of organization to implement the initiatives and (v)potential partnerships.
The consultative process included economic producers, regional and national indigenous leaders organizations
(women and men) from the three regions, traditional leaders from ayllus y markas of the Andean Region and
indigenous peasants. The CSUTCB, national organization of indigenous people from the Andean Region
(Confederacion Sindical Unica de Trabajadores Campesinos de Bolivia), its regional federaciones (8), the
Confederaci6n Sindical de Mujeres Campesinas Bartolina Sisa (national organization of indigenous women
from the Andean region), CIDOB, main organization of indigenous people from Amazon and Chaco-Orient
region (Confederacion de Pueblos Indigenas del Oriente), its seven regional organizations, the CPIB
(Confederacion de Pueblos Indigenas del Beni-Amazonia) and its seven regional organizations, the CMIB
(Confederacion de Mujeres Indigenas del Beni-Amazonia), the CTCB (Confederacion de Trabajadores
Colonizadores de Bolivia) and CONAMA-Q (Consejo Nacional de Ayllus y Markas del Qullasuyu) traditional
organization from ayllus y markas from the Andean region attended the workshops.
These organizations have approved the most important issues of the project. In the negotiation round table for
the credit negotiation, two representatives from CIDOB and CSUTCB would participate.
3. Beneficiary indigenous people: historical context and current situation
Bolivia has a total population of around 8,000,000 million. The indigenous people are 4.6 millions (58%). The
larger ethnic groups are quechuas with 2.3 millions and aymaras with 1,3 millions. Together they conform the
most numerous ethnic group since quechuas are 2.5 millions and aymaras 1,3 millions. They represent 85
percent of the indigenous population. The rest of indigenous people, living in Amazon and Chaco region are
700.000 persons, representing 9 percent of the country's total population 15 percent of the total indigenous
population.
Bolivia is the South American country with the largest indigenous population in South America. It has 35
indigenous groups . The main groups include aymaras, quechuas and guaranies
Aymaras. Represent a population above 1.4 million individuals, distributed in Bolivia's High Plateau covering
the departments of La Paz and Oruro and parts of Potosi and Cochabamba departments. Their economic
activities are diverse: in agricultural production agricultural production (potato, quinua, vegetables and fruits),
livestock (South American camelids, cows and sheep) in handicrafts (jewelry, ceramic and textiles), in mining
(silver, gold, tin).
Quechua. Represent a total population of 2,298,980 They are distributed among Cochabamba, Potosi,
Chuquisaca, Tarija and La Paz departments. Their economic activities are agriculture production (potato, corn,
vegetables and fruits), livestock (sheep and cows), handicrafts (jewelry, ceramics and textiles).
Guaranies. This group includes 77,126 individuals living in the Chaco-Orient and Amazon region of the
country. Previously the occupied a large territory extending from Sara province in Santa Cruz to the south of
Argentina and to the east of Paraguay. Their economic activities are agricultural production specially corn),
handicrafts and a few cattle.
Chiquitanos. It is estimated that this group includes 63,520 individuals grouped in 323 communities in
department of Santa Cruz in the Chaco-Orient region. Their principal economic activity Es based in the
agricultural, recollection of fruits and tubers, hunting and fish.
42



Other groups mostly inhabiting the Amazon, Orient and tropical lowlands of La Paz, Cochabamba, Tarija,
Pando, Beni, Santa Cruz, Oruro departments have a population representing from 17 individuals to 38.000
individuals of the Trinatario group.
Main findings of the Diagnosis
Survey Questionnaire. The diagnosis included: (i) administration of a survey questionnaire to 307
indigenous leaders and 140 public and private institutions and (ii) twenty one focal group discussions in the
three regions.
Focal groups. This exercise was aimed at defining more precisely the demand of indigenous groups in
the Andean, Amazon and Orient regions. The main demand across the three regions is related to environmental
issues followed by education and production and marketing. Sixty seven percent of the participants stated that
they were already marketing their products or considered they could do so. A total of 71 percent of the
participants believed that credit was essential for their economic development. A number of unstructured
interviews were also conducted during the focal group discussion. These interviews resulted in a ranking order
of demeans. The following demands were ranked (i) credit; (ii) training in agricultural production, (iii) building
of irrigation systems; (iv) rural electrification; (v) technical assistance (vi) genetic improvement; (vii) marketing
and (viii) road construction and maintenance.
Strengthens, Weaknesses, Opportunities and Threats (SWOT) Analysis
A Strengths, Weakness, Opportunities and Threats (SWOT) analysis was conducted during preparation. During
the SWOT workshop, attended by almost 100 indigenous leaders main sector issues were identified by the
participants and suggestions made on how to address them. Main sector issues identified include:
Lack of organizational capacities. One of the main weaknesses identified relates to a self-perception of
lack of organizational capabilities and participation of rural women in community affairs. Divisiveness,
indifference and pessimism contribute toward poor organizational capabilities.
Lack of training and possibilities for human resource development. There few training programs
provided in management issues resulting in few qualified technicians and professionals
Lack of knowledge of market mechanisms and conditions. Few economic pilot projects have been
undertaken. Indigenous organizations lack information on market potential for their products as well as rules and
regulations governing marketing of certain products including environmental legislation
Lack offinancial resources andpoor infrastructure There are no credit facilities available to indigenous
groups and most communities are isolated due to lack of road infrastructure and communication facilities.
Participants outlined a vision of the future in which: (i) participation in local power structures would be
strengthened (ii) territorial rights would be consolidated; (iii) an Indigenous People's Law would be passed; (iv)
a Ministry of Indigenous Affairs would be established; (v) productive initiatives would be self-managed; (vi)
indigenous women would fully participate in all spheres; (vii) quality basic services would be provided; (viii)
indigenous professional and technicians would receive quality education; (ix) environmental conditions would
be enhanced and natural resources conserved; (x) cultural values would be reinforced and (xi) market access to
indigenous products ensured.
Participants were also consulted on the results they expected from a possible project intervention. Expected
results included: (i) indigenous groups are able to execute and manage productive economic ventures; (ii)
culturally based innovative are implemented with secure funding; (iii) a monitoring and evaluation system is in
place and (iv) institutional capacity of indigenous organizations and government agencies are strengthened.
Main findings of the survey administered by indigenous professionals
A survey was carried out by professional indigenous to producers organizations in the three regions of the
country involving more than 250 persons to identify:
43



i.  Eligible sectors to develop economic projects: the first option was handicrafts followed by light
agroindustry, food security, ethnoecoturism, pharmacopoeia, communication, cultural services,
agroindustry forestall y biotechnology.
ii. Factors of success or failure. Of success: capacity building in management, quality of products,
technical assistance on production, appropriate technology, identification and access to markets and
capacity building in business, partnerships with the private and public sector, big scale production. Of
failure: weak economic organizations, lack of management capacity, interference of unions leaders in
the economic organizations.
iii. Vision of market. 49% of the interviewees said they prefer national market to sell their products, 20%
the regional y 15% the international.
iv. Best type of organization. 63,5 % considered the small enterprises as the best option and 24% prefer the
community association.
v. Partnership. 59% said they would prefer partnership among indigenous people to use the comparative
advantages of each one. 25% chose joint venture and 15% preferred consorcios or partnerships with the
private and public sector, NGOs and or others.
MAIN FINDINGS OF THE REGIONAL WORKSHOPS
During the project design three regional workshops were held. More than 100 representatives of the
regional organizations and economic producers from the 35 indigenous people attended to define: (i) eligibility
criteria for the beneficiary population (who will be the beneficiary?); (ii) criteria to define the innovative
character of the projects (what will we understand by innovative project?); (iii) cultural criteria (what will be the
criteria to define whether a project has a cultural base or not?); (iv) items to be financed by the project and (v)
the counterpart funds to be provide by the recipients.
A last national workshop with 70 representatives from regional and national indigenous organizations of
the country, including women organizations obtained: (i) validate the definitions of the results obtained in the
regional workshops; (ii) to agree on the organic and institutional structure of project management and the
procedures to its implementation, and (iii) to determine and define the Directory roles and the national
indigenous organizations that will be part of it.
44



Bolivia - Indigenous Peoples
People            Department             Region          Population
Afro Boliviano    La Paz                      Andean            30.722
Araona           La Paz                      Amazon                 97
Aymara           La Paz, Or, Potosi           Andean          1.549.320
Ayoreo           Santa Cruz                  Amazon               3.100
Baure            Beni                        Amazon               4.750
Canichana        Beni                        Amazon               1.500
Cavineino        Beni                        Amazon               2.850
Cayubaba         Pando, Beni                 Amazon               4.500
Chacobo          Beni                        Amazon               1.050
Chiman           Beni, La Paz                Amazon               7.130
Chiguitano       Santa Cruz                  Amazon              61.520
Ese Ejja         Pando, Beni, La Paz         Amazon               2.180
Guarani(ava      Santa Cruz, Chuquisaca       Chaco              75.500
/izozefio/simba
Guarayo          Santa Cruz                  Amazon               9.520
Itonama          Beni                        Amazon               5.240
Joaquiniano      Beni                        Amazon               3.150
Leco             La Paz                       Andina              2.700
Machineri        Pando                       Amazon                 195
More             Beni                        Amazon                 360
Moseten          La Paz, Beni                Amazon               3.280
Movima           Beni                        Amazon               7.100
Moxefio  (trini- Beni                        Amazon              38.500
tario, Ignaciano)
Nahua            Pando                        Amazon               S/D
Pacahuara        Beni                        Amazon                 17
Paconeca         Santa Cruz                  Amazon              3.780
Quechua          Chuq, Cochabamba,            Andean          2.298.980
Potosi, Oruro
Sirion6          Beni                        Amazon               830
Tacana           La Paz, Beni                 Amazon             8.380
Tapiete          Tapiete                      Chaco                172
Toromona         La Paz                      Amazon                S/D
Uru-Chipaya      Oruro                        Andean             2.180
Uru (Murato,     La Paz                       Andean
Hiruito)
Weenhayek        Tarija                       Chaco              2.440
Yaminahua        Pando                        Amazon               390
Yuki             Cochabamba                  Amazon                153
Yuracare         Cochabamba, Beni            Amazon              3.440
David Tuchschneider
M:\David\lndigenous Peoples LlL\Preparation\PAD\BOL_IND_LIL PAD FINAL.doc
12/20/00 12:02 PM
45






IBRD 31131
l~~ I                                                               I 
680                        660                         64A                       62'                        600                              10'-
100 BRAZI L                              ,R      '
BOLIVIA
,>#; 0Nacebe                                                                                     MAIN ROADS
Parvenr             o         sD  /    2                                                              NATIONAL CAPITAL
\  (Porvenir c ,>j<)<                                                                               DEPARTMENT CAPITALS                           120
12                        % .Blanca Flo                                                                        0      SELECTED TOWNS
- J_   - DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES
771 ' Ph. Heth  ,'   f    V  X A   Xt ---INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
SancJ quin
adidi                           L Rogagoodo                         >o   gdalena
gg    <   , j UL. ogaga                L LS       |                                                                                140
14 A'          xima                      c           
e40  Apol           Ry' naqaque             X           $           d - 9 9>                 t>           \                     B R A  Z I L
Apo  ~        ~          ~           Y     Trinicad\(/B                                                                A     I
Coranavi                                .16~~~aor  ~             anJvi                                    SnMa~
MataraniV P Pto.  Viilarroel 2 z \%o                       9                                                           San Rafael                              K
t /       VP  tacamag              CO                      _ 0  0               Puerto Bane5 A         N     T A                                     /
De~~~~ a*C                     bMoantzoir
Deschoro- uarl                                                                                Santa Jruz oL~>lpiasS  
haraiiar'                             I                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ora6n
Tambo      O~~~rL7     j"\MtralSt
18 .)                                                                     5'CR U6
mQeradoAb6
ORU                                                                 PopoS   e* Toa 
Pis 9                              otoL Csiposazs
0        t       X                Rla   ;C/    A                        >                          g                                              $   20~~~0 
''~~y.~~X~~A-     Ro    0051                                                                                                          -  20I
(    ~~~~~       R~Milao                         C~Olg o
F'tin Vi laz6 *             PARAGUAY
- -  Atoch~~~~~~~~  '~~~   ~~                         d Paranogu6
Antofagasta         a                 T(         *            TAR 1                  / !                            600
Pa    ~ ~   ~     I           220         \                    Port. Vei1h,
122e/                                                                                                                    PE0  ,   47iY - i/    220   RUns*   B R Ai Z I L
g  }   rt   ToSa/ta   gtEmbarcaci6n   \e   (  lca    ,cu510e      '-ima            rea
Emb_,--S  a a            \           ;\AF  Uip( aP      BOLIVIA  t    |  *cOOb5
CHILE                                                                                oqoIps*,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ *Cookobo~~~~~.1.  rnid.  C.b
A   R  G   E  N   T  I N   A                                                     *Sont. Cr- 
This mop was produced by the Mop Design Unit of The World Bank.          P,S  c       p t  7            'fuc  _   1
I                                          Theboundaries, colors, denominations and anyother information shown    24'   On     C  ILE'1'"@
40   50   100   1      200250 on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, any                  "I'Jr      _      - _     - \      Asnc9
I0   50   1 00  1 5    200  250   judgment on the legalstatus of any territory, or any endorsement or               Asuncipl
%          ~~KiLOMETERS                                                                                                                        einl'^;
68'                        66'                         640                       620 -                        j   ARGENTINA Te    ereI ,N
NOVEMBER 2000



