                                          Document of
                                       The World Bank




                                                                        Report No: 35911- BO

                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                     (TF-25601 IDA-34710)

                                              ON A

                                            CREDIT

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 4.0 MILLION
                               (US$ 5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                            TO THE

                                    REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA

                                            FOR AN

                              Indigenous Peoples Development Project




                                         April 18, 2006




Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development
Bolivia, Ecuador, Peru and Venezuela Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region

                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                     (Exchange Rate Effective April 18, 2006)

                           Currency Unit = Boliviano
                                      8.07 = US$ 1
                                US$ 1.45 = SDR 1

                                 FISCAL YEAR
                            January 1      December 31

                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
CIDOB       Confederation of Indigenous Peoples of Bolivia (Confederación de Pueblos Indígenas de

            Bolivia)
CONAMAQ     National Council of Qollasuyu Organizations (Consejo Nacional de Ayllus y Markas del

            Qollasuyu)
CSCB        Confederation of Peasant Colonizers (Confederación Sindical de Colonizadores de
Bolivia)
CSUTCB      Peasant Confederation of Bolivia (Confederación Sindical Ünica de Trabajadores
            Campesinos de Bolivia)
DUF         Unified Funds Directorate (Directorio Unico de Fondos)
ENDAR       National Rural Development Strategy (Estrategia Nacional de Desarrollo Agropecuario

            y Rural)
FSMCB-BS    Bartolina Sisa National Federation of Peasant Women (Federación Sindical de Mujeres
            Campesinas de Bolivia - Bartolina Sisa)
HIPC        Highly Indebted Poor-Income Country
IAs         Accompanying Institutions (Instituciones de Acompañamiento)
LIL         Learning and Innovation Loan
LPP         Law of Popular Participation
MACA        Ministry of Peasant and Agricultural Affairs (Ministerio de Asuntos Campesinos y
            Agropecuarios)
MACPIO      Ministry of Peasant Affaires, Indigenous and Originary Peoples (Ministerio de Asuntos
            Campesinos, Pueblos Indígenas y Originarios)
MAIPO       Ministry Indigenous Affairs and Originary Peoples (Ministerio de Asuntos Indígenas y
            Pueblos Originarios)
MSE         Management Services Entity
OPs         Producers Organizations (Organización de Productores)
PDO         Project Development Objective
PIU         Project Implementation Unit
PRS         Poverty Reduction Strategy
SOE         Statement of Expenses
SWOT        Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities and Threats analysis
VAIPO       Vice-Ministry Indigenous Affairs and Originary Peoples


                          Vice President:       Pamela Cox
                        Country Director        Marcelo Giugale
                         Sector Director        Laura Tuck
                         SectorManager          McDonald Benjamin

Task Team Leader  David Tuchschneider

                                           BOLIVIA
                           Indigenous Peoples Development Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            11
6. Sustainability                                                                12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 13
8. Lessons Learned                                                               16
9. Partner Comments                                                              17
10. Additional Information                                                       19
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             27
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             28
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             31
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             36
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             38
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                39
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            40
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results                                              41
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results                                            44

Project ID: P057416                                                  Project Name: Indigenous Peoples Development Project
Team Leader: David Tuchschneider                                     TL Unit: LCSER
ICR Type: Intensive Learning Model (ILM) of ICR                      Report Date: May 9, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: Indigenous Peoples Development Project                   L/C/TF Number: TF-25601; IDA-34710
   Country/Department: BOLIVIA                                                            Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Other social services (29%); Crops (22%); Other industry (22%); Other domestic and
                            international trade (22%); Central government administration (5%)
                  Theme: Indigenous peoples (P); Rural non-farm income generation (P); Poverty strategy, analysis and
                            monitoring (P); Participation and civic engagement (S); Gender (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 12/07/1999                                     Effective: 07/27/2001
     Appraisal: 12/08/2000                                         MTR:                             11/23/2004
      Approval: 02/14/2001                                      Closing: 12/31/2004                 08/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF BOLIVIA/MINISTRY OF INDIGENOUS AFFAIRS AND
                                           ORIGINARY PEOPLES
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Pamela Cox                                     David De Ferranti
Country Director:               Marcelo Giugale                                Isabel M. Guerrero
Sector Manager:                 McDonald P. Benjamin                           Shelton Davis
Team Leader at ICR:             David Tuchschneider                            David Tuchschneider
ICR Primary Author:             David Tuchneider and Juan
                                Morelli


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      UN
   Institutional Development Impact:       N
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
Context: For hundreds of years, social inequalities and poverty have been deeply rooted in Bolivian
society, which has not yet managed to overcome the colonial and republican heritage of exclusion and
discrimination. Most Bolivian institutions still operate under implicit discriminatory practices. Indigenous
peoples, though forming the majority of the population (62% of all individuals over the age of 15 identified
themselves as "indigenous" in the 2001 Census), have long been underrepresented in high-level positions in
government, the private sector and NGOs. They still confront economic and socio-cultural barriers in
attempting to gain access to public and private services, ranging from health and education to credit.
Exclusion is reflected in the poverty statistics: 74% of all indigenous people are poor (53.5% of
non-indigenous) and 53% find themselves in extreme poverty (27% of non-indigenous).

The objective of the project as defined in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) was "to learn how
culturally based productive initiatives of indigenous communities could contribute to income generation and
poverty reduction."     The objective was to be achieved by financing on a pilot basis a number of
demand-driven, community initiatives, aimed at improving access to markets. The initiatives would be
based on the existing knowledge and resources of the different ethnic groups which, it was argued in the
PAD, often provided them with a comparative advantage for improving their insertion into the market. The
project intended to test a mechanism for financing these types of demands, and a participatory monitoring
system for incorporating the lessons learned into the policy and investment measures adopted by the
Government of Bolivia (GOB). By bringing their own worldviews and cultural perspectives into the wider
effort to reduce poverty, which GOB was implementing through the Poverty Reduction Strategy (PRS), it
was expected that indigenous peoples' needs would be met in a more pertinent way.

The project objective was realistic and consistent with GOB's priorities and the Bank's Country
Assistance Strategy's (CAS) Equity Pillar, which aimed to raise the standards of living of the poor, in
particular through: (i) increasing social expenditure for excluded groups; (ii) improving the efficiency and
quality of social services taking into account cultural conditions; and (iii) raising the productivity of
indigenous producers. Report # 21162-BO, May 10,2001.            It would also contribute to the Opportunity
Pillar objective of widening economic growth with better distribution.

The project's objective also reflected indigenous communities' priorities. One of the major constraints
faced by Bolivia's indigenous peoples is their marginalization from the political and development process.
The implementation of the Law of Popular Participation (LPP) has signified a fundamental advance in the
inclusion of indigenous peoples, but many gaps remain. A Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities and
Threats (SWOT) analysis was conducted during project preparation. In this activity, almost 100 indigenous
leaders identified the main sector issues and made suggestions on how to address them. A key issue
identified in the analyses was that local priorities confront rigidities in the provision of co-financing funds
by the Fondo de Inversion Productiva y Social (FPS), as well as sometimes contradictory sector policies in
health, education and basic sanitation. FPS would only finance municipal government investments. These,
though generally derived from the priorities of communities, showed a marked preference for social
investments and usually excluded the needs of producer groups. Hence, productive demands had few
processing channels and were usually left behind. The LIL would seek to test a mechanism for correcting
this gap and would provide the means to influence policy making and implementation, so that initiatives
fostered by the GOB would better reflect the productive priorities of the indigenous population. Subsequent
workshops with indigenous leaders and producer organizations were instrumental in refining the project
objectives and implementation arrangements. Thus, the project also included the need to contribute to
incorporating the views and demands of indigenous peoples into the formulation and implementation of the
Poverty Reduction Strategy.



                                                      - 2 -

3.2 Revised Objective:
No revision to the original project development objective (PDO) was made. However, the key
associated outcome targets were revised responding to GOB's request. Following several implementation
problems and delays due to political instability, institutional discontinuity and managerial inexperience
affecting both the implementing agency and the Management Services Entity (MSE), the Credit Agreement
was amended in the last quarter of 2004, as follows: (i) the elimination of the requirement to hire a
Management Services Entity (MSE) to administer the Pilot Investments cycle; (ii) a reduction of the
project's scope (from 120 pilot subprojects to be financed to 51) and, consequently, a partial cancellation of
the credit amount (SDR 1.5 million or 37.5% of the original amount); (iii) a reallocation of loan proceeds;
and iv) an extension of the closing date. These changes in the implementation arrangements and reduction
in scope did not affect the broad PDO, because it was expected that the project still covered a range of
products, regions and producer organizational capacities that would allow the project to derive proper
lessons and increase its chances of achieving its development objective.

3.3 Original Components:
Component 1: Culturally-based pilot investments (USD 5.5million). Through this component the project
would address community-identified economic initiatives by providing direct financial assistance to
culturally-based productive initiatives that were economically, socially and environmentally viable and
sustainable. The core concept provided for self-management, by assigning communities and/or producer
groups the responsibility for identifying, implementing and evaluating their own productive initiatives.
Depending on the needs of each group of beneficiaries and the objectives of the pilot project, technical
assistance and training would also be financed and information would be provided on marketing conditions,
opportunities and potential partnerships. It would provide grant financing on a cost-sharing basis --under
well-defined eligibility criteria and disbursement mechanisms-- of pre-investment studies, technical
assistance, small works, goods and operational costs for investments of the following types: (i)
pre-investment studies (feasibility studies of pilot subprojects, resource inventories and management
plans); and (ii) pilot subprojects (handicraft production and marketing; ethno- and eco-tourism; productive
management of flora and fauna; and other culturally-based investments). The component introduced an
element of positive discrimination in favor of initiatives presented by groups of indigenous women or in
which women formed a large proportion of beneficiaries. In order to limit the scope for political
interference in allocating funds, Component 1 was planned to be managed by a Management Services
Entity (MSE) contracted and supervised by the Ministry of Peasant Affairs and Originary Peoples
(MACPIO), following an international quality- and cost-based selection process.

Component 2: Poverty-reduction monitoring and learning (USD 0.67 million). This component would
be implemented jointly by the Ministry of Peasant Affairs, Indigenous and Originary Peoples (MACPIO,
later MAIPO) and key indigenous organizations. It included institutional strengthening and training of
national- and some regional- level indigenous/peasant organizations which would allow them and the
project to accompany the implementation of the pilot subprojects in the field for the purposes of: (i)
operational monitoring; (ii) collection of basic information necessary for the learning process; (iii)
participatory evaluation; and (iv) feedback into the national Poverty Reduction Strategy's (PRS) evaluation
and adjustments processes. The institutional framework and implementation arrangements were expected to
attract further funding by other cooperating agencies for the purposes of scaling up the support of
indigenous organizations. The assistance and training of the organizations would include: (i) four
consultants for field monitoring, information collection and feedback into the learning process, selected by
the indigenous/peasant organizations, working in their respective regions and forming part of the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU); and (ii) six training and consultation workshops for project evaluation and
learning and for PRS adjustment. MACPIO/MAIPO, through the PIU would hire the four specialists to



                                                     - 3 -

coordinate the monitoring and learning process and to design and operate the Monitoring and Evaluation
System.


Component 3: Project Management (USD 0.47 million): The project would be managed by a small PIU
to be created within MACPIO. The project's implementing agency suffered 3 institutional reorganizations.
In August 2002, MACPIO was demoted to a Viceministry within the newly-created Ministry of Peasant,
Indigenous, Gender and Generational Affairs (MACIGyG). This Ministry disappeared in February 2003,
and the project, together with its Viceministry of Indigenous and Originary Affairs (VAIPO), became
subsumed under the new Ministry of Peasant, Indigenous and Agricultural Affairs (MACIA). Finally, on
October 2003, the project moved to the new Ministry of Indigenous Affairs and Originary Peoples
(MAIPO). References in the text follow this institutional evolution. and operating under the guidance and
vigilance of the Directorate of the project. The project would operate under the guidance and vigilance of a
joint government/indigenous organizations Directorate, integrated by representatives of the Peasant
Confederation of Bolivia (CSUTCB), the Indigenous People's Confederation (CIDOB); the Confederation
of Peasant Colonizers (CSCB); the Bartolina Sisa National Federation of Peasant Women (FSMCB-BS);
and the Consejo Nacional de Ayllus y Markas del Qollasuyu (CONAMAQ), a highland indigenous
organization; and, on the part of the government, by representatives from MACPIO, the Ministry of
Economic Development and the Vice-Ministry of Microenterprise. Functions of the Directorate were to: (i)
define project policies; (ii) approve and supervise the execution of the annual work program and budget;
(iii) approve the Operational Manual; (iv) approve the selection of a Management Services Entity (MSE)
and PIU personnel; (v) review and approve progress reports, impact evaluation reports, and annual
independent audit reports; (vi) provide information on project implementation to the national level
indigenous organizations; and (vii) provide support for the socialization of the lessons derived from
implementation. It was expected that this joint indigenous/government Directorate would provide adequate
project oversight, as well as a forum for both parts to discuss wider policy implications. The PIU would be
in charge of project coordination, financial administration, and dissemination of lessons learned. The PIU
would manage financing for: (i) three consultants for coordination, financial management and M&E; (ii)
market and demand studies; (iii) office equipment and supplies, travel and incremental operating costs; and
(iv) support for the development and functioning of the project's Directorate. The PIU would also be in
charge of supervising the performance of the MSE hired to manage Component 1.

Following beneficiaries' concerns, the project was designed to provide indigenous peoples with the
necessary means to influence policy making and implementation in order to facilitate forms of
development based on their culture and identity by (a) strengthening the organizational, technical and
entrepreneurial capacity of indigenous communities and organizations; and (b) carrying out technical
assistance and training subprojects, administered by the indigenous peoples themselves, to assist them in
the implementation of innovative cultural and economic initiatives. During preparation, the GOB was
coordinating a wide-ranging process of consultation with all sectors of society (the National Dialogue) with
the aim of arriving at a concerted, long-term Poverty Reduction Strategy, and the LIL was tailored to
support the organized participation of indigenous peoples both in the National Dialogue and in the actions
related to the implementation of its results, providing funds for technical assistance and training services to
build the capacity of indigenous peoples and their organizations to implement innovative income generating
small enterprise and cultural initiatives.
3.4 Revised Components:
After a one-year delay in hiring the MSE and subsequent delays in processing pilot investments in the
following two years of implementation, and given the proximity of the original closing date, the
Government of Bolivia (GOB) and the Bank agreed on the elimination of the requirement to use an MSE to
administer the Pilot Investments component (August 2004). MAIPO would administer Component 1
directly and simply assume the tasks that had been delegated to the MSE, including field supervision and


                                                     - 4 -

disbursements. The PIU/MAIPO expanded its personnel in order to reinforce its capacity to comply with
the added responsibilities and the Operational Manual was adjusted accordingly. Producer organizations
remained responsible for subproject implementation, carrying out the procurement and executing the
activities. The budget for Component 1 was drastically reduced as a result of the change in the expected
number of pilot investments from 120 to 51. The agreed new project budget was the following:

         Component                                                       Original Cost      Revised Cost
                                                                                    (In US$ 000)    .
         1. Culturally-Based Pilot Investments                                 5,500            2,610
         2. Poverty-Reduction Monitoring and Learning                            670              870
         3. Project Management                                                   470              490
         TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                                   6,640            3,970
         IDA CREDIT                                                            5,000            2,800

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Given the consistency of the project with the GOB and the CAS priorities, the wide participatory
preparation process, and the technical and institutional assessments carried out, the ICR team
considered quality at entry as Satisfactory. Preparation was based on a thorough National Diagnostic of
Indigenous Peoples, carried out by MAIPO with Bank funding. The Diagnostic included an analysis of the
economies of the different ethnic groups, their potential for growth and even their competitiveness.
Feasibility studies carried out for prototypical projects in handicrafts, ethno-turism and agro-processing
showed that culturally-based initiatives had a great potential to increase incomes and promote growth of
indigenous economies. The proposed project fully incorporated the results of a comprehensive process of
systematic collaboration and consultation with indigenous people and their organizations. During project
preparation the following steps were carried out: (i) the formation of an Indigenous Committee for project
preparation, including representatives of higher-level organizations; (ii) the selection, by these
organizations, of three indigenous specialists to form part of the preparation team; and (iii) carrying out of
a structured process of consultation. It was not a smooth process given the growing social unrest at the time
(major indigenous and peasant mobilizations brought the country to a stand-still twice), which slowed the
preparation work and caused repeated postponements for the participatory planning workshops. Project
design included adequate arrangements that assured that the main stakeholder groups had principal
responsibility for its implementation. The proposed project Directorate incorporated main national level
indigenous and peasant organizations sharing management responsibilities with the government.
Beneficiaries' organizations were also assigned the implementation of the Poverty Reduction Monitoring
and Learning component, while indigenous communities and producer groups, the management of their own
initiatives. In retrospect, the design of the pilot project was too ambitious in pretending to cover the whole
country. During preparation, Bank staff intended to limit the project area, but indigenous organizations
insisted in reaching all regions of the country, increasing the level of difficulty for implementation.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Achievement of objectives and outputs was Unsatisfactory because component outputs fell short of
expectations and did not translate into satisfactory outcome indicators. Some key outcome indicators show
a positive impact: (i) there is a significant percent (38%) of economically successful and socially viable
pilot initiatives in spite of the many implementation difficulties; and (ii) and many subprojects are inducing
remarkable increases in beneficiary communities' incomes as they enter into the operational stage. The
end-of-project evaluation conducted by an independent firm has found that "there seems to be a clear
positive impact in quality and quantity of goods and services produced and in the acceptance and use of



                                                       - 5 -

induced productive initiatives combined with traditional knowledge." However, in spite of the valuable
lessons learned in general, the small number of implemented pilot subprojects does not allow the project to
derive definitive lessons with regards to the types of initiative worth supporting in the future. Expected
increases in the number of culturally-based initiatives financed by other sources did not materialize because
project delays impeded the provision of feedback into the policy processes, and in the end the PRS process
itself was abandoned by government in the midst of political instability and policy paralysis.

To illustrate limitations in achieving the PDO, the ICR team calculated the rating as if the project had been
formally revised (the revision only reached the Country Director for an amendment to the Credit
Agreement). This project results assessment stands even if we take into account the pre- and
post-amendment project performance weighted by the share of actual disbursements before and after the
revision took place. The resulting overall rating, obtained by weighting the pre- and post-amendment IP
ratings by the proportion of actual total disbursements in each period still gives an Unsatisfactory result.
When the Credit Agreement was amended, about 38% of the IDA credit was cancelled; at closing, the total
amount to be cancelled exceeds 60% of the original allocation. Beyond disbursements, the rating reflects
the shortcomings in the achievement of the objective and revised outputs, as well as in the operation's
efficiency. Revised targets in Component 1 were not reached and expected results for Component 2 fell
short of expectations, both in terms of quality and scope. At closing, project management costs amounted
to 28% of the total, almost double the expected ratio at appraisal.

In spite of these major shortcomings, given that the PDO was focused on learning, the LIL did achieve
some key learning objectives. The project has managed to demonstrate that culturally based productive
initiatives can constitute a financially and economically valid alternative for improving incomes and
reducing poverty in indigenous communities. The Intensive Learning ICR team considered that: (i)
immediate follow-up actions or programs with acceptable levels of risk could be undertaken applying the
lessons learned; (ii) there is a strong commitment of indigenous and producers' organizations towards the
validity of the instruments developed by this project and clear signs on the sustainability of many of the
innovations introduced; (iii) the community procurement approaches had been tested and can be further
improved and expanded; and (iv) there are sufficient successful technical solutions around the use of
traditional technologies and customary uses of indigenous products that are contributing to alleviate
poverty at reasonable costs. However, the financial analysis carried out during subproject implementation
should be improved substantially, including better analysis of the marketing possibilities of the products
and services to be offered, and there is a clear need to maintain support to the new products and services
insertion in the market during operation. The failure of the use of a MSE in this particular learning process
should not invalidate the use of a private management unit provided that adequate procedures for the
selection and supervision processes are taken.


4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1: Culturally-based pilot investments:

This first component is considered Unsatisfactory. Output targets were originally set to finance about
172 pre-investment studies and 120 demand-driven, community or small producer group's initiatives. A
competitive mechanism for selecting pilot investments was set up and three public calls for submission of
subproject proposals were carried out. More than 2000 initiatives were received, of which 270 complied
with the preliminary requirements, 205 received project support for pre-investment studies, of which 125
reached the final selection stage and were financed. Field activities were dramatically affected due to
political upheavals (including 3 changes of government and 4 changes of institutional arrangements for
MACPIO/MAIPO and the PIU during the life of the project), as well as a general lack of security and



                                                     - 6 -

bureaucratic delays in disbursing funds. By May 2003, the field supervision revealed a scenario which was
barely foreseen during preparation: (i) most of the proposals had been presented by new producer
organizations, with little experience; (ii) the quality of the pre-investment studies was low because the
professionals who had been hired by the producer organizations had little or no experience in business
initiatives and (iii) the political and social situation of the country was under chaos, and
indigenous/campesino issues were in the center of it.

The change in the key output indicator for the Project at project revision, reducing the target number
of Pilot Investments to be financed from 120 to 51 was justified because: (i) the original management and
supervision arrangements between the MSE and the PIU did not work as expected: (ii) the political
instability and social unrest delayed implementation; (iii) the high proportion of poor quality proposals; (iv)
the low capacity of beneficiaries and local consultants hired by Producer Organizations; and (v) the
proximity at the time of project revision of the closing date (the policy of the LC6 Department has been as
a rule not to extend projects unless there is a very strong justification, and while a nine-month extension in
the Closing Date for the project was eventually approved, this came months after project revision).
Restructuring responded to agreements originally reached in March 2004 between the Bank and the GOB,
including a methodology for prioritizing demands and setting a deadline to approve subprojects. After
revision MAIPO signed a total of 51 subproject agreements and initiated field implementation. The
revision, generated a surplus in the IDA credit account which led to the cancellation in the loan amount for
SDR 1.5 million equivalent.

In spite of the extension of the closing date, only forty OPs finalized the execution of their pilot
projects. Eleven initiatives (22% of the revised target) were dropped because they showed significant
problems during implementation, including lack of adequate participation, incapacity to manage funds
properly, bad investment design and conflict among beneficiaries. On the other hand, in the rest of the pilot
subprojects, the level of appropriation by beneficiaries was evidenced by the fact that all the producer
groups whose pilot investments were approved deposited 100% of their monetary counterparts up front in
the project's bank account. These OPs conducted an uphill struggle in implementing their pilot investments
because of serious delays in disbursements, stemming from changes in authorities and personnel in MAIPO
and the PIU, their impositions of overzealous and ineffective controls and general bureaucratic delays.
Disbursement difficulties caused major problems in the execution of contracted purchases of goods and
services, creating problems between OPs and their suppliers and affecting the rhythm of implementation in
the field. At closing only about US$1.25 million was invested in the component (56% of the revised
allocation to this component) and 40 subprojects completed activities on the ground. Of these, the impact
evaluation study concluded that 19 would obtain Benefit Cost ratios greater than 1.0, meaning that only
37% of the financed pilot investments were, at the time of the study, deemed financially viable. This falls
below the target of 50% of financially and socially viable pilot investments, itself low given the pilot nature
of the projects. It is important to note, however, that at the time of the impact evaluation most of the
projects were not in full operation, thus these numbers may change significantly over time.

Although these might seem to be small numbers, the forty completed pilot investments must be seen as an
achievement, in consideration of the highly adverse environment, including the starting low capacity of all
actors, the economic downturn, political instability, implementation delays, the lack of GOB commitment,
and the frustrations suffered by the indigenous OPs as a result of changing rules and deferred
implementation. In spite of excessive delays and frustrations the component led to the activation of a new
producer group driven development process. It assisted in training, developing, experimenting and
documenting methods to strengthen the process of self-generating cultural and productive initiatives;
mobilizing resources that were idle; proving in many cases to be feasible and self-sustained, based on the
financed income-generating schemes and the social capital enhanced by the project. In spite of the


                                                      - 7 -

disappointing results, the project has shown that under the right conditions indigenous groups can manage
important initiatives. It has opened new avenues for channeling the creativity of indigenous producers,
such as handicraft and small manufacturing projects, ethno- and eco-tourism, natural resource
management, social infrastructure, micro-enterprises, etc. All investments were administered by indigenous
small-producer organizations and the project piloted the improvement of several existing traditional
technologies, based both on the introduction of modern technologies or processes and/or the recovery of
neglected or undervalued indigenous practices, as well as revaluing the use of indigenous knowledge, labor
and traditions.

Component 1 was initially managed by a private MSE until the project's revision. Contracted by
MACPIO, following an international competitive quality- and cost-based selection process. This MSE
evaluated, approved, supervised and effected progress payments against pre-investment contracts for
subprojects from weekly advances, and supervised each agreement with beneficiaries in order to ensure the
use of funds for the intended purposes. Indigenous communities and small-producer groups identified and
executed the pre-investment subprojects. The funds were disbursed on the basis of the contracts and the
progress reports. Dissatisfaction on the part of government with the performance of the MSE (see Annex 9)
led both parties decided to rescind their contract on friendly terms rather than continue negotiating changes
for which no agreement seemed possible. Given the proximity of the closing date the GOB and the Bank
agreed that PIU would administer Component 1 directly for the remainder of the project. While at first,
after assuming responsibility for implementation of Component 1, MAIPO speeded up subproject
approvals and initiated disbursements, soon implementation bogged down because many subprojects had
been selected without regard to technical criteria and institutional instability, bureaucratic inefficiency and
infighting delayed disbursements to Producer Organizations. In short, the institutional risks identified
during preparation --and which led to the requirement of having an MSE--proved correct.

Component 2: Poverty-reduction monitoring and learning
The second component is considered Moderately Unsatisfactory since MAIPO achieved most of the
expected results with the learning and systematization studies and materials completed under the project,
but failed to effect a wide and systematic process of dissemination because of time limitations. Feedback to
the Poverty Reduction Strategy was also limited. Project delays represented a great loss of opportunity,
because Pilot Projects had not been implemented when the country carried out its process of National
Dialogue to revise the PRS, while key demands in the Dialogue insisted in providing direct support for
productive initiatives of the poor. In the end, however, the PRS process itself became a victim of the
discontinuity in government administration which characterized the project implementation period. The
project improved some indigenous organizations' monitoring capacities for the implementation of the PRS
(and other policy initiatives).

A baseline for all 51 approved investments was established and the NGOs hired to accompany all the OPs
provided additional support in generating and systematizing information; a monitoring and learning manual
was designed; and a learning implementation plan partly executed, allowing for achieving relevant learning
objectives in the short time after completion. Lessons learned are particularly valuable for the rural and
social portfolios in the country and elsewhere. The project tested several mechanisms and arrangements, the
performance of which will provide useful directions for both Government and Bank operation in Bolivia in
the following areas: (i) direct transfers to communities and producer groups; (ii) financing of productive
initiatives; (iii) access to markets on the part of the rural, indigenous poor; (iv) indigenous peoples
opportunities and capacity constraints; (iv) social control mechanisms incorporated in project institutional
arrangements; and (v) subcontracting implementation of project components. The project was still a valid
vehicle for policy dialogue on indigenous and rural development issues and there is wide awareness,
particularly among indigenous leaders, of the positive learning nature of the project.



                                                     - 8 -

Component 3: Project Management
The project management component is considered Unsatisfactory.                Performance of the PIU was
severely hampered during project implementation by the implementing agency's institutional instability.
The high rate of rotation of ministerial authorities debilitated the functioning of the PIU. Each change of
authorities implied delays in implementation. Changes in personnel, both at the agency and the PIU levels,
elicited changes in the chain of command, level of delegation to the PIU, signing and disbursing authority,
and training requirements because of lack of understanding of project procedures and capacity constraints.
Institutional discontinuity diminished the implementing agency's capacity to monitor field activities and to
provide adequate and timely feedback to the MSE. After more than two years of delaysin implementation,
the contract with the MSE was cancelled, the project was adjusted and a new PIU team took the reins,
proving to have better qualifications, including knowledge of local and WB regulations and experience in
administering WB-financed projects. The PIU showed that it could take on management of the Pilot
Investments component and reinitiated activities on the ground, improving communications with
beneficiaries and allowing better supervision and monitoring. However, implementation soon bogged down
because of political interference, conflicts between the PIU and ministerial authorities over project
activities, the imposition of unnecessary ex ante controls over Producer Organizations, and the resulting
delays in disbursements and payments. Managerial problems persisted even after the Grace Period expired
and the government failed to return unused funds to the Credit Account.

During the life of the project, key instances for improvements in the implementation included: (i) the
decision to finance "Accompanying Institutions" (IAs), established to provide support and guidance to the
OPs in the administrative tasks they had in subprojects implementation; (ii) implementation of a training
program for OPs, IAs and service providers; and (iii) hiring additional personnel that together with the
Regional Technicians were in charge of supervising every subproject in the field, verifying the physical
progress and its relation with the financial progress, making sure goods were in place, civil works built and
services rendered as expected.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The project has not been subjected to an ex ante economic rate of return (ERR) analysis. The PAD
considered that cost-effectiveness of the learning project was ensured by: (i) dedicating most of the funding
to pilot initiatives, which underlie the approach of learning-by-doing; (ii) developing a learning and
dissemination strategy; and (iii) performing preliminary cost benefit analysis for a number of prototype
indigenous initiatives that would be funded by the project. It was also foreseen that a full cost-benefit
analysis of pilot investments would be carried out at the end of the project. The project-financed initiatives
were finally implemented between October 2004 and August 2005. At the closing date of the project, most
subprojects still had not reached their operational stage or some were just entering into it. Consequently, it
was too premature to estimate an ERR or a net present value (NPV) especially because it was still
uncertain how successful they would be in their operational phase. However, it is possible to conclude that
­given the project's pilot character-- it has demonstrated that the strategy could become a valid and low
cost employment generating and poverty alleviation mechanism for the disadvantaged indigenous
population in Bolivia, especially if the lessons learned are applied and the administrative costs reduced by
scaling up. Even in the extremely adverse circumstances in which pilot investments were implemented,
about 519 permanent full employment equivalent posts have been created at a unit cost per job of
US$1,562 invested in demand driven pilot investments (US$4,817 if considered all project costs), which
compares favorably with the unit cost of other sectors´ employment generation possibilities.


4.4 Financial rate of return:
The combined expected B/C ratio for the forty eight subprojects was estimated at 1.26. Being a pilot



                                                     - 9 -

operation, learning rather than full cost recovery was the project objective. Reasonable estimations for the
future activities in forty eight initiatives were done by a local consulting firm hired to conduct the impact
evaluation studies (Centro de Estudios y Proyectos, CEP). The evaluation was based on: (i) field visits,
interviews and observations; (ii) the original feasibility studies; and (iii) professional knowledge of the
regions and about similar subprojects (See "Estudios de Caso del Proyecto LIL/Indígena," Informe Final,
Centro de Estudios y Proyectos SRL, La Paz ­ Bolivia, Mayo de 2005; and "Evaluación de Efectos y
Posibles Impactos del Proyecto de Innovación y Aprendizaje para el Desarrollo de los Pueblos Indígenas
LIL/Indígena," Informe Final, CEP SRL, La Paz ­ Bolivia, Mayo­Junio 2005). Expected Benefit Cost
ratios (B/C) for each case were estimated by CEP for a presumed third year of operation, considering as
benefits the difference between annual gross revenues and variable production costs; and, as costs, the
subprojects' costs divided by the average life of investments (in years). Training costs were depreciated in
one to two years, equipment in five to ten years and buildings in more than ten years. It was also assumed
that: (i) 70% of the operational costs correspond to the imputed value for labor used by the community
involved in the initiative; and (ii) only 30% of the technical assistance and training investment costs should
be considered for the B/C ratio since most of the benefits of those capacity building expenses are not
quantifiable and go beyond the subprojects' productive activities. Three scenarios were considered for the
expected ratios considering optimistic, realistic and pessimistic assumptions about the level of production,
sales and prices to be attained, each scenario weighted by a probability of occurrence of 15%, 70% and
15%, respectively.

Nineteen cases (40%) out of the 48 analyzed pilot investments would obtain B/C ratios over 1.0 and
are expected to be financially profitable even when the community labor is assigned a market value as if
alternative employment were available (Table 2 and Annex 3). Out of the 29 pilot investments that show
B/C ratios below 1.0 more than one third (10 cases) are ecotourism initiatives, which require further
support, time and adequate marketing arrangements to achieve their potential returns and reach their
equilibrium point. Moreover, even those subprojects that show B/C ratios below unity, if left by their own
at their present possibilities, might not be recovering the fixed costs invested, but still will be providing
increased incomes for the indigenous community members, whom in general, have no opportunity cost for
their labor at a competitive job creation cost. According to CEP estimates, the equivalent to 519 permanent
jobs has been created with an investment (at community level) of US$1,562 per job, or a total cost of
US$4,817 (when considering the high learning costs of this pilot).
               Table 2. Expected overall B/C ratio and results per category of subprojects


                                 Invest-     Annual    Annual                     B/C Ratio           % cases
   Subprojects      Number        ment      Benefits    Costs   B/C       <0.5     >0.5 <1     >1.0     B/C
                     of cases           (in thousand Bs)        ratio        (in number of cases)     over 1.0
 All subprojects        48        5,093       908        723    1.26       25         4         19       40
 Transformation         18        1,477       422        221    1.91       9          1          8       44
 Tourism                12        1,426       115        214    0.54       9          1          2       17
 Handicrafts            18        2,190       371        288    1.29       7          2          9       50




Income would be increased by about Bs 725 (7.8% over the base line income). From the above
mentioned results it can be concluded that successful economic enterprises can be created by indigenous
communities with significant possibilities for success. If adequately oriented and supported, tasking into
account the lessons learned in the past four years, the high overhead costs of this pilot could be reduced at
reasonable levels. At the end of the implementation stage, almost half of the pilot projects are expected to
develop into successful initiatives in spite of the project failures and delays. Additionally, there are



                                                        - 10 -

considerable non-quantified benefits based on the enhanced social capital induced through the project.
Indigenous producer organizations continue to improve their initiatives. Some are adjusting their
organizational structures, while others are obtaining support from other financial sources for developing
other income generating activities. Some of these developments could be detected even in pilot projects that
had not been financed by the project.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project institutional development impact was Unsatisfactory. Strengthening MACPIO/MAIPO
through the creation of a PIU under the oversight of a mixed government / civil society Directorate was
judged to be the most viable alternative for project coordination and management but showed poor results.
The project was also intended to explore ways to provide indigenous organizations with the tools to
participate and compete in the national economy by allowing them to evaluate their current and potential
markets and production methods as well as their profitability and economic potential but resulted in an
almost lost opportunity. Besides ensuring accountability and transparency in implementing a financial
resource transfer mechanism, subcontracting this mechanism to an MSE was disappointing and supervision
of the MSE by the PIU was ineffective. In spite of recognizing that their capacity was generally low,
indigenous organizations implementing the second component jointly with MAIPO through the project's
Directorate showed poor results. The Unit created within the PIU in charge of operational monitoring and
learning, failed to perform well until the project restructuring, and afterwards had insufficient time to
process and socialize the valuable lessons being generated by the implementation of Pilot Projects. Overall,
the project has not improved the government's capacity to make effective use of its human or financial
resources. Many individuals who either worked for the project, benefited from it, or formed part of
indigenous organizations linked to its implementation have learned a great deal of the difficulties involved
in implementing a project such as this, but these lessons have not been institutionalized because the
individuals themselves have moved on and because the project did not manage to provide systematic
feedback either into the policy process nor into the public discussions on poverty reduction. Finally, the
new government that assumed power after project closing decided to close MAIPO for good, explaining
that attention to indigenous peoples needs and demands needed to be mainstreamed within sectoral
ministries, particularly in light of the fact that most of the Bolivian population identifies itself as
indigenous.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Two of the major critical risks mentioned in the PAD proved to become key factors affecting results.
They were: (i) the indigenous political organizations' interference in subproject selection and execution; and
(ii) the implementing agency and indigenous organizations lacking capacity to ensure effective project
implementation and dissemination. The performance of indigenous organizations in the project's
Directorate fell short of the stated objectives. Their capacity to provide project information and services to
their members was constrained not only by the lack of means, but also by an organizational culture focused
heavily on applying political pressure and bargaining for resources. Their actual role in distributing the
public calls for proposals and the documentation for the biddings, in contrast to expectations, was
negligible. National indigenous/peasant organizations represented in the Directorate frequently acted in a
highly politicized and conflictive manner. For example, during the selection process they functioned as
lobbyists for their particular regional or political sympathies, complicating the competitive evaluation
process and the performance of the PIU and the MSE.

A third risk that could not be expected at appraisal was that social conflict in Bolivia would attain
such a high level during the life of the project. At the field level, social mobilizations and declining



                                                     - 11 -

security affected MSE and the beneficiaries' activities. At the implementing agency level, most of the time
the attention of the GOB was focused on dealing with conflict, leaving little time or ability to focus on
implementing the agreements reached during the project supervision missions. Social conflict caused
several changes of government, institutional restructurings and affected personnel continuity in the
implementing agency. As a consequence, the situation in the PIU was volatile, with the PIU usually finding
itself without the key personnel needed to operate or in the process of training new recruits.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Most of all, the project was affected by the lack of institutional continuity induced by continuous and
widespread political conflict.        During implementation, the political situation of the country was
continuously under stress. Besides the 2003 regular change in government, the PIU had to work under 4
different GOB and Ministry structures, with 8 different Ministers and 17 Vice Ministers, changes which
slowed down the rhythm of implementation. Some of these authorities were not supportive of the rules
established in the Operational Manual, which had been designed to ensure adequate staffing of the PIU and
to minimize political interference in investment selection and implementation. Conflicts between some
implementing agency authorities and the PIU often resulted in severe delays in disbursements to OPs.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The GOB's financial management and procurement regulations, together with the administrative and
personal responsibilities established in the governments administrative regulations were reflected in project
implementation, often outside the bounds of the project's Operational Manual. This layering of rules by
the PIU set excessive bureaucratic requirements for the OPs, which were in a sense expected to act as
public servants. They also contributed to the introduction of excessive controls that affected timely
decision-making, delayed disbursements and complicated internal procedures.

5.4 Costs and financing:
Only about 42% of the original project cost and loan amount was finally spent. The original estimated
project cost was US$6.64 million of which the Bank financing accounted for US$ 5 million (75.3%), the
GOB US$0.58 million (10.2%) and the beneficiaries US$0.96 million (14.5%). At revision, budgeted cost
was reduced to US$3.92 million (59% of the original amount), of which 92% would be financed by the
Bank and the rest by beneficiaries. By the closing date (August 2005) total project cost reached US$2.8
million (42.3% of the original amount), of which the Bank's share amounted to US$2.2 million (77.6%),
the GOB 12.1% and beneficiaries 10.3% (Annex 2). The implementation delays and difficulties had
extended the pre investment stage almost until the end of the original closing date, leaving only the first six
months extension period for the key investment and learning stages. Pilot investments components were
finally reduced from US$5.5 million to US$1.56 million (28.4% of the original amount); the second
component from US$0.67 million to US$0.51 million (76.1% of the planned amount); and the third
component cost increased from US$0.47 million to US$0.74 million (158% of the original amount).

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The project sustainability is rated as Unlikely. Though it is expected that other financing mechanisms
will be set up to address indigenous and campesino demands, they will be created in different institutional
contexts and with,broader mandates. Indigenous and campesino demands for financing of self-managed,
productive projects have been continuously put forward since the enactment of the Law of Popular
Participation in 1994. The "Dialogo Productivo" (Productive Dialogue) carried out in 2004 and 2005, with
widespread participation of social organizations, confirmed this basic demand, placing greater emphasis on
the need to establish a mechanism for transferring resources directly to OPs and communities. The project
demonstrated how such a mechanism could operate and it seems to have had an important demonstration


                                                    - 12 -

effect.

At the level of the pilot investments, the project has been largely appropriated by the beneficiaries, who
contributed up-front with their entire expected counterpart.           By managing resources themselves,
participating OPs and communities have been effectively empowered. Final sustainability of pilot
investments will ultimately be determined by whether OPs manage to insert themselves competitively into
the market. At project closing, many of the initiatives had barely begun operating so long-term success
remains an uncertain judgment call. However, as repeatedly expressed by beneficiaries during the final
stakeholder workshop, participating OPs have already acquired the knowledge and experience necessary for
competing in the market.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The process of consolidation of the project's underlying assumption that indigenous groups are able to
execute and manage productive economic ventures, fed into the formulation of a new project. On May 26,
2005, the Bank approved the Rural Alliances Project (Cr. 4068-BO), a $35 million project, of which IDA
will finance $28.4. This project scales up the level of investments required to support the economic
development of indigenous and campesino OPs. Most of the LIL project's lessons have been integrated
into the Rural Alliances Project (RAP) to be implemented by the Ministry of Rural Development (MRD),
under the oversight of a Council conformed by representatives of the private sector and national ministries
concerned with economic development policy.          Government's role (under a more stable institutional
framework than the one provided by MAIPO) will be limited to promotion and facilitation. Activities will
be carried out by small producer organizations that enter into alliances with market agents. The objective of
the RAP is to test an advanced model to improve accessibility to markets for poor rural producers in
selected sub-regions of the country where indigenous people form the majority of the population. To
achieve this, the project will (i) promote strategic productive alliances between different economic players
at the local level; (ii) empower rural producers through the development of self-managed grass-root
organizations; (iii) increase access to productive assets and technology; and (iv) promote more effective,
responsive and accountable service organizations at the local level. The RAP will permit scaling up the
financing of productive initiatives, building on the lessons learned under the operation of the Indigenous
Peoples Development Project.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance in identification, preparation and appraisal is rated Satisfactory.
Identification was consistent with the government's priorities. The Indigenous Peoples Development LIL, to
be designed and implemented by indigenous organizations, was discussed and included in the CAS.
Preparation was supported by the Bank through a PHRD grant and was preceded by a participatory
process that started off with the formulation of a National Diagnostic. Discussions with the indigenous
organizations and GOB authorities led to the main features of the LIL, including the indigenous perspective
and their management role. A strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and threats (SWOT) analysis was
conducted during project preparation. In the workshops, almost 100 indigenous leaders identified the main
sector issues that defined the project and made suggestions on how to address them. The Bank supported
the design by accompanying the realization of feasibility studies on handicraft, ethno-turism and
agro-processing initiatives. In keeping with the spirit of LILs, preparation was streamlined using knowledge
acquired during overall portfolio implementation. Lessons learned in the execution of similar projects (in
particular, the Participatory Rural Investment Project) were incorporated into the design. Institutional
analysis and policy dialogue on inter-governmental transfers served to design the implementation
arrangements and led to the decisions to hire an MSE for Component 1. Due attention was paid to


                                                     - 13 -

safeguards and fiduciary issues by the task team. Appraisal followed the same criteria. A full Operational
Manual was produced by the government team and thoroughly revised and discussed by the Bank's task
team. Commitment on the part of all the actors (governmental and indigenous) to the agreed design was
confirmed. Project design allowed for highly flexible implementation. It avoided generalized training and
favored highly tailored support for each indigenous initiative.

However, in hindsight it is now clear that this project faced serious implementation difficulties and risks
which were not adequately perceived when the project was prepared. While some of these difficulties relate
to the political turmoil that took place in Bolivia during project implementation, there also were other
critical issues concerning the design of the project itself that could have been mitigated if duly foreseen;
particularly, the national-scope of the project (a result of unrelenting pressure form indigenous
organizations), and the short time envisioned for its implementation. A key issue that was not foreseen
during preparation was the low capacity of technical assistance providers. This negatively affected the
quality of pre-investment proposals and was difficult to mitigate during implementation.

7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's supervision of the project is rated Satisfactory. During implementation the Bank Task
Team, most of whose members were located in the field office, continuously monitored the relevance of the
PDO and the likelihood of achieving key associated outcome targets and made timely recommendations to
try to introduce remedial actions. When it became evident, that most of the investment proposals were
coming from inexperienced OPs, supported by generally ineffective technical assistance providers, the
Bank team recommended, and the GOB adopted, the hiring of accompanying institutions for every OP.
Also, with the team's assistance the PIU designed a training program for OPs, service providers and IAs.
Later, when faced with the possibility of closing the project without having implemented any pilot
investment, a move which could have increased the level of political conflict in the country, given that
expectations had been raised, the Bank team helped the GOB to restructure the project (modify the
implementation arrangements and revise the project's outcome targets). Early on, the Bank's supervision
team recognized that the project needed to be restructured and the closing date extended. However, Bank
management, even recognizing the importance of the LIL, was reluctant to approve any extension given
that the project was not performing satisfactorily. At the same time, canceling the project became
impossible because of expectations on the part of beneficiaries.

The numerous changes of government, institutional structure, ministerial authorities and project
personnel required high levels of attention by the Bank team. A sustained effort was carried out to
ensure continuity and commitment to the project's objectives, given the high level of support from
indigenous organizations. Every time a ministerial authority changed, the Bank team engaged with it in a
process of dialogue and information, helping to speed up and smooth over the transition periods.

The weak performance of the national- and regional-level indigenous organizations required high
levels of attention by the Bank team. As early as December 2002, the Bank team recommended that
additional financing be sought to provide technical assistance and training to these organizations and that
given the delays in the implementationof the second component and the expected difficulties in measuring
the impact of the investments in poverty alleviation in the remaining time of the project, it was suggested
that funds be reallocated from that component to strengthen the indigenous organizations. The team also
suggested providing training to indigenous representatives in the Directorate, including sessions on the
project's Operational Manual. MACPIO/MAIPO did provide some assistance to the Directorate along
these lines, but political instability and rotation in the Directorate diminished the effect of these efforts.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:



                                                        - 14 -

The Bank's overall performance was Satisfactory. Since identification and until closing the Bank has
maintained almost the same proactive team, including required expertise. Except for difficulties in
extending the closing date ­itself justified given the poor performance of the project-- management showed
high flexibility and determination to adapt to the adverse and changing environment. Supervision was
permanently supporting implementation and was also intensified during the most difficult stages of the
social and political crisis in Bolivia.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower performance during project preparation is rated Satisfactory. The government team in
charge of project preparation diligently carried out the required studies and activities. MACPIO's
authorities followed up the evolving design closely, and the process received permanent support from the
Ministry of Finance, even though there was rising conflicts between government and indigenous/campesino
organizations.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Borrower implementation performance is rated as Unsatisfactory. Even when recognizing the
influence of the factors outside their control, the GOB did not deliver the required support to ensure project
success. MACPIO itself went through 4 institutional restructurings, including a demotion to viceministerial
status and four name changes. These successive changes were carried out without due account of the
impact they could have on project performance.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The Implementing Agency performance is rated Unsatisfactory. The one-year delay in signing the
contract with the MSE created a lag in implementation that was later difficult to make up. Though some
ministers provided wholehearted support for the project, MACPIO/MAIPO was often either involved very
little with implementation or often delayed payments and introduced other administrative obstacles.
Implementation remained below its possibilities not only because of the learning periods involved when
authorities change, but also because of the reduced commitment of the implementing agency, evidenced in
the long vacancies of key positions in the PIU or when removing key experienced personnel during the
several changes in ministerial authorities. Many measures agreed in the successive supervision missions
were later ignored or implemented partially, affecting the overall achievement of its development objective.

Performance was Unsatisfactory before revision, and while it improved after revision only to fall
again to Unsatisfactory. Before revision the PIU failed to orient and supervise the MSE, often changing
instructions and requirements which led to growing confusion. Monitoring activities were only partially
done. The members of the Directorate had a poor performance because they prioritized political conflicts
over the project objectives, revising decisions previously made, not responding to concerns about conflict of
interest and confusing their policy-setting and oversight role with the implementation function that
corresponded to the PIU. Besides high levels of personnel rotation, management and staff had little field
experience and showed difficulties in dealing with the complexities of implementation. After revision, the
PIU, with strong backing from the MAIPO, speeded up project implementation, approving Pilot Projects
and making the first disbursements, but it soon became ensnared in unnecessary bureaucratic controls and
new procedures which were added on top of the Operational Manual and without consultation with the
Bank. Disbursements and payments slowed down, affecting not only the pace of Pilot Project
implementation, but also relations between Producer Organizations and their providers.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall borrower performance is rated as unsatisfactory for the reasons noted above.



                                                     - 15 -

8. Lessons Learned

Ø        Culturally based productive initiatives of indigenous producer groups can constitute a financial and
economic valid alternative for improving their incomes and for poverty reduction. Immediate follow-up
actions or expanded programs with acceptable levels of risk could be undertaken applying the lessons
learned. For example, the Rural Alliances Project has assimilated into its design the importance of
financing market opportunities rather than producers' needs. Market opportunities need to be demonstrated
through concrete linkages with potential buyers ("alliances").

Ø        Though support of culturally-based productive initiatives can play an important role in helping to
promote culturally-appropriate development, indigenous peoples can improve their incomes by accessing
markets through the provision of products and services that are not necessarily "indigenous." For example,
producer groups may identify an agricultural product that is not part of the indigenous tradition but which
could improve their income beyond any traditional activity. Even so, the opportunities provided by the rich
cultural assets of the indigenous communities, especially their traditional handicraft products and
knowledge of natural resources, are an asset for development.

Ø        It is useful to differentiate support for productive initiatives from support for local development
plans. Productive initiatives are best undertaken by producer groups with similar interests and who are
willing to pool risks in order to enter a new market or gain market share. Local development plans rely on
community-wide consensus over public goods and require the intervention of political authorities.

Ø        Project Directorates involving social organizations need to reflect the specific composition of the
intended beneficiaries. In this project, producer organizations did not feel represented in the Directorate
because it was chosen on the basis of national-level political organizations whose interests do not
necessarily reflect those of producer groups.

Ø        Indigenous organizations are strongly committed towards the validity of the instruments developed
by this project; in particular, to mechanisms that transfer funds directly to OPs for them to assume
responsibility over subproject implementation. Direct transfers induce positive effects beyond the objectives
of subprojects themselves. Effective empowerment is a result of new-found confidence in managing
projects and funds, and can have large spill-over effects over other areas of community life.

Ø         Training indigenous people to participate in the monitoring and evaluation of poverty reduction
policies is an important feature for future interventions to have adequate impact. This project provided
relatively little support to a small number of organizations, but a more structured intervention, particularly
if focused on results, could have a great positive effect if well implemented.

Ø        A project, such as this LIL, that deals with an innovative idea, which requires setting up new
institutional mechanisms, and involves actors with low capacities needs to be given sufficient time for
implementation. Testing out and failure need to be included in the design, and sufficient time needs to be
allotted for follow up and evaluation beyond the investment phase.

Ø        A key lesson learned in this project is the importance of proper technical assistance. Project design
relied on Pilot Projects being well designed. Given the limitations of indigenous organizations, funds were
allocated for pre-investment studies. The quality of these studies, with a focus on tailoring to the specific
capacities and circumstances of each producer organization, was crucial since project design intended to
avoid the pitfalls of generalized training components and standardized subproject designs which have been



                                                     - 16 -

shown to produce poor results. This requires specific abilities which consultants who are well-versed in the
preparation of public infrastructure and social investment subprojects do not necessarily have.

Ø        The failure of the use of a MSE in this particular learning process should not invalidate the use of
a private management unit provided that adequate procedures for the selection and supervision processes
are followed. As experience with this project showed, before and after revision, government implementing
agencies do not have the necessary capacities to support productive initiatives, unless they be shielded from
political interference and bureaucratic procedures that are designed for public investment. A possibility
would be to rely on two or three MSEs working in different regions and/or areas of specialty. In this case,
if one MSE fails it could be substituted by one of the others that show capacity to expand its coverage.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:




                                                    - 17 -

- 18 -

(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
During the stakeholder evaluation workshop held with the project stakeholders in Cochabamba (August
2005), several NGO representatives mentioned the importance of developing strategic alliances with
municipalities which could help in the co-financing of initiatives, in buying products or in providing
technical support to the OPs. The need to develop synergies with financers, buyers and other partners with
which a win-win situation could be built was also stressed. The findings of the workshop are reproduced in
Annex 9.

10. Additional Information

                           Project Evaluation summary prepared by MAIPO

                        RESUMEN DE CONCLUSIONES Y APRENDIZAJES
                                          DEL LIL INDIGENA

CONCLUSIONES Y APRENDIZAJES DE LA FASE DE PREINVERSIÓN

a)       En tareas Preparatorias
1.       La experiencia de la difusión del proyecto mostró que los mejores resultados se obtuvieron, a
través de cuñas radiales, explicaciones grupales, o textos impresos con lenguaje simple y cotidiano. Así
mismo la difusión por medios masivos locales fue más eficaz.
2.       El envío de formularios, efectuado mediante las organizaciones indígenas, fue relativamente
efectivo, con algunas casos en los que las organizaciones regionales no suministran estos documentos a las
organizaciones base, utilizando como recurso de poder.

b)       En la formulación y presentación de ideas
3.       La norma de 20 participantes como mínimo para la conformación de una OP fue distorsionada en
su interpretación, lo que dificultó la conformación de las OPs, con un número grande de familias en la
comunidad o por un número de miembros que no alcanzaban a cubrir lo mínimo requerido.
4.       Las organizaciones tuvieron problemas para la consecución y presentación de personería jurídica
(requisito del concurso), por que no lo tenían y su trámite demandaba una serie de procesos, por lo que la
mayoría de las OPs nuevas tuvieron que recurrir a la PJ de sus comunidades; esto en la fase de inversión,
les impidió la apertura de cuenta a nombre de la OP, porque los bancos consideran que este no es un
documento válido para transacciones financieras.

c) En la formulación y presentación de perfiles de subproyecto
5.       Para efectuar la contratación de los consultores formuladores de perfiles, las OPs confrontaron
dificultades para obtener el poder notarial del representante legal, por los procedimientos requeridos en
contextos rurales y la incomprensión de los notarios.
6.       En cuanto a los instrumentos para la presentación de perfiles de proyecto, la guía publicada
para la elaboración del documento adolece de incongruencias, lenguaje complicado y               de difícil
entendimiento.      Los formatos de presentación de perfiles sufrieron cambios permanentes, con
modificaciones parciales, provenientes tanto de la UCP como de la ESG; lo que confundió más a los
formuladores de perfiles.
7.       Las constantes reformulaciones de los perfiles de proyecto, muestran que existe una escasa



                                                   - 19 -

experiencia profesional de los consultores contratados para el tipo de proyectos (micro emprendimientos
de base cultural), y para la especialidad requerida en los tres rubros.
8.       Hubo capacitación extemporánea de la ESG en la formulación de perfiles de proyecto, cuando
muchos de los perfiles ya fueron elaborados.
9.       Gran parte de los perfiles fueron elaborados únicamente en gabinete, sin participación de los
miembros de base, por lo que los perfiles adolecen de información y planificación adecuadas, y en algunos
casos hasta de distorsión de del sentido y los objetivos iniciales del subproyecto.

d) En la evaluación de ideas y perfiles
10.      Los criterios de evaluación, elaborados por la UCP, fueron en un principio complicados,
particularmente en los temas de evaluación ambiental, lo que dificulta el trabajo de evaluación, volviéndolo
más pesado.
11.      La evaluación de campo sufrió retrasos debido a varios factores: i) especialidad no pertinente de
los evaluadores respecto a los subproyectos asignados, lo que fue cubierto, posteriormente, con el poyo de
otros especialistas de área; ii) deficientes condiciones de logística y comunicaciones para el trabajo de
campo (no se constató medios de transporte propio), sobre todo considerando la amplia dispersión de los
subproyectos a evaluar;      iii) planificación irreal de las visitas de campo (programación de varios
subproyectos en pocos días); iv) evaluación incompleta (varios subproyectos no pudieron ser visitados,
limitándose únicamente a al evaluación de gabinete).
12.      Los canales de comunicación entre la ESG, la OP y los consultores fueron deficientes,
constituyéndose en otro factor de retraso. La comunicación de los resultados de la evaluación para la
reformulación de los documentos, no fue oportuna, demorándose largos períodos; por otra parte los
consultores también se tomaron largos tiempos para reformular los documentos.

e) En la aprobación de perfiles
13.      En la aprobación final de los perfiles, la ausencia de apoyo de la ESG (que conjuntamente la UCP
debían realizar el proceso), la limitada experiencia de los consultores evaluadores, la presión para
seleccionar perfiles rechazados y la improvisación de herramientas de evaluación y de implementación de
los subproyectos, contribuyó a que la revisión de los perfiles y la elaboración de los ajustes sea dificultosa.
14.      La baja calidad de los ajustes, repercutió posteriormente de forma negativa en la ejecución de los
subproyectos.

f) En las actividades de monitoreo de la fase de preinversión
15.      Si bien la etapa de la preinversión fue acompañada por los técnicos regionales, se recabó escasa
información orientada a los aprendizajes; tampoco hubo lineamientos claros desde la UCP para efectuar el
seguimiento de las actividades en esta fase.

g) Actividades de gestión de la fase de preinversión
16.      Uno de los problemas centrales de gestión esta etapa fue una deficiente coordinación
interinstitucional, particularmente, entre la UCP y la ESG, que se reproduce a nivel de técnicos y
consultores de ambas entidades, dificultando la toma de decisiones en cuestiones operativas;                los
desencuentros permanentes entre ambas entidades, en cuanto a instrumentos, consecución de metas, y otros
aspectos operativos, reflejan esa escasa coordinación.
17.      Las condiciones de relacionamiento entre el MACPIO, la UCP y la ESG no fueron establecidas de
manera clara y bajo lineamientos uniformes, puesto que las constantes diferencias presentadas no pudieron
ser consensuadas de manera oportuna. Los actores no asumen adecuadamente sus respectivos roles.
18.      La UCP no efectúa una adecuada labor de supervisión a las actividades de la ESG, tanto desde el
punto de vista administrativo como técnico operativo;           no se cuenta con sistemas de información



                                                     - 20 -

respectivos que permitan efectuar esta labor.

CONCLUSIONES Y APRENDIZAJES DE LA FASE DE INVERSION

a)       En tareas preparatorias de la Inversión
19.      El retraso en la firma de los contratos entre la ESG y la OP, se debió a la demora de la ESG en
elaborar y remitir los contratos a las OPs y a las limitaciones de los Representantes Legales en la
comprensión de los términos contractuales.
20.      Las OPs tuvieron dificultades con la recolección de fondos de contraparte debido a los bajos
ingresos de las familias de las OPs, la falta de hábito para efectuar aporte es en efectivo, y la desconfianza
respecto al destino de estos recursos por parte de los socios.
21.      Frente a la dificultad de la recolección de fondos para la contraparte y las limitadas posibilidades
de las familias, las OPs optaron por recurrir a otras fuentes de financiamiento como el préstamo de familias
socias y no socias, crédito de ONGs, Gobiernos municipales.
22.      La falta de legalidad de las OPs y la escasez de recursos de parte de los socios, generó dificultades
en la apertura de una cuenta bancaria a nombre de la OP, para el manejo de fondos en la gestión de los
subproyectos. En respuesta a este problema, la mayoría de las OPs utilizo la Personería Jurídica de la
OTB, cuando la OP estaba conformada por toda la comunidad; en cambio, las OPs que estaban
conformadas por parte de la comunidad tuvieron que obtener el aval de la comunidad para usar la
Personería Jurídica de la OTB, y convenir que la cuenta bancaria, sea abierta a nombre de personas que no
eran los representantes de la OTB.

b)       En los procesos administrativos de adquisiciones y contrataciones
24.      La valoración de insumos y maquinaria en moneda extranjera significó una dificultad adicional
para las OPs, dadas las equivalencias que debían realizarse dado que los Subproyectos fueron elaborados
en Bs.
25.      Los procesos de adquisición y contratación de PBSs, no son notoriamente comprensibles, por ser
muy engorrosos y difíciles de comprender, mas aún cuando se trata de aplicar por personas que vienen de
contextos diferentes, estos instrumentos debieran ser mas flexibles en su aplicación y adecuarse de acuerdo
al objetivo con que se aplica.
29.      Documentación de respaldo mal llenada y/o incompleta lo que hacía que las frecuencias de viajes
se incremente para las OPs.
30.      Demora en la revisión de documentación de descargos por poca organización documental del
personal del LIL      Indígena, así como la pérdida de documentación de respaldo por parte de los
responsables.
31.      Cambio de autoridades ejecutivas y ministeriales que retardaron los procesos de desembolso

i.       En el desarrollo de las actividades de inversión de los subproyectos

Experiencias y aprendizajes de los procesos de capacitación y asistencia técnica

32.      Los cursos especializados son los que mejor fueron aprovechados por los participantes, tanto en
tierras altas como en tierras bajas, porque fueron encarados de manera práctica, estaban más vinculados a
los procesos productivos que es lo que más interesa a los miembros de base, y porque están más próximos
a sus conocimientos. En cambio los cursos generales tuvieron un escaso rendimiento, precisamente por las
razones opuestas a las planteadas para el otro caso.
33.      Es necesaria la consideración en detalle del estado de desarrollo de las organizaciones productivas,
en que nivel se encuentran en cuanto a capacidades y habilidades de organización y gestión interna y
productivas, para planificar y diseñar adecuadamente la capacitación y asistencias técnica, si necesitan



                                                     - 21 -

procesos de asistencia técnica y en que temas, el tipo de cursos de capacitación especializado o general que
requieren, etc.
34.      Esto demuestra dos aspectos: Por un lado, por la naturaleza de los subproyectos (distintos tipos en
diferentes rubros) no se puede dar un tratamiento homogéneo e indistinto, puesto que algunos necesitan
mayor presupuesto en capacitación y asistencia técnica, otros en bienes de capital, y otros en gastos
operativos. Por otro lado, las organizaciones productivas aún tienen la percepción de que los bienes de
capital son lo más importante antes que las capacitaciones. No obstante, la experiencia en algunas OPs
(particularmente de artesanía), les hizo comprender y valorar la dimensión de las capacitaciones en este
tipo de proyectos.
35.      La fuerte ingerencia de las IAs y entidades de apoyo en los procesos de selección y contratación de
entidades de capacitación, fue posible por una limitada información del mercado de consultoras y
profesionales en el rubro, por las limitaciones de los conductores de la OP (escasa formación de los
responsables y limitado manejo de procedimientos por parte de los respectivos encargados), pero también
por un patrón de comportamiento fuertemente arraigado de los pobladores indígenas respecto a los
"técnicos" de una relación jerárquica; se podría afirmar que hasta les fue cómodo a algunos responsables
delegar funciones frente a la complejidad y la documentación (papeleo) de los procedimientos.
36.      Por lo tanto, no basta con establecer los mecanismos formales de selección y contratación de
servicios de capacitación y asistencia técnica, sino también de generar las condiciones necesarias para que
los procesos sean adecuados y lleguen a los objetivos planteados;          es decir, garantizar el acceso a
información de mercados, el desarrollo de habilidades de los conductores, el cambio de actitud y búsqueda
de relaciones más horizontales entre indígenas y técnicos.

Adjudicación y construcción de obras
37.       En OPs que les fue difícil adecuarse a los tiempos planificados particularmente en obras por
administración directa estos fueron realizando cotizaciones para la compra de materiales. Así mismo el
retraso en los desembolsos significo un problema para la culminación de las obras por parte de las OPs.
38.        Casi todos las OPs tuvieron dificultades en la realización de cotizaciones, para la compra de
materiales por el escaso conocimiento del mercado en todas sus facetas.

ii.      En la capacidad de gestión de las organizaciones
39.      Fuera de algunos avances, las organizaciones productivas no han podido desarrollar capacidades
de gestión independiente en un contexto de mercado, debido a una serie de factores: Pese que las OPs,
formalmente presentaron una estructura micro empresarial para acceder al proyecto, en los hechos aún
funcionan bajo lógicas de organización tradicional, que manifiestan debilidades en cuanto a sus propias
estructuras y tipo de liderazgos frente a los requerimientos del mercado. Esto fue evidenciado en las sendas
dificultades que tuvieron las OPs al efectuar las actividades de ejecución de las inversiones bajo los
procedimientos formales.
40.      Las condiciones del mercado son demasiado exigentes para un contexto de pueblos indígenas, con
bajos niveles de formación y conocimientos limitados respecto a relaciones mercantiles formales.
41.      Se ha demostrado que las OPs han respondido mejor a tipos de gestión a los que estaban más
habituadas (por ejemplo en la realización de actividades de construcción de obras y las capacitaciones); sin
embargo frente a aspectos a los que no estaban habituados como los procesos de compras y adquisiciones
tuvieron sendas dificultades. Por lo visto parece que es necesario implementar procesos graduales y
controlados de incorporación de organizaciones indígenas al mercado, por fases (primero gestión interna,
luego gestión externa), para lograr resultados óptimos.
42.      Tomando en cuenta que se trataba de micro emprendimientos con orientación a mercado, las
características y el nivel de desarrollo de las organizaciones productivas no fueron consideradas con
suficiente cuidado por el Proyecto, al planificar la intervención (hubo un tratamiento indistinto a OPs,
nuevas y antiguas). Se ha demostrado que en los hechos había diferencias importantes que tomar en cuenta


                                                     - 22 -

para optimizar el apoyo.
43.      La experiencia de los casos suspendidos, cuyo factor común es la desvinculación de la OP de su
entorno social, evidencia que las iniciativas económicas de grupo por más que sean privadas, siempre están
sujetas al control del entorno colectivo mayor. Organizaciones que supieron vincular los intereses privados
con los intereses colectivos de la comunidad, no solo no han tenido dificultades externas sino que han
logrado apoyos efectivos de su entorno comunal.
44.      Pese a los obstáculos planteados arriba, el Proyecto ha posibilitado de una u otra manera el
incremento de capacidades de gestión tanto interna como externa. De un conjunto de OPs que tenían
capacidad interna de gestión, hay un grupo mayor de OPs nuevas que están incursionando aunque con
dificultades en este ámbito. Aparentemente los resultados satisfactorios pueden ser logrados con procesos
más largos de aprendizaje.
45.      Algunas OPs, con fortaleza organizacional, independencia y capacidad de negociación pedieron
acceder a otras fuentes de financiamiento accedes, ahorrándose, por lo menos en parte su contraparte, con
resultados hasta el momento positivos. Sin embargo otra OP sin fortaleza organizacional, ni capacidad de
negociación accedió a otra fuente de financiamiento, comprometiendo su independencia e incluso poniendo
en riesgo el mismo proyecto.
46.      Las OPs aceptan la contraparte, incluso el financiero; pero no está de acuerdo con los montos
porque les parece muy elevado, por lo cual, como organización, es probable que siempre recurran a otras
fuentes de financiamiento para "completar" su contraparte. El problema financiero es real en el contexto
indígena (por los bajos ingresos), pero también es un problema de percepción y actitud. Un aporte
individual de más de 300 Bs. es significativo en el área rural, pero si se considera que con ello se logrará un
beneficio mucho mayor puede ya no resultar tan oneroso. Aparentemente la percepción y la actitud tiene
que ver con la concepción de gasto y riesgo que tienen los comunarios, sin considerarlo como inversión. El
soporte económico de las OPs es un problema que hay que resolverlo antes de emprender los subproyectos,
porque puede afectar a la fortaleza organizacional y comprometer la viabilidad del subproyecto ante
futuras eventualidades.

iii.     De la participación social en los subproyectos
47.      La respuesta adoptada por los miembros de las OPs al problema planteadote la ocupación
estacional, apelando a una redistribución de roles y tareas al interior de los hogares, muestra la capacidad
de los mismos para afrontar los retos de la ejecución de los subproyectos, sobre todo si se trata de aporte
laboral.
48.      En el tema de género, no basta con imponer la norma del 30% de participación de mujeres en cada
subproyecto; puesto que quedó demostrado que en organizaciones mixtas esta participación es figurativa
antes que efectiva; hecho que es mucho más patente en las capacitaciones.
49.      Contrastando lo anterior con los resultados en los proyectos dominados por mujeres, se puede
sostener que es mucho más importante generar condiciones para la participación de las mujeres, antes que
establecer cuotas mínimas. Por ejemplo se ha establecido que los subproyectos que implican actividades
vinculadas a la cotidianidad de las mujeres o compatibles con la distribución de sus otras actividades y uso
de tiempo, tienen mayores posibilidades de participación efectiva de las mismas; que la participación de las
mujeres es más fluida cuando están entre una mayoría o totalidad de miembros del mismo genero, por la
confianza que les genera este contexto.
50.      En cuanto a las relaciones de poder, se ha evidenciado que la generación de ingresos propios de
mujeres a partir de su participación en proyectos productivos, y la ocupación de cargos clave, más que en
directivos, puede modificar las relaciones de poder entre hombres y mujeres, tanto a nivel de las familias
como a nivel comunal. La experiencia, también muestra que este potencial, se desarrolla más cuando las
condiciones de la participación de las mujeres son más propicias (organizaciones compuestas total o
mayormente por mujeres, tipo de actividad que se desarrolla en el proyecto, adecuación de las actividades
productivas a los roles tradicionales, etc.)


                                                    - 23 -

iv.     En el monitoreo y supervisión de la etapa de inversión
51.     El monitoreo en sus distintos niveles fue deficientemente ejecutado por una serie de factores
concomitantes: procesos de capacitación poco efectivos, incomprensión de su importancia por las OPs e
IAs, falta de una adecuada planificación de los procesos desde la oficina central, limitaciones de los
instrumentos, conducción poco clara del proceso y desempeño limitado de los técnicos regionales.
52.     El seguimiento, control y evaluación de las actividades de gestión de los subproyectos, que debía
efectuarse mediante el     automonitoreo,     no fueron encarados con seriedad por las organizaciones
productivas. El escaso funcionamiento de la forma convencional de efectuar el seguimiento y el control de
las actividades en los subproyectos obedece a distintos factores: Por una parte, la UCP tuvo limitaciones,
al no contemplar mecanismos efectivos que posibiliten la aplicación de estas prácticas en las
organizaciones de manera permanente; los técnicos regionales tampoco lograron internalizar el sentido y la
importancia de estas prácticas en los miembros de as OPs, finalmente, no hubo un acompañamiento
efectivo de este proceso desde las instancias centrales del proyecto. La irregularidad en la ejecución de las
actividades y en los desembolsos que trastocaron las planificaciones, también contribuyeron negativamente.

53.     Las dificultades respecto a los procesos de difusión, muestran que esta área debe tener cuidadosa
planificación en función a los productos de las otras áreas; pero además estuvo en estricta dependencia del
desarrollo de los subproyectos en su ciclo completo, lo que fue distorsionado con los grandes cambios del
Proyecto.
54.     La insuficiente experiencia en la conducción de la supervisión, afectó a la calidad de la ejecución
de los subproyectos, por que, hubo escasa planificación de las actividades, perdiendo regularidad en
algunos casos y respondiendo mas a subproyectos problemáticos.
55.     La gran dimensión de la labor de supervisión, muestra lo complejo del trabajo encarado, por la
gran cantidad de subproyectos asignados a cada supervisor (12 a 14), por la amplia dispersión geográfica
de los subproyectos y por la diversidad de tipos de subproyectos a supervisar (artesanía, transformación y
ecoturismo).
56. Varios subproyectos fueron suspendidos antes de su conclusión, por irregularidades detectadas, por el
excesivo retraso en la ejecución, por problemas institucionales y por cuestiones técnicas.

EL DESEMPEÑO DE LOS ACTORES EN LA ETAPA DE PREINVERSIÓN E INVERSIÓN

57.     Las principales debilidades de las organizaciones indígenas son:                  los conflictos de
representación, por las divisiones internas, las prácticas sindicales poco adecuadas para el control de la
gestión de proyectos, escasa capacidad de sus miembros para el manejo de información pertinente,
insuficiente comprensión de su rol en el contexto de los micro emprendimientos de base cultural,
insuficiente funcionalidad de la estructura organizativa para los procesos de retroalimentación en este
nuevo escenario
58.     Esto implica que tanto las organizaciones indígenas como sus representantes están poco preparados
para los requerimientos, como instancia de control social y supervisión, de los proyectos relacionados con
micro emprendimientos. Es pues necesario para futuras experiencias un fortalecimiento institucional en
este ámbito, para posibilitar una participación de mayor calidad en instancias colegiadas de seguimiento a
gestión de proyectos.
59.     El MAIPO, como entidad de tuición del proyecto ha demostrado serias debilidades entorno al
proyecto: la inestabilidad institucional (con constantes cambios de autoridades, formas organizativas,
funciones, proceso, etc.) deriva en interferencias permanentes y una absoluta lentitud en los procesos
administrativos respectivos; el compromiso de las autoridades y sus respectivas administraciones varían
según sus intereses, pero no en función a los objetivos del proyecto (e incluso con pretensiones de distorsión
en algunos casos); existe una permanente amenaza de injerencia política en la selección de personal del


                                                    - 24 -

proyecto, cuya imposibilidad genera como respuesta desinterés para efectuar una apoyo comprometido; en
algunas gestiones muestra deficiente coordinación interinstitucional; finalmente, no delegó en su momento
suficiente responsabilidad y cierto grado de autonomía a la UCP como entidad ejecutora del proyecto, que
hubiera contribuido a la celeridad de los procesos administrativos, necesarios sobre todo para los
desembolsos en la fase de inversión.
60.      Esto muestra que para futuras experiencias hay que considerar el nivel de estabilidad de la entidad
de tuición y la solidez de su institucionalidad, o en su caso generar mecanismos que aseguren la continuidad
del proyecto sin grandes interferencias, cuando las entidades son inestables. Por otra parte, es necesario
asegurarse que la entidad ejecutora cuente con las suficientes condiciones y capacidades antes de arrancar
con el proyecto, incorporando una etapa previa de funcionamiento
61.      La ESG, pese a la experiencia acreditada en el manejo de micro empresas, ha demostrado
inexperiencia y deficiencias a nivel técnico, logístico, de coordinación interinstitucional y escaso
conocimiento del contexto rural e indígena para las actividades planteadas en la fase de preinversión. Por
otra parte, el corresponsable directo de la continuidad de este desempeño deficiente fue la UCP, por no
efectuar un control y supervisión adecuados de las actividades de esta entidad; pero también la reticencia
de la entidad financiera de abandonar la condición de una entidad privada para la administración de los
subproyectos (contemplado en el diseño original del proyecto) contribuyó a la permanencia de un trabajo en
esas condiciones.
62.      Si bien esta administración privada ha demostrado ser ineficiente, no implica que otras puedan
tener un mejor desempeño, incluso los nacionales que se encuentran en condiciones de ventaja respecto al
mejor conocimiento del contexto rural e indígena. Sin embargo es necesario tener mucho cuidado en el
proceso de selección de estas entidades, pero también de establecer, con suficiente anticipación,
mecanismos más eficientes de control y supervisión de las actividades de estas entidades en la ejecución de
los subproyectos.
63.      A pesar de las distorsiones incurridas por el Directorio en la primera etapa de operación del
proyecto, no deja duda, que este es un mecanismo eficaz para equilibrar los desbalances que se dan en el
aparato administrativo estatal,
64.      Los resultados obtenidos durante la primera gestión nos sugieren que la implantación de
Directorios en proyectos destinados a poblaciones campesinas e indígenas se justifican si por lo menos se
presentan tres condiciones simultáneas: a) Posibilidades substanciales de distorsión de los objetivos en el
curso del proyecto, b) Necesidad de un mecanismo de orientación, seguimiento y realimentación por parte
del grupo meta y c) Volumen significativo de fondos manejados por el proyecto.
65.      El proyecto en su diseño original concibió al Directorio, como un mecanismo de control social,
supervisión y orientación, entendida como una instancia de nivel ejecutivo, tal como se la concibe en las
instituciones de tipo empresarial. La figura del directorio quedó confusa, cuando en el manual de
operaciones además se le asignaba tareas de fiscalización. Este hecho contribuyo a crear un ambiente de
discusión continúa y perdida de los objetivos previstos para su funcionamiento.          Por otra parte, el
reglamento del Directorio fue constantemente ignorado o dejado de lado por sus componentes.
66.      La presencia sindical campesina en el Directorio del Proyecto LIL no ha significado un valor
agregado muy importante para esta instancia, puesto que los representantes indígenas no aprecian el
proceso en su conjunto, limitándose a reivindicaciones muy locales y particulares de su región.
67.      Los hechos planteados nos enseñan, que la conformación de un Directorio sin un esquema
normativo para la gestión de proyectos puede ocasionar rivalidades entre sus miembros y pérdidas de
tiempo en las reuniones y en la implementación de un proyecto, con perjuicios mayores a los beneficiarios.
También nos muestra que la incorporación de algunas organizaciones indígenas con el pretexto de hacerles
participar, produce distorsiones, y en algún momento puede volverse en una maniobra para medir fuerzas
con la instancia gubernamental que está a cargo del proyecto.
68.      En el proceso de ejecución de las inversiones las IAs han jugado su propio papel, de acuerdo a sus
intereses: en unos casos reforzando los lazos de dependencia, en otros influyendo en la selección de los


                                                      - 25 -

PBSs, y en los más como una simple relación de dependencia laboral. En los hechos en gran parte de los
casos se ha reproducido nomás los patrones de relación verticalista, tanto por la actitud de las IAs como
porque las propias OPs así lo asumieron.
69.     En cuanto al apoyo institucional, los resultados del apoyo de las alcaldías, las ONGs, y empresas,
en varios casos efectivos, ha demostrado el potencial de apoyo institucional (público y privado), sobre todo
financiero, pero también en otros espacios, a las iniciativas privadas, tanto bajo relaciones independientes
como de dependencia de las OPs respecto a aquellas. La experiencia también demuestra que es mucho más
productivo y menos comprometedor para los subproyectos una relación entre ambos actores, bajo alianzas
estratégicas, manteniendo la independencia sobre todo de las OPs, en la perspectiva de un desarrollo
autogestionario.
70.     Se ha demostrado que las Proveedoras de Bienes y Servicios, en general, no están preparadas
para trabajar con pueblos indígenas, por condiciones intrínsecas a cada tipo de proveedor de bienes y
servicios.  En las entidades consultoras de capacitación las limitaciones metodológicas en cuanto al
abordaje de temas micro empresariales constituyen su mayor obstáculo; en las empresas constructoras el
sector con posibilidades e interés de atender los pequeños presupuestos de construcción (contratistas) no
siempre cuenta con requisitos formales para el efecto; en las tiendas proveedores de bienes, las deficientes
relaciones humanas de su personal constituyen su mayor obstáculo para ampliar su espectro de clientes a
poblaciones indígenas.




                                                   - 26 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
           Indicator/Matrix                        Projected in PAD              Revised/Adjusted         Actual/Latest Estimate
% of pilot investments financially    50% of pilot investments               50% of pilot investments     38 % of pilot investments
successful and socially viable                                                                              (19 out of 51 deemed
                                                                                                                 successful)
Beneficiary communities increase      15% increase in income in beneficiary   15% increase in income in  Impact not measurable at the
income by at least 15%                Communities                              beneficiary communities             present
10% increase in financing of                                                                             Poverty Reduction
indigenous productive initiatives as                                                                     Strategy process
result of feedback into Poverty                                                                           discontinued
Reduction Strategy




Output Indicators:
           Indicator/Matrix                        Projected in PAD              Revised/Adjusted         Actual/Latest Estimate
Pre-investment studies finalized                         172                               125                       114
Resource inventories / management                         12                                 8                         8
plans finalized
Pilot investments implemented                            120                                51                  40
Pilot investments implemented, of                        30%                               30%                 25%
which at least 30% are led by
women
Government, private and                                                                                        134
international organizations aware of
project results and lessons
Number of indigenous organizations                         5                                 5                   5
receiving systematic project reports

Participatory evaluation workshops                         6                                 6                  14


Contract with Management Services                          1                                 1                   1
Entity signed

Number of Directorate meetings                            12                                12                  14


Impact evaluation study concluded                          1                                 1                   1




(*)Number     of indigenous high-level organizations (CSUTCB, CONAMAQ, CIDOB, CNMB ­ BS, FNCB)




                                                                 - 27 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

1. Project Costs by Component (US$ million equivalent)

                                                          US$Equivalent
 ProjectCostBy           Appraisalestimate                Revised/Adjust             Executed(Aug.31,2005)
    Component                   OPs               IDA         OPs                            OPs
                    IDA                     GOB                           GOB   IDA                         GOB
                          Incash    Inkind               Incash Inkind                Incash     Inkind
  Culturallybased
  pilotinvestments  4.38    0.60     0.36   0.16  2.25    0.14     0.22         1.25    0.13       0.16     0.02
 Povertyreduction
   monitoringand    0.37                    0.30  0.87                          0.42                        0.09
       learning
       Project
   management       0.25                    0.22  0.49                          0.51                        0.23


  TotalBaseline     5.00    0.60     0.36   0.68  3.61    0.09
        Cost                                                       0.22   0.00  2.18    0.13       0.16     0.34
      Physical
   Contingencies
       PRICE
CONTINGENCIES
   TotalProject
        Costs       5.00   0.60      0.36   0.68  3.61    0.09     0.22   0.00  2.18    0.13       0.16     0.34
  TotalFinancing
     Required       5.00   0.60      0.36   0.68  3.61    0.09     0.22   0.00  2.18    0.13       0.16     0.34




Project Cost                                             US$ Equivalent
Expenditure              Appraisal estimate             Revised/Adjusted            Executed (Aug. 31, 2005)
Account             IDA         OPs         GOB   IDA         OPs         GOB   IDA         OPs             GOB
                          In cash   In kind             In cash   In kind             In cash   In kind
Goods                0.02                    0.01  0.03                          0.02                        0.01
Services             0.88                   0.56   1.13                          0.74                        0.26
Community
subprojects          4.00     0.60     0.36 0.16   2.25    0.14      0.28        1.15     0.13      0.16     0.00
Incremental
operational costs    0.10                   0.11   0.21                          0.27                        0.07
Unallocated          0.25                          0.14
Cancelled                                        (2.25)
Total Project Costs  5.00     0.60     0.36 0.68   3.75    0.09      0.22  0.00  2.18     0.13      0.16     0.34
Total Financing
Required




2. Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)




                                                       - 28 -

                                        ProcurementMethod                           TotalCosts
   Expenditure          ICB                   NCB                  OTHER/1          (including
    Category    IDA    OPs       GOB IDA     OPs       GOB IDA(a)     OPs     GOB  contingencies)

                     In     In             In    In                In    In
                    cash   kind           cash   kind            cash   kind

1. Goods                                                     0.02              0.01         0.03


2. Services                                                  0.88              0.56         1.44

3. Community
                                                             4.00  0.60  0.36 0.16          5.12
projects

4. Miscellaneous                                             0.10              0.11         0.21


   Total                                                     5.00  0.60  0.36 0.68          6.64



1        Includes community participation

3.       Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (US$ M equivalent)
                                           Procurement Method                               Total Costs
   Expenditure            ICB                    NCB                    OTHER /1            (including
    Category                                                                              contingencies)
                 IDA     OPs      GOB  IDA       OPs       GOB IDA (a)    OPs      GOB

                       In     In               In    In                 In    In
                     cash    kind            cash    kind              cash  kind

1. Goods                                                         0.03                               0.03


2. Services                                                      1.13                               1.13

3. Community
                                                                 2.25   0.14  0.28                  2.67
projects

4. Miscellaneous                                                 0.35                               0.35


   Total                                                         3.76   0.14  0.28  0.00            4.18




1        Includes community participation

4.       Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (US$ M equivalent)




                                                     - 29 -

                                                 Procurement Method
   Expenditure              ICB                         NCB                      OTHER /1         Total Costs
     Category      IDA       OPs         GOB IDA       OPs       GOB    IDA (a)    OPs     GOB     (including

                          In      In                 In     In                   In    In         contingenci

                         cash    kind              cash   kind                  cash  kind            es)


 1. Goods                                                                 0.02              0.01          0.03


 2. Services                                                              0.74              0.26          1.00

 3. Community
                                                                          1.15   0.13 0.16  0.00          1.44
 projects

 4.
                                                                          0.27              0.07          0.34
 Miscellaneous


    Total                                                                 2.18   0.13 0.16  0.34          2.81




1         Includes community participation

4.        Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)


    Component           Appraisal estimate                   RevisedEstimate               Executed (Aug. 31, 2005)

                 IDA           OPs           GOB IDA              OPs           GOB   IDA            OPs            GOB

                       In       In kind (1)               In       Inkind (1)               In       Inkind (1)
                      cash   Lbr.   Maq. Oth.            cash   Lbr. Maq. Oth.             cash   Lbr. Maq.    Oth.


 1. Goods        0.02                         0.01 0.03                               0.02                          0.01


 2. Services     0.88                        0.56 1.13                                0.74                          0.26


 3. Community
                 4.00 0.60   0.15   0.02 0.14 0.16 2.25  0.14   0.12 0.07 0.09        1.15 0.13  0.09 0.01 0.06     0.00
 projects


 4. Miscellaneous0.10                         0.11 0.21                               0.27                          0.07



    Total                                                                             2.18 0.13  0.09 0.01 0.06     0.34



(1)Corresponds to in-kind counterpart contributions: Lbr. = Labor and local materials; Maq. =
transportation costs for machinery and goods; Oth. = Food and lodging expenses for training, other
transportation and land costs.




                                                          - 30 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Expected Benefit Cost ratios (B/C) for each subproject were estimated by a consulting firm (Centro de
Estudios y Proyectos) for a presumed third year of operation, considering as benefits the difference between
annual gross revenues and variable production costs; and as costs, the subprojects´ costs divided by the
average life of investments (in years). Training costs were depreciated in one to two years, equipment in 5
to 10 years and buildings in more than 10 years. It was also assumed that: (i) 70% of the operational costs
correspond to the imputed value for labor used by the community involved in the initiative; and (ii) only
30% of the technical assistance and training investment costs should be considered for the B/C ratio since
most of the benefits of those capacity building expenses are not quantifiable and go beyond the subprojects´
productive activities. Three scenarios were considered for the expected ratios considering optimistic,
realistic and pessimistic assumptions about the level of production, sales and prices to be attained, each
scenario weighted by a probability of occurrence of 15%, 70% and 15%, respectively.




                                                    - 31 -

  APPROVED SUBPROJECTS DATA BASE AND ESTIMATED BENEFIT/COST RATIOS
                                                                                        Cost     Total   Ben

Nº Cod.     Project Name         OP Name         Type of                                                   /
                                                 project     Department. Community    adjusted Financed
                                                                                        (Bs.)  LIL (Bs.) Cost
                                                                                                          (1)
1   10   Training             Suma Sartawi                     Oruro      Urmiri de    253,834  185,434  0.24
         Production and                                                   Quillacas
         Marketing of
         Andean
         Handcrafts.                             Artisans
2  27.2  Tourism Project      Comunidad                         Beni      Zamaria      193,218  147,687  0.41
         "Zamaria"            Zamaria          Ecotourism
3   30   Guyaba Pulp,         Comunidad       Transformation   Potosí    Sucusuma      232,352  167,306  0.13
         Marmalade and        Sucusuma
         Juice Processing
         Center
4   38   Community            Asociación       Ecotourism      La Paz     Cumaná       207,912  139,566  0.00
         Tourism Center in    comunitaria de
         Cumaná               recepción de
                              ecoturismo.
5  50.2  Oil motacú           Comunidad                         Beni       Perotó      192,299  148,523  0.00
         Processing Center    campesina
         "El Motacusal in     Peroto "El
         the Perotó           Motacusal"
         Community.                           Transformation
6   61   Handicraft           A.P.A.I.           Artisans      La Paz      Caluyo      238,538  177,411  0.48
         Manufacturing &      "CHOKE
         Marketing in         PANKARA"
         Ch'illiwa -
         Community Caluyo
7  75.1  Oca-Kaki             APROKAT                          Potosí      Torko       210,940  154,231  1.58
         Production,
         Transformation &
         Marketing                            Transformation
8  75.2  Herbs & Medicine     Asociación de                    Potosí     Uma Uma      232,761  194,771  0.06
         Plants Te            productores
                              hierbas
                              naturales       Transformation
9  88.1  Textile Handicraft   "A.A.R.I. -        Artisans      La Paz    Santiago de   177,075  132,539  0.76
         Production palillo y S.A.M.A."                                   Machaca
         telar "Santiago de
         Machaca"
10 125   Ecological Achiote   Asociación      Transformation   La Paz    El Porvenir   239,187  198,255  8.99
         & Production of      agroindustrial
         Bixina               La Paz.
11 127   Textile Handicraft   Asociación         Artisans      Oruro        Jatita     152,824  116,196  0.32
         Unit for             agropecuaria
         Production,          16 de julio.
         Training &
         Infrastructure in
         Jatita Community
12 162   Quinua & cañahua     Asociación de   Transformation   La Paz     San Juan     348,282  228,410  0.04
         Transformation       productores de                               Pacollo
                              cereales San
                              Juan Pacollo.
13 163   Indigenous           Centros                           Beni     Santa maría   362,848  224,999  0.16
         Tourism Center in    turísticos                                  del Pilar y
         Mamoré               indígenas del                               Villa del
                              Mamoré           Ecotourism                 Carmen.
14 164   Ecological-Tourism   Comunidad                      Cochabamba   Cruzani      256,928  175,579  0.81
         Cruzani              ecológica
                              CRUZANI          Ecotourism
15 167.6 Tourism              Asociación de    Ecotourism      La Paz     Amarete      183,547  123,380    -
         Expresions           producción y
         Amarete              capacitación
                              APCE _
                              AMARETE
16 198   Uña de gato Syrup    Productores                       Beni      Villa del    178,791  137,987  1.54
                              jarabe uña de                               Carmen
                              gato el Bejuco  Transformation




                                                - 32 -

17 250   Chuño Storage         Asociación         Transformation    Potosí      Ch'iw      63,258   44,755  0.36
         Center and            Rijchary
         Marketing
18 271   Cultural & Rural      RURAL ECO            Ecotourism     La Paz     Chojasivi,   279,394 198,598  0.00
         Tourism in the        TOURS                                          Quiripuyo,
         Quiripuju, Chojasivi,                                                Cala Cala,
         Cala Cala, Taraco                                                   Taraco, Laja
         and Laja Community
         Circuits.
19 272.1 Camelides Meat        Asociación         Transformation   La Paz     Llachuani,   155,254 124,209  5.02
         Production,           productores                                   Chullumpini,
         Concentration and     Alpaquita Andina                               Huancarani
         Marketing in Bautista                                                y Antarani
         Saavedra Province
20 282   Charque de llama      OMARCA             Transformation   La Paz      Chuani      204,620 154,399 18.63
         Production
21 292   Pepper (Ají)          Asociación de                      Chuquisaca  San Julian   277,963 230,678   -
         Processing and        productores
         Marketing San         agropecuarios
         Julián.               San Julián         Transformation
22 297   Women Handicraft      Red de mujeres        Artisans      La Paz     Caquiaviri,  252,012 219,124  1.44
         Production Centers    QURI AMUYTA                                    Ayo Ayo.
         Strengthening QURI
         AMUYT'A

23 302   Agro Ecotourism       Grupo colectivo      Ecotourism     La Paz      Tacaso      330,444 232,900  0.21
         Tacaso                TACASO
24 318   Ecotourism Shrine     Comunidades          Ecotourism      Oruro     Quillacas    168,645 127,249  0.29
         Quillacas in the      organizadas de
         Thaqui de Thunupa     Jatun Qillakas
         route "ruta
         alternativa al salar
         de Thunupa"
25 321   Training in Textile   Organización          Artisans       Oruro       Marka      198,236 158,303  0.08
         Production (vertical  artesanal "INTI"                               Challacota
         and horizontal)
26 325   Meliponicultura       Productores de                    Cochabamba   Tres Islas   219,587 161,928  3.07
         Project "UYPI -       UYPI -
         YURACARE"             YURACARE           Transformation
27 337.1 Yuca Processing       Asociación de                        Beni     San Antonio   103,845  82,166  1.91
                               productores                                    de Poyori
                               POYORI             Transformation
28 344   Chuño Production &    Sindicato agrario  Transformation Cochabamba     Japo       126,609  96,887  0.88
         Marketing in Japo     JAPO
         K'asa Community
29 352   Kañawa Processing     Sindicato agrario  Transformation Cochabamba   Lakolaconi   135,526 106,037  0.27
         and Marketing in      Lakolaconi
         Lakolaconi prov.
         Tapacari
         Communities
30 355   Tourism in Cumbres    APETCO -             Ecotourism     La Paz     Palcoco,     214,380 183,034  0.42
         and Nevados in        AMAUTA                                         Condoriri
         Condoriri and
         Huayna Potosí
31 375   Community Eco         Asociación de        Ecotourism     La Paz      Chilaya     238,660 161,046  0.00
         Hostage Chilaya       jóvenes                                          Chico
         Chico                 emprendedores
                               Aymaras.
32 383   Native Handicrafts    KORUSA LLAWE          Artisans       Potosí      Macha      222,224 185,567  5.64
         "Korusa Llawe"




                                                  - 33 -

33 552  Paiche Fism Processing.      Asociación de                      Pando   Miraflores   171,545  124,361 1.07
                                     pescadores del
                                     pez paiche.         Transformation
34 643  Starch Processing in         Sindicato Agrario   Transformation La Paz  Minachi,     126,113  87,764  0.31
        Jamachipeke (local starch)   Minachi                                   Cruz Loma
35 668  Tacanas Traditional          Centro cultural                    La Paz    TCO        269,300  228,714  -
        Handicrafts Production and   Tacana                                      Tacana
        Marketing.                                          Artisans
36 677  Chiquitana Handicraft        Asociación de                      Santa  Los Tajibos   142,140  121,774 2.19
        Production with fabric       artesanas                           Cruz
        applications and cultural    bordadoras - la
        local subjects.              primavera - los
                                     tajibos.               Artisans
37 679  Infrastructure, Training and Asociación de                      Santa  El Porvenir,  192,901  160,359 3.33
        raw material for Knitters    tejedoras y                         Cruz   Zapoco,
        Garabatá and Wood            talladores                                Guiidaychai
        sculptures.                  Ayoreos.               Artisans
38 684  Ceramic Production and       Asociación de                      Santa   Cotoca y     146,689  115,575 0.76
        Marketing in Cotoca with     loseras de Cotoca                   Cruz  Santa Rosa
        human, animal and                                                           de
        traditional shapes.                                 Artisans            Proboste
39 708  Etnic Ecotourism Accetur/    Comunidad                          La Paz  Chuñavi      278,195  207,206 0.13
        Kala Pukara de               Chuñavi               Ecotourism
40 910  Sopocachi Handicraft         Asociación             Artisans    La Paz  Cota Cota    169,386  145,706 0.10
        Production Center            artesanal                                     Baja
                                     Sopocachi
41 925  Handicrafts Corque           Artesanías                         Oruro   Corque,      233,946  138,550 0.10
        Copiaza                      Corque Copiaza                              Kupilla,
                                                                                Punsuta,
                                                                                Chillcani,
                                                            Artisans            Condoriri,
42 984  Traditional Medicine         Centro promoción                   La Paz  Wancollo     110,802  93,647   -
        Strengthening                Wanacollo ayllu
                                     originario
                                     Wancollo            Transformation
43 989  San Antonio de Lomerío       Asociación de         Ecotourism   Santa      San       225,099  181,324 1.20
        Community Ethnic Eco-        productores                         Cruz  Antonio de
        tourism                      ecoturismo                                 Lomerío
                                     MONKOX
                                     CHIQUITANOS
44 990  Sustainable Handicrafts      Asociación                         Santa      San       236,406  188,395 2.55
                                     MONKOX                              Cruz  Antonio de
                                     CHIQUITANOS                                Lomerío
                                     de San Antonio
                                     de Lomerío             Artisans
45 1003 Centro de acopio y           UJCHASQHAS                         Potosí   Taconi      98,118   78,566  0.39
        elaboración de refresco      WIÑANAPAQ
        medicinal de Thaqu                               Transformation
46 1447 Comercialización de          Asociación rural                   Oruro   Titiri, San  89,885   67,830  3.53
        tejidos de artesanías        de artesanías                              José de
        Oruro.                       Oruro (A.R.A.O.)                          Cala, Real
                                                                                Machaca,
                                                                                Avaroa y
                                                            Artisans             Florida
47 1541 Producción y                 Asociación                         La Paz Comanche      129,961  113,002 2.94
        Comercialización de          integral de
        Artesanías en piedra         artesanos en
        granito Comanche             tallados de piedra
                                     granito de
                                     Comanche               Artisans
48 1672 Equipamiento y               Asociación de                      Potosí   Laguna      197,550  171,773 1.38
        capacitación para el         prestadores de                               Verde
        funcionamiento de la         servicios
        cabaña de alta montaña       turísticos
        Laguna Verde.                APRESTUR -
                                     Quetena Gde           Ecotourism
49 1680 Mejoras técnicas y de        Asociación de          Artisans    Santa  Candelaria,   166,689  127,310 2.93
        diseño para ampliar la       tejedoras de                        Cruz  Potreros, El
        producción y                 palma Jipijapa de                          Carmen y
        comercialización de tejidos  Ichilo                                      Buena




                                                     - 34 -

- 35 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              11/14/1998                2    TTL (1), CONSULTANT (2)
              03/08/1999                3    TTL 91); CONSULTANTS (2)
              01/25/2000                3    TTL (1); RURAL
                                             DEVELOPMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); CSO SPECIALIST (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              12/15/2000                4    TTL (1); RURAL
                                             DEVELOPMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1);CSO
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             FINANCIAL
                                             MANAGEMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1)

 Supervision

              11/16/2001                2    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT SPE
                                             (1)



              05/29/2002                6    TASK MANAGER (1); CSO            S               S
                                             SPECIALIST (1); RURAL
                                             DEVELOPMENT (1); SOCIAL
                                             DEVELOPMENT (1);
                                             FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                             (1); PROCUREMENT (1)
              05/29/2002                3    TTL (1); SOCIAL                  S               S
                                             DEVELOPMENT SPE (1);
                                             CONSULTANT, RURAL DEV
                                             (1)
              05/20/2003                6    TTL (6); CSO SPECIALIST (1);     S               S
                                             RURAL DEVELOPMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1); SOCIAL
                                             DEVELOPMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); PROCUREMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1); FINANCIAL
                                             MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1)
              03/24/2004                4    TTL (1); CSO (1); RURAL          U               U
                                             DEVELOPMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              10/22/2004                5    TTL (1); RURAL DEV               S               S
                                             SPECIALIST (1); SOCIAL DEV



                                              - 36 -

                                           SPECIALIST (1); FMS (1);
                                           PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                           (1)
               04/29/2005              7   TTL (1); CSO SPECIALIST (1);       U    U
                                           RURAL DEVELOPMENT
                                           SPECIALIST (1); SOCIAL
                                           DEVELOPMENT SPECIALIST
                                           (1); PROCUREMENT
                                           SPECIALIST (1);
                                           PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                           (1); FINANCIAL
                                           MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
                                           (1); ENVIRONMENT
                                           CONSULTANT (1)

 ICR
               05/13/2005             4     TTL (1); CSO SPECIALIST           U    U
                                            (1); RURAL
                                            DEVELOPMENT
                                            SPECIALIST (1); ICR
                                            CONSULTANT (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 8.46                         29,145
  Supervision                          88.59                     133,960.88
  ICR                                  12.86                       16,918.4
  Total                              109.91                      180,024.28




                                            - 37 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
        Learning
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA
Social capital




                                                    - 38 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 39 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

CEINDEH. 2005. Informe de Sistematización de experiencias y aprendizajes de la fase de inversión.
La Paz, Bolivia.

CEP. 2005. Estudios de caso del proyecto LIL / Indígena. La Paz, Bolivia.

CEP. 2005. Evaluación de Efectos y Posibles Impactos del Proyecto de Innovación y Aprendizaje
para el Desarrollo de los Pueblos Indígenas - LIL/Indígena. La Paz ­ Bolivia.

INYPSA. 2004. Informe final de proyecto. La Paz, Bolivia.

MACPIO. 2001. Proyecto Desarrollo de los Pueblos Indígenas ­ Manual de Operaciones (LIL /
        Indígena). La Paz, Bolivia.

MAIPO. 2004. Proyecto Desarrollo de los Pueblos Indígenas ­ Manual de Operaciones (LIL /
        Indígena). La Paz, Bolivia.

MAIPO ­ LIL / INDIGENA. 2005. Línea de base del proyecto LIL / Indígena. La Paz, Bolivia.

MAIPO ­ LIL / INDIGENA. 2004. Primer reporte de monitoreo. La Paz, Bolivia.

MAIPO ­ LIL / INDIGENA. 2005. Segundo reporte de monitoreo. La Paz, Bolivia.

MAIPO ­ LIL / INDIGENA. 2005. Tercer reporte de monitoreo. La Paz, Bolivia.

MAIPO ­ LIL / INDIGENA. 2005. Ultimo reporte de monitoreo. La Paz, Bolivia.

MAIPO. 2004. Evaluación del cumplimiento de términos contractuales de INYPSA. La Paz, Bolivia.

MAIPO. 2005. Sistematización de experiencias y aprendizajes de la fase de Preinversión. La Paz,
Bolivia.

MAIPO. 2005. Sistematización de experiencias y aprendizajes de la fase de inversión. La Paz, Bolivia.

MAIPO. 2001 -2005. Estados de Información Financiera, gestiones 2001 ­ 2004.

MAIPO. 2005. Estados de Ejecución Presupuestaria y Desembolsos para Inversión.

VAIPO. 2000. Diagnostico Nacional de Pueblos Indígenas y Originarios. La Paz, Bolivia.




                                                - 40 -

Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results

A survey of indigenous matrix organizations involved in the project (including those with representatives in
the Directorate) was undertaken as part of this ICR, requesting them to provide comments on (i) a
summary of lessons learned prepared by the PIU and (ii) the results of the Stakeholder Workshop held at
the end of the project (see Annex 9). The list of organizations included: Asociación de Productores
Ecológicos de Bolivia (AOPEB); Central de Mujeres Indígenas del Beni (CMIB); Central de Pueblos
Indígenas del Beni (CPIB); Comité Integrado de Organizaciones Económicas de Bolivia (CIOECC);
Confederación de Colonizadores de Bolivia (CCB); Confederación de Pueblos Indígenas de Bolivia
(CIDOB); Confederación Sindical Unica de Trabajadores Campesinos de Bolivia (CSUTCB); Consejo
Nacional de Ayllus y Markas del Qollasuyu (CONAMAQ); and Federación Nacional de Mujeres
Campesinas Bartolina Sisa (FNMCB-BS). Since only one organization (CPIB) responded, the replied is
reproduced in full.

COMENTARIOS           SOBRE       LECCIONES         DE     APRENDIZAJES           EN     EL    PROYECTO
LIL/INDIGENA


ANALISIS GENERAL

El Proyecto LIL/INDIGENA, para las organizaciones de Tierras Bajas-Amazonía ha constituido una
experiencia muy importante para entrar en el proceso de emprendimientos del desarrollo económico
utilizando recursos y conocimientos propios de los Pueblos Indígenas.

Fase de formulación del proyecto LIL/INDIGENA

La etapa más importante para nosotros ha sido la de la Formulación del proyecto, donde fuimos actores
directos en los diferentes niveles de estructuras orgánicas del movimiento indígena, participamos
activamente en las reunio9nes de consulta regionales y nacionales realizadas con este objetivo. En esta
primera etapa del proceso se puede mencionar como aprendizajes la siguiente puntualización:

Aspectos positivos del proceso:
·       Por primera vez se toma en cuenta al sector indígena como actor en el desarrollo de capacidades
que sobrepasen nuestra forma de producción tradicional destinadas al auto consumo, dándonos la
posibilidad de producir para el mercado.
·       Los recursos naturales que disponemos en nuestras TCO's son tan importantes para mejorar el
nivel de vida de nuestras familias si le agregamos tecnología moderna a la tradicional practicada de
generación en generación por nuestros pueblos si se nos brinda condiciones de infraestructura productiva y
capacitación.
·       La participación indígena en las etapas del proceso, desde la formación del proyecto hasta su total
implementación.
·       La estrategia que se estableció para el control social de las actividades del proyecto (Directorio del
Proyecto)
·       La forma de participar en concurso como Organizaciones productivas Indígenas, algo totalmente
nuevo e interesante para nuestras comunidades.
·       La Participación de los beneficiarios directos en la gestión de algunas etapas del proceso
(adquisición de bienes y contratación de servicios)

Fase de Implementación del Proyecto


                                                   - 41 -

Aspectos negativos del proceso:
En esta etapa como organización regional de tierras bajas-amazonia, la participación nuestra fue reducida
al mínimo por la Dirección Técnica y Administrativa encargada de llevar adelante el proceso de
Implementación del Proyecto y porque existió un vacío que no permitió un control mas directo de las
organizaciones regionales hacia las organizaciones productivas, apareciendo otro actores que no formaban
parte del diseño inicial del Proyecto como las Instituciones de acompañamiento y los supervisores de
campo. La incorporación de estos actores no fue consultada y por tanto no contaron con el aval de las
organizaciones regionales, teniendo una actuación muy pobre de poca contribución al proceso de
implementación del proyecto. Así mismo el Directorio del Proyecto constituido con mayoría de
representantes de las organizaciones indígenas de nivel nacional no cumplieron con su rol de supervisión y
menos de retroalimentar la información hacia sus bases y viceversa. Con referencia a la actuación de la
Entidad Ejecutora, Ministerio de Asuntos Indinas y Pueblos Originarios (MAIPO) coincido con lo
expresado en el resumen elaborado por el equipo del proyecto sobre principales aprendizajes, igualmente
con el desempeño del brazo operador del Ministerio, la Unidad de Coordinación del Proyecto (UCP), que
en esta etapa del proceso ignoro por completo la existencia de organizaciones regionales y locales para
aspectos de coordinación de acciones conjuntas para el logro del objetivo del Proyecto.

La entidad de Servicios Gerenciales (INYPSA), en esta región tuvo un desempeño desastroso frente a las
expectativas creadas a las OPs en el periodo de promoción del proyecto. En la primera convocatoria esta
región presento al concurso alrededor de 35 ideas de proyectos, las cuales fueron evaluadas en una primera
instancia por INYPSA, dando evaluación positiva a 18 de ellas y que desconozco los motivos por los
cuales estaban quedando fuera de concurso, al final después de mucha insistencia entraron a una segunda
evaluación 8, teniendo resultados positivos 5, las que entraron a la etapa de inversión, el saldo quedaron
postergadas para una segunda fase que nunca se realizó, demostrando de esta forma la poca voluntad y
total desconocimiento de la realidad de la región por parte de la entidad de Servicios Gerenciales qu no
mostró capacidad técnica ni conocimiento del tema indígena de tierras bajas, la Entidad Ejecutora del
proyecto (MAIPO), no tomó ninguna acción que yo conozca para corregir esta deficiencia.

Comentarios sobre los principales ámbitos del Proyecto

1.      Ámbito económico.- las organizaciones de productores indígenas de esta región, nacieron con la
aparición del Proyecto LIL/INDIGENA, que una vez concretada las diferentes etapas de estructuración del
proyecto, su misión era el desarrollo de tecnología indígena complementada con tecnología moderna, siendo
su materia prima los recursos naturales existentes en las comunidades, la producción de bienes y prestación
de servicios tenia como objetivo generar ingresos económicos que coadyuven al mejoramiento del nivel de
vida y de esta forma hacer frente a la pobreza en que se debate la mayoría de la población boliviana
especialmente el sector indígena, sin embargo, el proceso de implementación del proyecto LIL/INDIGENA
en esta región a la fecha no ha sido concluido, menos aun entrar en la etapa de operación y
comercialización que es donde se reflejara el impacto económico con los beneficios obtenidos por la venta
de los productos o servicios prestados.

En este ámbito aun no se ha logrado ningún impacto que permita identificar el beneficio de los miembros de
la OP y de la comunidad en general, la razón es la no conclusión del proceso de implementación.

2.      Ámbito Social.- En este ámbito en las organizaciones de productores que se organizaron en la
amazonia, como se ha mencionado son todas nuevas, el problema social de mayor relevancia en estas
organizaciones fue el de los aportes de contraparte en efectivo en las dos etapas de avance del proyecto, la
preinversión y la inversión, la escasez de efectivo en las comunidades indígenas fue limitante para que


                                                    - 42 -

varias de las ideas presentadas y ganadoras del concurso no puedan continuar el proceso de
implementación de los subproyectos por no disponer de efectivo para este efecto, la producción indígena
como ya se mencionó, es destinada al autoconsumo una buena parte y lo demás al intercambio por otros
productos, en este sentido la mayoría de las OPs de la amazonia que lograron entrar en la etapa de
inversión, han tenido que recurrir a sus municipios en busca del efectivo y cumplir con la exigencia del
proyecto.

En las comunidades indígenas de esta región existe muy poca diferenciación económica entre las familias,
existe alguna diferenciación personal en el grado de formación escolar, pero no implica un índice de
discriminación relevante. El control social que se ha ejercido en el proceso de las etapas mencionadas en la
implementación del proyecto ha estado enmarcado en los usos y costumbres de las organizaciones
tradicionales de cada una de las comunidades.

En cuanto a la distribución de beneficios aun no se puede identificar por no haber llegado a la etapa de
operación.

3.      Ámbito Institucional.- En este ámbito se encuentra la causa de los buenos y los malos resultados
obtenidos en las etapas de implementación del proyecto, para no redundar en lo mismo expreso mi
coincidencia por lo expuesto en el resumen elaborado por el equipo del proyecto sobre los aprendizajes.
Agregando únicamente que se tome muy en cuenta estas experiencias negativas con el propósito de corregir
errores para un relanzamiento del proyecto, porque en mi criterio el proyecto el proyecto aun no ha
concluido y si asi fuera se busque una nueva oportunidad para las organizaciones de productores que se
sienten frustradas en el logro de los objetivos, pero no por culpa de ellas sino por quienes tuvieron la
responsabilidad de hacer la gestión y la administración del proyecto y lo hicieron inadecuadamente,
considerando que el diseño y la estrategia de implementación del proyecto contenía elementos suficientes
para obtener mejores resultados.

Finalmente manifiesto ni conformidad con el análisis efectuado por el equipo que ha elaborado el resumen
de los diferentes ámbitos, por no tener mayores elementos de análisis, reiterando que la participación de la
organización que presido en la etapa de implementación del proyecto fue extremadamente reducida, no se
proporciono los medios para hacer el seguimiento y monitoreo a las actividades de los beneficiarios y a las
entidades encargadas de llevar adelante la implementación del proyecto.

        Trinidad 9 de enero de 2006.

        (signed) Remberto Justiniano Cujuy, Presidente CPIB




                                                   - 43 -

Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results

                                    INFORME DE CONCLUSIONES
                    TALLER DE VALIDACION PARA CIERRE DE PROYECTO

Antecedentes
El Proyecto de Innovación y Aprendizaje para el Desarrollo de los pueblos Indígenas, LIL / Indígena,
dependiente del Ministerio de Asuntos Indígenas y Pueblos Originarios - MAIPO y con financiamiento del
Banco Mundial (AIF), fue diseñado como parte de la Estrategia Boliviana de Reducción de la Pobreza
(EBRP), con el objetivo de promover el desarrollo de los Pueblos Indígenas y originarios brindándoles
oportunidades para la implementación de actividades empresariales autogestionarias que tengan base
cultural y que contribuyan a la generación de ingresos para el mejoramiento de su economía y la de su
comunidad.

Objetivo
Con la finalidad de realizar una evaluación al cierre del proyecto, se ha efectuado un Taller de Validación
involucrando a todos los actores del proyecto (poder ejecutivo, cooperación internacional y representantes
de organizaciones de pueblos indígenas) con el fin de obtener resultados validados, a través de un proceso
de reflexión y autocrítica, así como la formulación de conclusiones y recomendaciones en base a los
alcances, resultados e impactos obtenidos. Este taller se realizo en base a la conformación de seis (6) mesas
de trabajo distribuidas por Ejes Temáticos del Proyecto y reuniones plenarias.

        1. Organizaciones Productoras
        2. Mecanismos de Adquisiciones
        3.   Preinversión
        4.   Rol de la Empresa de Servicios Gerenciales (ESG)
        5.   Institucionalidad
        6.   Inversión

A continuación se presentan las conclusiones y recomendaciones del Taller de Validación que inicialmente
fueron acordadas en las Mesas de Trabajo y, luego, discutidas, complementadas y aprobadas por consenso
de los/as participantes durante el Plenario de Cierre del encuentro.

                                MESA UNO: Organizaciones productoras
A pesar de la resistencia inicial de algunas OPs en el cumplimiento de los requisitos exigidos para la
obtención de la personería jurídica, la experiencia les demostró que esto era necesario porque significó
tramitar el "certificado de nacimiento" de las OPs, lo que constituye el primer paso hacia su formalización.
Además, adquiere importancia vital porque es indispensable para la proyección de la organización no sólo
en el mercado nacional sino también internacional.

Las OPs se conformaron con más de 20 familias, y en algunos casos incorporaron a casi todos los
miembros de la comunidad, promoviéndose la participación activa de las mujeres que en algunos casos fue
superior al 30 % exigido por el proyecto. Las OP´s pertenecían a grupos étnicos diversos, pero con
distintos procesos de castellanización lo que no fue impedimento para su conformación.

Una de las fortalezas de la conformación de las OPs, es que los municipios se constituyen en los principales
consumidores y compradores de sus productos. Sin embargo algunos municipios y ONGs intentaron
apropiarse, manejar y controlar los proyectos de las OPs dudando de la capacidad del manejo de estas.

Existe la percepción de que las ONGs no impulsan la autonomía de las OPs por temor a perder los recursos



                                                    - 44 -

que canalizan a nombre de las mismas, sin embargo no se debe desconocer el apoyo que estás dieron en la
difusión del proyecto y la capacitación previa para encarar la fase de preinversión.

La relación de las OPs con las distintas organizaciones sociales (Sindicato Agrario, CSUTCB,
organización originaria, CIDOB, y otras) fue muy positiva debido a que pertenecen o están afiliadas a ellas
por lo que se contó con el apoyo necesario.

La parte negativa es que algunas organizaciones locales pretendieron manejar los recursos de las OPs y, no
faltaron algunas que influyeron en los representantes legales, haciéndoles perder la confianza en el
proyecto, esto genero una confusión de los roles, e intentaron cambiar a los representantes legales; el
cambio de autoridades comunales también afecto la relación entre OPs y organizaciones locales.

Evaluación de la asistencia técnica y el acompañamiento

El apoyo de la UCP/MAIPO durante el proceso inicial fue positivo, se generó participación a través de los
concursos de ideas de proyectos, que canalizaron recursos financieros y se aceleró el inicio del proyecto,
lastimosamente, este impulso inicial no tuvo continuidad debido a diversos factores, siendo el más
importante la inestabilidad institucional que provocó el incumplimiento de compromisos y, en el último
tiempo, el total abandono de sus roles.

El apoyo de las Instituciones de Acompa;amiento (IAs) permitió contar en algunos casos con profesionales
comprometidos con su región lo que contribuyo de manera positiva debido a sus buenas relaciones en el
mercado, lo negativo fue que algunas IAs restaron protagonismo a los representantes legales de la OPs,
generando dependencia al acaparar información.

Cambios organizativos y sociales provocados por la ejecución del Proyecto

Se promovió la participación generalizada de los comunarios, sin embargo se debe resaltar la participación
de las mujeres. El éxito de los proyectos freno el proceso migratorio campo - ciudad, existe interés en otras
comunidades que quieren imitar la experiencia, se generaron recursos externos (municipios), se generaron
nuevos liderazgos que en algunos casos se tradujo en la promoción de los representantes legales como
autoridades municipales.

Posibles impactos del proyecto

§        Si bien las iniciativas productivas están iniciando su fase de producción, se constituyen en una
alternativa real para mejorar los ingresos familiares, y se perfilan como una opción para ampliar la
generación de empleo en las áreas de influencia de los proyectos.
§        Para reforzar estos logros se considera necesaria la implementación de una segunda fase que
asegure el seguimiento de los proyectos, y garantice recursos financieros para asistencia técnica.
                          MESA DOS: MECANISMOS DE ADQUISICIONES

Para este análisis se tomaron en consideración dos aspectos: el encuentro de las OPs con el mercado y, la
relación de las OPs con la UCP.

Compras de Bienes y Servicios

Las OPs no tenían experiencia alguna en procesos de contratación de bienes y servicios, si bien se los
capacitó en este ámbito no fue suficiente por lo que se debe realizar un proceso de capacitación acorde a
sus requerimientos y necesidades.

Por otro lado, en el futuro se deben tomar en cuenta los conocimientos de las organizaciones de base antes
de contratar cualquier bien o servicio a fin de abaratar los costos de las mismas, puesto que para la
construcción de infraestructura se podía haber utilizado esa mano de obra.

El Estado no goza de credibilidad entre las Proveedoras de Bienes y Servicios (PBS) como consecuencia de



                                                      - 45 -

su falta de seriedad y cumplimiento de los desembolsos y plazos de amortización de las obligaciones
contraídas. Lo que implicó un retraso en la conclusión de las obras de infraestructura.

Comunicación

La falta de comunicación entre la UCP y las OPs perjudicó los resultados de la revisión de los perfiles de
proyectos asimismo, la pérdida de documentación por parte de la UCP afectó seriamente a las OPs.

                                     MESA TRES: PREINVERSION

A. MODALIDAD DE CONCURSOS

1. Se brindó información adecuada y oportuna sobre las modalidades de concurso, y los medios
utilizados para la difusión fueron los más adecuados

No se realizó una información y difusión adecuada acerca de la modalidad de los concursos por cuanto no
se tomaron en cuenta las emisoras de radio rurales. Las convocatorias enviadas a las alcaldías no fueron
difundidas entre las OPs.

La información que se brindó no fue lo suficientemente clara, especialmente para el llenado de los
formularios de presentación de ideas de proyecto. Las OP´s no estuvieron involucradas en esta fase ni
siquiera a nivel de consulta de algunas decisiones.

B. ROL DE ACTORES EN LAS DECISIONES

El rol de los principales actores de apoyo (organizaciones, UCP e INYPSA) a las OP´s no fue el adecuado,
las organizaciones de las tierras bajas y altas no contribuyeron en la socialización del Proyecto entre las
OP´s, debido a que el tema de producción no se encuentra entre sus prioridades.

La UCP no tuvo ninguna relación con las OPs en la etapa de preinversión por cuanto INYPSA realizo todo
el trabajo de coordinación. La mayoría de las OPs no conocía la existencia de la UCP hasta que
desapareció INYPSA y asumió la coordinación el Ing. Plácido Semo y su equipo de colaboradores

El rol de INYPSA fue muy negativo en la etapa de preinversión por cuanto se tomó mucho tiempo para dar
a conocer si un proyecto estaba o no aprobado, los plazos otorgados para corregir los proyectos fueron
muy cortos, y en muchos casos se limitaron a realizar un trabajo de gabinete debido a que no llegaron a
muchas comunidades para realizar la evaluaciones de campo.

Los procesos de contratación de consultores para la elaboración de los perfiles de proyectos en algunos
casos no fueron transparentes, lo que dificultó el desarrollo de estos debido a que no contaban con la
experiencia correspondiente.

Algunas OPs no efectuaron el seguimiento a la elaboración de perfiles, sin embargo para el conjunto de las
OPs ganadoras, todos los problemas enfrentados fueron parte de un proceso de aprendizaje.

C. CALIDAD DE LA EVALUACIÓN EX-ANTE ECONOMICA, FINANCIERA,
INSTITUCIONAL Y SOCIAL

No se realizó una evaluación ex ante a los 265 perfiles de proyecto financiados, de esta cantidad
aproximadamente 200 no reunían los requisitos de calidad, lo que demostró que las OPs no efectuaron el
seguimiento respectivo a la elaboración de los mismos, debido principalmente a su falta de experiencia.

La estructura presupuestaria de los subproyectos no fue formulada adecuadamente, en algunos casos no se
contemplaron los costos reales, en otros se sobredimensionaron los costos, en los más se incorporaron
actividades innecesarias.

Se tuvo dificultad para la consecución de recursos de contraparte en la etapa de preinversión, debido a que



                                                   - 46 -

no existía seguridad en la aprobación del proyecto.

 En algunos casos la OP puso la contraparte con recursos de su fondo rotativo, en otros, los miembros de
la OP aportaron con sus propios recursos, y faltaron casos en los que la contraparte la puso todo el
consultor.

SUGERENCIAS

Se deben revisar los parámetros de la contraparte en la fase de preinversión, por cuanto es difícil cumplir
con este requisito debido a que no existe garantía de elegibilidad del proyecto. Las OPs se muestran más
dispuestas a asegurar la contraparte en la fase de inversión, es decir, cuando se tiene certeza de que el
proyecto será ejecutado.

        MESA CUATRO: ROL DE LA EMPRESA DE SERVICIOS GERENCIALES (ESG)

Generalidades

La presencia de una ESG en el nivel operativo de ejecución del Proyecto, fue resultado de una evaluación
efectuada en talleres de concertación, donde se estableció que el gobierno acusaba inestabilidad
institucional y funcionaria, además de existir el riesgo de constantes cambios de políticas nacionales, cuyo
proceso de contratación de la ESG demoró 13 meses.

Evaluación al trabajo de la ESG

El trabajo realizado por la ESG no fue el adecuado por cuanto existió una falta de coordinación entre esta y
la UCP, la ESG supeditó de manera exagerada la toma de decisiones a las instructivas de la UCP, no tuvo
carácter gerencial, demostró una total desorganización en los procesos y procedimientos administrativos y
en la administración de los archivos.

El número de profesionales contratado por la ESG resultó insuficiente pues no se dimensionó la cantidad de
revisiones de ideas y perfiles de proyecto debían realizar, por otro lado, el perfil de estos no era el requerido
para llevar adelante el trabajo, desconocían por completo la realidad cultural de las Comunidades
Originarias y Pueblos Indígenas.

No existieron criterios de evaluación uniformes, lo que originó confusión y retraso en la determinación de la
factibilidad de los perfiles de proyectos. El Manual de Operaciones del proyecto no les fue entregado a las
OPs.

                                 MESA CINCO: INSTITUCIONALIDAD

No existió un relacionamiento coordinado entre las diferentes organizaciones,por este motivo, en Santa
Cruz se creó una Coordinadora de las Asociaciones del Proyecto LIL, con la finalidad de presionar ante el
MAIPO, UCP y el Banco Mundial para agilizar los desembolsos y asegurar el normal desarrollo de los
proyectos.

Las funciones del directorio no estaban claramente establecidas, por lo que se sugiere realizar un manual de
operaciones para su funcionamiento a fin de garantizar su adecuado funcionamiento.

§        Es necesario revisar la composición de esta instancia en proyectos como LIL/Indígena y asegurar
que la representación de las organizaciones productoras sea directa y no esté mediada por organizaciones
matrices que no han incorporado el tema productivo en sus agendas y, por el contrario, orientan su accionar
con fines netamente políticos.
El constante cambio de autoridades (Ministros,Viceministros, Directores y personal técnico) afectó el
normal desarrollo del Proyecto LIL/Indígena y perjudicó a las OPs, si bien se pudo apreciar un cambio
positivo en el desempeño técnico de la UCP una vez que INYPSA salió del proyecto, sin embargo no se




                                                     - 47 -

logró superar la demora de los desembolsos que fue una constante del Proyecto.

Se debe resaltar las alianzas estratégicas realizadas por las OPs para trabajar con instituciones como el
BID, la cooperación japonesa, OGD ­ Santa Cruz, APAC, SAT, IGLESIA, ONGs, CAINCO y
Viceministerio de Urbanismo y Vivienda.

Sin embargo se deben buscar mecanismos que den sostenibilidad a las OPs, por cuanto estas no pueden
depender del financiamiento externo por siempre.

                                          MESA 6: INVERSION

CAPACITACION Y ASISTENCIA TECNICA

La capacitación y asistencia técnica en temas de contratación de personal no fue la adecuada por cuanto
no se tomaron en cuenta las necesidades y características específicas de cada OP, lo que origino un
desbalance a la hora de asignar el presupuesto y no se contrataron técnicos locales lo que origino que los
recursos no se quedarán en el área del proyecto. Sin embargo se debe resaltar que los técnicos regionales
brindaron información y orientación sobre los procedimientos de ejecución de los subproyectos y
automonitoreo en el idioma nativo (aymara) de las OPs aunque la contratación de estos fue realizada
extemporáneamente.

La capacitación se realizó en plazos muy cortos, provocando cansancio en los participantes que no están
acostumbrados a ese ritmo de enseñaza, se tocaron temas generales (administración, contabilidad etc.) que
fueron muy teóricos y no fueron bien aprovechadas por la mayoría de los miembros de las OPs, a
diferencia de los temas productivos (tejidos, tenidos, hilados, etc) que eran prácticos

Se debe resaltar que, los conocimientos adquiridos en la capacitación, principalmente en temas productivos,
han permitido mejorar la producción de bienes, y los miembros de las OPs.

Los procesos de evaluación, seguimiento y control de los subproyectos realizados por los responsables de
las OPs, contribuyeron a mejorar la capacidad de autogestión de las organizaciones de productores en los
procesos de contratación y ejecución de las actividades en general.

Comunicación

No hubo buena comunicación entre la OP y la UCP, por diferentes razones, entre ellos los bloqueos, paros,
etc, dificultades que no pudieron ser superadas a través de comunicaciones telefónicas debido al elevado
costo de éstas.     Asimismo, no se proporcionaba información fidedigna respecto al estado de los
subproyectos y los documentos entregados a la UCP, eran retenidos en secretaría aduciendo como
argumento la ausencia de los técnicos.

Género

Los proyectos dirigidos por mujeres fueron los más exitosos. Las mujeres mostraron mayor interés al
momento de participar en las capacitaciones, principalmente en temas productivos (cocina, tejidos, hilados,
etc).

Síntesis de Conclusiones y Recomendaciones

Más allá de los problemas operativo-administrativos generados en el proceso de implementación y que a la
larga limitaron su impacto y alcance, el Proyecto de Innovación y Aprendizaje para el Desarrollo de los
Pueblos Indígenas, LIL/Indígena, cumplió con el objetivo de promover iniciativas empresariales
autogestionarias que contribuyeron a la generación de ingresos y, por tanto, al mejoramiento de la
economía de las familias y comunidades de pueblos indígenas y originarios.

Por tanto, constituye un referente importante de validación de la hipótesis de que "la base cultural ­



                                                    - 48 -

territorio, identidad, recursos naturales, lengua, tecnología propia ­ podría contribuir a mejorar las
condiciones económico sociales de los pueblos indígenas y originarios, en tanto sean capaces de integrarse
en proyectos productivos innovativos".

Desde el punto de vista de las entidades de financiamiento y ejecución del Proyecto, los aprendizajes se
refieren a la necesidad de ajustar sus capacidades institucionales y adaptar su ingeniería operativa para
mostrar eficiencia en la implementación de proyectos que contemplen mecanismos de financiamiento
directo a los productores.

Esta conclusión está sustentada en los múltiples problemas y obstáculos referidos en el debate y reflexión
de los protagonistas del Proyecto, durante las fases de preinversión e inversión, entre los que podemos
destacar:

§        inadecuados mecanismos y canales de difusión e información que limitaron la más amplia
socialización del Proyecto;
§        serias dificultades y vacíos en la metodología de calificación de las ideas de proyecto.
§        limitaciones en los mecanismos de evaluación y seguimiento de los proyectos en curso.
§        limitaciones en la valoración de las capacidades técnico operativas de las organizaciones
productoras, que derivaron por igual en sobredimensionar las mismas o en subestimarlas.
§        permanentes demoras en el desembolso de recursos que impactaron en los plazos de ejecución de
los proyectos.
§        parámetros inadecuados en la definición de los techos presupuestarios destinados a capacitación,
asistencia técnica e inversión.

A los aspectos operativos señalados, se debe sumar otro de carácter estructural y que fue definitivo para el
curso del Proyecto y su continuidad: la débil institucionalidad del MAIPO como ente ejecutor y de la UCP
como su brazo operativo.

También existen serias dudas respecto del mecanismo de intermediación financiera, ESG, adoptado para el
Proyecto.     Aunque se formularon recomendaciones puntuales respecto de la intermediación, las
organizaciones productoras expresan todavía dudas respecto de la efectividad de este mecanismo y
demandan la habilitación de mecanismos más directos para canalizar los recursos orientados a mejorar la
productividad de sus familias y comunidades.

Desde la perspectiva de las organizaciones productoras, el Proyecto constituyó un desafío no sólo en
términos estratégicos sino que puso a prueba su capacidad de idear proyectos de desarrollo y             de
organizarse y arriesgar recursos propios para llevarlos a cabo. Por tanto, en la primera fase del Proyecto
debieron enfrentar algunas dificultades entre las que se pueden destacar:

§        limitaciones en la capacidad de traducir técnicamente sus ideas de proyectos: conocen sus
necesidades y potencialidades pero no saben como plasmarlas según parámetros técnicos;
§        vigencia de una mentalidad de receptores e inexperiencia en el manejo autónomo de proyectos:
resistencia a arriesgar recursos de contraparte;
§        limitaciones en su capacidad de gestión operativa, en muchos casos, fue la primera vez que se
enfrentaron a la burocracia estatal y privada (ministerio, banca, proveedores, etc.);
§        desconocimiento del mercado tanto de oferta como de demanda de productos, bienes y servicios.
Pero las dificultades se tornaron en importantes aprendizajes tanto para financiadores, ejecutores como
organizaciones productoras, que se pueden sintetizar en:




                                                    - 49 -

Los organismos de financiamiento:

§        ajustar los procesos operativo administrativos a las peculiaridades de sectores y grupos
tradicionalmente excluidos del mercado y de los beneficios del desarrollo;
§        flexibilizar las condiciones y plazos de ejecución, más aún en contextos de inestabilidad
institucional y política;
§        garantizar continuidad para no frustrar las expectativas generadas y las proyecciones de desarrollo
de las organizaciones productoras.
Las entidades operativas:

§        preservar su institucionalidad y definir claramente el marco normativo operativo para la ejecución
de proyectos con financiamiento internacional;
§        garantizar la implementación de proyectos más allá de los problemas políticos y de la pugna por el
control de espacios de poder;
§        fomentar la cultura del respeto en la relación con grupos indígenas y originarios;
§        establecer mecanismos de representación directa para el seguimiento y monitoreo del proyecto
(redefinir la representación del Directorio y romper con el clientelismo);
Las organizaciones productoras:

§        promover una mentalidad de riesgo: "quien no arriesga no gana";
§        avanzar en el proceso de formalización: la personería jurídica un desafío indispensable;
§        asegurar mecanismos de sostenibilidad de sus proyectos, desarrollando su capacidad de
negociación de recursos locales y externos pero, fundamentalmente, asumiendo la importancia estratégica
del mercado;
§        ajustar sus procesos de organización y afinar sus mecanismos de control social y rendición de
cuentas;
§        desarrollar sus capacidades técnico operativas locales, potenciando sus recursos humanos con
formación profesional;
§        generar alianzas estratégicas para la inserción de la dimensión productiva en la visión estratégica
del desarrollo local.




                                                      - 50 -

- 51 -

