Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3471-BO
Development Credit Agreement
(Indigenous Peoples Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated March 15, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 3471-BO
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 15, 2001, between the REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA (the Borrower) 
and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested 
the Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
Page  2
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
"12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 11 of Resolution No. 
194 of the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on April 8, 1999; 
and ‘Participating Countries’ means, collectively, all such countries."; 
(b)
the second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, 
or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations."; and
(c)
Paragraph (c) of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions is modified in 
its entirety to read as follows:
"(c)
No later than six (6) months before the Closing Date, the Borrower 
shall prepare and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and 
continued operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to 
be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the Association of 
their respective obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Development Credit Agreement."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Annual Work Program and Budget" means any of the annual work programs 
and budgets referred to in Section 3.05 (a) (i) of this Agreement;
(b)
"BCB" means Banco Central de Bolivia, the Borrower’s central bank;
(c)
"Beneficiary" means any Community (as hereinafter defined) or Small 
Producer Group (as hereinafter defined) which is selected to carry out a Pilot 
Subproject (as hereinafter defined) pursuant to the criteria set forth in the 
Operational Manual (as hereinafter defined);
(d)
"CAS Strategic Objectives for Equity" means the Borrower’s strategic 
objectives set forth in the second column of the table in pages 8 through 12 of Annex 
B1 to the Memorandum of the President of the International Development Association and 
the International Finance Corporation to the Executive Directors on a Country 
Assistance Strategy for the Republic of Bolivia, dated May 21, 1998;
(e)
"CIDOB" means Confederación de Pueblos Indígenas de Bolivia, the 
Confederation of Indigenous Peoples of Bolivia;
(f)
"Community" means any legally established indigenous or peasant community 
that inhabits any rural municipality in the territory of the Borrower;
(g)
"CONAMAQ" means Consejo Nacional de Ayllus y Markas del Quollasuyu, the 
National Council of Indigenous Peoples of the Bolivian Highlands;
(h)
"CSCB means Confederación Sindical de Colonizadores de Bolivia, the 
Peasant Colonizers Union Confederation of Bolivia;
(i)
"CSUTCB" means Confederación Sindical Única de Trabajadores Campesinos de 
Bolivia, the Peasant Workers Single Union Confederation of Bolivia;
(j)
"Directorate" means the Project directorate referred to in Section 3.03 
(a) of this Agreement;
(k)
"Disbursement Letter" means the letter of even date herewith from the 
Association to the Borrower setting forth the procedures for the withdrawal of the 
Page  3
proceeds of the Credit;
(l)
"Fiscal Year" means the Borrower’s fiscal year which commences on January 
1 and ends on December 31 of each calendar year;
(m)
"FNMCBS" means Federación Nacional de Mujeres Campesinas Bartolina Sisa, 
the National Federation of Peasant Women Bartolina Sisa;
(n)
"Implementing Agencies" means, collectively, any Management Services 
Entity (as hereinafter defined) and any Indigenous Organization (as hereinafter 
defined);
(o)
"Indigenous Organizations" means, collectively, CIDOB, CONAMAQ, CSCB, 
CSUTCB and FNMCBS;
(p)
"MACPIO" means Ministerio de Asuntos Campesinos, Pueblos Indígenas y 
Originarios, the Borrower’s Ministry of Peasant Affairs, Indigenous and Originary 
Peoples;
(q)
"Management Services Contract" means any of the contracts referred to in 
Section 3.08 (a) of this Agreement;
(r)
"Management Services Entity" means any private sector entities referred 
to in Section 3.08 (a) of this Agreement;
(s)
 "Operational Manual" means the Project’s operational manual referred to 
in Section 3.04 of this Agreement;
(t)
"Performance Indicators" means the indicators for monitoring and 
evaluating progress towards the attainment of the Project objectives referred to in 
Section 3.04 (a) of this Agreement;
(u)
"Pilot Subproject" means an investment subproject to be carried out by a 
Beneficiary under Part A of the Project as prescribed in the Operational Manual, 
including, inter alia, investments in the areas of: (i) handicraft production and 
marketing; (ii) ethno- and eco-tourism; and (iii) productive management of flora and 
fauna; 
(v)
"PIP" means the Project implementation plan referred to in Section 3.04 
(a) of this Agreement;
(w)
"PIU" means the Project implementation unit referred to in Section 3.03 
(b) of this Agreement;
(x)
"Pre-Investment Studies" means: (i) feasibility studies for any proposed 
Pilot Subproject; and (ii) resource inventories and management plans for proposed 
Pilot Subprojects in the areas of flora and fauna management;
(y)
"Project Management Report" means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(z)
"Small Producer Group" means any legally established small producer group 
that inhabits any rural municipality in the territory of the Borrower;
(aa)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; and
(bb)
"Subproject Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to in Section 
3.09 (a) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to four million Special Drawing Rights (SDRs 4,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account 
Page  4
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2004 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the Accrual Date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the Accrual Date and at 
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each June 15 and December 15 commencing on June 15, 2011 and ending December 15, 2040.  
Each installment to and including the installment payable on December 15, 2020 shall 
be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three (3) consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six (6) months or more after the date 
on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of 
a minimum of five (5) years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
Page  5
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through MACPIO, with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate managerial, 
administrative, social and environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, at all times during the execution 
of the Project, a Project directorate with membership structure acceptable to the 
Association, including, inter alia, representatives of MACPIO, other departments and 
agencies of the Borrower, CIDOB, CSUTCB and FNMCBS, such directorate to be responsible 
for overall Project guidance and oversight and to have the following functions:
(i) 
determining general Project policies; 
(ii)
approving Annual Work Programs and Budgets; 
(iii)
approving the Operational Manual and any modification thereof for 
submission to MACPIO; 
(iv)
reviewing the reports referred to in Section 3.06 (b) of this 
Agreement; and
(v)
approving the selection of any Management Services Entity and the 
personnel of PIU.
(b)
The Borrower shall maintain, at all times during the execution of the 
Project, a Project implementation unit within MACPIO which shall be responsible for 
overall administration of the Project, including: 
(i) 
ensuring that lessons learned from Project execution are 
disseminated systematically to other departments and agencies of 
the Borrower, Beneficiaries and the private sector; 
(ii) 
preparing Annual Work Programs and Budgets and the reports 
referred to in Section 3.06 (b) of this Agreement; and 
(iii)
monitoring compliance by the Implementing Agencies with the 
applicable financial reporting, auditing and procurement 
provisions of this Agreement and the Operational Manual.
(c)
The Borrower shall ensure that PIU is staffed, at all times during the 
execution of the Project, by professionals of experience and qualifications 
satisfactory to the Association, operating under terms of reference satisfactory to 
the Association.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with an 
operational manual, satisfactory to the Association, said manual to provide detailed 
regulations for the implementation of the Project, including: 
(a)
a Project implementation plan, and indicators for monitoring and 
evaluating progress toward the attainment of Project objectives;
(b)
the applicable procurement, disbursement, accounting, auditing and 
Page  6
reporting procedures; 
(c)
eligibility criteria for Pilot Subprojects or Pre-Investment Studies and 
Beneficiaries, including: 
(i)
Beneficiaries’ contribution to the cost of the Pilot Subprojects 
or Pre-Investment Studies; and
(ii)
economic, financial, technical, environmental, and sustainability 
criteria for the design and implementation of Pilot Subprojects or 
Pre-Investment Studies; and
(d)
regulations for the operation of the Directorate.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower, through MACPIO, shall:
(i)
not later than October 15 of  each year, furnish to the 
Association, for its review and approval, a Project annual work 
program and budget, such program and budget to specify the 
activities to be financed by the Borrower out of the proceeds of 
the Credit during the following year for the purposes of the 
implementation of the Project; and
(ii) 
upon the Association’s approval, carry out such Annual Work 
Program and Budget, as approved by the Association.
(b) 
The Association may refrain from approving any such Annual Work Program 
and Budget if the Association has determined that the Borrower is not carrying out the 
Project as provided in this Agreement and no appropriate remedial actions, 
satisfactory to the Association, have been taken therefor.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain or cause to be maintained policies and procedures adequate to 
enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the 
Performance Indicators and the PIP, the carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of its objectives; 
(b)
by February 28 of each year during Project implementation prepare, under 
terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and furnish to the Association, a 
report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation of Project activities 
performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the 
carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and 
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such 
date; 
(c)
by April 30 of each year during Project implementation hold reviews with 
the Association on the progress in the implementation of the Project, such reviews to 
be based on the reports referred to in paragraph (b) above; and
(d)
thereafter, take or cause to be taken all such action which shall have 
been agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association during the reviews referred 
to in paragraph (c) above, as necessary or advisable for the efficient execution of 
the Project and the attainment of its objectives, such action to be taken in a manner 
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.07. For the purposes of Project monitoring and evaluation, the 
Borrower, through MACPIO, shall:
(a)
not later than August 31, 2004, or such later date as the Association 
shall establish, contract an external Project review to assess the overall achievement 
of Project objectives, with independent consultants of experience and qualifications 
satisfactory to the Association, operating under terms of reference satisfactory to 
the Association;
(b)
not later than one (1) month after the submission of the external review 
referred to in subparagraph (a) above, furnish to the Association, for its review and 
comments, the results of such review; and
Page  7
(c)
not later than two (2) months after the submission of the external review 
referred to in subparagraph (a) above, discuss the results of such review with 
representatives of Indigenous Organizations, taking into account the Association’s 
comments thereon.
Section 3.08. (a) With regard to Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall 
ensure that, not later than May 31, 2001, MACPIO enters into management services 
contracts with private sector entities, under terms and conditions specified in the 
Operational Manual, for the purposes of administering such Part of the Project on 
behalf of MACPIO.
(b)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under any Management Services 
Contract in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit and except as the Association 
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail 
to enforce any Management Services Contract or any provision thereof.
Section 3.09. (a) With regard to Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall 
ensure that, pursuant to the provisions of any Management Services Contract, any 
Management Services Entity enters into agreements with Beneficiaries, under terms and 
conditions specified in the Operational Manual, such agreements to provide for:
(i)
the transfer to such Beneficiary, on a grant basis, of the funds 
required by such Beneficiary to carry out a Pilot Subproject or a 
Pre-Investment Study; and
(ii)
the obligation of such Beneficiary to carry out such Pilot 
Subproject or Pre-Investment Study as provided in the Operational 
Manual.
(b)
The Borrower shall ensure that, pursuant to the provisions of the 
Management Services Contract, each Management Services Entity exercises its rights 
under any Subproject Agreement in such a manner as to protect the interests of the 
Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit and except 
as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Management Services 
Entity shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce any Subproject 
Agreement or any provision thereof.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, within MACPIO, a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare, through MACPIO, 
financial statements in a format acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect 
the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account, for each Fiscal Year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than four (4) months after the end of each such year: 
(A) certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited; and (B) 
an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report of 
such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Association may from time to time reasonably 
request.
Page  8
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Association has 
received the audit report for the Fiscal Year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure submitted during such Fiscal Year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower, through MACPIO, shall carry out a time-bound action plan 
acceptable to the Association for the strengthening of its financial management system 
for the Project in order to enable MACPIO, not later than December 31, 2001, or such 
later date as the Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project management 
reports, acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report; and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the six-month period following the 
period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report; and (B) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower, through MACPIO, shall prepare in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the Association not later 
than forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter a Project Management 
Report for such period.
Section 4.03. Not later than six (6) months after the Effective Date, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a management letter, acceptable to the 
Association, reflecting the results of an examination carried out by the independent 
auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b) (i) concerning MACPIO internal controls.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
Page  9
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(c) of the General Conditions:
(a)
that the Operational Manual shall have been approved by the Directorate 
and issued by MACPIO; and
(b)
that the independent auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b) (i) of this 
Agreement shall have been appointed.
Section 5.02. The date of June 14, 2001 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Hacienda
Palacio de las Comunicaciones, Piso 19
Av. Mariscal Santa Cruz, esq. Calle Oruro s/n
La Paz, Bolivia
Cable address:
Facsimile:
FINANZA
La Paz, Bolivia
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
La Paz, Bolivia as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
By /s/ José Luis Lupo 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ David de Ferranti
Page  10
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
Part A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods (other than those 
required for Pilot 
Subprojects)
20,000 70%
(2)
Consultants’ services 
(other than those 
required for Pilot
Subprojects)
     660,000
70%
(3)
Incremental Operating 
80,000 80% until December 31, 
Costs
80,000
2002; 60% thereafter
(4)
Pilot Subprojects and 
Pre-Investment Studies
   2,980,000
100% of the amounts to
to be financed under a 
Management Services 
Contract
(5)
Unallocated
     260,000
TOTAL
   4,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "Incremental Operating Costs" means 
the operating costs of PIU arising from the implementation of the Project, including, 
inter alia: (a) rental of office space; (b) public utilities; (c) office supplies; (d) 
communications and travel expenses; and (e) training programs for PIU staff.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and (b) Pilot Subprojects and Pre-Investment Studies unless a Management 
Services Contract has been entered into.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods and services as set 
forth in the Disbursement Letter.
Part B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account, in 
BCB, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association for the withdrawal of the 
proceeds of the Credit allocated to Categories (1) through (4) of the table in Part 
A.1 of this Schedule. Deposits into, and withdrawals from, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule and the procedures set 
forth in the Disbursement Letter.
2.
(a)
For the purposes of this Part B of Schedule 1, the terms:
(i)
"Eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (4) set forth 
Page  11
in the table in Part A.1 of this Schedule; and
(ii)
"Eligible Expenditures" means the expenditures for goods and 
services referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time 
to time to the Eligible Categories.
(b)
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.  For each payment made out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures. If the Association determines at any time that 
any payment out of the Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an 
Eligible Expenditure, the Association may require the deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Association shall so determine, require the refund to the Association) of 
an amount equal to the amount of such payment.
3.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account if, at any time:
(a)
the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant said Section in respect 
of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; and 
(b) 
the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to 
suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Credit Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such 
notification, the Association shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further 
deposits into the Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed 
for making such deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to learn how culturally-based productive 
initiatives of Communities can contribute to: (a) income generation and poverty 
reduction in the territory of the Borrower; and (b) the achievement by the Borrower of 
the CAS Strategic Objectives for Equity.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Culturally-based Pilot Investments
Carrying out of Pilot Subprojects and Pre-investment Studies.
Part B:
Poverty-reduction Monitoring and Learning
Institutional strengthening and training of Indigenous Organizations, aimed at 
ensuring the successful implementation of Pilot Subprojects, in the areas of: (i) 
operational monitoring of Pilot Subprojects; (ii) collection of basic information 
required for the learning process during the execution of the Project; (iii) 
participatory evaluation of Project implementation; and (iv) feedback into the social 
control mechanisms of the Borrower’s poverty reduction strategy.
Part C:
Project Management
Establishment and operation of the PIU.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2004.
Page  12
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
1.
Guidelines
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines), as such Guidelines may be revised by 
the Bank from time to time; and (b) the applicable provisions of this Schedule.
2.
Grouping of Contracts
Contracts for goods and works shall be packaged in sizes adequate to attract 
maximum competition and to ensure economy and efficiency in the procurement process. 
Contracts shall not be divided into smaller units in order to make them less 
appropriate for competitive procedures. Any proposal to divide a contract into smaller 
packages shall require the Association’s prior approval.
3.
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
In the procurement of goods under ICB (as defined below in Section V), the 
provisions of paragraphs 2.54 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to 
goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
4.
Standard Documents
In the procurement of goods and works under NCB and NS (as defined below in 
Section V), the Borrower shall use standard documents acceptable to the Association.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Consultant Guidelines
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions 
of the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines), as such Consultant 
Guidelines may be revised by the Bank from time to time; and (b) the applicable 
provisions of this Schedule.
Section III.   Records and Audits
1.
Records
(a)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain Procurement Records (as hereinafter defined) adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound procurement practices (including 
related supervision, review and auditing) the procurement 
activities with regard to the Project; and
(ii)
ensure that all such Procurement Records (as hereinafter defined) 
evidencing such procurement activities are retained until at least 
two (2) years after the Closing Date.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section, Procurement Records mean:
(i)
with respect to procurement of goods and works: public notices of 
bidding opportunities; bidding documents and addenda; bid opening 
information; bid evaluation reports; formal appeals by bidders and 
related outcomes; signed contracts, addenda and amendments; 
records on claims and dispute resolution; and records of time 
taken to complete key steps in the process; and
(ii)
with respect to selection of consultants: public notices for 
expressions of interest; requests for proposals and addenda; 
technical and final evaluation reports; formal appeals by firms 
and related outcomes; signed contracts, addenda and amendments; 
Page  13
records on claims and dispute resolution, and records of time 
taken to complete key steps.
2.
Audits: 
The Borrower shall:
(a)
have the Procurement Records audited each Fiscal Year, in accordance with 
internationally accepted procurement standards consistently applied, by independent 
procurement experts acceptable to the Association;
(b)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four (4) months after the end of each such Year, the report of said audit, 
of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(c)
at any time during Project implementation, furnish to the Association 
such other information concerning said audit, as the Association may reasonably 
request.
Section IV.
Review of Procurement Action
1.
Prior to the issuance of:
(a)
any invitations to bid for goods or works, the proposed procurement plan 
for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. 
Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association (the Procurement 
Plan), and with the provisions of said paragraph 1; and
(b)
any requests for proposals to consultants, the proposed consultant 
selection process plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its 
review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to 
the  Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such selection process plan as shall have been approved by the 
Association (the Consultant Selection Process Plan), and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Not later than June 1 and December 1 of each year of Project implementation, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association, for its review and approval, a detailed 
update of the Procurement Plan and the Consultant Selection Process Plan for the 
upcoming calendar semester prepared under TORs (as defined below in Section V) 
satisfactory to the Association.  Such update shall include: (a) a firm list of 
contracts to be procured in the upcoming calendar semester and a tentative list of 
contracts to be procured in the subsequent semester; (b) estimated contract costs; (c) 
schedule for bidding; (d) particular methods of procurement of goods or works, or 
selection of consultants; and (e) particular thresholds and other criteria for Prior 
Review or Prior Review for Consultants (as defined below in Section V).
3.
The Borrower shall arrange the publication of a summary of the Procurement Plan 
and the Consultant Selection Process Plan and any update thereof in Development 
Business.
4.
The Borrower and the Association shall, from time to time, at the request of any 
one of them, exchange views with regard to the progress in the implementation of the 
Procurement Plan and the Consultant Selection Process Plan.
5
Any modification to the Procurement Plan and the Consultant Selection Process 
Plan shall require the Association’s prior review and approval.
Section V.  Specific Provisions for the Procurement of Goods and the Employment of 
Consultants
PLEASE SEE ORIGINAL FOR TABLE, IT WAS DONE IN WRONG FORMAT
Definitions:
For the purposes of this Schedule:
Page  14
1.
"CP" means the community participation procedure set forth in paragraph 3.15 of 
the Guidelines;
2.
"IC" means the individual consultants selection procedure set forth in 
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines;
3.
"ICB" means the international competitive bidding procedure set forth in Section 
II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto;
4.
"NCB" means the national competitive bidding procedure set forth in paragraphs 
3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines;
5.
"NS" means the National Shopping procedure referred to in paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 
of the Guidelines; 
6.
"Other Methods of Procurement" means any of the methods of procurement set forth 
in Section III of the Guidelines;
7.
"Other Methods of Selection" means any of the methods of selection set forth in 
Section III of the Consultant Guidelines;
8.
"Post Review for Consultants" means the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines, provided, however, that if the Association 
determines, at any time, that the proposed selection is inconsistent with the 
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines or this Schedule, it shall promptly inform the 
Borrower and state the reasons for its determination;
9.
"Post Review" means the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines, provided, however, that if the Association determines, at any time, that 
the proposed procurement is inconsistent with the provisions of the Guidelines or this 
Schedule, it shall promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for its 
determination;
10.
"Prior Review for Consultants" means the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 
and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines; 
11.
"Prior Review" means the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 
1 to the Guidelines;
12.
"QBS" means the quality-based selection procedure set forth in paragraphs 3.2 
through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines; 
13.
"QCBS" means the Quality and Cost-based selection procedure set forth in Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the applicable provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof; and
14.
"TORs" means terms of reference.
Section VI. Special Provisions for Bolivia
A.
In addition to and without limitation on any other provision set forth in this 
Schedule or the Procurement Guidelines, the following rules shall govern all 
procurement of goods under NCB:
1.
A merit point system shall not be used in the prequalification of bidders.
2.
The award of goods contracts shall be based exclusively on price and, whenever 
appropriate, shall also take into account factors similar to those referred to in 
paragraph 2.51 of the Guidelines, provided, however, that the bid evaluation shall 
always be based on factors that can be quantified objectively, and the procedure for 
such quantification shall be disclosed in the invitation to bid.
3.
The Borrower shall open all bids at the stipulated time and place in accordance 
with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
4.
The Borrower shall use a single envelope procedure.
5.
Whenever there is a discrepancy between the amounts in figures and in words of a 
bid, the amounts in words shall govern.
6.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the bidding process shall not 
Page  15
be declared void if only three (3) bids or less have been submitted unless such bids 
have been determined not to be responsive.
7.
Any standards and technical specifications (quoted in the bidding documents) 
which are at least substantially equivalent to the national standards and technical 
specifications shall be acceptable.
8.
Foreign bidders shall be allowed to participate.
9.
Foreign bidders shall not be required to legalize any documentation related to 
their bids with the Borrower’s authorities as a prerequisite of bidding. 
10.
No margin of preference shall be granted for any particular category of bids.
11.
The auction procedure (Puja Abierta) shall not be used.
12.
In the event that a bidder whose bid was evaluated as the bid with the lowest 
evaluated price withdraws its bid, the contract may be awarded to the second lowest 
responsive evaluated bid.
13.
Foreign bidders shall not, as a condition for submitting bids, be required to 
enter into a joint venture agreement with local bidders.
14.
No procurement rules or regulations of the Borrower shall apply without the 
prior review and consent of the Association.
B.
In addition to and without limitation on any other provisions set forth in this 
Schedule or the Consultant Guidelines, the following rules shall govern all employment 
of consultants referred to in this Schedule:
1.
As a condition for participating in the selection process, foreign consultants 
shall not be required to enter into a joint venture agreement with local consultants, 
unless the conditions stated in paragraph 1.12 of the Consultant Guidelines are met.
2.
As a condition for participating in the selection process, foreign consultants 
shall not be required to legalize their proposals or any documentation related to such 
proposals with the Borrower’s authorities.
3.
Foreign consultants shall not be required to be registered in the Borrower’s 
National Registry of Consultants (Registro Nacional de Consultoría).
