Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
Report No: P 7242 KZ
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED PENSION REFORM ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$300 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN
JUNE 3, 1998
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN - PROPOSED PENSION REFORM ADJUSTMENT LOAN
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of May 11, 1998)
Currency Unit = Tenge (plural Tenge)
76.5 Tenge = US$ 1.00
US$ 0.0130719 = I Tenge
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB             =        Asian Development Bank
AMC             =        Asset Management Company
CIS             =        Confederation of Independent States
COLA            =        Cost of Living Adjustment
CPI             =        Consumer Price Index
EFF                      Extended Fund Facility
EU              =        European Union
FDI             =        Foreign Direct Investment
FEDP            =        Finance and Enterprise Development Project
GDP             =        Gross Domestic Product
IFC             =        International Finance Company
ILO                      International Labour Organization
IMF             =        International Monetary Fund
KSE                      Kazakhstan Stock Exchange
MOF                      Ministry of Finance
MOLSP           =        Ministry of Labor and Social Protection
NBK             =        National Bank of Kazakhstan
NPA             =        National Pension Agency
NSAF            =        Non-State Accumulation Fund
NSC             =        National Securities Commission
PAYG                     Pay-As-You-go
PHRD                     Policy and Human Resources Development
PIP                      Public Investment Program
PRAL                     Pension Reform Adjustment Loan
PSRMAL          =        Public Sector Resource Management Adjustement Loan
SAF                      State Accumulation Fund
SIC                      Social Insurance Code
SPPC            =        State Pension Payments Center
TA              =        Technical Assistance
UK              =        United Kingdom
UNDP                     United National Development Program
USAID                    United States Agency for International development
VAT             =        Value Added Tax
WTO             =        World Trade Organization
BORROWER'S FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31
Vice President      Johannes F. Linn, ECA
Director      Kiyoshi Kodera, ECC08
Sector Leader, Social Protection   Michal Rutkowski, ECSHD
Team Leader        Emily S. Andrews, ECSHD



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Republic of Kazakhstan
Pension Reform Adjustment Loan
Loan and Program Summary
Borrower:              Republic of Kazakhstan
Amount:                US$300 million
Terms:                 Twenty years maturity including a five-year grace period,
floating interest rate for LIBOR based dollar single currency
loan.
Commitment Fee:        0.75% on undisbursed loan balances beginning 60 days after
signing, less any waiver.
Summary:               The proposed Pension Reform Adjustment Loan is to support
the development of pension reform in four areas: (i) macro-
economic stability and structural reform; (ii) social protection
and public information; (iii) governmental management and
operations; and (iv) legal and regulatory framework and
related institutions.
Schedule of            To be released in three equal tranches: the first US$100
Disbursements:         million upon effectiveness, the second US$100 million upon
fulfillment of second Tranche conditions, the third US$100
million upon fulfillment of third Tranche conditions as
outlined in Annex B.
Implementing Agency:    Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Labor and Social Protection
Poverty:               Program of Targeted Interventions
Project ID Number:     KZ-PE-50780
Map:                   Number IBRD 29325
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF
THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
PENSION REFORM ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN
[PROJECT ID KZ-PE-507801
CONTENTS
I. INTRODUCTION ..........................................................1
II.   ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE, STRUCTURAL REFORM, AND PENSION
REFORM
A.  Recent Economic Performance                .2
B.   Structural Reform and Pension Refor          .3
III.   THE MACROECONOMIC FRAMEWORK AND STRUCTURAL REFORMS
A.  The Macroeconomic Framework                 .6
B.   Complementary Structural Reforms .10
IV.   THE PROGRAM FOR IMPLEMENTING PENSION REFORM
A.   Social Protection and Public Information .12
B.   Management Systems and Operations .14
C.   Legal and Regulatory Framework .15
V.   BANK ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
A.   Rationale for Bank Involvement .17
B.   Coordination with Other Donors .17
VI.  THE PROPOSED PENSION REFORM ADJUSTMENT LOAN
A. Objectives .18
B. Loan Amounts and Terms .19
C.   Monitoring and Reporting on Program Implementation .19
D.   Tranche conditionality for the PRAL .19
E.   Arrangements for Technical Assistance .22
F. EBenefits and Risks.22
VII. RECOMMENDATION



ANNEXES
Annex A.        Letter of Pension Reform Policy ....................................... 25
Annex B.        Policy Matrix ....................................... 32
Annex C.        The Cost of Pension Reform ....................................... 37
Annex D.        Pension Simulations For Different Age Cohorts, Work Histories
and Genders .47
Annex E.        Pension Reform Regulation: Performance, Transparency
and Accountability ....................................... 51
Annex F.        Technical Assistance to Support PRAL Implementation ..................................  61
Annex G.        Kazakhstan at a Glance ....................................... 63
Annex H.        Timetable for Key Steps to Loan Processing ...................... ................. 67
Annex I.        Status of Bank Group Operations ....................................... 69
MAP             IBRD No.29325
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties . Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.      l



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF
THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
PENSION REFORM ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN
1.    I submit for your approval the following Report and Recommendations on a proposed Pension
Reform Adjustment Loan (PRAL) to Kazakhstan for the equivalent of US$300 million. The Loan would
be made at the Bank's single-currency LIBOR-based floating interest rates in US dollars, with a twenty
years maturity including a five-year grace period and would be distributed in three tranches. This
operation will be the fifth adjustment loan for Kazakhstan and is included the Country Assistance
Strategy.
I.    Introduction
2.    The PRAL will support a far-reaching and bold pension reform law that was enacted in June
1997 and was inaugurated in January 1998. The reform immediately transformed the pension system
from an expensive pay-as-you-go (PAYG) system to one of fully funded, defined contribution accounts.
Up to June, 1997, the Kazakh pension system was a soviet-style structure of benefits characterized by: (i)
early retirement ages, special privileges, and high replacement rates, particularly for short-service
workers; (ii) high payroll taxes, and (iii) a declining revenue base which collected an estimated two-thirds
of projected revenue from state owned enterprises and corporate employers and, at most, one percent of
revenue from small business in the private sector. Accrued benefits from the old system will continue to
be paid to workers upon retirement in proportion to the length of service up through December 1997
relative to full eligibility. The new system based on funded savings accounts will accrue assets through
individual contributions equal to 10 percent of earnings. A group of competing accumulation funds,
including one managed by the state will be established. The objective of the loan is to support the
development of the new system in four areas: (i) macro-economic stability and structural reform; (ii)
social protection and public information; (iii) governmental management and operations; and (iv) legal
and regulatory framework and related institutions.
3.    Although the pension reform officially started in January 1998, many steps are needed to
complete the reform as entirely new policies, institutions, and regulatory capacities are being developed
and implemented. The reform process, in fact, will continue on an ongoing basis as the system develops
and begins to function efficiently. Because the development of institutions is a process and not an event,
the actual implementation of pension reform will continue to be worked out over the next several years.
The proposed loan provides a framework for that development. The successful implementation of the
reform will provide for the retirement income security of future generations of Kazakh citizens and will
promote the development of the financial markets and the private sector in Kazakhstan.
4.    The PRAL is the fifth adjustment loan for Kazakhstan. It follows the Rehabilitation Loan which
was approved in FY95, the Structural Adjustment Loan approved in FY95, the Financial Sector
Adjustment Loan approved in FY96 and the Public Sector Resource Management Adjustment Loan
approved in FY98. The proposed loan for US$300 million would be disbursed in three tranches, one
each in 1998, 1999, and 2000, assuming tranche conditions are met. The approach of three tranches over
three years reflects the time necessary to start a funded pension system and begin to ensure that the
system is functioning well. Each tranche would be for $US100 million equivalent.



II.    The Background of the Pension Reform
A.    Recent Economic Performance
5.     Kazakhstan has started to recover from the output contractions associated with the early years of
transition. After declining by about one third from 1992 to 1995, the country's real GDP grew by about
half a percent in 1996 and by two percent in 1997. Projections for 1998 anticipate more robust growth,
perhaps up to 3 percent per annum. Much of that recovery was led by the oil, transport, and trade sectors,
while industry and agriculture remain stagnant.
6.     Measured employment losses (around 15 percent between 1991 and 1995) have been, in the
aggregate, smaller than the decline in GDP and have been heavily concentrated in the industrial sector.
This sector shed over a third of its employees (about a million workers), accounting for three-fourths of
the decline in formal employment in the economy as a whole. More recent data indicate that industrial
employment may have fallen by a further 8 percent between 1995 and 1996. Even sharper relative
declines were recorded in agriculture, which lost just under half of its labor force since the transition
process began.
7.     Despite the fall in output and employment, open unemployment has not been high by
international standards. Starting from a negligible level, open unemployment rose to 4.6 percent towards
the end of 1994 based on survey data using International Labor Office (ILO) definitions. A year and a
half later it rose to 6 percent.1 The trend is similar to that suggested by official statistics. After having
stayed below I percent until 1994, official unemployment rose to 2.1 percent in 1995 and jumped to 4.1
percent in 1996. These statistics, which are based on Employment Service registrants, excluded may
people who would be regarded as unemployed by international standards. Survey data also indicate that
there were substantial declines in the labor force participation rates of men and women, particularly
between 1992 and 1994, during the earlier stages of the transition. These declines reflect increased
numbers of pensioners, and the emergence of more women choosing to stay at home.
8.    In 1997, total gross capital formation was, as a proportion of GDP, just over half its level of 1992
(about 12 percent of GDP). That contraction affected both private and public investment (although rapid
privatization makes exact classification difficult). The decline took place in spite of rapid private foreign
investment in the oil, gas and mineral sector (worth, in accumulated terms, some 13 percent of 1997
GDP). At about 2 percent of GDP, the general government's investment program is relatively small
compared to the rest of the the region.
9.     Government has had considerable recent success in controlling inflation with support from a
three-year IMF Extended Fund Facility (approved in July 1996). Following a hyperinflation episode in
1992-94 that saw consumer prices increase by an average 2,000 percent each of those years (in 1994
associated with the clearance of massive inter-enterprise arrears), the authorities took a more conservative
monetary policy stance and gradually reduced inflation to around single digits today (9.9 percent in the
year ending in April 1998), even though several needed adjustments in regulated prices were
implemented to align them with actual cost-recovering levels. Lower inflation translated into lower
The 1994 estimate is based on the Kazakhstan Labor Force Survey conducted in November 1994; the 1996
estimate is based on the Kazakhstan Living Standards Survey conducted in July 1996. Current data are not
available as Kazakhstan has not yet started an ongoing labor force survey of the population using international
definitions of employment and unemployment
-2-



nominal interest rates (with a concomitant reduction in ex-post real rates) and more stable exchange rates
(the real US$/Tenge rate and the real effective exchange rate against the group of main trading partners
appreciated by 3 and 5 percent, respectively, in 1997).
10.    A conservative monetary policy lies behind that price stabilization success. As of early 1995, the
authorities effectively targeted the money base as a tool to slow down inflation. The National Bank of
Kazakhstan (NBK) drastically reduced its credit to the Government (by more than two-thirds in real terms
from 1995 to 1997) and resorted to a "managed floating" exchange rate regime to moderate in part the
impact of oil-driven capita inflows. So far, the deceleration in money growth did not, however, translate
into a substantial increase in financial depth (at barely a tenth of GDP, broad money levels remain low),
even though the NBK implemented major initiatives to enhance confidence in the domestic banking
system (through better regulatory enforcement, bank privatizations, liquidations, and the like).
11.    The IMF-supported monetary policy was backed by tighter fiscal discipline. Between 1994 and
1995, the budget's overall deficit was reduced by almost three-quarters (to 2 percent of GDP). This was
achieved primarily by removing direct and indirect support to the enterprise sector, both public and
private. That improvement has been difficult to maintain, however, for three reasons. First, like other
CIS countries, Kazakhstan saw its tax base shrink in the early years of transition-driven recession (by as
much as a quarter), and improvements in its tax administration as well as the introduction of a new tax
code have taken time to bear full fruit. Second, room for further expenditure contraction became more
limited (especially in terms of public investment). Third, the state had to continue clearing existing
stocks of arrears (in pension payments, among others). As a result, the overall fiscal deficit (net of
privatization revenues) reached 3.7 percent of GDP in 1997, and is budgeted to increase to 5.5 percent of
GDP in 1998 (as the new, funded pension regime is introduced). Half of the 1998 deficit is expected to
be financed through foreign borrowing.
12.    Kazakhstan's external accounts are in a more comfortable position.  While the balance of
payments' current account registered a deficit equal to about 4 percent of GDP in 1997, that deficit
converts into a surplus (of about 1 .5 percent of GDP) when foreign direct investment is netted out (albeit
a significant part of that investment may correspond to cross-border payments between foreign
companies and their local subsidiaries). Oil exports, which now account for a third of total good exports,
continue to grow apace (15 percent in 1997); NBK's gross international reserves hover around three
months worth of goods and non-factor service imports; and the ratio of debt service to exports of goods
and non-factor services is below six percent. The country's stock of external debt is worth a fifth of its
GDP.
13.   In sum, while challenges remain for the Kazakhstan economy, it has started to recover from its
initial transition with the insitution of stable prices, sounder monetary and fiscal policies, and a favorable
external outlook.
B.    Structural Reform and Pension Reform
14.    Structural Reform. Kazakhstan has been among the stronger reformers in the CIS since its first
comprehensive reform program was launched in 1993. During 1993-1994, price liberalization was
virtually completed, most of the restrictions on foreign trade were eliminated, and a new currency was
introduced.  At the same time, privatization was initiated.  Since early 1996, the authorities have
accelerated privatization, extending it to many large enterprises. In the external sector, all export tariffs
have been abolished and the average import tariff level has been reduced significantly. Kazakhstan
-3-



applied to join the WTO in early 1996, and the process is expected to be completed by end- 1999 or soon
thereafter.
15.   The country has also taken major steps toward banking and financial sector reform, through
withdrawal of bank licenses, bank consolidation, introduction and enforcement of prudential regulations,
and enhanced supervision. The NBK has gained an increasing degree of independence and major
progress has been made in the development of monetary policy instruments, debt management, and
budgetary procedures. Evidence of Kazakhstan's rapid and significant progress was confirmed by its
successful launch in December 1996 of its first three-year, US$200 million Euro-bond issue at 350 basis-
points over US T-bills. Another Euro-bond issue is currently under consideration.
16.    Further advances in structural reform are planned by the Government over the next few years,
some of them with World Bank support under the Public Sector Resource Management Adjustment Loan
(PSRMAL). The authorities intend to improve the effectiveness of resource mobilization and the
efficiency with which government resources are used. Specifically, they plan to institute reforms in four
broad areas: (i) the administrative structure of the Republican Government and the development of a
more efficient civil service; (ii) the budgetary processes relating to taxation, procurement, budget
coverage and disclosure of basic financial information, budget formulation and execution, and financial
control; (iii) the public sector investment process, through economic and financial evaluation of projects,
stricter policies on external borrowing, and a medium-term macroeconomic framework as a 'financing
plan' for a multi-year public investment program; and (iv) housing and housing-related utilities.
17.   Pension Reform. In June 1997, the Law on Pension Provision in the Republic of Kazakhstan
signaled another significant structural reform which would transform the pay-as-you go pension system
to single fully funded pillar. The existing system suffered from three overarching problems: (i) a soviet-
style structure of benefits characterized by early retirement ages, special privileges, and high replacement
rates, particularly for short-service workers; (ii) excessively high payroll taxes for pensions totaling 25.5
percent of the wage bill, and (iii) a continually declining revenue base which resulted in an estimated
two-thirds of projected revenue collected from state owned enterprises and corporate employers and, at
most, an estimated one percent of revenue from small business in the private sector.
18.   The new system is intended to promote self-sufficiency instead of government dependence, to
reduce government expenditures, and to encourage savings and promote the development of the capital
market. Starting January 1, 1998, the pension system began to be gradually transformed into one of fully
funded, individual defined contribution accounts.  Pensions under the old system are granted in
proportion to the length of service relative to full pension eligibility for service accrued under the old
system through December 1997. Pensions under the new system are based on contributions of 10 percent
of earnings as allocated to individual accounts and invested in financial instruments in accumulation
funds. The old pension contribution rate for the public system of 25.5 percent of the wage bill has been
reduced to a 15-percent wage tax paid by employers based on the taxable income of each individual
employee (rather than relative to the wage bill as a whole).  The pension reform  legislation is
underpinned by complementary safety-net legislation which provides social allowances for disability,
old-age, and the loss of a wage-earner.
19.    The Old System. The problems under the old system were manifold. First, retirement ages were
extremely low, at age 55 for women and age 60 for men. While these were raised in 6-month increments
under 1996 legislation, the increase was rather unusual as workers could still retire at earlier ages with a
reduction in benefits which were topped-up to full value upon reaching the age of normal retirement. The
normal pension formula was extremely generous at 60 percent of the highest past wages averaged over 12
-4-



months for workers with full service (20 years for women and 25 years for men). Above that, the base
was increased by one percent for each year of service above the minimum. In many occupations, more
than one year was credited for each year of work
20.    Pensions were paid to 2.8 million persons in mid-1996. Of these, some 2.1 million old age
pensions were received. About 19 percent of the old-age pensioners received pensions provided on
favorable terms with supplementary years of credited service. Further, these pensioners received higher
than average pensions, as outlays represented 23 percent of all old-age payments. While replacement
rates according to law were very generous, because inflation indexing did not keep up with wage growth,
actual average replacement rates were much lower than the formula would suggest. In July 1996 average
pensions were 36 percent of average wages. In fact, throughout the 1980s and 1990s, the average
pension replacement rate ranged from a low of 24 percent of the average wage in 1992 to a high of 42
percent in 1991. These low pension replacement rates resulted, in part, from the financial constraints of
the system.
21.   In mid-1996, employers were making contributions on behalf of about 5 million workers. This
meant that 1.8 workers were paying for each pensioner, an extremely low ratio compared to the
demographics of the population. In other words, the system dependency ratio, that is the ratio of
pensioners to contributors, was 0.56 in 1995 while the old age dependency ratio, that is the ratio of
persons age 60 and over to the working age population (age 20-59 years), was 0.18. By comparison, in
the United States, these ratios were 0.31 and 0.30 respectively. Kazakhstan, a country with very favorable
demographics, had a high system dependency burden and correspondingly high payroll taxes due to
ineffective collection pirocedures and early retirement ages.
22.    The system of collection and payment under the former law was inefficient and ineffective. The
Ministry of Labor and Social Protection (MOLSP) and the local departments of social protection were
responsible for the collection of pension fund revenues and the delivery of benefits.  Each raion
department of social protection had a pension fund department. That department was responsible for the
auditing and enforcement of contribution collections. The monthly contributions were deposited into two
accounts. Seventy percent of collections went to a raion account and the remaining 30 percent was
supposed to be deposited into a central account in Almaty to be used for reallocation to the oblasts. The
actual result of this arrangement was that funds remained at raion level until all local pensioners were
paid. Further, relatively well-off oblasts, such as Almaty, appeared not to actively enforce collection
compliance once they had sufficient funds to pay their own pensioners. While collections under this
system were helped by local interests, the inefficiencies in allocation called for administrative reform.
Further hindering the payment of pensions was the practice of using pension fund revenues to pay for
family allowances, under the premise that these funds would be reimbursed by local budgets. Since local
funds were insufficient, these expenditure frequently were never repaid.
23.    Under the former PAYG system, considerable arrears in collection were built-up on the part of
contributing employers, with the duration of back-payments differing considerably by oblast. Prior to
reform, the accumulation of arrears -- both in terms of payments and contributions -- was growing. On
January 1, 1996 contribution arrears from enterprises totaled 40 billion Tenge, 26 billionTenge higher
than one year earlier.  Contribution arrears from  local and republic government ministries and
organizations amounted to another 2.3 billion Tenge. By July 1, 1996, reported contribution arrears from
enterprises were 49.6 billion Tenge -- equivalent to five months of pension payments at the time. Further,
even if these arrears were made up, the pension fund only collected revues from 5 million out of an
estimated labor force of 7.8 million. Consequently, collections only amounted to 45-52 percent of
potential revenues.
-5-



24.    The build up of contribution arrears and the general state of system non-compliance led to a
significant build-up in arrears for the payment of pensioners. The pension payment arrears due pensioners
were 26 billion Tenge at the beginning of the 1996 and peaked at 32 billion Tenge at the end of June
1996. As a result, government needed to transfer 36 billion Tenge from the state budgetto the pension
fund in 1997 to cover payments, including paying down the arrears, covering the deficit for the rest of the
year, and paying for other administrative expenses. The build-up of back pensions began to be a
significant focal point for social unrest, which, ultimately, opened a window of opportunity for the
enactment of the radical Kazakhstan pension reform.
25.    The New System. The implementation of the new system will challenge the administrative
capacity and imagination of Kazakhstan's senior Government officials. Through the pension reform,
Kazakhstan is developing an entirely new pension industry. Each employee and self-employed worker
can choose to become a member of either the state accumulation fund (SAF) or a non-state accumulation
fund (NSAF). SAF management is the responsibility of the Government. Each NSAF must hire one
asset management company; each asset management company can manage assets for multiple funds.
Each fund keeps the accumulated assets exclusively at one authorized bank custodian which accounts for
and reports to the funds regarding all operations on fund assets, their allocation and investment income.
These measures provide for a clear separation of accounts and responsibilities.
26.    Several institutions play a key role in the functioning of the new system. These include the
NSAFs, the asset management companies, custodial banks, and the SAF.  Three authorities are
responsible for regulating the various elements of the pension system: (i) the National Securities
Commission (NSC) for the asset management companies; (ii) theNational Pension Agency (NPA) for the
pension funds; and (iii) the NBK for the custodian banks. The State Pension Payments Center (SPPC) is
the key administrative institution for the residual state system.
27.    The reform program is not without fiscal costs. The incremental cost of pension reform in 1998
is estimated at 1.7 percent of GDP or US$395 million. Government is planning a programmed
adjustment in the budget, however, of 0.7 percent of GDP to offset the cost of pension reform. Initially,
the loss of revenue is proposed to be almost entirely made up by pension fund investments in government
bonds. To the extent that the pension funds are not invested in government bonds or collections are less
than anticipated, additional government borrowing from the banking system will be necessary. Currently,
additional borrowing through the financial markets is anticipated to make up forinitial revenue shortfalls.
Nonetheless, on the whole, these costs conform to a sustainable fiscal policy objective. The proposed
PRAL is needed to provide support for the reform and its long run objectives.  The other structural
reform policies pursued by Government and supported by the PSRMAL are important bulwarks to
pension reform, as well, ensuring that the fiscal obligations of the public system will be better met.
III.   The Macroeconomic Framework and Structural Reforms
A.     The Macroeconomic Framework
28.   In purely fiscal terms, the reform of Kazakhstan's pension system now underway is equivalent to
an additional net expense of, on average, about 2 percent of GDP each year over the next twenty years.
(See Annex C for details of the reform cost calculations). This raises a core question: Given the
country's initial conditions, will pension reform be consistent in the medium- and long-run with fast
growth, stable prices and sustainable indebtedness?
29.    This section shows that, barring unfavorable external shocks (in particular in terms of oil prices),
pension reform  is consistent with realitively rapid, low-inflation, sustainable growth.  Key to that
-6-



consistency will be a continuing effort to increase tax revenues (primarily through better tax
administration) and a sustained increase in the level and efficiency of private investment (especially in the
non-extractive sector of the economy). The pension reform, in itself, will be a major driving force behind
much of the improvement in investment and efficiency -through better incentives in the labor market,
increases in national saving, better channels for financial intermediation, and, critically, vastly improved
mechanisms for corporate governance.
30.    Achieving the necessary fiscal adjustment as well as the increase in the volume and efficiency of
private investment will be daunting. However, the Government's reform track record and current
commitment are strong and help moderate the implicit risks. In addition, the World Bank's country
program for Kazakhstan, including this pension loan, is geared to assist the authorities on both fronts.
31.    Fiscal Policy. In the context of the on-going IMF Extended Fund Facility, and the related, joint
Fund-World Bank missions, the Kazakhstan authorities have agreed on a medium- and long-term path for
fiscal adjustment as the cornerstone of their macroeconomic policy framework. The main elements of
that path are presented in Table 1 below.
Table 1. Kazakhstan-Fiscal Sustainability-General Government
(in percent of GDP unless otherwise indicated)
1997    1998    1998   2000   2005   2010   2014
Primary balance                             -2.9    -4.3    -3.4    -3.0      -1.3      0.0     0.5
Revenues                                    23.5    21.6    21.8    22.1      23.1    24.0    23.9
Oil and gas                                  3.5     3.4     3.9      4.3      6.5     7.0     4.8
Privatization                                3.2     2.3     2.1      1.8      0.5     0.0     0.0
Payroll taxes financing pensions 1/          4.1     2.3     2.1      1.9      1.1     0.8     0.8
Other (VAT, corporate income, etc.)         12.7    13.5    13.7    14.0      15.0    16.2    18.3
Primary expenditure                         26.3    25.9    25.2    25.1      24.4    24.0    23.4
Noninterest current                         24.3    22.5    21.9    21.8      20.7    20.3    19.7
Public pensions                             7.1      7.9     7.9     7.8      6.7     6.3      5.7
Capital                                      2.0     3.3     3.3      3.3      3.7     3.7     3.7
Interest payments                            0.7      1.4     1.9     2.0      2.6      2.7     2.5
External                                     0.3     0.8     1.0      1.0      1.0     0.8     0.7
Domestic                                     0.4     0.6     0.8      1.0      1.6     1.9      1.8
Overall balance                              -3.6    -5.7    -5.3    -5.0     -3.8    -2.7    -2.0
Overall balance excl. privatization receipts  -6.8    -8.0    -7.4    -6.8    -4.3    -2.7    -2.0
Debt stock (end of period)                  16.4    20.5    24.3    27.4      35.9    36.8    33.7
External                                    14.2    16.1    16.0    16.4      14.8    12.6    10.2
Domestic                                     2.2     4.4     8.3    11.0      21.1    24.2    23.5
Memo items:
Interest payments as % of total expenditure  2.6     5.1      6.9     7.5      9.5    10.2      9.8
Main assumptions:
Real GDP growth rate (% p.a.)                2.0     3.0      4.0     5.0      5.0     5.0      5.0
Aver. annual inflation rate (% p.a.)        17.8      9.4     7.0     5.0      4.5      4.5     4.5
Aver. domestic real interest rate (% p.a.) 2/  12.1   9.1     5.5     5.0      3.5      3.5     3.5
Notes: 1/ Net of social security contributions for government workers.
2/ Based on contemporaneous inflation.
Source: Government data; IMF and World Bank estimates and projections.
-7-



32.    Four features characterize this anticipated adjustment. First, oil- and gas-related revenues are
based on a westward-Caspian and eastward-China pipeline systems becoming operational (albeit
gradually) around the year 2001 and 2005, respectively, and on medium- and long-term oil prices of
US$16 per barrel. Second, two-thirds of the revenues expected from the privatization process are
realized before the end of the decade, and the process itself is completed by 2005. Third, the economy
reaches, and stays on, a 5 percent per annum growth plateau in the next two years. Finally, compliance
rates in payroll tax collections do not deteriorate beyond the level projected in the reform program
(estimated at a starting point of 45 percent in long-run acturarial projections-see Annex C).
33.    Within those assumptions, the general government's overall deficit would, as a proportion of
GDP, decrease gradually but continuously, from its 1998 budgeted peak of 5.7 percent to around 2
percent in the long-run. While persistent, that deficit would be sustainable. Its financing will require no
direct monetary expansions and, instead, would generate a path for the ratio of official (domestic and
foreign) debt to GDP that never exceeds 40 percent, and begins to decline around the year 2010.
34.    The key to that sustainable deficit path is the projected increase in non-oil, non-privatization,
non-payroll-tax revenues. These (roughly, general direct and indirect taxes) will have to increase
continuously from their current levels-by about 10 percent through the year 2,000; by a fifth through
2005; and by almost half by 2014. In essence, those revenues will have to make up for the medium-term
fall in privatization proceeds, and for the long-term decline in oil- and gas-related income.
35.    The reason for placing the burden of the fiscal adjustment primarily on tax revenues, rather than
on expenditure, is that the starting level of expenditures is already low, as a result of several rounds of
compression since the stabilization effort began in 1995. At present, there appears to be virtually no
room for further cuts without seriously affecting the effectiveness of the state's functions. The country's
total current government expenditures (even including pension payments) are, as a percentage of GDP,
just over half of the average in the Eastern European region.2 In addition, capital expenditures in the
government's budget are currently only about three percent of GDP, a level from which further
reductions will likely be both unfeasible and undesirable. By comparison, average government annual
investment programs in the Eastern European region hover at around five percent of GDP.
36.    That increase in tax revenues should be feasible. Kazakhstan's tax collection is, as proportion of
GDP, low compared with other economies in the region-the country collects about 12 percent of GDP in
taxes, that is, a third of the average for Eastern Europe. However, efforts to increase tax revenues should
be primarily concentrated on enhancing the quality of the collection and administration mechanisms for,
as explained below, the underlying growth objective requires a major expansion in private investment,
something that would not be helped by higher tax rates. The World Bank is therefore assisting the
authorities in their efforts to enhance the tax (and, more generally, public) administration function. Three
related operations are currently under implementation (the Public Sector and Resource Management
Adjustment Loan; the Treasury Modernization Loan; and the Technical Assistance Loan), and a fourth
one is under consideration (Tax Administration).
37.    Growth. The fiscal framework described above will have important implications for, and its
feasibility will be determined by, the country's achievements in terms of growth. In particular, reaching
2 In 1998, Kazakhstan's general government current expenditures as ratio to GDP are budgeted to reach about 24
percent.  The comparable 1994-1996 average for Albania, Bulgaria, Croatia, Czech Republic, Hungary,
Macedonia, Poland, Romania, Slovak Republic and Slovenia was 41 percent. [Multi-Query Database, Europe
and Central Asia Region, The World Bank, Spring 1997.1
-8-



and maintaining the targeted annual growth rate of 5 percent within two years will require a major
increase in investment levels and efficiency. At present, total gross domestic investment stands at around
13 percent of GDP. As shown in Annex G, that level should increase by about three-quarters within the
next five years. More importantly, virtually all of that investment increase will have to come from the
private sector, as the need for fiscal adjustment will keep government investment constant at a very low
level (less than 4 percent of GDP). In effect, over the next five years, private investment will have to
almost double from its estimated 1997 level. Higher volumes of investment will, however, not suffice to
put the Kazakhstan economy on a fast growth plateau. The efficiency with which that investment is
carried out will also be critical.
38.    Some of the targeted enhancement in growth (and in investment) will be undoubtedly generated
by the energy-related sector. Oil and gas production currently account (directly and indirectly) for some
10-15 percent of the country's GDP. Using the authorities' oil (and gas) volume projections as a proxy
for the sector's future GDP growth, hydrocarbons should contribute about 2-2.5 percentage points to the
economy's annual rate of growth between now and the year 2001 (the year the Government expects a
Caspian pipeline to the West to start operating, albeit at reduced capacity); 1-1.5 percentage points
between 2001 and 2005 (a planned eastward pipeline to China will then enter service); and 1.5-2
percentage points through the end of our projection period.ii By 2014, a quarter of Kazakhstan's GDP
will be turned out by the oil and gas sector.
39.    This projected five percent long-term real growth rate will call for a continuing public policy
effort to create an environment where private business can flourish in a sustainable way.  That
environment has not yet fully emerged, but significant steps have been taken. Possible macro- and micro-
economic issues that need to be dealt with include: the potential loss of non-hydrocarbon export
competitiveness (in a "Dutch disease" fashion); the efficiency of public investment programs; the
solvency and efficiency of the financial system and of channels for long-term saving (including
pensions); the legal, regulatory and incentive frameworks for private investment in non-extractive
activities; the speed of privatization; and the quality and market-sensitivity of skill development
mechanisms. These are key areas where policy initiatives will need to continue to focus to sustain the
envisaged rates of growth in the economy as a whole (i.e., beyond a booming oil and gas industry).
40.    The Government has addressed and is addressing these already, often with Bank and other donor
assistance. Pension reform, through increased savings, is, of course, a major contributor to further
strengthening the financial system and broadening investment possibilities. Other actions undertaken by
the authorities include price liberalization, financial reforms, privatization, enterprise reforms and
reforming the public sector, including improving the effectiveness of resource mobilization and
utilization. Several other components of the Bank's future assistance program for Kazakhstan will
support those initiatives as well: an upcoming Legal Reform project; a joint World Bank Group Private
and Financial Sector Assessment currently under preparation; on-going advisory services to Kazakhstan's
State Committee for Investment; a Labor Markets study; and the drafting of an overall Policy Agenda for
Growth in the Non-Extractive Economy.
41.    Prices. Successful fiscal adjustment will allow the Government to finance its gradually-declining
deficit through a mix of domestic and foreign debt without recourse to credit from NBK (i.e., with no
monetization) or excessive burden on the rest of the financial system. This, in turn, will free NBK to
continue using money base targeting as a means to stabilize prices and manage the exchange rate. Thus,
our projections show a declining trend for inflation, starting with one-digit levels in 1998 (9.4 percent)
and reaching a steady 4.5 percent per year as of 2004. (See Annex G)
-9-



42.   In addition, the real-side policy initiatives discussed above to foster investment and efficiency in
the non-extractive sectors are assumed to protect the real exchange rate from drastic appreciation (and to
cushion the effects of the Dutch disease). Over the coming decade, that rate is projected to appreciate in
unweighted terms by just under 20 percent.
43.    External Accounts and Financing Requirements. The external outlook remains comfortable,
and all major creditworthiness indicators improve over time (Annex G). The deficit in the balance of
payments' current account gradually declines down to only 1.5 percent of GDP in 2005. (Net of the
growing foreign direct investment flow, that current account deficit converts into a steady, sizeable
surplus as of the year 2000.) This is not only driven by larger oil and gas exports (which are expected to
increase three-fold in volume over the coming decade) but also by growth in the non-hydrocarbon
exports, a reflection of the efficiency enhancement and the successful real exchange rate management
mentioned above. Imports also grow, albeit at a slower pace-three percent in average over the
projection period.
44.    Foreign debt stocks, while increasing, remain manageable and peak at about a quarter of GDP in
2003. Debt service as proportion of exports of goods and non-factor services is comfortable and remains
around ten percent. At the same time, gross foreign exchange reserves at NBK can be continuously built
up (as planned by the authorities under the IMF Extended Fund Facility), to reach eight months worth of
total imports in the outer years.
45.    Risks. The macroeconomic framework described above is not without risks. Several factors
could derail the economy from a path of fast and sustainable growth, and some of those factors may be
outside the authorities' control. Three are particularly noteworthy: (i) failure to increase general tax
revenues; (ii) a lower than expected stream of oil and gas revenues (either because of a long-term decline
in oil prices, or expected reserves that fail to materialize, or delays in making transportation pipelines
operational); and (iii) a poor business environment leading to a confidence-driven lack of private
investment outside the oil and gas sector. While an alternative scenario could be envisaged in which
weak commitment to policy reform could transforn Kazakhstan into an hydrocarbon-driven, relatively
slow growth economy with moderate but chronic inflation, the Government, with assistance from both the
World Bank and the IMF, is unlikely to follow that route.
B.    Complementary Structural Reforms
46.    Kazakhstan's ongoing stabilization and structural adjustment programs and unfailing full
payment of state pensions is to be complemented by structural measures targeted directly at the
development of new domestic financial instruments, markets and institutions that are closely linked to
funded pension systems.  Development of government domestic securities with longer maturities,
corporate bonds, corporate equities, and insurance markets are essential if Kazakhstan is to reap the full
benefit of the pension reforms on which it is embarking.
47.   In this regard, the government could achieve multiple objectives of privatization, securities
market development and pension reform by selling its remaining shares in large enterprises on the
Kazakhstan Stock Exchange (KSE). This approach, which could be implemented gradually, taking into
account the budgetary needs for privatization revenues along with the pension funds' ability to absorb
equity shares, would provide the pension funds with the opportunity to acquire quality Kazakh companies
in a competitive manner. The 1998 budget provides for the sale of 4.5 percent of the shares in four large
enterprises (Kaztelecom, Mangistaumunaigas, Akyubmunaigas, and Zhezkasgantvetmet). These shares
-10-



should be sold through the KSE, and a program should be established to sell the remaining shares in these
and other large enterprises over the coming years.
48.    The emergence of a strong insurance industry is also necessary to support a funded pension
system. As the system matures, the payment options approved by government for the funded system
(such as a fixed schedule of payments, single life annuities, joint and survivor annuities) will be in the
hands of commercial insurers. Similarly, an extension of reform to mandate insurance-based disability
and survivors' benefits must be predicated on the emergence of a well-regulated insurance industry.
Consequently, Government is committed to develop a strategy for the insurance industry adopting EU
regulatory approaches and opening the market to effective foreign participation.
IV.   The Program for Implementing Pension Reform
49.    The objective of the PRAL is to support Government's program for the implementation of the
1997 pension reform legislation in four specific areas: (i) macroeconomic stability and structural reform;
(ii) social protection and public information; (iii) governmental management and operations; and (v) legal
and regulatory framework and related institutions.
50.    The decision to reduce payroll taxation will cause an estimated revenue loss to the consolidated
government budget of about 1.7 percent of GDP in 1998. From a macroeconomic perspective, the
increase in the public deficit resulting from pension reform does not necessarily mean an expansion of
aggregate demand if losses in public revenue are compensated by an increase in non-public sector
savings. A revised fiscal framework developed by the authorities accommodates the increased budgetary
expenditures incurred under pension reform through an overall deficit for 1998 of 5.5:percent. Continued
fiscal stability will need to be maintained in the future, without resorting to the further accumulation of
pension arrears. In terms of the overall cost of transition, projections based on Government's actuarial
model indicate that the implicit government debt amounts to 110 percent of 1997 GDP, which compares
favorably to other countries.
51.    The public perception that future pensions will be adequate and equitable is essential for the
reform to gain popular support. Initial estimates by government suggested that a 10 percent contribution
would provide a replacement rate of over 60 percent for long career workers (35 years of contributions).
52.    For a successful implementation of the reform, the future structure of benefits for different
cohorts with different work histories will need to be assessed on an ongoing basis to ensure that
contribution rates are sufficient to provide socially adequate benefits for future retirees. Based on such an
assessment, legislative and regulatory adjustments may be needed to ensure benefit adequacy. Further,
subsequent legislation is required to place disability and survivors' benefits on a insured basis, removing
them from the list of social allowances.
53.    The administration of the continuing PAYG system has been a clear challenge to the success of
the program  as the new  legislation has started to be implemented.  The switch from  aggregate
contributions based on payroll to individual records has required a significant change in record keeping
and accountability. Government has established and staffed the SPPC for this purpose. To date, due, in
part, to lagging implementation of information technology, collections have been less than anticipated.
Nonetheless, these collections are beginning to show some improvement. Further, Government has
realized that to meet its challenge, a series of ongoing investments are required in human capital and
information technology that should, in part, be supported by a World Bank program. Steps need to be
-1 1-



taken to improve revenue collection for both pension programs, to coordinate the collection of payroll
taxes and contributions to funded accumulation plans, to determine new awards, and to make pension
payments. Lastly, a unique personal identification number system still needs to be fully implemented for
both pension fund contributions and taxation.
54.    The development of funded pensions requires the development of a regulatory framework to
establish: (i) conditions for the emergence of a critical number of non-state pension funds; (ii) rules for
the state accumulation fund, (iii) adequate financial instruments; (iv) a set of core regulations and
standards including licensing requirements and custodial agreements for the non-state funds; and (v)
appropriate arrangements for the regulatory authorities. Regulations supporting the law have been
drafted by the National Securities Commission (NSC), the National Bank of Kazakhstan (NBK), and the
National Pension Agency (NPA).   Government has also developed regulations and improve
administrative structures in order to ensure participant safety, an adequate rate of return, and incentives
for private market development. It is anticipated that through a program of technical assistance both the
regulatory structure and the regulatory environment will slowly be raised to the highest international
standards. Government intends to combine these efforts with appropriate public information campaigns
to educate the public about the merits of the new system, about its safety, and about their prospective
benefits in retirement. This is particularly crucial as the reform was inaugurated with a limited amount
of prior public discussion.
55.    The Government's program of institutional and policy reform is presented in the "Letter of
Pension Reform Policy" included as Annex A. It is also summarized in the remained of Part IV and is
presented in the Policy Matrix in Annex B. The reform measures to be supported by the PRAL are
divided into three groups: (i) those that are to be implemented prior to Board presentation, (ii) those
expected to be completed before the second tranche is released, and (iii) those expected to be in place
before the third tranche. The program has been designed on the assumption that the second tranche
would be disbursed in the third quarter of 1999, so actions prior to the second tranche are expected to be
completed by June 30, 1999. The program design also assumes that the third tranche will be disbursed in
the third quarter of 2000, so actions prior to the third tranche are expected to be completed by June 30,
2000.
A.    Social Protection and Public Information
56.    The Minimum Benefit.  As part of pension reform, pensioners with full years of service equal
to 25 years will be eligible to receive a minimum pension if their combined public and accumulation plan
pensions fall below a minimum consumption standard. A minimum of 2,400 Tenge per month was
enacted under the 1998 budget law and is expected to be raised at least twice during the year to keep up
with CPI increases. That level is roughly equivalent to 70 percent of the 1997 survival minimum cited in
the World Bank's poverty assessment, Kazakhstan: Living Standards During the Transition. Allowing
for the fact that pensioners may have other sources of income, including self-production of food and
assistance of relatives, a target of 70 percent of the survival minimum appears both adequate and
reasonable.
57.    Those who do not qualify for the minimum  pension will receive an old age allowance
equal to three times the annually established base numerate (projected to be 645 Tenge in 1998). As yet
the future impact of contributory behavior on tax revenues is unknown should individuals estimate that
participation in the system will not materially improve their benefits. The provision of a minimum
pension should not have an significant impact on the budget during the first year of reform, since, given
-12-



COLA adjustments in the proposed Budget Law, virtually all workers with full eligibility will be
granted a pension above the minimum.
58.    Automatically indexing the minimum pension to the cost of living is the next step in the
transformation of the pension system. Pensioners eligible for the lowest pension should be able
to maintain their standard of living over time. By only automatically indexing the minimum,
Government can maintain budgetary flexibility while providing a floor of protection.
59.    Disability and Survivors' Benefits. Under the new legislation for social allowances,
disability and survivors' benefits cease to be paid as insurance benefits and are to become flat-
rate allowances unrelated to service- or wage7history. These allowances are funded directly
through the budget and will no longer be part of the pension system. For the most severe
disability, Group I, the benefit is set at 6 times the base numerate, while for Groups II and II, the
amounts are 4 times the base numerate and three times the base numerate, respectively.
Survivors' benefits are a function of the number of surviving household members, with a
maximum benefit of 10 times the base numerate. Workers eligible for Group I invalidity
benefits, whose conditions preclude any possibility of work, would face a sharp reduction in their
income if they earn above the average wage. Similarly, low-wage earners in other categories
might receive higher income from disability allowances than they did prior to disablement.
60.    These policies must be regarded as interim measures instituted to break with the former
system. The longer-run goal for disability and survivor's benefits is provision of annuities
through private disability and life insurance. With the development of the insurance industry in
Kazakhstan, Government intends to introduce mandatory insurance-based disability and survivor
pensions in which both premiums and payments are related to earnings and pooled across age and
gender categories. Further, Government intends to revisit the disability determination process,
tightening eligibility criteria to ensure that premiums are affordable and the risks of disability are
insurable.
61.    Analysis of Pension and Benefits Structures. As Government intends the pension
reform to provide adequate future retirement income relative to earnings for the aged, an
institutional capacity will be developed for the analysis of distributional issues which will include
an analysis of pensions by age cohort, gender and length of working life. Such analysis is
essential as pension systems that rely on personal saving are likely to lead to lower replacement
rates for women and persons with relatively short work histories. Women tend to have shorter
contribution periods due to family responsibilities and longer post-pension life expectancies than
men.  Extended periods of unemployment, education and training, and work in the informal
sector could also lower the level of pensions that individuals can expect from the new system.By
third tranche release, Government will have completed an initial report on the distributional
impact of the reformed system, including recommendations for changes in the contribution rate,
as necessary, and an evaluation of the use of unisex annuities. For the first few years, eligible
retirees can be expected to receive lump-sum distributions from the funded system.
62.    Public Information. Government realizes the need to inform the public about such a
substantial change in their pension system and has responded, in part, by a nationwide effort to
put key reform officials before the public, in person and through the media, to provide
information about the reform at the highest level. Nonetheless, a public opinion poll has
indicated that only one-third of the public currently support the reform. Consequently, continued
concentrated publir information efforts are necessary to win public confidence and to ensure
-13-



mandatory pension contributions are made and wage taxes paid.  In  addition  to  intensifying
current efforts through the media, information on the new system should be distributed directly to
all participants. Specialized programs, perhaps carried out through employer groups, are needed
to familiarize employers with new procedures and requirements. Efforts targeted at increasing
journalists' understanding of and support for the new system are also needed. Government has
prepared a comprehensive plan for such a public information campaign, with a timetable for the
implementation of the public information strategy. The strategy is a multi-year process, with an
office established in the MOLSP for that purpose.
B.    Management Systems and Operations
63.    To support the new pension reform legislation, two significant changes have been made
in the public sector administration of the collection and payment system. First, the responsibility
for the payment of current pensions has been transferred to the SPPC. It is also responsible for
the allocation of state and non-state contributions to the various accumulation funds, including
the state accumulation fund. Second, payroll tax collection responsibilities have been transferred
to the state revenue collection service. This transfer reduces the current duplication of effort in
revenue collection.  Logistically, both the payroll taxes and the funded contributions are
deposited through the banking system to the SPPC.  The SPPC subsequently transfers the 10
percent contributions to the pension funds selected by each employee. To ensure that these
changes are effective, the administrative capacity of the public agencies involved must be
developed further to create an effective public sector infrastructure to implement pension reform.
To date, collections have not been as effective as anticipated and this situation must be speedily
improved in order not to jeopardize the fiscal sustainability of the reform.
64.    The role of the SPPC should eventually be threefold: (i) to pay current public pensions;
(ii) to ensure that the working population participates in the system; and (iii) to ensure that
contributions are accurately assigned to the fund chosen by the contributor. One of the major
drawbacks of the former PAYG system was its inability to collect much more than half of all
collections due. To change this situation, modern tax collection techniques are to be adopted by
the tax inspectorate, including the linking of information available to the SPPC and other
agencies to identify individuals and businesses who avoid or evade their payment obligations. In
addition, over time, the substantially reduction in the payroll tax should encourage better
compliance. Similarly, the linkage of contributions to benefits should provide incentives for
individuals to contribute to the funded plans.  While the tax authority would assume
responsibility for tax inspection, the SPPC still has a significant role in the identification of
potential taxpayers. The SPPC also acts as a central clearinghouse for all wage taxes and
contributions related to pensions to ensure the correct allocation to individual accounts.
65.   Information Systems. The installation of a central and oblast/raion computer system by
the SPPC, that is essential to provide a central data base to record the receipt of contributions on
individual accounts, has initially been lagging. Further, a management information system and
standardized reporting system will need to be introduced to monitor revenue receipts and
participants in the funded and PAYG  systems.  The SPPC  is currently working on the
deficiencies in this areas to reach a timely solution. In the longer term, a management
information system needs to be developed to determine the success of the SPPC in (i) paying
pensions; (ii) covering the working population; (iii) transmitting contributions to the fund chosen
by the contributor.  Such a system would be used to monitor trends in contributions and
participants for both the PAYG and funded systems. The indicators would help policy makers
-14-



assess: (i) revenues; to the state scheme, and (ii) participation in the funded accumulation plans.
This requires the preparation of an information technology plan to computerize the PAYG
pension calculations, the use of the social insurance code (SIC) for tax purposes, and the
introduction of a system to provide yearly individual contributor reports on revenue receipts.
66.    Personal identification numbers are the cornerstone of effective individual account
pension systems. A unique SIC has initially been allocated to one-tenth of all those identified as
current contributors by SPPC. By second tranche release, a unique identification number should
be provided to 80 percent of all employees. By the year 2000, all employees should have an SIC.
In conjunction with these steps, a management information system should be introduced to
identify non-contributors.
67.    Monitoring and Service Standards The former PAYG pension system was based on
former-Soviet accounting practices which are not in keeping with international standards. These
practices, which are not transparent, in combination with the decentralized collection and
payment of benefits and minimal reporting procedures, has prevented any reasonable degree of
fiscal control by the MOLSP.  To ensure future transparency and fiscal accountability, an
independent assessment is needed to introduce modern accounting and auditing standards to the
SPPC. Following their introduction, there should be an independent audit of SPPC finances.
68.    The efficient transfer of contributions by employers on behalf of employees and the self-
employed is necessary to build public confidence in the system and to maximize the returns that
participants receive on their contributions.  For this reason, Government has introduced a
clearance system which ensures that social contributions reach the appropriate accumulation fund
at most within 7 days of payment by the employer. In the future, a fully automated financial
transfer system should guarantee clearance in less than 4 days. To improve services and system
transparency, a public help line will be used to handle social contribution queries.
C.    Legal and Regulatory Framework
Legal Framework
69.    Budgets, organization specifications, and staffing plans have been developed for each of
the new institutions required for the reform -- the SAF, the NPA, the regulatory office of the
NSC, the regulatory office of the NBK, and the SPPC. Further, each of the key regulatory
institutions are to establish training programs for the regulatory institutions to build staff skills.
These training programs will continue to operate and be improved upon on an ongoing basis.
70.    The Government of Kazakhstan is the founder of the SAF, which provides an alternative
to the NSAFs. Participants may select the SAF as their pension fund of choice. Contributions
also flow to the SAF from participants who have not specifically designated a NSAF. The
MOLSP established the SAF, and together with the MOF, is jointly responsible for approving the
supervising committee. As there are nine non-state accumulation funds in operation, the SAF is
only one of several options available to contributors.
-15-



Regulatory Framework
71.   If the mandatory pension savings scheme is to be successful, regulations and standards
must be established in four areas: (i) the state accumulation fund; (ii) non-state accumulation
funds; (iii) asset management companies (AMCs); and (iv) custodian banks. A plan for the
development of regulations for implementing pension reform was signed by the Prime Minister
on July 1, 1997. Regulations supporting the law have been drafted by the NSC, the NBK and the
NPA.  The basic regulations necessary for the operation of the system have already been
promulgated.
72.   The pension law allows for the establishment of both open and corporate NSAFs. These
are closed-end joint stock companies regulated by the joint stock company law. Regulations have
been issued that specify the licensing requirement of the funds and their senior management
personnel, and certain prudential and operational requirements. The NSAFs has developed
master contracts for participating workers and for service suppliers such as asset management
companies, the custodian banks, and the SPPC. Licenses have been issued to eleven non-state
accumulation plan funds. Of these, nine have signed the necessary agreements with an AMC and
custodian bank to make them operational.
73.    Regulations have been developed by the NSC for the asset management companies,
including a minimum capital requirement of 80 million Tenge and additional fixed and extra
capital reserves that are dependent on the amount of assets under management. The companies
are required to guarantee relative investment performance and make up any shortfall from their
own resources. The founders of pension funds can also be founders of management companies
and a management company may have several pension fund clients. To date, four asset
management companies have been licensed.
74.    Regulations have been issued by the NSC regarding the licensing and regulation of
custodians with respect to the operation of the securities market. According to the regulations,
the custodians are responsible for monitoring the asset allocation of the funds and reporting any
misallocation to the regulatory bodies. Asset management companies may not keep pension
assets in an affiliated bank custodian. Four custodian banks have currently received licenses.
75.    Government has clarified the tax status of contributions and investment income for
mandatory and voluntary pensions. Prototype pension contracts, asset management contracts, and
custodial agreements for the SAF and the NSAF have also been developed by the NPA. Other
regulations and related documents that have been developed to complete the regulatory
framework are related to licensing, commissions, reporting and disclosure, accounting and
auditing, asset transfers, prudential regulation, portfolio limits and minimum capital
requirements. Prototype reporting and disclosure documents have been developed for the
accumulation funds, asset management companies, and custodial banks. Similarly, reporting and
disclosure documents have been developed for the pension funds, the asset management
companies and the custodial banks.
76.    For the first few years, the distributions from the new pension system will be quite small
and can only reasonably be provided as lump-sum distributions. Regulations on the distribution
of benefits from individual accounts are to be developed in the future, in conjunction with the
development of the insurance industry, with Government mandating payment from the funded
system in accordance with goals for retirement income security discussed above.
-16-



77.   Even after these all regulations have been promulgated, the regulatory framework for the
pension system will remain a work in progress. Ongoing regulatory review is needed to promote
the development of a sound private pension fund industry. Consequently, a formal review of the
regulatory framework is to be undertaken on an annual basis to determine whether any changes in
the regulatory structure are necessary.
V.    Bank Assistance Strategy
A.    Rationale For Bank Involvement
78.   The proposed PRAL is consistent with, and included in, the Bank Group's assistance
strategy for Kazakhstan as outlined in the "Country Assistance Strategy Memorandum"discussed
by the Board on August 26, 1997. The Bank Group's assistance strategy during FY 98-00 is
established around two organizing themes (a) promoting private sector-led growth including
improving the legal and institutional framework and (b) strengthening social protection with the
goal of mitigating transitional poverty. The proposed PRAL is related to each of these foci. The
proposed PRAL has been advanced from 1999 to 1998 to respond to Government's need for
support during the first year of reform in which the country is faced with initial fiscal costs and
the costs of implementation.
79.   The funded system will develop the network of institutional investors and, thereby,
strengthen Kazakh capital markets.  These activities are in concert with the Bank's Private
Sector Strategy in which IFC will focus on (i) institution-building efforts to create a share
registry, investment banks/security house, and investment company; and (ii) creation of
specialized investment funds. IFC would follow up the PRAL with projects to establish pension
funds and housing finance companies, and, as the market evolves, would expect to support more
sophisticated institution-building initiatives in areas including insurance and securities
companies. IFC would also assist in the introduction of Kazakh blue chip companies to
international portfolio investors by (i) providing resources for the audit and legal work preceding
the companies' listing, and (ii) helping to create a satisfactory environment concerning custodial,
regulatory, and other issues.
80.   The reform of the system will strengthen social protection by substituting a well-
managed pension system for a public plan that lost credibility and was not able to pay for the
promises made.  By relating benefits close to contributions, the pension promise will be
transformed from a one of entitlement to one based on individual effort, in keeping with the
development of a miarket economy. The reform will protect the poor by providing a minimum
pension benefit. Further, government intends to complete its pension reform program through the
development of mandatory disability and survivors' insurance (to substitute for currently
provided social allowances) to protect the population against these additional risks which reduce
family earnings and create hardship.
B.    Coordination with Other Donors
81.   Coordination with the IMF. The Bank has been working closely with the IMF in
monitoring Kazakhstan' economic performance and progress towards structural reform and
advising the Government in this area. Given the fiscal impact of pension reform, the IMF and
Bank have coordinated closely in evaluating the transitional costs of reform and the
macroeconomic stability of government policy. While the IMF has concentrated on developing
-17-



macro targets and the Bank has focused on sectoral projects, the Bank and the Fund have worked
closely together coordinating the IMF's review missions with the preparation for the PRAL. The
structural measures related to pension reform included in the IMF program for 1998 are closely
coordinated with the PRAL conditionalities.
82.   Coordination with the Asian Development Bank (ADB). The Bank has also been
working closely with the ADB which has approved a Program Loan to support pension reform
for US$100 million. The conditionalities for the ADB loan were prepared in coordination with
the Bank during overlapping missions to Almaty. The ADB has also offered a technical
assistance loan in the amount of US$0.68 million in addition to its proposed Program Loan.
Under the proposed TA loan, consultants would provide in-country training in principles of asset
and portfolio management for Government employees with regulatory responsibilities. Training
in survey methods, underwriting, actuarial analysis, and solvency monitoring would be provided
for participants in the private insurance industry. The ADB is also providing a stand-alone TA
grant prior to the Program Loan for US$1 million to provide consulting services and computer
software to the NPA; training in the new accounting and reporting system; and training to the
MOF to strengthen their capacity to regulate the insurance industry. Lastly, TA will be provided
to promote markets for long-term bonds and equities. Currently, the ADB has entered discussion
with Government to provide funding for a public information campaign. This assistance is
essential for Government to meet the PRAL goals and timetable.
83.   Coordination with USAID and Other Donors.  USAID has had a long-standing
program to support pension reform. Its support has covered legal, regulatory, actuarial, and
administrative aspects of the pension reform program. It has also provided assistance in the area
of public information. The program will continue through 1998 providing assistance as needed in
these areas. The Bank has worked closely with the USAID consultants during each mission.
Government is using funding from the Japanese Government through the PHRD program of
technical assistance in a number of areas, including base-line work to facilitate fiscal and
actuarial modeling, financial evaluation and regulatory analysis. Other donors in contact with the
Bank with interests in social protection and labor market issues include the UK Know-how Fund,
the EU Tacis program, and UNDP.
VI.   The Proposed Pension Reform Adjustment Loan
A.    Objectives
84.   The proposed loan would support the Government's efforts to finance the transition to a
fully funded pension system by financing part of the estimated 1.7 percent of GDP fiscal deficit
brought about by pension reform. The move to a funded system would continue the transition to
a market economy by encouraging savings, creating an attitude of self-reliance among the
population, reducing the public sector, and deepening capital markets. For the loan, specific
measures are outlined to ensure that the reform takes place within the context of a sustainable
fiscal policy, with adequate administration of revenue collection and payment, with appropriate
regulatory control, and with consideration for the adequacy and equity of the pensions delivered
to the population.
-18-



B.    Loan Amounts and Terms
85.    The borrower is the Republic of Kazakhstan as represented by the Ministry of Finance.
The loan amount is US$300 million. The Loan would be made at the Bank's single-currency
LIBOR-based floating interest rates in US dollars, with atwenty years maturity including a five-
year grace period. Although the loan amount is not large relative to the Kazakh economy, it is
sufficient to help defray the costs of pension reform and strengthen the administrative and
regulatory capacities of Government to ensure that the reform is successful and sustainable.
86.    The PRAL would be disbursed under the new simplified procedures for disbursement of
adjustment operations. Disbursements will be made by payments to an account of the Ministry of
Finance in the National Bank of Kazakhstan. It would be disbursed in three tranches of US$100
million in 1998, in 1999, and in 2000. The first tranche would be released as soon as possible
after the loan becomes effective. Assuming the conditions are fulfilled (see paragraph9l below),
the second tranche would be released in mid-1999, and the third tranche would be released in
mid-year 2000. The funds disbursed under the loan are expected to be sold in the foreign
exchange auction market and, in this way, generate non-inflationary financing for the budget.
C.    Monitoring and Reporting on Program Implementation
87.    The Ministry of Finance will be responsible for monitoring and reporting to the Bank on
the implementation of the pension reform actions supported by the PRAL (as they are outlined in
the 'Letter on Pension Reform Policy" included as Appendix A.) The Ministry will submit semi-
annual reports to the Bank on the implementation of the program, including problems
encountered as well as progress made. The first such report will be due on January 31, 1999 and
will cover the period ending December 31, 1998. The second report will be due on August 31,
1999 and will cover lthe period ending July 31, 1999. The third report will be due on January 31,
2000 and will cover the period ending December 31, 1999. The fourth report will be due in
August 31, 2000 and will cover the period ending July 31, 2000.
D.    Tranche Conditionality for the PRAL
88.    The proposed loan would have conditionality directed at ensuring the effective
implementation of the pension reform.  The Board conditions comprise the necessary
preconditions that need to be in place for the reformed system to become initially operational.
Further institutional development is required, however, for the reform to be successful in the,long
run.  The successful implementation of these institutional changes and capacity-building
commitments during the ensuing two years will place the system on a sustainable path for the
future. The second tranche conditions strengthen administrative and regulatory capacity and
provide for initial reports of system  performance. The third tranche conditions essentially
complete the development of most of the administrative and regulatory structure required for the
reform to succeed.
89.    All of the Board conditions have been met. The specific conditions for second tranche
release are listed below. Tranche release would also be contingent upon (a) the maintenance of a
macroeconomics and sectoral framework satisfactory to the Bank and (b) satisfactory progress in
the implementation of the Pension Reform Program outlined in the Government's Letter of
-19-



Pension Reform Policy, including actions to be taken in support of implementation through
supplementary World Bank loan funding (Annex 1).
90.    The following actions were taken prior to Board Presentation:
a) Payment to pensioners of all pension arrears as of end 1997; no accumulation of new
pension arrears to pensioners;
b) Formal establishment of ongoing actuarial capacity within an aagency of the
Borrower satisfactor to the Bank to maintain an actuarial data base for the public
system, update the actuarial forecast of the public system, and provide input to public
policy regarding insurance, annuities, and pensions;
c) Preparation by the MOLSP of a comprehensive plan for public information on
pension reform satisfactory to Bank with a timetable for implementation;
d) Development of budgets, organization charts and staffing plan for NPA, NSC, NBK
custodial monitoring unit, SAF, and SPPC satisfactory to the Bank;
e) Issuance of licenses by NSC to at least 4 non-state asset management companies of
comparable competence and experience;
f) Issuance of licenses by the NPA to at least four non-state accumulation funds and
implementation of all necessary contracts to ensure that funds are completely
operational;
g) Development or revision of regulations for the SAF, NSAFs, AMCs concerning
licensing, commissions, reporting and disclosure, accounting and auditing, asset
transfers, prudential regulation, portfolio limits, and minimum capital requirements
satisfactory to the Bank;
h) Development of prototype pension contracts, asset management contracts and
custodial agreements for the SAF and NSAFs satisfactory to the Bank;
i) Installation of SPPC central and oblast/raion computer systems to provide a central
data base to record the receipt of contributions on individual accounts;
j) Assignment and timely notification of a single unique identification number by the
SPPC to 10 percent of all those identified as current contributors by the SPPC;
k) Introduction of a clearance system by the SPPC to ensure that pension contributions
reach the accumulation funds within 7 days of payment by the employer.
91.    The following key actions are preconditions for release of the second tranche:
a) The Borrower has no pension arrears;
b) An agency of the Borrower satisfactory to the Bank has issued the first annual report
discussing, to the satisfaction of the Bank, the long-term fiscal costs of state pensions
and social allowances;
c) The Borrower has issued a report discussing, to the satisfaction of the Bank, strategic
actions to be undertaken by the Borrower to strengthen the insurance industry in the
areas of annuities, life and disability insurance in the Republic of Kazakhstan;
-20-



d) The Borrower has issued domestic government bonds with maturity of two years or
longer in a quantity that satisfies reasonable investment requirements of the
Borrower's pension accumulation funds;
e) The Borrower's Government has adopted a resolution providing that annual
republican budgets submitted to the parliament shall provide for scheduled increases
in the minimum pension level, fully adjusted for inflation;
f) The National Bank, National Pension Agency, and National Securities Commission
have instituted a reporting system adequate to ensure that they can issue accurate and
timely information regarding the performance and progress of the pension system,
based on basic monitoring indicators satisfactory to the Bank;
g) The SPIlC has prepared and adopted an information technology plan discussing to
the satisfaction of the Bank actions to be undertaken by the SPPC to fully
computerize and automate the PAYG pension calculation system;
h) The SPPC and the SAF have (i) instituted a financial management system adequate
to ensure that they can issue accurate and timely information regarding their
operations; and (ii) have received an unqualified six-month auditing report
satisfactory to the Bank, carried out in accordance with auditing standards acceptable
to the Bank consistently applied by independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank.
92.    The preconditions for the third tranche release are as follows:
a) The Borrower has no pension arrears;
b) An agency of the Borrower satisfactory to the Bank has issued the second annual
report discussing, to the satisfactory of the Bank, the long-term fiscal costs of state
pensions and social allowances;
c) The Borrower has issued a report discussing, to the satisfaction of the Bank, the
strategy for the provision of mandatory disability and survivors insurance;
d) The Borrower has issued domestic inflation-indexed government bonds with maturity
of three years or longer in a quantity that satisfies reasonable investment
requirernents of the Republic of Kazakhstan's pension accumulation funds;
e) The MOLSP has issued a report discussing, to the satisfaction of the Bank: (i) the
adequacy of pensions for different groups of employees; and (ii) recommendations
for actions to adequately address retirement income deficiencies;
f) The National Bank, National Pension Agency, and National Securities Commission
have each issued on a timely basis periodic operational reports, discussing, to the
satisfaction of the Bank, the performance and progress of the pension system, based
on monitoring indicators satisfactory to the Bank;
g) The SPPC has installed and is operating the computerized and automated PAYG
pension calculation system, in accordance with the information technology plan
referred to in paragraph 91 (g) of this report;
h) The SPPC has assigned a unique identification number (SIC) for the purpose of
allocating pension contribuitons to persons of working age and has notified such
persons of their identification numbers;
-21-



i) The SPPC and SAF have: (i) maintained a financial management system adequate to
ensure that they can issue accurate and timely information regarding their operations;
and (ii) have received an unqualified annual auditing report satisfactory to the Bank
carried out in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the Bank consistently
applied by independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank.
E.    Arrangements for Technical Assistance
93.   It is recognized that there will be significant requirements for technical assistance in
connection with the implementation of the pension reform program to be supported by the PRAL.
The requirements, as agreed between the Bank and the Borrower during loan Negotiations, are
summarized in Annex E on "Technical Assistance and Investments needed to Support PRAL
Implementation." The Government will be receiving continued technical assistance from both
USAID and the ADB on matters related to pension reform. The Government has proposed a
complementary program of technical assistance and investment support through a reallocation of
about US$13 million to a new pension component that will be part of the Financial and Enterprise
Development Project (FEDP) loan.  Government has further agreed to purchase through
budgetary resources any information technology investments that are identified in the pension
component but are outside of the scope of available funding through the loan.
F.    Benefits and Risks
94.    Benefits. The pension reform initiated by Government will transform an overburdened
and under-financed PAYG system which fostered state dependency into a system encouraging
individual responsibility and promoting savings. The reform can be expected to have a positive
social impact in the future as benefits will be determinable and based on individual account
balances. In the past, due to fiscal unsustainability, benefitswere compressed on an ad hoc basis
through a lack of budgetary resources and inflationary erosion. By providing for the development
of non-state accumulation plans, the reform will foster the development of capital markets and
improve the aggregate economic efficiency of investments. The reform will also develop skills
needed in a market economy bolstering the financial sector, the banking sector and the insurance
industry. The reform will reduce payroll taxation and, as a result, encourage employment. It will
also reduce the incentives for untaxed informal sector activity and employment.  While the
reform initially incurs additional budgetary costs, in the longer run, as benefits from the old
system are phased out, budgetary costs will be reduced considerably. Further, the long-run
demographic instability of the former PAYG system will no longer be a potential time-bomb. In
the longer run, the reform could lead to increased savings and faster economic growth.
95.    Risks. Several major risks could limit the effectiveness of the new pension system and
impede its success. The first risk lies in possibility that reductions in payroll tax collections could
lead to increased fiscal instability. At system start up, contributions have indeed been collected at
half the rate of that realized under the old system, although recent improvements have been
noted. To mitigate this risk, Government is in the process of following the recommendations of
the IMF's technical assistance tax administration mission. In addition, the proposed new tax
administration component of the FEDP, which includes information technology acquisitions,
would help improve collections. In conjunction with these measures, the centralization of
responsibility for payroll tax collection with the revenue collection service, rather than at the
oblast level, should in the longer run lead to greater compjiance.  The use of a unique
-22-



identification number by both the tax authorities and the SPPC, in combination with the sharing
and cross-checking of payments, should yield, in the longer run, improved collection from known
taxpayers and the inclusion of more of the informal, non-taxpaying sector.  Further, the
operations of the SPPC would be improved through the technical assistance provided underthe
proposed pension reform component under the FEDP.
96.    The second risk lies in the inadequacy of safeguards for the participants funds. If
individual savings accounts are poorly invested or are not properly credited to individual
accounts, they will neither provide adequate retirement income nor improve the efficiency of
investments in the economy. While the pension law separates the investment management
function from the pension fund custodial accounts, reducing the potential for fraud, a number of
implementation issues also must be addressed to mitigate these risks. Government is moving
quickly towards the establishment of an appropriate regulatory structure for the state and non-
state pension plans.  In particular, these regulations include investment guidelines to limit
exposure to overly risky assets. Government is committed to developing procedures to efficiently
allocate contributions through the banking system to individual accounts. The ability to cross-
check deposit information by the SPPC and the tax authorities will improve accuracy and reduce
the risk of fraud. Perhaps the strongest part of the regulatory structure is in the selection and
supervision of the custodian banks. Neither the pension funds nor the AMCs can misallocate
funds if these banks provide proper oversight. The licensed custodian banks are all strong,
credible financial institutions, and the NBK is one of the most competent, professional
organizations in Kazakhstan. As time goes by, the other regulatory agencies responsible for
supervision would be strengthened through the technical assistance provided through the ADB
and under the proposed pension reform component of the FEDP.
97.    The third risk is the potential that the new system will increase poverty among the aged
in the future if indlividual accumulation accounts are not large enough to provide adequate funds
for retirement. To mitigate this risk, Government has instituted a minimum benefit through the
budgetary process and intends to provide that benefit on an ongoing basis indexed to keep pace
with the cost of living. Further, Government will undertake in-house studies and/or fund such
studies through research institutes or universities to assess the future pensions of specific groups
within the populatiion, to monitor their adequacy and, when issues arise, to propose remedies.
98.    A final risk would arise if the strong support for pension reform provided by Government
were no longer forthcoming. At the passage of the June 1997 legislation, pension reform was
given the highest priority at the highest level of government. With the passage of time, and the
identification of other priorities, the implementation of reform could waiver. The strains on
Government from the move to Astana and governmental reorganization and changing higher
level appointments must be regarded as considerable. Nonetheless, the seriousness with which
Government is currently addressing the implementation of reform, including the willingness to
borrow for necessary technical assistance, signals commitment to the process.  Further, the
overall responsibility for the success of the reform has been delegated to the first deputy prime
minister, indicating that the responsibility for the success of the reform has been placed at an
extremely high level of Government. Consequently, the outlook for continued commitment
remains positive.
-23-



VII. Recommendation
99.   I am satisfied that the proposed Loan will comply with the Articles of Agreement of the
Bank and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Loan.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by: Caio K. Koch-Weser
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
June 3, 1998
-24-



Annex A
KA3AKCTAH                                   GOVERNMENT
PECnY5JI HKACbIHbbFl                           OF THE REPUBLIC
YKIMETI                                  OF KAZAKHSTAN
C..
ANNEX A:
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN
PENSION REFORM ADJUSTMENT LOAN
tt    May 27, 1998
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
<=    President
F U    The World Bank
18181H St., N. W.
*~ t ^Washington, D. C. 20433
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn,
= ,)
1.  I am writing this letter on behalf of the Government of the
Republic of Kazakhstan in the context of our request for a Pension
Reform Adjustment Loan (PRAL). Kazakhstan has successfully
established financial stability and is continuing to implement
necessary structural reforms. Although we have passed through
several very difficult years, we are now beginning to see substantial
results from our efforts. The rate of inflation has been brought down
from 1256 percent in 1994 to factual 11.2 percent in 1997,
considerably less than our original 17 percent target for the year.
Although Kazakhstan' s gross domestic products fell by over 40
percent. between 1990 and 1995, that trend has now been reserved. We
achieved modest real growth of 0.5 percent in 1996, and achieved
growth of 2.0 percent in 1997, higher than the 1.5 percent rate initially
projected. The consolidated public sector deficit was held to 2.9
percent of GDP in 1996 and 3.6 percent of GDP in 1997. We are
making good progress in the privatization of former state enterprises,
although much of the difficult task of restructuring individual
enterprises still remains to be done.
2.   Our gains were not accomplished without substantial
sacrifice. Government revenues fell from 37 percent of GDP in 1993
to only 24 percent in 1996. In the same period, real GDP fell by nearly
29,5 percent. Even though the budget deficit was allowed to rise
-25-                     0002 76



substantially, the reduction in expenditures was also severe. Public
sector expenditures fell from 37 to 28 percent of GDP, with the result
than in 1996 expenditures in real terms were only 57 percent of their
1993 level. These figures do not take into account payment arrears,
particularly for Pension Fund payments and wages for government
workers. We have faced further fiscal stress in 1998 due to the world -
wide reduction in oil prices. Nonetheless, we expect that privatization
revenues will be realized as expected and that the Eurobond loan will
become available in the fourth quarter of the year. Preliminary
estimates for the fiscal outcome in the first quarter of 1998 indicate
that with greater than anticipated tax collection and considerable
expenditure restraint, the budget deficit should be much lower than
forecast.
3. In June, 1997, we enacted a major structural reform of our public
pension system transforming it into a system of fully funded
individual accumulation accounts. A PAYG pension system remains
for workers who have accrued years of service under the old plan. The
reform reduces the revenues specifically directed to the PAYG
pension program by lowering the 25.5 percent payroll contribution
rate to a 15 percent pension contribution. It is our intention to reduce
the 15 percent pension contribution further as expenditures for
pensions under the old scheme are phased out. The contribution to the
funded system has been set at 10 percent of personal taxable income.
Contributions will be placed in financial instruments and credited to
individual accounts in licensed accumulation funds selected by the
contributor. Contributors will be able to place their contributions in
either a state-run accumulation fund or one of several non-state funds.
As part of our reform, we also committed ourselves to- and succeeded
in - clearing all pension arrears by the end of 1997.
4. We are cognizant of the close interaction between the pension
reform and the macroeconomic framework, as the pension reform
creates additional liabilities for the budget as a result of transition. In
addition to the anticipated revenue loss due to the reduction in the
pension contribution, revenues to the State Pension Payment Center
have been less than originally anticipated. As a result, a greater than
anticipated budgetary subsidy has been required to pay current
pensions in the early months of the reform. Nonetheless, contribution
collection rates have been slowly improving and we are taking
measures to improve this situation by strengthening our tax collection
procedures and pension funds supervisions.
5. The requested loan would support the implementation of our
pension reform in four specific areas: 1) macro-economic stability and
structural reform; 2) social protection and public information; 3)
-26-



governmental management and operations; 4) legal and regulatory
framework. In each of these areas, we have worked out a detailed
series of concrete steps and a time-table for their implementation,
which are summarized below. We anticipate funding the necessary
technical assistance needed to achieve our objectives, in part, through
the reallocation of funds to that purpose from the Finance and
Enterprise Development Project Loan (FEDP). To ensure that the
reform is implemented based on the highest standards of operation,
Government is also committed to ensuring that the needs for
informational technology purchases, as recommended under the
proposed pension reform component of the FEDP, will be met.
Macroeconomic Stability and Structural Reform
6. Macroeconomic Stabilitv. We have completed extensive
modeling of the fiscal impact of the transition. We have calculated that
the reduction in the contribution rate will lead to an additional fiscal
deficit of 1.7 percent of GDP in 1998. Our revised fiscal framework
accommodates the increased pension expenditures by an overall
deficit form 1998 of 5.5 percent.
7. As we are committed to maintaining our program of economic
stability, we intend to take measures to ensure that a stable
macroeconomic framework is maintained that will promote the
economic growth. To improve the financial position of the budget in
the near and medium termns we are committed to strengthening tax
administration and revenue collection. We expect to achieve results in
this area,, in part, through technical assistance and information
technology strengthening funded through the reallocation of the FEDP
to that end. We will continue to estimate the transition costs of
pension reform as part of our fiscal planning process instituting an
office in a Government body to make long-run (50 year) actuarial
projections of the expenditures and costs of the public system, that
will be available to the public on an annual basis. Lastly, we are
committed to preventing a future build-up of pension arrears.
8. Structural Reform. On eof the preconditions for a funded pension
system is the development of capital markets that will support fund
investments. While capital markets development will not take place
overnight, we have been making significant progress towards this
goal. We expect to have listed Government shares of several
companies on the Kazakh Stock Exchange, which are expected to be
Class A by the end of 1999. By mid-year 1999 we intend to issue
government securities of more than 2 years maturity. By mid-year
2000, we plan to issue indexed bonds to provide additional stability
-27-



for pension fund investments. The emergence of a strong insurance
industry is also necessary to support a funded pension system. We are
committed to developing a strategy for its development.
Social Protection and Public Information
9. Structure of Pensions and Benefits. Under our pension reform
law we have completely restructured the provision of benefits, moving
away from a system of entitlement to one of individual responsibility.
We have instituted an adequate transition for persons who have been
covered under the previous system, providing them a pension
proportional to their years of service prior to January 1, 1998. We
have calculated that a full career worker under the funded system
could expect a pension equal to 60 percent of pre-retirement earnings
given a relatively optimistic set of assumptions about contribution
years and investment returns. All workers with full career
contributions will be guaranteed a minimum benefit provided by the
state that will maintain their purchasing power. As an interim
measure, we have also replaced disability and survivor's pensions
with allowances paid through the state budget.
10.     While the pension law as it stands provides a smooth
transition from the old state system to the system of funded
accumulation accounts, we intend to address a number of additional
issues related to the structure of pensions that could not be the primary
focus of the initial reform effort. We plan to adopt regulations which
will ensure that these pension are indexed fully for increases in
inflation. In conjunction with social benefits, this will provide a floor
of protection for our aged who are no longer able to work.
11.    We recognize that in the future, it will be necessary to
conduct additional ongoing analysis to ensure that the contributions
made to the accumulation funds (in conjunction with any acquired
rights under the former pension system) will provide adequate income
to full-career workers when they reach retirement age. For than
purpose, we intend to develop a strategy for the analysis of
distributional issues related to pensions according to age, gender and
working life. Our first report on these issues will be provided by the
end of 1999, with annual reports thereafter. This analysis will be used
to develop legislation, as required, to change the mandated
contribution rate, regulate annuity payments, and/or provide for
additional contributions to ensure that adequate pensions will be
received by full-career contributors.
12.    Disability and Survivor's Insurance. The provision of
disability and survivors' pensions through insurance is contingent
-28-



upon the development of licensed eommercial insurance companies
capable of providing annuities to contract holders on the basis of age,
disability, or survivorship. First, we will need to review our
procedures for the certification of disability, completing a report with
recommendations on this topic by mid-year 2000. By the mid-year
2001, we plan to introduce mandatory disability and survivors'
insurance requiring workers to pay a premium to an accredited
insurance company for this insurance. As a consequence, we will
revise early legislation accordingly. In concert with the privatization
of disability and survivors' insurance, we will develop new standards
of certification of disability to restrict benefits to those persons who
are no longer able to work.
13.    Public Information. After passing of the June 1997 law, we
launched an extensive public information campaign to inform and
educate the public about the new pension system. During the
campaign, key Government officials went directly to the population,
in person and through the mass media, to explain the reform and
engage in an exchange of ideas. Even so, we realize that the majority
of the population may not fully understand the program. Without
substantial public support, our reform cannot be complete success.
Their reticence is understandable in view of recent concerns about the
process of privatization and the stability of banking system.
Consequently, we are convinced of the necessity of an expanded
public information program and have prepared a comprehensive plan
for that purpose.
Governmental Managiement and Onerations
14.    Information Systems. As part of the pension reform, we
established the State Pension Payments Center (SPPC) with
responsibility for the payment of state pensions and for the allocation
of contributions to the state and non-state accumulation fund. We
intend to ensure that the SPPC functions effectively. We have installed
an initial central and oblast/raion computer system to provide a central
data base to record the receipt of contributions on individual accounts.
In the longer run the role of the SPPC will be developed more fully to
1) facilitate the payment of pensions; 2) secure pension coverage for
the working population; and 3) ensure that contributions are accurately
assigned to the fund selected by the contributor. By the mid-year
1999, we intend to develop a plan to automate the award and payment
of pensions under the state system and develop a plan to improve IT
and commuanications capacity to meet the objectives outlined above.
-29-



15.    Monitorin2 and Service Standards. In order to improve
the collection of pension contributions, we have consolidated
responsibilities for collection of pension contributions under the Tax
Service. We anticipate that in conjunction with improvements in tax
administration, we will have better control of the collection of taxes.
As we indicated in our August 1, 1997 letter to you, we intend to
strengthen our tax administration by adopting measures to monitor tax
collection performance and requiring taxpayers to include their
taxpayer identification number in applications for all official
documents. in particular, a joint study will be conducted by the SPPC
and the tax office on the feasibility of using the social individual code
(SIC) for tax purposes. The assignment of a unique personal
identification number will be extended to all employed persons by
mid-2000. Currently, we have provided a SIC to 10 percent of all
employees identified as contributors by the SPPC.
16.    Because it is an integral part of reform, we intend the SPPC
to be operated transparently and efficiently. Through the SPPC,
contributions will be efficiently transferred to individual accounts
without undue delay. to ensure fiscal accountability, we will introduce
modem  auditing and accounting standards. From  1998 on, an
independent audit of SPPC finances will be performed annually, with
the findings publicly available. To monitor and assess the success of
pension policy, we intend to establish a management information
system (MIS) and standardized reporting system to monitor revenue
receipts and participant numbers in the PAYG and funded systems.
We will also develop a system to provide annual contributor reports
by mid-1999. The MIS will be used to identify non-contributors by
mid-year 2000.
Leual Institutions and Rezulatorv Framework
17.    Lemal Institutions: we are committed to creating an
environment in which a critical number of non-state accumulation
plans will operate effectively. For that purpose, we have created the
National Pension Agency (NPA) under the MOLSP as the regulatory
authority for the non-state pension funds. The National Securities
Commission (NSC) and the National Bank of Kazakhstan (NBK) have
regulatory authority for asset management companies and custodial
banks. The organizational structure, staffing and budgets for each of
these regulatory bodies has been put in place. We have also
established a state accumulation fund as an alternative investment
vehicle for pension contributors. It is our intention that the regulatory
environment will lead contributors to prefer the competitive non-state
-30-



options, however. Licenses have been issued to 11 non-state
accumulation funds already. Of these, nine have signed the necessary
agreements with an AMC and custodian bank to make them
operational.
18.    Regulators Framework. Regulations supporting the law
have been drafted by each the NSC, the NBK, and the NPA. These
agencies have developed prototype pension contracts, asset
management contracts, and custodial agreements for both the state and
non-state accumulation funds. As the ultimate objective of the pension
system is, of course, to provide retirement income based on individual
efforts, by mid-year 1999, we will have developed specifications for
the payment of benefits from accumulation plans. We will have
adopted regulations for the insurance industry on benefit payments by
mid-year 2000. To ensure high standards of fund management and
regulatory control, we will established training in pension fund and
asset management, and institute programs for NSC, NBK, and NPA
staff in rule making and regulatory procedures.
19.    We are conscious of the need to evaluate accumulation fund
performance to judge whether the system as a whole is reaching target
goals for worker coverage and investment returns and intend to
perform such evaluations on an ongoing basis. The NPA, NSC, and
NBK will develop quarterly reports including monitoring indicators
on system performance.
20.    Conclusion. As you can see from the specific measures
discussed above, the Government of Kazakhstan has developed an
extensive program of institutional reform and policy development to
ensure that the ambitious pension reform program passed in June 1997
will be successful. The pension Reform Adjustment Loan which we
have requested from the Bank will assist us in achieving this result.
Sincerely yours,
raz Jandosov
First Deputy Prime Minister
Republic of Kazakhstan
-31-



Annex B
Annex B
Kazakhstan Pension Reform Adjustment Loan
Policy Matrix
:Objeore    Coinditon PmF i* to Boird                                             Seo:  Tranek:   T*ird Tra                                     :-::
N:mber
1.1 Macroeconomic and sectoral policy
1. 1.1.1  Macroeconomic and sectoral framework satisfactory Macroeconomic  and  sectoral  framework Macroeconomic  and  sectoral framework
to Bank .                                     satisfactory to Bank.                     satisfactory to Bank .
1.1.1.2 Adoption of Letter of Pension Reform  Policy, Review of status of reform as of 7/1/98 and Review of status of reform as of 7/1/99 and
including the intention to borrow from the Bank to adoption and implementation of a plan of adoption  and implementation of plan of
adequately  implement  the   pension  reform  action including the effectiveness of the loan action, including progress in the use of the
satisfactory to Bank.                         to support implementation as satisfactory to loan to support implementation and purchase
the Bank, prior to 1/1/99.               of any information technology resources
recommended under loan funding that are not
covered by the loan as satisfactory to the
Bank, prior to 12/31/99.
1.2 Fiscal management of the transition
1.2.1 .1 Payment to pensioners of all pension arrears as of No pension arrears.                 No pension arrears.
end 1997; no accumulation of new pension payment
arrears to pensioners.
1.2.1.2 Adoption  of 1998  budget that provides full Preparation of 1999 budget that provides full Preparation of 2000 budget that provides full
estimated required funding for the PAYG system.   estimated required funding for the PAYG estimated required funding ftor the PAYG
system.                                  system.
1.2.1.3 Formal establishment of ongoing actuarial capacity Issuance of first annual report by an agency of Issuance of second annual report by an
within an agency of the Borrower satisfactory to the the  Borrower satisfactory  to  the  Bank agency of the Borrower satisfactory to the
Bank to maintain actuarial data base for public discussing the long-run fiscal costs of state Bank discussing the long-run fiscal costs of
system, update actuarial forecast of public system, pensions and social allowances.     state pensions and social allowances.
and provide input to public policy regarding
insurance, annuities and pensions.
1.3 Complementary structural reforms
1.3.1.1 Submission to Parliament of Joint Stock Companies
Law acceptable to the Bank.
1.3.1.2                                               Listing and sale of government shares of Listing and sale of government shares of
Kazakhstan Pension Reform Adjustment Loan                                          -32



Annex B
Ttle~;::      Objective        Conditio                 Prior to Board                     S:d-c                                            T        T- uiI, 
several companies on KSE which are expected additional companies on KSE which are
to become Class A.                        expected to become Class A.
1.3.1.3                                                Issuance of   a report by the Borrower Issuance of a report by  the  Borrower
satisfactory to the Bank of strategic actions to discussing the strategy  for provision  of
strengthen insurance industry in the areas of mandatory disability and survivors insurance.
annuities, life and disability insurance in the
Republic of Kazakhstan.
1.3.1.4                                                Issuance of domestic government bonds of Issuance  of  domestic  inflation-indexed
longer than 2 years maturity that satisfies government bonds of longer than 3 years
reasonable investment requirements of the maturity that satisfies reasonable investment
pension accumulation funds.               requirements of the pension accumulation
funds.
2.1 Minimum pensions and allowances
2.1.1.1  Adoption of a minimum pension that provides an Adoption of a resolution providing that annual Payment of minimum pensions in accordance
adequate floor to income in old age. Establishment republican   budgets  submitted  to  the with the legislation.
of the level of old-age allowances.            parliament  shall  provide  for  scheduled
increases in the minimum pension fully
adjusted for inflation.
2.2 Disability and survivor benefits
2.2.1.1                                                Development of recommendations to improve Completion of report and implementation of
methodology for the certification of disability recommendations  for  improvement  of
by the MOLSP.                             certification by the MOLSP.
2.3 Analysis ofpension and benefits structures.
2.3.1.1 Formal establishment of capacity to undertake social Initiation of a study by the MOLSP discussing Issuance  of a  report by  the  MOLSP
policy analysis by MOLSP through internal staffing (i) the adequacy of pensions for different discussing (i) the adequacy of pensions for
or  contracting  to  universities  or  research groups    of   employees;    and    (ii) different groups of employees; and  (ii)
organizations.                                 recommendations for actions necessary to recommendations for actions necessary to
adequately  address  identified  retirement adequately  address  identified  retirement
income deficiencies.                      income deficiencies.
2.4 Public information
Kazakhstan Pension Reform Adjustment Loan                                           -33-



Annex B
Title        Objective         Condition               Prior to Board                           Second Tranche                            Third Tranche
Number
2.4.1.1 Preparation by MOLSP of comprehensive plan for Review  and  adjustment as  required  of Review  and  adjustment as required  of
public information on pension reform satisfactory to implementation   of  public  information implementation   of  public  information
Bank with timetable for implementation.       campaign.                                 campaign.
2.4.1.2 Preparation and dissemination of information for
employers on the procedure of payment of pension
contributions.
3.0 1) ,i,Ish laws; regulatitm'and insitWtions c6 uCive to t6ie.
,devQe:4mcoa, ,ton priv,ate pension ,system.+:      :' ;:-     
3.1 Establish administrative and regulatory institutions
3.1.1.1  Development of budgets, organization charts and
staffing plan for NPA, NSC, NBK custodial
monitoring unit, SAF, and SPPC satisfactory to the
Bank.
3.1.1.2 Full staffing of the NPA, NBK, NSC, SAF and
SPPC.
3.1.1.3                                               Establishment of training  programs  for Implementation of training programs by the
individuals to build human capacity for the NBK, NSC, NPA, SPPC and SAF.
NBK, NSC, NPA, SPPC and SAF
3.1.1.4                                               Establishment of a training  program  for Implementation of training program.
individuals to build human capacity for the
pension funds and management companies.
3.1.1.5 Issuance of licenses by the NSC to at least 4 non-
state asset management companies of comparable
competence and experience.
3.1.1.6 Issuance of licenses by the NPA to at least 4 non-
state accumulation funds and implementation of all
necessary contracts to ensure that funds are
completely operational.
3.2 Establish regulatoryframework
3.2.1.1 Development or revision of regulations for the SAF, Review   of  regulatory  framework  and Review   of  regulatory  framework  and
NSAFs, AMCs concerning licensing, commissions, modification, as necessary, to promote the modification, as necessary, to promote the
reporting and disclosure, accounting and auditing, development of a sound private pension fund development of a sound private pension fund
Kazakhstan Pension Reform Adjustment Loan                                          -34



Annex B
Titl         Objective        Condition                Pri to Board                           Second T                                  Thr  Tranihe
Number
asset transfers, prudential regulation, portfolio industry satisfactory to the Bank.   industry satisfactory to the Bank.
limits,  and   minimum   capital  requirements
satisfactory to the Bank.
3.2.1.2 Development of prototype pension contracts, asset
management contracts and custodial agreements for
the SAF and NSAFs satisfactory to the Bank.
3.2.1.3  Development of prototype reporting and disclosure Establishment of specifications for pension Development of regulations for provision of
documents  for  accumulation   funds,  asset payments from state and non-state pension pension payments from state and non-state
management companies and custodial banks.     accumulation funds.                      pension accumulation funds.
3.2.1.4 Development of reporting and disclosure documents
for the pension funds, asset management companies
and custodial banks.
3.2.1.5 Issuance of documents clarifying the exemption
from income tax of the pension fund contributions
and investment income for mandatory and voluntary
arrangements.
3.2.1.6 Designation of NBK as state pension accumulation
fund custodian.
3.2.1.7                                              Institution of a reporting system by the NPA. Timely  issuance of periodic operational
NSC and NBK adequate to insure accurate reports by  the NPA, NSC  and NBK.
and  timely  information  regarding  the discussing, to the satisfaction of the Bank.
performance and progress ol' the pension the performance and progress of the pension
system, based on basic monitoring indicators system, based on  monitoring  indicators
satisfactory to the Bank.                satisfactory to the Bank.
3.2.1.8                                               Provide information on any waivers granted to Provide information on any waivers granted
applicants under pension fund and       to applicants under pension fund and
management company licensing regulations.   management company licensing regulations.
4.1 Information systems
4.1.1.1 Installation of a SPPC central and oblast/raion Preparation and adoption of an information Installation and operation of computerized
computer systems to provide a central data base to technology plan by SPPC discussing actions and automated PAYG pension calculation by
record the receipt of contributions on individual to be undertaken by the SPPC to fully  SPPC  in  accordance  with  information
accounts.                                     computerize and automate the PAYG pension technology plan.
Kazakhstan Pension Reform Adjustment Loan                                         -35



Annex B
Title        Objective        Condition                Prior to Board                         Second Tranche                            Third Trankhe
Number
calculation system.
4.1.1.2                                               A joint study by the SPPC and the tax office
of the Ministry of Finance on the feasibility
of using the social insurance code as the
unique number for tax purposes.
4.1.1.3  Introduction of management information system and Introduction of a system by SPPC to provide Introduction of a management information
standardized reporting system, to monitor revenue annual reports on contributors and revenue system by SPPC to identify all registered non
receipts and participant numbers in the PAYG and receipts.                            contributors to the pension system.
funded systems by SPPC.
4.2 Monitoring and service standards
4.2.1.1 Assignment and timely notification of a single                                         Assignment of a  unique  identification
unique identification number to 10 percent of all                                      number (SIC) to employed persons, and
those identified as current contributors by SPPC.                                      notification  of such  persons  of their
identification numbers.
4.2.1.2                                              Implementation of an system providing for the
allocation of pension contributions to personal
accounts in an accurate and timely manner by
the SPPC.
4.2.1.3                                              Institution of a financial management system  Proper  maintenance   of  a   financial
adequate to  insure accurate and  timely management system to insure accurate and
information regarding operations by the SPPC timely information regarding operations by
and the SAF and receipt of an unqualified 6- the SPPC and the SAF and receipt of an
month auditing report satisfactory to the Bank unqualified   annual   auditing   report,
carried  out in accordance with  auditing satisfactory to the Bank, carried out in
standards consistently applied by independent accordance   with   auditing   standards
auditors satisfactory to the Bank.       consistently applied by independent auditors
satisfactory to the Bank.
4.2.1.4 Introduction by SPPC of a clearance system to Introduction by  SPPC of a fully automated
ensure  that pension  contributions  reach  the financial transfer system to provide clearance
accumulation funds within 7 days of payment by the to accumulation funds in less than 4 days.
employer.
4.2.1.5 Introduction by SPPC of a public help line to handle Provision by SPPC of a public help line to    Provision by SPPC of a public help line to
social contribution queries.                 handle social contribution queries.      handle social contribution queries.
Kazakhstan Pension Reform Adjustment Loan                                         -36



Annex C
Annex C
Kazakhstan Pension Reform Adjustment Loan
The Cost of Pension Reform
1.     The cost of the pension system  for 1997 (the existing system) and for 1998 (the new
system) is shown in the following table. The table presents the consolidated costs for the
Government as a whole, namely, the combined costs that are paid directly from the Republican
budget and the costs paid for the PAYG pension system by the State Pension Payment Center
(SPPC). The Government's payroll tax contributions for its own employees are netted out from
the total payroll taxes received by the PAYG system, and the "Net Cost to the Government"
represents, in principle, the net transfer from the Government to the PAYG system to cover its
operating deficit.
Expenditures on Pensions According to Budget Documents
(billions of current Tenge)
State Budget plis                                  1997               1998
PAYG System                                 Estimate            Budget
Retirement Pensions                                    86.7 a/           98.4 b/
Social pensions / allowances                           18.5              21.9
Military pensions                                       5.9               7.8
Gov't contrib. to accumulation funds                    0.0               9.8
Total outlays                    111.1 c/           137.9
Net payroll taxes                                      70.2              40.4
gross inflows to SPPC                                 87.7 d/           52.7
less, Gov't contrib. - own employees                  17.5              12.3
Net Cost to Government            40.9               97.5
Percent of GDP                2.4%              4.9%
Source: Ministry of Finance and World Bank estimates.
a/ pensions for I I months only, due to change in payment date of pensions during 1997 from the beginning of the
month to the end of the month, effectively saving one month's payment. Amount includes 10 billion Tenge more than
reported by Ministry of Labor and Social Protection (MOSLP) to account for payment of arrears on 1997 pensions.
May not include payments in kind and employer offsets against working pensioners which are estimated at Tenge 6-8
billion during the course of 1997.
b/ includes 9.4 billion Tenge for cost of living adjustment for 1998. May not include provision for new pensioners in
1998.
c/ in addition, the Government paid off 26 billion Tenge of pension arrears outstanding at the beginning of 1997.
d/ may include collection of payment arrears from previous years.
2.      The estimates for 1997 are problematic, due to a variety of reasons explained in the
footnotes to the table. Chief among these is the treatment of arrears, both arrears from the PAYG
system to pensioners, as well as arrears on payroll tax payments from employers to the PAYG
system. Also, some pensions continue to be paid in kind, and some employers continue to offset
their payroll taxes by directly paying the pensions of working pensioners in their employ. These
practices are supposed to have stopped with the introduction of the new system on January 1,
Kazakhstan Pension Reform Adjustment Loan -37-



Annex C
1998, and the above data for 1998 do not include any such payments or further movements in the
stock of arrears, although the Ministry of Finance expects to collect some additional payroll tax
arrears from employers. Finally, as noted in footnote b to the above table, it is not clear whether
the estimated expenditures on pensions in 1998 include provision for new pensioners who will
claim an initial pension next year. In this regard, the amount for pension expenditure in 1998
may be underestimated.
3.     It is also not clear how the factors mentioned above have been handled in the accounting
for 1997. The net cost of the system for 1997, at 40.9 billion Tenge, appears to be about 20
billion Tenge below the expected net cost based on information available at the beginning of
1997 and incorporated in the Government's actuarial model.l The budget for 1998, on the other
hand, appears to represent accurately the costs under the new system compared with projections
from the actuarial model. Due to the difficulties with the 1997 data, the cost of moving to the
new system has been assessed using the results of the actuarial model which are presented in the
following table. It should be noted that the costs in the following table are in billions ofconstant
1997 Tenge, in contrast to the current price data in the previous table.
Cost of Pension Reform According to Government's Actuarial Projection Model
(billions of 1997 Tenge)
State   Budget                      1997           1998        1998    Cost Due
plus  Pension  Fund              Former    No Change           New   to Pension
System     in Policies     System      Reform
Retirement Pensions                       89.4          92.4         91.4         -1.0
Social pensions / allowances              19.8          21.0         21.0          0.0
Military pensions                          5.1           5.2          5.2          0.0
Gov't contrib. to accumulation funds       0.0           0.0         10.9         10;9
Total outlays                  114.3         118.6        128.5          9.9
Net payroll taxes                         48.4          48.7         28.2        -20.5
gross inflows to SPPC                    70.2          70.5         41.0        -29.5
less, gov't contrib. - own employees     21.8          21.8         12.8         -9.0
Net Cost to Government          65.9          69.9        100.3         30.4
Percent of GDP            3.9%           4.0%         5.7%         1.7%
4.     The actuarial model shows that in the absence of reform, the costs of the existing system
would increase slightly in 1998, from 3.9 to 4.0 percent of GDP, mainly as a result of additional
An actuarial model was built in late 1996 by the USAID Pension Reform Project and a working group
of senior government officials, including representatives of the Ministries of Finance, Economy,
Social Protection and Labor, the National Bank of Kazakhstan and the Natonal Securities Cmmission,
was formed in early 1997 to develop a concept paper, including financial analysis, for the new
system. The working group reviewed the model for technical accuracy and provided the data and
approved the acturial assumptions used to generate the costs of running the new system.
Kazakhstan Pension Reform Adjustment Loan -38-



Annex C
pensioners. With reform, the cost of the new system would be 5.7 percent of GDP, or an increase
of 1.7 percent of G1DP. The cost of reform is mainly due to the reduction in the payroll tax rate
from 25.5 percent to 15 percent in 1998, which will reduce gross inflows to the PAYG system by
30 billion Tenge. For the Government, as for all other employers, the reduction in payroll tax
should be offset by the 10-percent cash contribution employers will be required to make on
behalf of their employees to the private pension funds.
5.    The 1997 Pension Law nevertheless achieved some savings for the system through the
elimination of pensions on favorable terms. The Law also eliminated the option, introduced in
1996, that allowed people to retire at the previous age limits (60 for men and 55 for women) at a
reduced pension until they reached the new age limits that were introduced in 1996 (63 for men
and 58 for women), at which time they would receive an unreduced pension. These changes are
estimated to have reduced the cost of the system by I billion Tenge in 1998 and by much more in
the long term.
6.    Regarding the long-run costs of pension reform, the main assumptions incorporated in
Government's actuarial model were reviewed by the Bank with the following resulting
observations:
i)  The Government's baseline estimate of future pension costs included an assumption
that category 3 disability benefits would be eliminated in the 1997 Pension Law.
Elimination of this benefit was discussed at the time of drafting the Pension Law,
but the provision was not included in the final legislation.  Inclusion of this
assumption in the actuarial model reduces the projected costs of the system below
the level consistent with the current legal benefits. Correcting for this assumption
raises the cost of the system by 17 billion Tenge by 2026, the last year of projection
in the model.
ii) Government's assumption of real wage growth of one percent per annum is
considerably below the rate that would be consistent with the long-term growth
prospects of Kazakhstan. At that rate, real wages and income would become a
minor share of national expenditure over time. A more realistic assumption would
be real wage growth of 3 percent per annum within a context of 4 percent per annum
GDP growth. Adjusting the model for this assumption would lower the costs of the
system in the near term, as payroll taxes would initially contribute more to the
system than the cost of higher pension benefits associated with faster real wage
growth. In the long term, however, real wage growth of 3 percent per annum would
increase the cost of the system by 35 billion Tenge in 2026.
iii) Finally, the mission believes that the assumption of an average initial replacement
rate (the ratio of pension to final wage) of 70 percent is too high compared with the
current average replacement rate of 58 percent. Using a lower replacement rate of
60 percent would lower the costs of the system by 73 billion Tenge in 2026.
7.    The above adjustments are summarized in the following table. Together, the net costs of
the new system are estimated to be slightly lower than the Government's July 1997 baseline
scenario throughout the projection period. As a percentage of GDP, the cost of the new system is
estimated to decline steadily from 5.7 percent of GDP in 1998, to 4.8 percent of GDP in 2008,
and to 1.9 percent of GDP in 2026 (see "Revised Net Cost of System" in following table).
Kazakhstan Pension Reform Adjustment Loan -39-



Annex C
8.     To measure the cost of reform, a counterfactual case was created that would continue the
basic features of the existing system, namely continued accrual of pension benefits under the
current solidarity system, together with continuation of the 25.5 percent payroll tax. The
counterfactual "without reform" case also includes the adjustments that were made to the
Government's baseline, with the exception that real wages were assumed to grow at only two
percent per annum, reflecting an assumption of lower real GDP growth in the absence of pension
reform and the accompanying improvements in capital market development.
9.     For the next twenty years, the cost to the Government of moving to the new system will
be considerably higher than the cost of continuing with the existing system. This is due to the
reduction in the payroll tax rate to 15 percent in 1998 under the new system. The net cost of
reform is estimated at 1.7 percent of GDP in 1998 and would rise to 2.4 percent of GDP in 2008.
The steady rise in the cost of reform is due to an assumed further reduction in the payroll tax rate
by one percent per annum to 5 percent in 2008.2 Thereafter, the payroll tax rate is assumed to
remain steady at 5 percent, and the net cost of moving to the new system starts to decline steadily
until 2025, when the net cost reaches zero. Starting in 2026, the gross cost of the new public
system would be equivalent to 2 percent of GDP, considerably less than continuing with the
existing system.
10.   In present value terms, the cost to Government of the new public system is 55 percent
higher than the cost of the existing system. The future benefit streams of the new system, net of
future payroll tax receipts, is equivalent to 103 percent of 1997 GDP, at a discount rate of 5
percent. This compares with a present value equivalent to 66 percent of GDP for the existing
system. The cost of moving to the new system is thus significant. The cost nevertheless appears
to be affordable, in view of the adjustments to the budget that have already occurred, the
inclusion of the full costs of the new system in the 1998 budget, and the scope for significantly
higher oil revenues in the future.
2   The declines in rates assumed are in accordance with those used by Government in its projections.
Kazakhstan Pension Reform Adjustment Loan -40-



Annex C
SUMMARY OF PUBLIC PENSION SYSTEM AND COSTS OF REFORM
(billions of 1997 Tenge)
Total pensions and social
allowancesfollowingreform                    114        118       121        118        124        130        113
plus, Government contributions
to accumulation funds                         0          11         12        15         16         21         31
less, Payroll Tax (net) a/                      48         28         24         16         12         16        20
Net Cost to Government                        66        100       110        116        128        135        124
Net Cost, adjusted for assumed
elimination of Cat. 3 Disability              66        101        III        119        132        145        141
Impact of faster real wage
growth (3.0% per annum)                      -           (1)        (2)        0          5         23         35
Impact of lower replacement
ratios (60%)                                 -           (1)        (2)        (5)      (10)       (37)       (73)
Revised Net Cost of System  bl                  66        100        108        115        128       130        102
(as percent of GDE')                        3.9%      5.7%       5.6%       4.8%       4.8%       3.6%       1.9%
Net cost WITHOUT reform                          66         70         76         66        64         76        113
Net Cost of Reform                               0         29         32         49         64         54        (11)
(as percent of GDP)                                    1.7%      1.7%       2.0%       2.4%       1.5%      -0.2%
Memorandum Items:
Real GDP in billions of 1997 Tenge             1709       1760       1922      2384       2682       3670       5432
GDP growth rate (% per annum)                              3%         5%         4%         4%         4%        4%
a/ net of Government transfers to SPPC
for payroll tax on Gov't employees:            22         13         13         9          6          8         13
Payroll Tax Rate (%)                         25.5%        15%        13%         8%         5%         5%        5%
Compliance Rate (weighted average, %)          48%        46%        43%        42%        45%        52%       62%
Source: Government pension model and Bank estimates.
Kazakhstan Pension Reform Adjustment Loan -41-



Annex C
Issues and Recommendations
Establishment of the Capacity for Actuarial Assessment of the Remaining PA YG System
11.    Despite the switchover to a fully-funded system on January 1, 1998, the remaining
PAYG pension system and associated social allowances, together with any benefit guarantees
that accompany the funded system, will continue to exert considerable pressure on the country's
fiscal position. The cost of the remaining PAYG system (in constant 1997 prices) will rise from
about 100 billion Tenge in 1998 to 130 billion Tenge in 2010-2015, before beginning to decline.
This cost is equivalent to about 20 percent of consolidated government expenditures in 1998 and
should be managed carefully. Given the long-term nature of the benefit streams, even minor
changes in benefit formulas today can have large future impacts.
12.    For this reason, capacity should be established in Government to continue the long-run,
demographically-based fiscal analysis that was used to evaluate the cost of switching to a funded
pension system. In other countries, this function is carried out by an Office of the Actuary which
is responsible for producing annual actuarial estimates of the cost of maintaining the public
pension system, as well as for assessing the cost implications of any proposed changes in benefit
formulas. Given the large unfunded costs of the remnant pension system in Kazakhstan, this
function should be established as part of the pension reform program.
13.   In the near future, the actuarial model should be revamped to improve its internal
efficiency, increase the projection period to 50 years, update the actuarial assumptions,
incorporate revised demographic data, and update the pension base to include actual data for
1997.
Compliance Rates and the Payroll Tax
14.    A major structural challenge for the reform program is to increase the rate of compliance
in the new pension system. Increased compliance is important to ensure that everyone will have
a source of income in old age, as well as to increase payroll tax revenues and thus reduce the
costs of maintaining the remnant public system. The reduction in the payroll tax to 15 percent,
along with reduced rates of personal income tax that are being introduced in the 1998 budget, 3/
should reduce the major disincentives to compliance that currently exist. Other institutional
factors, including the move to centralize the tax collection process, might lead to a short-term
reduction in tax collection. The remaining 15 percent payroll tax may also be regarded as highly
unfavorable by employers and employees, since payment of this tax no longer entitles the worker
to additional pension benefits--no further service credit for public pensions is received after
January 1, 1998 under the new Pension Law. In fact, in the months since the beginning of
reform, pension contribution collections have been at most 56 percent of those of the previous
year. While this decline may be a temporary result of the newness of the system, Government is
taking measures to increase contributions in the longer term. In any event, the behavioral
response to these tax rate changes should be monitored closely.
3   Taxable income bands have been widened from 50-350 percent (on the lowest to highest tax brackets,
respectively), and the tax rate on the top two tax brackets has been lowered from 30 to 25 percent and
from 40 to 30 percent, respectively.
Kazakhstan Pension Reform Adjustment Loan -42-



Annex C
15.    While reduced contributions are a matter of fiscal concern in the short run, in the longer
run, a faster than planned reduction in the payroll tax (which is expected to be reduced by one
percent per annum over ten years starting in 1999) would be desirable as it would increase the
incentives to participate in the new pension system. Consideration should be given to a faster
rate of reduction of the payroll tax if compliance eventually increases significnatly over the pre-
reform compliance rates, taking into account the amount of additional revenue generated by
increased compliance.
Kazakhstan Pension Reform Adjustment Loan -43-



Annex C
SUMMARY OF THE PAYG PENSION SYSTEM AND THE COSTS OF REFORM
(billions of 1997 Tenge)
1997      1998       1999       2000      2001       2002       2003       2004      2005       2006       2007       2008      2009       2010       2011
Government Baseline Estimate
Total pensions and social
allowancesfollowingreform                   114        118        120        121       122        115        115        117       118        120        122        124        125       127        128
plus, Government contributions
to accumulation funds                         0         11         12         12         13        13         14         14         15        15         16         16         17         17         18
less, PayrollTax (net) a/                       48        28         26         24         21        20         19         18         16         15        14         12         13         13         14
NetCosttoGovernment                          66        100        106        110        114       108        110        113       116        120        124        128        129        131        132
Net Cost, adjusted for assumed
eliminationofCat.3 Disability                 66        101        107       III        115        110        112       116        119        124        128       132        134        136        139
Impact of faster real wage
growth(3.0%perannum)                                    (1)        (1)        (2)        (2)       (2)        (2)        (1)        0          2          3          5          7          9         11
Impact of lower replacement
ratios (60%)                                            (I)        (1)        (2)        (2)       (2)        (3)        (4)       (5)        (6)        (8)       (10)       (13)      (16)       (19)
RevisedNetCostofSystemb/                        66       loo        104        108        112       106        108        111        115       119        124        128        129        130        131
(as percent of GDP)                        3.98%/     5.7%       5.7%N     5.6%'      5.5%'      5.0%       4.9%,     4.8%,      4.8%'      4.8%'      4.8%N      4.8%      4.6%       4.5%,      4.3%
Net cost WITHOUT reform                          66        70         74         76        78         69         68         67        66         66         65         64         63         65        66
Net Cost of Reform                               0        29         30         32         33        36         39         44         49        53         59         64         65         65         65
(as percent of GDP)                                   1.7'S.     1.7'%     1.7%       1.7%       1.7%'      1.8'b/     1.9%      2.0%,      2.1'S,     2.3%       2.4%      2.3%       2.3%       2.2%
Memorandum Items:
RealGDPinbillionsofl997Tenge                  1709       1761)      1831       1922      2018       2119       2204      2292       2384       2479       2578       2682      2789       2900       3016
GDP growth rate (% per annum)                              3%        4%         5%         5%         5%        4%         4%         4%        4%         4%         4%         4%         4%         4%
a/ net of Government transfers to SPPC
for payroll tax on Gov't employees:           22         13         13         13         12        11         11         10         9          8          7          6          6         7          7
PayrollTaxRate(%)                            25.5%        15%       14%        13%        12%        11%       10%         9%         8%        7%         6%         5%         5%         5%         5%
Compliance Rate (weighted average. %)          48%       46%        44%        43%        41%       41%        42%        42%       42%        43%        44%        45%        46%        47%        48%
Source: Government pension model and mission estimates.
Kazakhstan Pension Reform Adjustment Loan                                                               -44-



Annex C
SUMMARY OF THE PAYG PENSION SYSTEM AND THE COSTS OF REFORM
(billions of 1997 Tenge)
2012      2013       2014      2015       2016      2017       2018      2019       2020       2021      2022       2023      2024       2025       2026
Government Baseline Estimate
Total pensions and social
allowances following reform                 128       129        130       130        130       130        130       129        127        126       123        121       118        115        113
plus, Government contributions
to accumulation funds                        18        19         19        20         21        22         23        23         24         25        27         27        29         30         31
less,PayrollTax(net)a/                         14         15        15         16        16         17        17         17        18         18         19        19         19         20        20
Net Cost to Government                      132       133        134       134        135       135        135       134        134        133       131        129        127       125        124
Net Cost, adjusted for assumed
elimination of Cat. 3 Disability            139        141        142       144        145       146        147       147        146       146        145        144       143        141        141
Impact of faster real wage
growth (3.0% per annum)                      13        16         18        20         23        25         27        28         30         31        32         33         33        33         35
Impact of lower replacement
ratios (60t%)                               (22)      (26)       (30)       (34)      (37)       (41)      (45)       (49)      (53)       (56)      (60)       (63)       (67)      (70)       (73)
RevisedNetCostofSystemb/                      130        131       131        131       130        130       128        126       124        121        118       114        109        105       102
(as percent of GDP)                       4.1'YO     4.0%,      3.9%      3.7%       3.6%'     3.4'Y,     3.2%      3.1%       2.9%       2.7%'     2.5%       2.4%'     2.2%,      2.0%Y,     1.9%Y,
Net cost WITHOlT reform                         65        68         71        73         76        80         83         86        89         92        96         98        101       105        113
NetCostof Reform                               65         62        60         57        54         50        45         41        35         29         22        15          8          0        (11)
(as percent of GDP)                       2.1%       1.9%y.     1.8%Y     1.6%Y.     1.5'Y.    1.3%,      1.Il'Y    1.0%       0.8Y       0.6'%     0.5'Y,     0.3%Y.    0.2%'      0.0%     -0.2%
Memorandum Items:
RealGDPinbillionsofl997Tenge                 3137       3262       3393      3529       3670      3817       3969      4128       4293      4465       4644       4829      5022       5223       5432
GDP growth rate (% per annum)                  4%         4%        4%         4%        4%         4%        4%         4%        4%         4%         4%        4%         4%         4%        4%
a/ net of Government transfers to SPPC
for payroll tax on Gov't employees:            7         7          7         8          8         9          9         9         1 0        10         1 1       i 1        12        13         13
Payroll Tax Rate (%)                           5%         5%        5%         5%        5%         5%        5%         5%        5%         5%         5%        5%         5%         5%        5%
Compliance Rate(weighted average, %)          49%       49%        50%        51%       52%        53%       54%        55%       56%        57%        58%       59%        60%       61%        62%
Source: Government pension model (IMCC - Mitchell Wiener) and mission estimates.
Kazakhstan Pension Reform Adjustment Loan                                                             -45-






Annex D
Annex D:
Pension Simulations for Different Age Cohorts, Work Histories and Genders
1.     This annex presents pension simulations as a function of a number of individual
characteristics. Under the pension reform, an individual's state pension replaces 60 percent of
his or her final wage, prorated for completed years of service prior to the start of the reform. To
obtain a full state pension men must have completed 25 years of service and women 20 years of
service by January 1, 1998. In addition, an individual will receive a funded pension based on a
10 percent contribution rate. The following tables present estimates of total pensions (state plus
funded) as a function of individual characteristics such as age cohort, earnings, work history and
gender. The funded pension is derived from a model in which an individual contributes 10
percent of his or her wage from the start of the reform till retirement and receives a price-indexed
pension from retirement until death. Administrative costs are assumed to take up 10 percent of
contributions, savings earn a 3.5 percent rate of return, real wages grow at 2 percent while
inflation is zero. Individuals start work at age 20 and retire at the official retirement age.
2.     There are two main points that emerge from these simulations. First, under the specified
assumptions, people will receive pensions that are less generous than those promised under the
former system. Initial pensions will typically replace less than 60 percent of the final wage. If
workers want to have a higher replacement rate, they will have to save more voluntarily. Second,
some groups of people, such as low-income workers, those with short contribution histories, and
women may not be, able to accumulate enough in their pension accounts to support themselves
adequately in their old age. The reform could put these groups at risk of old-age poverty. There
are two main policy implications that emerge. First, it will be important not to raise false
expectations about the level of pensions the reformed system will support. Second, it may be
necessary to raise contribution levels and make other changes in order to achieve social
protection outcomes that approach those achieved under the former system.
Pensions as a function of earnings and age cohort
3.      Turning first to the impact of earnings, Table I presents initial replacement rates for
three types of workers: low, average and high wage. Low-wage workers are assumed to earn 50
percent of the economy-wide average, and high-wage workers 2 times the average. Work life is
assumed to be forty years.
Table 1: Initial replacement rate (%) as a function of earnings and starting age
Age at start of reform:
25 years            35 years             45 years
Low wage worker          30  (1.25)           34  (1.41)          44  (1.82)
Average wage worker      30  (2.50)           34  (2.82)           44  (3.65)
High wage worker         30  (5.00)           34  (5.64)          44  (7.28)
Note: The figure in brackets is the initial pension as a function of the minimum pension.
4.    Initial replacement rates are shown to be of the order of 30 to 44 percent depending on
the age at the start of the reform. The older the worker at the start of the reform, the higher the
-47-



Annex D
replacement rate. Rates of return on the individual pension accounts would have to be much
higher than the assumed 3.5 percent (and administrative costs lower) if individuals are to achieve
initial replacement rates as high as those under the public pension system. For low earners, there
is a risk that pensions would fall to the minimum pension. This is clear from the figures in
brackets which are initial pensions expressed as a proportion of the price-indexed minimum
pension. A low wage worker who is 25 years at the start of the reform would receive a pension
that is 1.25 times the minimum, or around 15 percent of the economy-wide average wage.
Pensions as a function of contribution history
5.     Table 2 presents replacement rates for individuals with different work histories. Four
options are considered: 40 years, 35 years, 30 years, and 20 years. The estimates are based on an
individual with average earnings.
Table 2: Initial replacement rate (%) as a function of work history and starting age
Work history:             Age at start of reform:
25 years            35 years             45 years
40 years                  30  (2.50)          34  (2.82)           44  (3.65)
35 years                  27  (2.24)          31  (2.58)           36  (3.00)
30 years                  24  (2.02)          28  (2.35)           33  (2.76)
20 years                  18  (1.48)          22  (1.80)           30  (2.50)
Note: The figure in brackets is the initial pension as a function of the minimum pension.
6.      The key point in Table 2 here is that a reduction in contribution history owing to
unemployment, periods out of the labor force etc., would lead to a substantial reduction in the
likely pension. For individual on average wages who is 25 years at the start of the reform, a
complete work history of 40 years results in a replacement of 30 percent. If his or her work
history was shorter by ten years (30 years), the replacement would fall to 24 percent, while if it
was half as long (20 years) the replacement would be 18 percent. At these replacement rates,
many low-wage workers could fall below the minimum. For a 25 year old individual on low
wages, 30 years of contributions would result in a pension that is 1.01 times the minimum. With
less than 30 years of contributions the pension would be below the minimum.
7.    It will be important that individuals come to appreciate the defined contribution nature of
the pension system, to encourage contribution compliance. Thus, a number of features of the
former system, such as service credit for years spent in higher education or for child-bearing,
which would not occur under the new system should be communicated clearly. At the same time,
it will be important for the government to recognize that some people such as those who
experience long term unemployment would not be able to build up sufficient capital in their
pension accounts and would fall back on the minimum pension or social assistance for the aged.
The fiscal costs of such assistance, and options for providing old-age security to these groups
would need to be thoroughly examined and evaluated.
Pensions as a function of gender
8.     Table 3 presents replacement rates for women taking account of their earlier retirement
age which at 58 years is five years earlier than men. The simulations assume that women work
35 years on average. The funded pensions are computed assuming that insurance companies do
-48-



Annex D
not discriminate between men and women. Thus, an individual can purchase the same annuity
whether they are a man or a women. The replacement rates reflect the 'pure' effect on female
pensions of having less time in which to accumulate pension capital. Comparisons with the
estimates in Table I indicate how women compare to average pensioner. The use of gender-
specific mortality tables to compute annuities would result in even lower replacement rates for
women.
Table 3: Initial replacement rate (%) for women
Age at start of reform:
25 years            35 years            45 years
Low wage worker         25  (1.02)          31  (1.22)          37  (1.47)
Average wage worker     25  (2.04)          31  (2.44)          37  (2.94)
High wage worker        25  (4.08)          31  (4.88)          37  (5.88)
Note: The figure in brackets is the initial pension as a function of the minimum pension.
9.     The salient point is that owing to having less time in which to save for their old age,
women would generally receive lower pensions than men. When combined with the fact that
they may have shorter work histories due to interruptions during child-bearing years and may
earn lower wages, many women may receive pensions that fall below subsistence standards. If
they are married to men with high pensions, they may not face poverty. However, as women
tend to outlive their husbands and may not receive substantial survivor's pensions, they may need
to fall back on the minimum pension or social assistance especially after the death of their
spouse.
10.   There a number of options for preventing old-age poverty among women and keeping
fiscal costs under control. For example, the joint treatment of married couples can substantially
reduce the disparity between men and women, and prevent old-age poverty among women When
annuities are purchased an important issue is whether gender-based life expectancy tables are
allowed or whether pooled tables are required. If pooled tables are mandated, it acts in the
interest of women.
-49-






Annex E
ANNEX E:
PENSION REFORM REGULATION:
PERFORMANCE, TRANSPARENCY AND ACCOUNTABILITY
Overall Evaluation
The Pension Law (Law) of 1997, effective 1 July 1997, was a fundamental first step for
initiating the process of pension reform in Kazakhstan. What needs to follow next is a complex
long-term succession of financial, institutional and legal decisions related to the establishment of
the new State pension-sector related institutions and their accompanying legal framework. This
includes licensing the new, private financial institutions (pension funds, asset management
companies, and custodian banks), redefining the roles of existing institutions (Central Bank,
National Securities Commission, and State Pension Payment Center), and developing a whole
new set of market-based instruments and incentives to facilitate the proper management of
pension capital pools on behalf of plan participants.
Overall, Government has put in place an adequate regulatory structure, but one which
will need to be improved over time. In the near term, the fundamental safeguard to ensure the
financial integrity of the new pension accumulation funds rests with the following two legal and
regulatory requirements. First, the assets in which the new private accumulation pension funds
can invest are constrained to financial instruments with relatively limited risk exposure. These
include government bonds, accounts in strictly selected commercial banks, issues of international
organizations (such as the IMF and the IBRD), Class A securities (those audited according to
international standards), and bonds issued by Class A companies. Second, access to a pension
fund's assets can only be gained through the custodian bank. These banks have been prudently
selected and have mandatory oversight to ensure that pension fund transactions are made in
accordance with the law. Thus, no transactions or withdrawels can be made that are outside the
law. Further, any large withdrawels would be suspect in the near term, as currently plan
participants would only have small investments in their funds.  The custodian banks are
supervised by the National Bank of Kazakhstan, which has proven to be a credible, professional,
independent institution.
Nonetheless, licensing and supervision needs to be significantly improved and
strengthened in the future. Further, changes will have to be made in any number of regulations
and the fee structure will need to be revisited. Government is well aware of these issues and, as a
result, has requested that the FEDP be reallocated to support pension reform with technical
assistance provided in the area of regulation, as well as in a number of other areas to strengthen
the capacity of the SPPC to transfer funds to the pension accumulation plan custodian banks.
This annex details the current regulatory status. It starts by describing the regulatory
challenge of implementing the Law. Next, it describes the achievements of Government to date
and challenges for the future. Finally, it indicates specific areas in which technical assistance in
the future can be used to further strengthen the regulatory structure. An appendix to this
document provides a. listing of key laws and regulations related to the Kazakh pension reform.
The Regulatory Challenge
The pension reform involves both redefining the operation of the existing State defined-
benefit pension system, and establishing, supporting, controlling and supervising the new
-51-



Annex E
defined-contributions pension system. This means the coexistence of two complementary
pension systems that are managed, administered and regulated by various State and private-sector
entities often having overlapping functions and activities in both pension systems.
Effective regulation is essential to ensure success in terms of performance, transparency
and accountability of pension reform. It has many features:
(a) Effective regulation is a process that evolves over a long period of time. In Chile, the
evaluation of the first 15 years of pension reform showed that the reforn is still
maturing and that success lies in the firm conviction that regulation is a long-term
process requiring the involvement of competent and autonomous authorized
agencies.
(b) Effective regulation requires the permanent dialogue and cooperation of all
stakeholders: the State, the pension funds, the asset management companies, the
custodian banks, and the beneficiaries.
(c) Effective regulation supports the pension system, encouraging investment
opportunities and financial stability, and preventing the failure of the reformed
pension system, including the failure of pension funds, asset management companies
and custodian banks.
(d) Effective regulation protects the rights of beneficiaries by minimizing the chances of
fraud, abuse and corruption.
Effective regulation of the Kazakhstan pension sector and systems is enormous task by
definition. What makes it even more complex and difficult is that the pension reform brings new
concepts, new procedures, new institutions, new non-banking legal and financial relations, new
financial instruments, new investment incomes, and new accounting and reporting, among other
features, into an emerging and transforming legal and institutional environment.
Achievements
Since mid-1997 the Government f the Republic of Kazakhstan (the Government) stepped
up its efforts to meet the regulatory needs of the new pension system by (a) establishing the new
State pension institutions; (b) redefining pension-related roles for existing institutions; (c)
regulating the various aspects called upon by the Pension Law; and (d) licensing pension funds,
asset management companies and custodian banks.
Laws and Regulations. The principal pension laws and regulations are listed in the
Appendix. Currently, these laws and regulations provide a substantial framework for the initial
operation of the system. Nonetheless, there are any number of revisions and additions that will
be necessary in the future. For example, one fairly immediate concern will have to be the
appropriateness of the fee structure for pension funds and asset management companies. The
combined fee structure of 1 percent of contributions and 10 percent of investment income is
likely to be too little to compensate pension funds and asset management companies
appropriately, even taking into account assumed losses during the first few years. Further, the
current fee structure does not necessarily present a level playing field for the non-state and state
-52-



Annex E
accumulation funds, with the state fund not facing the same actual costs as the non-state fund.
This issue and others will need to be addressed in the future if a thriving private system is to
develop.
Regulatory Structure.  The funded pension institutional regulatory framework is
composed of four principal institutions for regulating and supervising the Accumulation pension
funds in the new defined-contributions pension system.
The National Pension Agency (NPA), is responsible for (I) licensing and supervising
non-state Accumulation pensions funds; (2) approving pension contract forms; (3) regulating
benefit payments, confidentiality of individual pension accounts, inter-fund account transfers,
and (iv) regulating the operation, accounting, reorganization, merger and liquidation of funds. It
is also responsible for control and supervision of the State Accumulation Pension Fund activities.
The NPA is currently fully operational. NPA has issued regulations on licensing of pension
funds and has conducted the procedure for licensing pension funds.
The World Bank missions have noted that the regulations call for a procedure that is
basically rote, requiring not more than documentation to evidence qualification. A lack of
regulatory tradition has led to mechanical interpretation and application of the licensing rules that
has prevailed over the exercise of regulatory judgment, including analysis of qualificatory
documentation, research into the background of founders, and scrutiny of proposed names for the
pension funds. Pension fund licenses have been issued for one year, which affords the State an
opportunity to conduct a licensing renewal procedure under more strict criteria. Current licensing
procedures need to be revised and better criteria for their application need to be developed.
There is uncertainty about the future role of the NPA once pension funds are licensed due to the
lack of elaboration and distinction between the roles of licensing pension funds and of
supervising licensed pension funds.
The National Securities Commission (NSC), is responsible for (1) licensing and
supervision of pension asset management companies; (2) licensing and supervision - with the
National Bank of ]Kazakhstan (NBK) -- of custodial banks; and (iii) regulating the investment
activity of Non-State Accumulation pension funds.
The NSC has established a new pension unit - following suggestions by the World Bank
missions. Like the NPA, the NCS needs to develop more strict criteria for licensing asset
management companies and to exercise better regulatory judgment in the application of licensing
norms and criteria.  In addition, the NSC has training, regulatory drafting, procedures
development and industry relations development needs.
The National Bank of Kazakhstan (NBK), is responsible for licensing and regulating -
with the NSC - the custodial banks for safeguarding the assets of Accumulation pension funds.
The NBK has assigned to the Banking Supervision Department critical responsibilities
related to pension-related oversight. This is fortunate since the Department has gained a good
reputation for managing and modernizing the current banking system. The NBK will play a
major role in securing the transparency and appropriateness of asset management company
investment transactiions, verifying the legality of each transaction before settlement.
-53-



Annex E
Additionally, the NBK has a separate unit performing the asset management role for the
State Accumulation Pension Fund (SAPF). The NBK is also custodian bank for the SAPF.
These activities are considered temporary and in the mid-term (2-3 years), it is expected that
these functions will be contracted out by the SAPF to commercial banks and private asset
management companies. The experience of the NBK in managing the financial affairs of the
SAPF will be influential in the development of regulations for the Non-State Pension Funds and
their relationships with asset management companies and custodians banks.
The Ministry of Labor and Social Protection (MOLSP), responsible for the overall
operational coordination of the Accumulation pension system, and for the formal consent with
regulations prepared by the NPA. To note, the National Pension Agency is an "autonomous"
dependency of the MOLSP. The Director of the NPA has the rank of Vice-Minister within the
MOSLP.
Furthermore, the First Deputy Prime Minister is entrusted with the overall policy
coordination of the pension reform process.
Pension Funds
The National Pension Agency has licensed eleven pension funds as of May 1998. There
are some concerns on the effectiveness of the licensing procedures as applied, raising some
concems bout the viability and capacity of the licensed pension funds. The following is the list
of licensed pension funds:
1. Kazakhtelecom-Umit Pension Fund, (open)
2. Valyut-Tranzit Pension Fund (open)
3. D.Kunaev Pension Fund (open)
4. Narodny Pension Fund (open)
5. Zhardem (open)
6. State Accumulation Pension Fund
7. Kazakhstan Pension Fund(open)
8. Pension Fund of Narodny Bank of Kazakhstan (open)
9. Kazakhmys Pension Fund (corporate),
10. Ular Pension Fund (open), and
11. Kaspiimunaigas Pension Fund (open).
Bank missions have noted that the regulatory structure appears to have created
disincentives for the founding of corporate vs. open plans. Enterprises that establish corporate
plans are subject to unlimited corporate liability for the losses of those plans. There is no concept
of a pension trust as a separate entity. As a result, most employer would prefer to join with others
as founders of an open funds to avoid that liability.
Pension Asset Management Companies
The National Securities Commission has licensed three private asset management
companies. As with the case of the NPA, the application of the licensing procedures has raised
some concerns, particularly about the qualifications and background of some of the licensed
companies' founders. The licensed companies are the following:
-54-



Annex E
1. ATC
2. ABN-Amro Asset Management
3. Zhetisu
In addition:
* Narodlny bank has applied for an asset management company license, which will be
granted in the coming weeks
* The National Bank of Kazakhstan performs as the asset management company for
the State Accumulation Pension Fund.
Currently, only one of the three licensed asset management companies, ABN-AMRO,
involves serious foreign partners. Government needs to evaluate whether the current legal and
regulatory environment has created disincentives for the participation of more major international
financial sector entities. If this is the case, such disincentives should be removed as the reformed
pension system would greatly benefit from the expertise and competitive edge that such firms
could provide.
Custodian Banks
The National Bank of Kazakhstan has licensed five custodian banks. They are the
following:
1. ABN-Amro Bank
2. Kazcommertsbank
3. Kazagroprombank,
4. Narodny Bank
5. Almaty Merchant Bank
In addition:
* The National Bank of Kazakhstan performs as the custodian bank for the
State Pension Accumulation Bank.
State Pension Payrnent Center (SPPC)
In the Pension Law, the SPPC has the role of collecting and making payments for the
State defined-benefits pension system. A resolution of the Government of the Republic of
Kazakstan, dated 10 December 1997, and entitled "On Approval of the Order of Calculating,
Transferring Mandatory Pension Contributions and Payments of Pensions by the State Pension
Payment Center", expanded the role of the SPPC as a general clearing house for pension
contributions. The Resolution refers to
(a) the general role of the SPPC as the agency responsible for the PAYG
pension system,
(b) calculation and payment to SPPC of mandatory PAYG contributions (15%)
(c) calculation, payment, recording, and transferring mandatory pension
contributions through the SPPC to Accumulation pension funds; and
(d) payment of PAYG pensions by SPPC.
-55-



Annex E
The role of SPPC as an intermediary and a clearing house in the collection and allocation
of pension contributions has been a matter of concern because it lacks adequate operative
capacity. Furthermore, the relationship between the SPPC and the SAPF as stipulated in their
Service Agreement calls for SPPC to absorb many of SAPF functions, leaving SAPF with almost
no functions. This situation needs to be reversed and is currently under consideration.
State Accumulation Pension Fund
The SAPF has been established as a closed joint stock company with a capital of 10
million Tenge allocated to it by the Ministry of Finance. The Government is its founder and the
Ministry of Finance the owner of its shares. The SAPF is operational and staffed. The National
bank of Kazakhstan is temporarily performing as custodian bank for the SAPF. In the future, it is
expected that the SAPF will contract out for custodian banking services within the commercial
banking system. The NBK also performs asset management for the SAPF. This situation should
be revised in the future to ensure proper and fair competition among all accumulation funds, State
and Non-State.
The SAPF has signed a Service Agreement with the SPPC that raises concerns about the
role of the SPPC and its assumption of legal responsibilities. In short, this SAPF to SPPC
contractual delegation is questionable. Furthermore, this agreement also raises issues of unfair
competition between SAPF and the Non-State Pension Funds.
The above mentioned issues are important because the SAPF is the default pension
accumulation fund, and transparency in all its operations is critical for public trust in the pension
reform.
Model Contracts. Model contracts have been prepared for (a) pension funds and
contributors/payers, and (b) pension funds, asset management companies and custodian banks
(tripartite agreement form). A literal interpretation of the Pension Law has forced a tripartite
agreement between non-state pension funds, asset management companies, and custodian banks.
The need for this kind of three party structured agreement is questionable. Pension funds will
likely establish long-term relations with custodian banks, but they need the flexibility to change
asset management companies without affecting their relations with the custodian banks.
Technical Cooperation: Key to the Success of the Pension Reform
It has been evident since the enactment of the Pension Law that, in spite of willingness to
make the involved institutions operative in the immediate future, there are still many obstacles to
overcome. These restrictions can be found, inter alia, in
(1) the novelty of the pension reform, the lack of regulatory traditions,
(2) remnants from the past economic and legal system in terms of rigidity in
interpreting and applying laws and regulations,
(3) the predominantly mechanical and documentary - rather than substantive -
procedures,
(4) serious operational limitations with respect to implementing collection of
contributions, allocation of funds in individual accounts, and
(5) limited investment opportunities and investment vehicles.
-56-



Annex E
During the various missions for this Loan, several necessary interventions brought
suggestions and recommendations to amend some decisions and regulations, and to guide the
regulatory and licensing processes. It is very fortunate that the Government is fully aware of this
scenario that is part of the transition to a new economic and legal system, and that the
Government shares and welcomes technical cooperation recognizing it as key to pension reform
success. From the regulatory standpoint, technical assistance is critical, urgent, and essential and
should provide:
*  immediate short-term technical assistance (under a Japan Grant) to (i) review
the current regulations, and (ii) assess the emerging regulatory structures,
and their capabilities
*  sustainable mid-term technical cooperation program during the life of the
loan to ensure the development of a (i) structured, participatory, and
transparent regulatory system for pension reform; and (ii) a modern and well
regulated insurance industry, particularly one that is able to provide annuity
and other pension-related insurance products.
Changes need to be made in several areas. First, certain legal and operational issues
related to the basic reform process need to be addressed. Second, certain sectoral changes will be
necessary to foster the development of the financial and insurance markets.  Third, the
appropirateness of the current fee structures will need to be revisited.  In addition, there are a
number of regulations that should be added or revised and procedures that need to be changed.
Last, but certainly not least, the staff of the regulatory agencies need extensive training to create a
team of regulators with professional expertise and mentality.
The following are examples of issues that need to be revised, discussed, and the
corresponding regulations and procedures that need improvement
Policy
*  Harmonization of the Pension Law and pension regulations in general to
have a coherent body of laws and regulations to govem the pension reform.
*  Common conceptual understanding on (a) the objectives of the pension
reform, (b) the role of the various state agencies involved in pension reform,
(c) the roles and interactions of the State Accumulation Pension Fund and the
Non-State Pension Funds, and (d) the functions of and interactions among
pension funds, asset management agencies and custodian banks.
*  Re-definition of areas of exclusive and common competencies of the various
agencies involved in pension reform.
*  Re-definition of the roles the SPPC and its relations with the SAPF, and the
Non-State Pension Funds.
Sectoral:
* Improvement of investment instruments. Currently, the securities markets can
barely cope with the relatively small demand generated by the SAPF. This
situation will exacerbate in the very near future when Non-StatePension
Funds became operative and need to invest the accumulated pension capital.
-57-



Annex E
* Development of a modem insurance industry, with laws, regulations, and
trained professionals in the public and private sectors and an adequate
regulatory structure.
Fee Structure
*  Discussion, definition and regulation of SAPF fee structure when channeling
fund assigned to Non-State Pension Funds.
*  Discussion, definition and regulation of all fee structures in collecting,
transferring, investing and accounting for pension contributions.
Regulatatory
*  Revision of detailed regulations for the SAPF, including guidelines and
standards for reporting and disclosure requirements, accounting and auditing,
methods and procedures for transferring assets among funds, and definitions
and calculation of income and investment income.
*  Regulations on conflicts of interest for employees, managers and founders of
pension funds and asset management companies.
* Revision and improvement of all pension-related model contracts.
* Regulations on rights of pension contributors, including administrative and
judicial grievance procedures.
Procedural
-  Improvement of reporting and disclosure requirements for State and non-
state pension funds to ensure transparency.
-  Accounting standards and training for pension funds, asset management
companies and custodian banks.
* Norms for registering investment returns for pension fund accounts.
* Improved procedures and mechanisms to guarantee automatic flow of funds
from employers to service and custodian banks.
Training
*  Definition of the (a) functions and attributions, (b) procedures and (c)
specific common training needs for the newly established pension units at the
NSC and NBK.
*  Training at the NPA and the NSC ultimately leading to better review and
revision of procedures to license pension funds and asset management
companies, and develop proper criteria that will be interpreted and
implemented consistently with policy reform objectives.
* Training in drafting model pension contracts, maintaining conceptual and
procedural consistency, and in the meaning and use of model contracts.
-58-



Annex E
APPENDIX:
KAZAKSTAN PENSION REFORM.
SELECTED LAWS AND REGULATIONS BY SUBJECT
PENSION LEGISLATION
*  Law of the Republic of Kazakstan (ROK) on Pension Provision (PENSION LAW), 20
June 1996, into effect I July 1997.
*  Development Plan for Regulating the Implementation of Pension Reform, Government
Resolution, No. 1040, 1 July 1997.
*  Law on State Social Allowances on Invalidity, Survivorship and Old Age, 1997.
*  Law Introducing Changes and Amendments and Considering Invalid Some Legislative
acts of the ROK due to the Reform of the Pension System, 1997.
PENSION INSTITUTIONS AND REGULATIONS
STATE PENSION PAYMENT CENTER (SPPC).
*  Creation of t]he State Center for Benefit Payments as a Republican Budget State
Enterprise, Decree of the Government of the ROK No. 926, 4 June 1997.
*  Amendment to Decree of the Government of the ROK # 926, Decree of the Government
of the ROK # 1030, 27 June 1997.
*  By Laws of the State Center for Benefit Payments, Decree of the Government of ROK, 10
December 1997.
e  Order Assigning Social Individual Code to Citizens of the ROK in the State Pension
Payment Center, Resolution of the Government of the ROK No. 1342, 16 September 1997.
NATIONAL PENSION AGENCY (NPA)
*  Regulation (Establishment) of the National Pension Agency of the Ministry of Labor and
Social Protection, Decree of the Government of the ROK 1997.
STATE ACCUMULATION PENSION FUND
* Creation of the State Accumulation Pension Fund, Resolution of the Government of the
ROK, 24 September 1997.
*  Instructions on Procedure for Transfer, Spending and Accounting Mandatory Pension
Contributions and other Funds to the SPPC, Resolution of the Government of the ROK,
1997.
*  Order of Calculating, Transferring Mandatory Pension Contributions and Payments of
Pensions by the State Pension Payment Center, Resolution off the Government of the ROK
No. 1733, of 10 December 1997.
NON-STATE ACCUMULATION PENSION FUNDS
*  Regulation on Formation of Equity accumulation Pension Funds, Order of the National
Pension Agency No. 2-P, 27 August 1997.
*  Rules of Accumulation Pension Funds (By Laws). Fundamental Requirements. Order
of the National Pension Agency No. 3-P, 27 August 1997.
*  Regulation on Procedure for Approval of Candidates for Managerial Positions in
Accumulation Pension Funds, Order of the National Pension Agency No. 4-P, 27 August
1997.
-59-



Annex E
*  Order of Payment of Pensions by Accumulation Pension Funds, Resolution of the
Government of the ROK No. 1355, 21 September 1997.
*  Regulation on Licensing of Accumulation Pension Funds, Resolution of the Government
of the ROK, No. 1396, 30 September 1997.
*  Regulation on Opening, Merging and Closing of Branches of Accumulation Pension
Funds, Order by the National Pension Agency, 1997.
*  Regulation on Accounting and Reporting by Accumulation Pension Funds, Order by the
National Pension Agency, 1997.
  Regulation on Technical Equipment by Accumulation Pension Funds, Order by the
National Pension Agency, 1997.
*  Regulation on Minimum Charter Capital, Regulation by the National Pension Agency,
1997.
*  Regulation on Maximum Commissions, Regulation by the National Pension Agency, 1997.
e  Order on Permission to State Enterprises and Enterprises with State Share to act as
Founders of Non-State Accumulation Pension Funds, Order of the NPA, with the
agreement of the Ministry of Labor and Social Protection, 10 October 1997.
ASSET MANAGEMENT COMPANIES
3  Statement on Licensing of Investment Management of Assets of Non-State Pension
Funds, Decree of the Government of the ROK No. 1402, 2 October 1997.
*  Decree on Requirements for Legal Entities when Granting them licenses for carrying
out the activity on investment management of pension assets, Decree of the National
Securities Commission No. 156a, 3 October 1997.
*  Statement on Requirements for Managers of Pension Investment Companies, Decree of
the National Securities Commission No. 133, 29 August 1997.
*  Regulation on Investment Activities, Resolution of the National Securities Commission,
1997.
*  Statement on Reporting on Pension Investment Management, Resolution of the National
Securities Commission, 1997.
a  Regulation on Prudential Norms for Pension Investment Management Companies,
Resolution of the National Securities Commission, 1997.
-60-



Annex F
Annex F:
Technical Assistance to Support PRAL Implemenpatiams
(Consultancies, Training, Materials, and EquipM0est)
II.    Macroeconomic, Sectoral, and Structural Policy
* Actuarial Modeling
* improve the actuarial model to monitor program costs an4 expenditurps
* provide actuarial training
* further develop the model for projecting fiscal costs
* further develop modeling capacity to establish scenarios for the medium-
term fiscal framework
* Data Base Development
*  develop ongoing labor force survey data to track trends in employment and
unemployment; such data would be an input into the act4ari4l miodql
*  develop demographic projections
-  Insurance Law and Regulations
* develop insurance law and regulations
e provide training on insurance regulation
II.    Structure of Pensions and Public Information
*  Socio Demographic Studies
* develop the analytic capacity to within the MOLSP to monitor issues of
pension adequacy and equity; conduct studies, supervise studies
*  define the form of benefits
*  Disability Assessments
* develop means to improve the disability determination process
* provide training to improve disability assessments
*  Public Information
* establish an ongoing program of public information
* provide training on public information
III.   Regulatory Structure
*  Establish training programs
* drafting and monitoring
* control and supervision
* asset management
*  Review regulations
-61-



Annex F
IV.   Human Resources
* Establish job descriptions and pay scales
* Establish training programs
* Train the trainers
V.    Public Administration and Software Development
* Redesign Administrative Practices
* Transition Arrangements
* Establishment of Business Practices
*  institute centralized benefit calculation process
*  improve tax collection, enforcement and administration
*  institute budgeting and accounting procedures for state pensions
*  establish management information and statistical systems
*  improve client services
* Software Development
- Transition Arrangements
- Establishment of Business Practices
- Establish Training Programs
VI.   Information Technology
* Institute broader IT and communications network
VII.  Security
* Institute physical and electronic security systems
VIII.  Project Management
-62-



Annex G
]Kazakhstan at a glance                                                                5/6/98
Europe &   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            Central  middle-   -
Kazakhstan      Asia  Income   i Development diamond*
Population mid-1996 (millions)                         16.5       478    1,125
GNP per capita 1996 (USS)                             1,220     2,200    1,740                Lfe expectancy
GNP 1996 (billions US$)                                20.0     1,050    1,962                       T
Average annual growth, 1990-96
Population (%)                                         -0.3       0.3       1.4     GNP                              Gross
Labor force (%)                                        -0.1       0.5       17      per                             primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available since 1990)                             capita       -                enrollment
Poverty: headcount index (% of population)               ..        ..
Urban population (% of total population)                60         66       56
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        65         68       67
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                25         24       40               Access to safe water
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)               1
Access to safe water (% of popula6on)                    ..        ..       75
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                     ..        ..       20
Gross prmary enrollment (% ofschoolage population)      96        100      104              Kazakhstan
Male                                                  96       101       107                Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                96       100       101
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976     1985      1996      1996
Economic ratlos'
GDP (bilfions US$)                              *                19.5     20.8    i
Gross domestic investmenVGDP                   ..        ..      22.1     23.3
Exports of goods and services/GDP               ..      ..       34.7     31.0             Openness of economy
Gross domestic savings/GDP                      ..      ..       19.5     20.0
Gross national savings/GDP                      ..       ..      19.0     19.8
Current account balance/GDP                     ..       ..      -3.6     -3.6
Interest payments/GDP                           ..       ..       0.5      0.6      Savings          !          Investment
Total debt/GDP                                  ..       ..      18.9     14.1
Total debt service/exports                     ..        ..       4.1       9.9
Present value of debUGDP                        ..      ..         ..    13.1
Present value of debVexports                   ..       ..         ..    38.9
Indebtedness
1975-85  1986-96     1995      1996  1997-05
.(average annual growth)                                                                      Kazakhstan
GDP                                    ..    -8.1      -8.2       0.5      5.1
GNP per capita                        ,,    -8.4       -7.5       1.8      5.1               Lower-middle-income grup
Exports of goods and services          ..      ..      4.5       12.8      6.1
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975     1985      1995      1996
(% of GDP)                                                                        f Growth rates of output and investment (%)
Agriculture                                    ..        ..      12.5      12.9      5
Industry                                       ..       ..       30.1     30.4                    92   93   94
Manufacturing                                 ..       ..       6.2       6.4     .o                            _
Services                                       ..       ..       57.4     56.8    -15 t
.20
.25 
Private consumption                            ..       ..       64.9     67.8      30 _
General government consumption                 ..        ..      15.6     12.3               -GD          --O-GDP
Imports of goods and services                   ..      ..       37.3     34.4
1976-85  1986-96      1995     1996
(average annual growth)                                                             Growth rates of exports and Imports (V.)
Agriculture                                    ..        ..    -24.4        1.0     20_
Industry                                       ..        ..    -15.1       -1.2
Manufacturing                                 ..       ..    -33.6        0.0     10
Services                                       ..        ..      10.8     -3.6       0_
Private consumption                            ..       ..       -3.8      1.7              91   92    3           95   96
General govemment consumption                   ..       ..      -4.1     10.3
Gross domestic investment                      ..       ..       -6.8     -3.8    i -20
Imports of goods and services                   ..       ..      10.7     11.9
Gross national product                          ..    -8.2       -8.6      0.9                    Exports  --*-Imports
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.                                              -63-



Annex G
Kazakhstan
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975     1986        1995      1996
Domestic prices                                 1                                       , Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                               2.000 T
Consumer prices                                    ..        ..       60.0      28.8    1,500 T1
Implicit GDP deflator                              ..        ..      157.6      38.9     1000
Govemment finance                                                                         s00
(% of GDP)                                                                                  '
Current revenue                                    ..        ..       21.4      20.3               91   92   93   94   95   96
Current budget balance                             ..        ..        0.1      -5.4                -     GDP def. -.-OP
Overall surplus/defict                             ..        ..       -2.1      -3.1
TRADE
1975     1985        1995      1996
(millions US$)                                                                            Export and import levels (mill. USS)
Total exports (fob)                                ..        ..      5,197    5,480       6000
Oil and gas                                      ..        ..       786      1,022
Other metals                                     ..        ..      1,069      969
Manufactures                                     ..        ..       474       430       4,000-.
Total imports (cif)                                ..        ..     5,419    5,166
Food                                             ..        ..         ..        ..      2,000-                           1i
Fuel and energy                                  ..        ..      1,237    2,324
Capital goods                                    ..        ..
Export price index (1987=100)                               0,                          j       g    91   92   93  94   95  96
Import price index (1987=100)                      ..        ..         .                               Exports    aImports
Terms of trade (1987=100)
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975     1986        1995      1996
(millions US$)                                                                            Current account balance to GDP ratio (h)
Exports of goods and services                      ..        ..     5,732    6,966       0
Imports of goods and services                      ..        ..     6,162     7,546          90   91           93   94 '0 95
Resource balance                                   ..        ..      -431      -580
Net income                                         ..        ..      -338      -222      -2                    -   ,_|
Net current transfers                              ..        ..        59        50
Current account balance,
before official capital transfers                ..       ..       -710      -752
Financing items (net)                              ..        ..       836       524
Changes in net reserves                            ..        ..      -126       228      . _
Memo:
Reserves including gold (mill. US$)                ..        ..      1,664    1,956
Conversion rate (locaUVS$)                         ..        ..      51.9      68.2
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1985        1995      1996
(millions US$)                                                                           Composition of total debt, 1996 (mill. USS)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed               ..        ..     3,696    2,920
IBRD                                            ..        ..        295       490                      G          A
IDA                                              ..       ..          O         0                     221        490
Total debt service                                 ..        ..       237       696    E
IBRD                                            ..        ..         14        24
IDA                                              ..       ..          0         0           F
Composition of net resource flows                                                            853               ."          C
Official grants                                 ..        ..         10        44                                       552
Official creditors                              ..        ..        394       332
Private creditors                               ..        ..        188       305                                    0
Foreign direct investment    -                   ..       ..        284       310                                    96
Portfolio equity                                 .                              0                           E 
708
Worid Bank program
Commitments                                     ..        ..        283       385       A - IBRD                     E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                   ..        ..        107       225       B - IDA   D- Other rnulilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                            .,        .,          0         0       C - IMF                      G - Short-term
Net flows                                        ..       ..        107       225                                                  1
Interest payments                               ..        ..         14        24
Net transfers                                   ..        ..         93       201
Development Economics                                                                                                         5/6/98
Note: Estimates for economies of the former Soviet Union are subject to more than the usual range of uncertainty.
Government finance represents general govemment accounts until 1991.  64



Annex G
Kazakhstan - Key Economic Indicators
Estimate                                   Projected
Indicator                       1997      1998        1999     2000      2001     2002      2003     2004      2005
National accounts (as % GDP at current market prices)
Gross domestic product                                100.0    100.0        100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Agriculturea                                          10.8      8.8         8.1       7.8      7.4       7.1      6.8       6.6      6.3
Industry'                                            26.1      26.4        26.4      26.1     25.9      25.6     25.4      25.1     24.9
Servicesa                                            65.4      67.1        67.8      68.5     69.0     69.6      70.2      70.7     71.2
Total Consumption                                      89.3      88.4        86.4      81.2     77.8      76.1     75.2     73.3      72.3
Gross Domestic Investment                              13.5      16.0        17.4      18.8     19.7      21.3     22.5     24.0      24.8
Public sector investment                              2.0       3.0         2.9       3.3       3.7      4.1       4.4      5.1      5.6
Private investment (includes change in stocks)        11.5     13.0        14.5      15.5      16.0     17.2      18.1     18.9      19.2
Exports (GNFS)P                                        32.5      29.8        30.5      33.5     35.1      34.5     33.5      33.2     32.9
Imports (GNFS)                                         35.2      34.2        34.3      33.4     32.6      31.9     31.2      30.5     30.0
Gross domestic savings                                 10.7      11.6        13.6      18.8     22.2      23.9     24.8      26.7     27.7
Gross national savings                                  9.3       9.4        10.7      15.4     18.5      19.7     20.2      21.7     22.6
GDP (US$million at current prices)                   23189    25005        26627    28502    30508    32655    35297    37970    40845
Real GDP growth (%, calculated from 1993 prices)        2.0       3.0         4.0       5.0      5.0       5.0      5.0       5.0      5.0
Consumer price index (% p.a.)                          17.8       9.4         7.0       5.0      5.0       5.0      5.0       4.5      4.5
Balance of Payments (US$m)
Exports(GNFS)b                                       7526.2   7447.6       8118.1   9537.7  10713.5  11251.9  11818.0  12605.9  13448.8
Imports(GNFS)b                                       8164.7   8558.7       9137.3   9528.7   9932.3  10410.9  11005.8  11597.3  12246.0
Resource balance                                     -638.5  -1111.1      -1019.2       9.0    781.1    841.0    812.2   1008.6   1202.8
Net currenttransfers (incl. official current transfers)  29.9    27.3        24.6      21.7     18.7      15.5     12.2       8.7      5.1
Current account balance (incl. official capital grants)  -1275.4  -1863.2  .  -1779.5   -950.6   -361.4   -522.3   -798.5   -880.3   -875.9
Netprivateforeigndirectinvestment                    1200.0   1300.0       1400.0   1200.0   1200.0   1200.0   1200.0   1200.0   1200.0
Long-termloans(net)                                   931.3    744.0        538.4    515.8    953.2   1277.4   1692.2    581.6    550.9
Other capital (net, including errors and omissions)   145.0    160.0        160.0      60.0   -340.0   -340.0   -340.0   -340.0   -340.0
Change inreserves'                                  -1000.9   -340.8       -319.0   -825.3  -1451.8  -1615.1  -1753.7   -561.3   -535.0
Menmorandunm items
Resource balance (% of GDP at current market prices)    -2.8      -4.4        -3.8       0.0      2.6       2.6      2.3       2.7      2.9
Current act. balance (% of GDP at current mrkt. prices)  -4.2    -6.7        -6.7      -3.3     -1.2      -1.6     -2.3      -2.3     -2.1
Key Exposure Indicators
Total debt outstanding and disbursed (TDO) (US$m)d     3844     4488        4842      5218     6117      7365      9026     9600    10151
Net disbursements (US$m)d                               924      642         352       377       897     1248      1662      575       552
Total debt service (TDS) (US$m)d                        575      609          947      694       793      923      1082     1262      1415
Debt and debt service indicators (%)
TDO/XGS'                                              50.9       60         59.3      54.4     56.8      65.1     75.9     75.7        75
TDO/GDP                                               16.6      17.9        18.2      18.3       20      22.6     25.6     25.3      24.9
TDS/XGS                                                7.6       8.1        11.6       7.2      7.4       8.2      9.1       9.9     10.5
Concessional/TDO                                        3.7       3.7         3.8       3.8      3.2       2.2        2       1.8      1.6
IBRD exposure indicators
IBRD DS/public DS (%)                                 11.1      7.5          7.2      10.5     13.9      13.3     11.0      9.1       7.8
Preferred creditor DS/public DS (%)f                  22.2     30.3         31.0      35.7     24.9      19.8     16.5      11.8      9.7
IBRDDS/XGS(%)                                          0.6      0.6          0.8      0.8       1.0       1.1      1.0      0.9       0.8
IBRDTDO(US$m)                                        609.0    651.0        682.0    713.0    707.0    673.0    629.0    576.0    518.0
Financing Requirements Indicators (USS millions)
Financing requirements (inclMF)                      2391.3   2285.0       2578.4   2013.8   2193.9   2596.0   3060.0   2014.8   2095.4
Current account deficit                              975.4   1663.2       1779.5    950.6    361.4    522.3    798.5    880.3    875.9
Long term amortizations (excl. IMF)                  415.0    281.0        480.0    238.0    380.7    458.7    507.8    573.2    684.5
Reserves Changes ofMonetary Auth.                    993.9    239.8        134.0    687.3   1396.8   1585.1   1723.7    554.3    535.0
IMF Credit (net)                                       7.0    101.0        185.0    138.0      55.0     30.0      30.0       7.0      0.0
Financing sources                                    1426.0   1509.0       1697.0   1355.0   1055.7   1130.7   1224.8   1290.2   1440.5
Official capital grants                             -300.0   -200.0          0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
Private investment (net)                            1445.0   1560.0       1660.0   1460.0   1460.0   1460.0   1460.0   1460.0   1460.0
Long term Disbursements exci IMF and excl Gapfill    381.0    249.0        137.0     95.0    195.7    270.7    364.8    430.2    580.5
Other capital flows                                 -100.0   -100.0       -100.0   -200.0   -600.0   -600.0   -600.0   -600.0   -600.0
Gapfill financing                                     965.3      776        881.4    658.8   1138.2   1465.4   1835.2    724.6    654.9
a. GDP components are estimated at factor cost.
b. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."
c. Includes use of IMF resources.
d. Includes public and publicly guaranteed debt, private nonguaranteed, use of IMF credits and net short-term capital
e. "XGS" denotes exports of goods and services, including workers' remittances.
f. Preferred creditors are defined as IBRD. IDA. the regional multilateral development banks. the IMF, and the Bank t;r International Settlements.
-65-






Annex H
Republic of Kazakhstan
Pension Reform Adjustment Loan
Timetable for Key Steps in Loan Processing
Time taken to prepare:               11 months, May 1997 - March 1998
Prepared by:                         Government with the assistance of IBRD
staff and consultants
First IBRD Mission:                  May 1997
Appraisal Mission:                   March 1998
Negotiations:                        May 1998
Planned date of effectiveness:       July 1998
Expected program completion:         July 2000
This report is based on the work of World Bank missions which visited Kazakhstan in
May, July, and November of 1997 and again in February and March of 1998. The task
team leader for the Bank was Emily S. Andrews. For the Government of Kazakhstan the
work was coordinated by Natalya Korzhova, Minister of Labor and Social Protection.
Bank headquarters staff and consultants participating in the preparation of the operation
included Dimitri V ittas (capital market development), Alan Thompson (state pension plan
administration), Mamta Murthi (benefits assessment), Bernard Funck (macroeconomic
framework), Wei Ding (fiscal framework), Peter Hansen (macroeconomic framework);
Marcelo Giugale (fiscal sustainability) Hernan Fuenzalida (accumulation plan
regulation), and Marcy Elkind (capital market development). Ian Conachy was the Team
Assistant for the Loan. Robert Holzmann participated in project identification. Kadir T.
Yurukoglu and Zhanar Abdildina, of the Bank's Resident Mission in Almaty, participated
in the work of the preparation and appraisal missions. Gennady Pilch has been the lawyer
of the PRAL. Kyioshi Kodera has been the Department Director during the operation.
-67-






Annlex I
Annex I
Status of Bank Group Operations in Kazakstan
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Loan Status as of 2-June-1998
Differenrce
Between expected
Originidl Aminotirit in US$ Millions               and actual                Last ARPP
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                                        disbursements a/    Supervision Rati:,g b/
Project ID      Credit      Year               Borrower                       Purpose
No.                                                                             IBRD        IDA      Cancellations  undisbursed  Orig         Frici Rev'd    Dev Obj       Inp Diog
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 3
Active Loans
KZ-PE--8501    IBRD 33440   1994  REP. OF KAZKHSTAN                   PETROLEUM TfA                 15.30        0.00             0.00           5.82       5.66       0.00       S              S
KZ-PE-8511    IBRD 37250   1994  GOVT OF KAZAKHSTAN                   URBAN TRANSPORT               40.00        0.00             0.00          2.09        2.11       0.00       S              S
KZ-PE-8504    IBRD 36420   1994  REPUB.OF KAZKHSTAN                   TECIINICAL ASSISTANCE         38.00        0.00             0.00           9.06       9.06    -28.94        S
KZ-PE-8506    IBRD 38960   1995  GOVT. OF KAZAKIISTAN                 SOCIAL PROTECTION             41.10        0.00             0.00         29.55         .22       0.00       S
KZ-PE-8508    IBRD 38670   1995  GOVT OF KAZAKHSTAN                   FINANCE & ENT. DEVEL          62.00        0.00             0.00         56.70       56.70       0.00       S              U
KZ-PE-8510    IBRD 40410   1996  REPUB. OF KAZAKHSTAN                 IRRIG. & DRAINAGE             80.00        0.00             0.00         73.61        1.85       0.00       S              S
KZ-PE-46044   ITRD 41460   1997  REPUBLIC OF KAZAKSTAN                REAL ESTATE REG PLT.          10.00        0.00             0.00          8.67        1.38       0.00       S              S
KZ-PE-45303   IDRD 41290   1997  GOVT. OF KAZAKS'I'AN                 PILOT WATER SUPPLY             7.00        0.00             0.00           6.93       2.47       0.00        S             S
KZ-PE-37960   IBRD 40770   1997  REP OF KAZAKSTAN                     TREASURY MODERNIZATI          15.80        0.00             0.00         13.92        6.60       0.00        S             S
KZ-PE-8507    IBRD 40610   1997  REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN               UZEN OIL FIELD REHAB         109.00        0.00             0.00        107:18       14.86       0.00       S              U
KZ-PE-34093   IBRD 42170   1998  REPUBLIC OF KAZAKSTAN                PUBLIC SEC. RES.MGT.        230.00         0.00             0.00        150.00    150.00         0.00       S              S
Total                                                                                              648.60        0.00             0.00        463.53    250.91    -28.94
Active Loans          Closed Loans             l'otal
Total Disbursed (ENRD and IDA):                   185.05              539.99               725.04
of which has been repaid:                    0.00                 0.00                0.00
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                   648.60              539.99             1,188.59
Amount sold                                         0.00                 0.00                0.00
Of which repaid               :0.00                                  0 00                 0  00
Total Undisbursed                 :               463.53                 0.00              463.53
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance  (ARPP), a letter based system was introduc-ed (HS   highly Satisfactory, S   satistactory,  U   unsatisfactory,
HU = highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1394.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS)                                       -69-



MAP SECTION



500                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~600         Tyumen '                                 800                                 900
0   100  200  300  400 Kilometers
To Chelyabinsk
sk   Noo'osibirslo  100  ~~200 Miles
9Q0
_ E D E R A T I O                                                                                               u,kK HTl      . 
(  S Io';S~~15 amor.                                                Al tX 4 
V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AL
-.   Srarrafv L 1@\f  fv A ALS        Ao~    x;,0 T             L Ai soo
909  ;->   hpasg<                       >   K     O Sr A           N     A I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~STNA  E~ stuz>                                  LIA
9~~~~~~~Caav                                                                                               A ODA
| KAZAANSTAN  *|K                                    EAS
NATIONAL CAPITAL             This Mrp Dsigo p,ootdo0odehs by  _      ~ D,nhrbe T A J I KI ST A N  -
'-6i'Yi         B~~Wrl Bok TE                                                                    ZAKdoreT
colors, denoroioot,ons and~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Bokhsh1
0 REGION CAPITALS    a n y other iotoresorioo sh,ovv n        * 0      >           Z /CHINA
ootisoopdYZYLOp  DA0                                          C
 ~~ $ ~ REGION BOUNDARIES              loglstto ofotOrios                      -    --*'            I  .-.. \ -' 4  F/'- 
-. - ~ |   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES Uo'Pries  0                       AFGHANISTAN  70                                                     80R
so   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   I                            I     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                        01ha



