Report No. PID8574
Project Name                     Iran-Second Primary Health Care (@)
and Nutrition Project
Region                           Middle East and North Africa
Project ID                       IRPE69943
Borrower(s)                      Islamic Republic of Iran
Implementing Agency              The Ministry of Health and Medical Education
Environmental Category           B
Date PID prepared                December 29, 1999
Projected Appraisal Date         January, 2000
Projected Board Date             TBD
1.      Sector Background:   Iran is a lower middle income country with a 1998
per capita GDP of US$1,612. Thirty-eight percent of the population lives in
rural areas, and 18 percent of the population is poor. Forty percent of the
population is below age 16. Annual population growth is 1.5 percent. Eighty
percent of the population is literate. Over 85 percent of the population has
access to safe drinking water and 80 percent to sanitation.
With respect to health indicators, the infant mortality rate is 26 deaths per
thousand live births. Sixteen percent of children under age 5 are
malnourished. Ninety-five percent of children reaching their first birthday
are immunized. Life expectancy is 70 years. The entire population is
eligible for coverage under Iran's Primary Health Care (PHC) system, and some
90 percent of the population has formal health insurance coverage for
curative care services. The country spends 5.7 percent of its GDP on health,
some 40 percent of which is from public sources. Iran has 0.8 physicians and
1.6 hospital beds per thousand population.
Iran's health system displays some formidable strengths. Given the country's
income and health spending levels, health outcomes are excellent and access
to clean water, sanitation, health services, and health insurance are high.
Some 90 percent of the population has physical access to care and
pharmaceuticals are readily available. Compared to other countries in the
region and world of comparable income levels, Iran's performance in terms of
health outcomes and population growth is excellent. These results are due to
a Government focus on PHC. The World Bank's 1993 Primary Health Care and
Family Planning Project (#5222-IRN) in the amount of US$294 millions has
assisted the GOI in the development and operation of its extensive primary
care infrastructure. This project will finish in December 2000, and it is
currently rated satisfactory both with respect to implementation and
development objectives.
Despite these formidable achievements, Iran's health care system faces a
number of serious challenges, particularly concerning health outcomes,
efficiency, quality, and long-run financial sustainability. First with
respect to health outcomes, malnutrition is an extremely serious problem,
with Iran having the third highest rate of childhood malnutrition in the MENA
region after Yemen and Iraq. Moreover, 34 percent of women in the



childbearing years suffer from iron deficiency and 17 percent have iron
deficiency anemia, resulting in increased maternal mortality. Second, the
onset of the health transition and population aging is shifting the burden of
disease to treat non-communicable diseases, which will have important
implications for both costs and the configuration of Iran's health financing
and delivery systems. Third, the system is inefficient with a hospital
occupancy rate below 60 percent and continued expansions of both public and
private delivery capacity without regard to underlying needs. Control of the
system is too centralized with local decision-makers having neither the
authority nor management tools to delivery care consonant with local needs.
Fourth, quality needs to be enhanced and monitored. Fifth, the revenue
sources used to finance the multiple public health insurance systems are
complex, not transparent, not actuarially sound, and may be inefficient and
inequitable. Sixth, the systems used to reimburse medical care providers are
inefficient and counter to the more modern systems being implemented in the
OECD countries and around the world. Seventh, policy-makers lack critical
information needed for decision-making.
2.      Project Objectives:   This project is a follow-up to the Primary Health
Care (PHC) and Family Planning (FP) project (Loan 3584-IRN, 1993), a
successful ongoing operation that focuses on improving the quality and
coverage of PHC and FP services. Overall, Iran has created an adequate
primary health care system and achieved good results; however, as the figures
indicate, there are areas where gaps still exist, particularly in some rural
and peri-urban areas. The main needs for the system at present are to
rehabilitate the old PHC infrastructure and replace old PHC equipment and
vehicles. In addition, malnutrition remains a serious problem, despite the
fact that health services delivered through the PHC network deal directly
with the main causes of mortality and morbidity among the population's higher
risk groups.
The objective of the proposed project is to assist the Government of Iran
(GOI) in improving health conditions in rural and urban areas through: (i)
sustaining access to, and the quality of, primary health care; and (ii)
improving the nutritional status of children under 2 years of age and of
pregnant and lactating women. The project recognizes that malnutrition is a
multi-faceted problem that transcends sector boundaries. Therefore, a number
of assessments and situation analyses addressing the broader issues of
nutrition will be included in the project design in order to prepare for a
future program.
3.      Project Description:   The project proposes to meet the above objectives
through activities grouped under the following three components: (1) the PHC
component would support Government efforts to rehabilitate some of its PHC
facilities and ensure that replacement and new equipment needs are met. No
new facilities are planned; (2) the nutrition component will target those
provinces that have higher stunting rates than the national average of 22
percent for the rural areas and those with higher wasting rates than the
national average of 5.6 percent in the urban areas. The effectiveness of the
ongoing nutrition services in the health sector will be improved through: (i)
an extensive training component, focusing on interpersonal counseling, IEC
and social marketing to change behavior; (ii) strengthening of the growth
monitoring program, shifting the focus from monitoring to promotion of
growth; (iii) institutional strengthening of the nutrition department; and
(iv) baseline studies, operational studies, situation analyses and strategy
- 2 -



development; and (3) capacity building and improving project management.
4.      Project Cost and Financing:   Total project costs are currently estimated
at about US$148.7 million. Financing would be provided through local
contributions to an amount of about US$62.7 million and a proposed loan of
about US$86.0 million.
5.      Project Implementation:   As this project is, to a large extent, a
continuation of the ongoing operation, and given the satisfactory
implementation record of the current PIU, the following ongoing institutional
and implementation arrangements would be extended to the new project:
Executing agency. Ministry of Health and Medical Education (MOHME) is the
executing agency of the project, and this is where the Project Implementation
Unit (PIU) is located. While project implementation is the responsibility of
the relevant MOHME directorates, the project management functions (financial
management, procurement, scheduling, monitoring, controlling, evaluating, and
reporting) are handled by the PIU (see paragraph below). The unit has
demonstrated its capacity to implement the ongoing PHC and FP project. The
PIU, currently consisting of a project manager, a procurement officer and an
engineer who is also in charge of the project monitoring and evaluation, will
be strengthened through the recruitment of a health and nutrition specialist
and a finance officer. Details on the scope of work, level of
qualifications, and number of administrative staff are available in the
Project Implementation Plan (PIP). The staff of the PIU will be trained to
implement the Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI).
Project coordination. The PIU is responsible for the day-to-day coordination
of all activities. Its manager reports directly to the Deputy Minister for
Logistics and Administrative Affairs at MOHME. In order to ensure a smooth
coordination with all departments at the Ministry, an Oversight Committee
(OC) monitors project progress and advises on measures to be taken to ensure
its implementation. The OC is chaired by the Minister of Health and Medical
Education and gathers membership from the various relevant departments of
MOHME, Planning and Budget Office (PBO), and the Ministry of Finance.
6.      Project Sustainability:   Because the health facilities to be
rehabilitated are already in existence and have routine maintenance budgets,
it is assumed that the net incremental recurrent costs of maintaining them
will be zero. However, it must be noted that, aside from aging, some of the
need to upgrade and rehabilitate these facilities arises due to the
systematic under-funding of periodic maintenance in the past. Recognizing
this, the Government's budget since 1997 has included a line item for the
maintenance of rural health facilities. It is estimated that sustaining
rehabilitation efforts undertaken by this project will require about 1
percent of the annual maintenance budget, an amount that is both affordable
and sustainable.
Sustainable implementation of this project will improve access to lower-level
facilities, and thus the utilization of such services. This, in turn, is
expected to result in (i) a reduction in the demand for hospital ambulatory
care services that could be provided at a lower level of service; (ii) a
reduction in the demand for expensive hospital care at secondary and tertiary
facilities for some conditions that could be treated using less-expensive
technology if detected earlier; and (iii) n increase in the demand for
-3 -



hospital in-patient services through better and timely detection, at the
lower-level facilities, of conditions that would require hospitalization.
Realization of these potential outcomes, however, depends on the existence of
a functioning referral system that integrates the entire health system.
Therefore, the lack of coordination between the Government-financed PHC
system and the MSIO/SSO-financed secondary and tertiary curative care system
is of increasing concern. Recognizing this, the MSIO is already piloting an
integrated health system, in the two provinces of East Azerbaijan and Yazd,
which aims to improve the referral system through the introduction of family
physicians.
The sustainability of the growth monitoring sub-component of the nutrition
component depends upon whether the target group (i.e., mothers) changes its
current behaviors, instead practicing correct breastfeeding, weaning, and
intra-household distribution of food. The project focuses on proper care
taking, since this has been found to be the main limiting factor to the
adequate growth of young children. The behavioral change approach has been
successfully implemented in the SIBAK project in Iran, which achieved a
decrease in both wasting levels, from 6.1 percent to 1.8 percent, and
underweight levels, from 11 percent to 9 percent, in 2 years. Successful
international experience with this approach has been described by Berg (1987)
and Griffiths (1997) in Indonesia, the Dominican Republic, India, and Brazil.
Where access to adequate food is a limiting factor, weaning food will be
provided free of charge to children between the ages of 6 and 12 months. For
the first year of the project, a more sustainable strategy will be developed
in collaboration with NGOs; the Women's NGOs Umbrella Organization in
particular. Discussions are underway to commission women's groups to produce
a local weaning food at low cost.
7.      Lessons Learned from Previous Bank Involvement in the Country/Sector:
It is important to attempt to decentralize civil works management in a very
large country like Iran. In the ongoing project, civil works were grouped
into large lots, which made them difficult for the contractor to implement as
well as for the PIU to handle procurement (according to International
Competitive Bidding procedures) and supervise effectively. Therefore, it is
proposed that qualified local contractors, and private consulting engineers
located at the University    level, be relied upon in the coming project.
The Planning and Budget Office (PBO) is a key stakeholder and should be
closely involved in project preparation. The ongoing project suffered for
two-and-a-half years from a lack of support from PBO, and, therefore, from a
lack of budget allocated to its implementation. The PBO has been closely
involved in the preparation of this operation and in the sectoral dialogue,
and is in full agreement with the project objectives.
The successful Iodine Deficiency Disease Control program (90 percent of the
rural and 96 percent of the urban population consume iodized salt) has
demonstrated the capacity of the government system, as well as the ability of
the government and the private sector to work together. The project will
support the provision of weaning food to malnourished children between the
ages of 6 and 12 months, which will require collaboration with the private
sector.
In the ongoing project, the procurement of vehicles (750) needed for the PHC
- 4 -



network through the loan has been impossible due to the Government's policies
regarding imports. The Borrower will purchase the vehicles needed for this
new project with the counterpart funds.
8.      Poverty Category:   The project will target those regions where health
conditions are particularly poor and existing health services relatively
inadequate. The "deprivation rate" updated yearly by sector, and according
to the poverty line, is one of the criteria for selecting PHC facilities for
rehabilitation. Malnutrition activities are targeted to the 14 provinces
where malnutrition rates are the highest.
9.      Environmental Aspects:   It is expected that the project will have
limited adverse environmental impact; therefore, it will be classified within
Category "B." The major environmental issue will be the proper disposal of
clinical waste and the provision of water and sanitation. Proper disposal of
clinical waste will be monitored by the PIU, for which a checklist was
developed as part of the PIP. Provision of water and sanitation will be
undertaken as part of the engineering design of health centers and would be
included as part of the bidding document. In addition, for the purpose of
controlling and preventing any particular hazardous situation, the wastes of
the health centers will be collected and disposed of in an adequate manner.
The equipment and infrastructure components of the project will take into
consideration elements of environmental health in the formulation of the
subprojects (e.g., septic tanks). Also, the training of staff in the health
centers will help to ensure the safe disposal of clinical waste within the
PHC facility.
10.     Project Benefits:   The project would help sustain and improve the
delivery of PHC by the public sector, which covers about 85 percent of the
rural and 60 percent of the urban population. The PHC facilities to be
rehabilitated serve about 18 million people in rural and peri-urban areas,
mostly women and children. The project would improve the growth and
development of children, thereby reducing the consequences that malnutrition
and poor health impose in terms of schooling and productivity. Children
under 2 years of age and pregnant and lactating women are the targeted
population of the nutrition component, which will focus on both rural and
urban areas in the 14 of the 27 provinces where malnutrition rates (based on
the latest survey results) are higher than the national average.
11.     Program Objective category:   Environmentally sustainable development.
Contact Points:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Task Manager
Eva Jarawan
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
- 5 -



Telephone: (202) 473-4028
Fax:        (202) 477-8642
Sector Manager
George Schieber
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-7319
Fax:        (202) 477-0036
Note: This is information on an involving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending March 10, 2000.
- 6-



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the borrower
prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report is required, once it
is prepared and submitted to the Bank, in accordance with OP 4.01,
Environmental Assessment, it will be filed as an annex to the Public
Information Document (PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an EA annex;
the findings and recommendations of the EA will be reflected in the body of
the PID.
-7-



