Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20202-IRN
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$87.0 MILLION
TO THE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
FORA
SECOND PRIMARY HEALTH CARE AND NUTRITION PROJECT
April 3, 2000
Human Development Group
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate for the Project effective March 7, 2000)
Currency Unit = Irani Rial (IRR)
US$1 = IRR 8,200
IRR 1 = US$0.00012
FISCAL YEAR
March 21 - March 20
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CFO           Chief Financial Officer
CHV           Community Health Volunteer
DHC           District Health Center
FM            Financial Management
FO            Financial Officer
FP            Family Planning
FY            Fiscal Year
GDP           Gross Domestic Product
GNP           Gross National Product
GOI            Government of Iran
HH            Health House
ICB           Intemational Competitive Bidding
IEC           Information, Education, and Communication
IS            Intemational Shopping
KAP           Knowledge, Attitude, Practice (survey)
LACI          Loan Administration Change Initiative
MOF           Ministry of Finance
MOHME         Ministry of Health and Medical Education
MSIO          Medical Services Insurance Organization
NCB           National Competitive Bidding
OC            Oversight Committee
PBO           Planning and Budget Organization
PHC           Primary Health Care
PIP            Project Implementation Plan
PIU            Project Implementation Unit
PMR           Project Management Report
QCBS          Quality and Cost-based Selection
RHC           Rural Health Center
SA            Special Account
SBD           Standard Bidding Documents
SOE           Statement of Expenditure
SSO           Social Security Organization
TOR           Terms of Reference
UHC           Urban Health Center
UMSHS         University of Medical Sciences and Health Services
UNICEF        United Nations Children's Fund
WHO           World Health Organization
WHV           Woman Health Volunteer
Vice President:    Kemal Dervi§
Country Director:    Inder Sud
Sector Director:    Jacques Baudouy
Team Leader:      Eva Jarawan



Islamic Republic of Iran
Second Primary Health Care and Nutrition Project
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective .................................................................2
1. Project development objective .................................................................2
B. Strategic Context .................................................................2
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project ........2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy .................................................................2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices .................................5
C. Project Description Summary .................................................................6
1. Project components .................................................................6
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project .......................................6
3. Benefits and target population ...................                         ..............................................7
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements ..............................................................7
D. Project Rationale .................................................................8
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ...............................................8
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies  .9
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                                               .9
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership .10
5. Value added of Bank support in this project .10
E. Summary Project Analysis ...........................                                                                                   11
1. Economic ...........................                                                                                      11
2. Financial ...........................                                                                                      11
3. Technical ...........................                                                                                      12
4. Institutional ............................ 13
5. Social ...........................                                                                                         13
6. Environmental assessmnent ...........................                                                                      13
7. Participatory approach ........................... 13
F. Sustainability and Risks ...........................                                                                                   14
1. Sustainability ...........................                                                                                 14
2. Critical risks ........................... 15
3. Possible controversial aspects ...........................                                                                 15



G. Main Loan Conditions ........................                                 15
1. Prior to Effectiveness ........................ 15
2. Other ........................                                         16
H. Readiness for Implementation ........................                         17
I. Compliance with Bank Policies ........................                        17
Annexes
Annex 1.     Project Design Summary
Annex 2.     Project Description
Annex 3.     Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4.     Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary
Annex 5.     Financial Management
Annex 6.     Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A.  Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table B.  Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C.  Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Table D.  Procurement Plan
Annex 7.     Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8.     Documents in Project File
Annex 9.     Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 10.    Country at a Glance
Map IBRD 23593R1



Islamic Republic of Iran
Second Primary Health Care and Nutrition Project
Project Appraisal Document
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
Human Development Group
Date: April 3, 2000                                     Team Leader: Eva Jarawan
Country Manager/Director: Inder Sud                     Sector Director: Jacques Baudouy
Project ID: 69943                                            Sector: HY - Other Population, Health & Nutrition
Lending Instrument: Specific Investmnent Loan            Theme(s): Health/Nutrition/Population
Poverty Targeted Intervention:     [X] Yes   []  No
Project Financing Data     [X] Loan      [ ] Credit      [ ] Grant    [   Guarantee    [ ] Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$ m): US$87.0 million
Proposed terms:     [ ] To be defined       [ ] Multi-currency       [X] Single currency
[X] Standard Variable   [ ] Fixed              [X] LIBOR-based
Grace period (years):         5 (level) or 4 (annuity)
Years to maturity:                17
Commitment fee:                    .75%
Front-end fee on Bank loan:        1.0%
Financing plan^     --::-     -:-;::- ....  -:-
Government                                                      20.2                16.8              37.0
IBRD                                                            37.5               49.5               87.0
Total:                                57.7                66.3              124.0
* Figures have been rounded
Borrower: Government of Islamic Republic of Iran
Guarantor: N/A
Responsible agency: Ministry of Health and Medical Education (MOHME)
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):
FY        2001          202.          2003          24            20"    2- 06
Annual      10.0         18.0          16.0          17.0          18.0           8.0
Cumulative     10.0          28.0          44.0          61.0          79.0          87.0
Project implementation period: FY 2001-2005
Expected effectiveness date:   September 15, 2000                 Expected closing date: December, 31, 2005
Implementing agency:   Project Implementation Unit (PIU)
Contact person: Mr. Mohammadi, Project Manager, PIU
Address: PO Box. 15655-415, 371 Dr. Shariati Avenue, Tehran, Islamic Republic of Iran.
Tel: 98-21-767 631/32            Fax: 98-21-767 633               E-mail: piu <piu@neda.net>



Page 2
A.    Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective (see Annex I for Key performance indicators)
This project is a follow-up to the Primary Health Care (PHC) and Family Planning (FP) project (Loan 3584-IRN,
1993), a successful ongoing operation that focuses on improving the quality and coverage of PHC and FP services.
Overall, Iran has created an adequate primary health care system and achieved good results; however, as the figures
indicate, there are areas where gaps still exist, particularly in some rural andperi-urban areas. The main needs for
the system at present are to rehabilitate the old PHC infrastructure and replace old PHC equipment and vehicles. In
addition, malnutrition remains a serious problem despite the fact that health services delivered through the PHC
network deal directly with the main causes of mortality and morbidity among the population's higher risk groups.
The objective of the proposed project is to assist the Government of Iran (GOI) in improving health conditions in
rural and urban areas through: (i) sustaining access to, and the quality of, primary health care; and (ii) improving
the nutritional status of children under 2 years of age and of pregnant and lactating women. The project recognizes
that malnutrition is a multi-faceted problem that transcends sector boundaries. Therefore, a number of assessments
and situation analyses addressing the broader issues of nutrition will be included in the project design in order to
prepare for a future program. By the end of the project, an estimated 48 percent of the catchment population will
have benefited from the interventions.
B.    Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1)
Document number:               n/a
Date of latest CAS discussion:  n/a
Iran was an active borrower until the early 1970s when, following the oil revenue windfall, it graduated from
borrower status. Lending was resumed in 1990, following an earthquake when, as a result of the long war with
Iraq, incomes had again declined and the Government had initiated a program of economic reform and major
reconstruction. During the period 1990-1993, the Bank made six loans to Iran, totaling US$847 million. The loans
financed the Earthquake Recovery Project (Ln 3301-IRN), which has been successfully completed. The remaining
five operations currently under implementation are: the Sistan River Flood Works Rehabilitation Project
(Ln 3478-IRN), the Tehran Drainage Project (Ln 3479-IRN), the Irrigation Improvement Project (Ln 35700-IRN),
the Power Sector Efficiency Project (Ln 35830-IRN), and the Primary Health Care and Family Planning Project
(Ln 25840-IRN). The projects are all unsatisfactory status, both with respect to their development objective and
implementation progress. The total loan value of the portfolio is US$597 million, of which US$401 million has
been disbursed.
As there has been no lending to Iran since 1993, there is no current CAS. However, the health sector is a high
priority for the government and the proposed project addresses a key social need in the country: it targets those
rural areas where health conditions are particularly poor and existing health services are relatively inadequate.
Through the ongoing project, the Bank supports the GOI's policy on health care, which, in the short run,
emphasizes the extension of PHC to underserved areas and the expansion of FP services and, in the long run, seeks
to expand the types of services offered by the PHC network, and to adopt measures for the financial sustainability
of the health system.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy
Overview. The delivery of primary health care has been at the heart of the country's successes in raising the health
status of the population and reducing fertility rates over the past decade. The current annual population growth rate
is 1.5 percent - one of the lowest in the MNA region, where the average rate is 2.3 percent. The infant mortality



Page 3
rate is down to 26/1,000 live births (the MNA average is 54/1,000), maternal mortality is down to about
35/100,000 live births (the fifth lowest of the MNA countries) and immunization coverage, including for
hepatitis B, exceeds 90 percent. Of the 1.2 million children born each year, about 42,000 die before their fifth
birthday - 78 percent of whom die before one year of age - mainly as a result of prematurity and malnutrition. Life
expectancy at birth is 68 years for men and 70 for women (65 and 68, respectively, for the MNA region).
Epidemiologically, the country is passing through a transition, from a predominantly infectious disease burden to a
mixed picture where non-communicable diseases increasingly contribute to the patterns of morbidity and mortality.
The MOHME presides over the management of the State health system and regulates the provision of private and
NGOs' health care services. The Ministry is also responsible for the planning and management of medical
education through a unified structure that brings together the health network and the universities, responsible for
medical education at the provincial level, in a single management arrangement. The public sector is the main
provider of health care. At the village and community levels, the PHC network consists of Rural Health Centers
(RHCs), Urban Health Centers (UHCs), and Health Houses (HH1s). In rural areas, HHs provide basic preventive
and curative services and are supported by RHCs, which provide guidance, supervision, and referral services. In
urban areas, UHCs provide services similar to those of RHCs. At the secondary care level, District Health Centers
(DHCs) are responsible for the management of the PHC network, while district hospitals provide frontline referral
services for the network. A network of public and private hospitals located in the main cities provides tertiary care.
Regular supervision takes place at all levels, and effective data collection enables continuous monitoring and
evaluation of the services provided. The ability of the Ministry of Health and Medical Education (MOHME) to
train qualified paramedical personnel, and the satisfactory supply and use of medicines and other consumable items
- which is rare in developing countries - have been among the main strengths of the PHC network.
Sustaining access to, and improving the quality of, PHC services nationwide. Currently in a period of economic
hardship, MOHME is encountering difficulties in securing the budget necessary to sustain and upgrade rural and
urban health centers in terms of physical infrastructure, vehicles and essential equipment in some of the poor and
remote areas. The performance of those facilities, as reflected in their rates of utilization and consumer satisfaction,
is expected to suffer, thereby causing a major setback in terms of the country's health status achievements.
Nevertheless, staffing is not a critical issue. The PHC network is well staffed and one of its main strengths has been
the ability to train qualified paramedical personnel.
Malnutrition. While Iran has one of the lowest infant mortality rates in the region, its under-five malnutrition rate
is the third highest in the region (after Iraq and Yemen). Malnutrition of children under the age of five remains
particularly high in the provinces of Sistan & Baluchestan, Hormozgan, Kerman, Kohkilooyeh, Charmahal,
Khorasan, Zanjan, Yazd, Isfahan, Hamedan, Khoozestan, Kurdestan, Semnan, and Fars. Recent data reveal that
one out of every five children is chronically malnourished or stunted (low height for age) 1; this figure is even
higher for rural areas. Common causes for chronic malnutrition are long periods of food shortage, frequent illness,
poverty, and lack of proper care taking. Seven percent2 of all children under the age of five suffer from acute
malnutrition or wasting (low weight for height), the prevalence being higher in urban areas. Acute malnutrition
reflects the current nutrition status, and low weight for height usually follows illness or infection, diarrhea, or an
acute food shortage. Iron deficiency is a widespread problem as well. Among women in their childbearing years,
one out of every three suffers from iron deficiency ', and 17 percent have iron deficiency anemia, a leading
contributor to maternal mortality. Iran is officially not a vitamin A-deficient area, but it has always been an
endemic area for iodine deficiency. Universal salt iodization has been undertaken, and current usage by households
is estimated to be over 90 percent.
Intra-household maldistribution, insufficient care, and nutrition illiteracy.  The existence of significant
malnutrition - despite the fact that the average dietary intake includes 2600 calories and 70 grams of protein per day
1 Stunting: low height for age. Wasting: low weight for height. Underweight: low weight for age.
2 The threshold of 5 percent for acute malnutrition indicates a problem of national concern. International Conference on Nutrition (ICN),
1992.
3 Comparable to the regional average for the lower-middle income countries.



Page 4
- suggests the geographic and socio-economic maldistribution of the available foods. In fact, many small-scale
studies have shown that family food availability and adult food intake are indeed adequate in most areas in Iran,
which suggests intra-household maldistribution. As a result, growth faltering peaks during the second year of a
child's life in Iran. These children do not necessarily live in food-deficient households, nor are they necessarily
victims of economic poverty.  Rather, malnutrition is believed to be mainly a result of intra-household
maldistribution of food, inadequate care4, and nutrition illiteracy.
Lack of a comprehensive national nutrition program. Iran has ample institutional capacity for nutrition activities
- a Nutrition Unit under MOHME and the National Institute for Nutrition Research and Food Technology -
however, it lacks a concrete National Nutrition Program. Various strategies to reduce malnutrition have been
successfully implemented, but few have aimed at preventing malnutrition among young children. In addition, most
of the programs are carried out as pilots and have had limited impact at the national level.
Significant inefficiencies in the service delivery system. Weak coordination between the PHC system and the
curative care financing of the Medical Services Insurance Organization (MSIO) and Social Security Organization
(SSO) leads to inefficiency and waste. Furthermore, there is substantial over-capacity in parts of the public, and
possibly private, health delivery systems; yet both are expanding irrespective of underlying needs.
Inefficiencies in terms of health insurance and health expenditures. The revenue sources used to finance MSIO
and SSO are complex. Their transparency, efficiency and equity could be improved. Moreover, the voluntary
nature of MSIO and immediate eligibility for benefits lead to favorable selection on the part of individuals, raise
costs, and limit risk pooling across low- and high-risk groups. Similarly, the fee for service provider payment
system used by MSIO and SSO leads to inefficiency, cost escalation, and the provision of unnecessary services.
Furthermore, the very existence of multiple insurance systems leads to increased administrative costs, complex
management, inefficient risk-pooling, and a potentially unlimited liability on the Government to cover deficits.
Inadequate management of the health care system. Decision-making is too centralized and may not be responsive
to underlying local needs. Very few facilities use modem management techniques, and information technology is
lacking in both the overall system and in the management and operation of individual facilities. Critical data for
decision-making are lacking, making it difficult to evaluate the quality of care and level of consumer satisfaction.
Finally, there is little information on providers and insurers in the private sector.
Government Strategy. Since the early 1980s, the Government's health sector policies have focused on the delivery
of PHC as the main strategy by which to improve health and demographic conditions in the country, and they have
received strong political support. The positive relationship between the development of the PHC network and
recent improvements in health outcomes has been clearly established. According to MOHME, 85 percent of the
rural and 60 percent of the urban population are now covered by the Government's PHC network. In cities, the
population is also served by the private sector; except in a few peri-urban areas, where new rural migrants tend to
settle. While Government policy aims at 100 percent coverage under its PHC scheme, some rural areas pose a
problem as a result of remoteness, nomadism, and, in some cases, difficulty in recruiting behvarzes (community
health workers). Reaching these communities will be more costly and may require a different strategy. With
current economic exigencies, it is unlikely that coverage will be extended to these populations in the short-term.
Despite this problem, coverage is more or less complete; therefore, the Government is moving to ensure that
existing services are sustained and, where necessary, upgraded.
The GOI is testing new approaches in order to continue to improve the coverage and quality of its public health
services. For example in 1991, it pilot-tested the Urban Health Volunteer Scheme in four health centers. By the
end of 1998, the extended scheme had 40,000 volunteers, covering an urban population of about 12 million.
MOHME is also promoting decentralization and encouraging provinces to experiment with ways of improving the
provision and management of health care. It is also keen on addressing the financing issues.
4 Inadequate care refers to inadequate key family practices such as breastfeeding, weaning, sanitation and hygiene, the promotion of mental
and social development, etc.



Page 5
The GOI is also working on a comprehensive action plan for the reduction of malnutrition, and has commissioned
the development of a Food and Nutrition Security Plan. Also, an integrated, community-based pilot nutrition
project was initiated in 1996 in three provinces, the result of a joint collaboration between the Ministry of
Agriculture, MOHME, and UNICEF.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and Strategic choices
The proposed project will initiate some of the activities designed to address the prevailingsectoral issues described
above. It will aim at the following:
*  Protecting and upgrading access to, and the quality of, PHC Services. The project will assist the GOI in
sustaining its PHC services nationwide, ensuring that its stock of physical assets remains in good condition, and
that equipment needs are met. The Government has decided to focus, in the short run, on sustaining and
rehabilitating existing facilities, rather than extending further coverage to rural areas.
*  Reducing malnutrition of children under the age of two. Iran has achieved most of the goals set out by the
World Summit for Children (New York, NY, 1990). A reduction in malnutrition remains the only area in
which not enough progress has been made. Of the three major malnutrition determinants - sufficient food
intake, adequate care, and health status - indicators suggest that the adequate care aspect is the main
determinant for malnutrition in Iran; therefore, this will be the focus of the project interventions. The project
will provide families with the needed knowledge, skills, and motivation to take proper care of their children,
accomplishing this through counseling by trained primary health workers. Iran's well-structured health sector
provides an ideal opportunity to improve upon certain services that affect nutrition, such as growth monitoring,
the promotion of breastfeeding, and proper weaning counseling. The project will provide weaning food to
malnourished children between the ages of 6 and 12 months. Because the iron supplementation program for
pregnant women suffers from non-compliance, the project will include activities designed to improve
compliance, such as the training of health workers in counseling women on secondary effects. Inrecognizing,
however, that malnutrition is a multi-faceted problem that cuts across sectors, a number of assessments and
situation analyses will be included in the project design in order to prepare for a broader program.
*  Strengthening MOHME's capacity to increase efficiency of the systenm  The proposed project will build
capacity at both the central and regional levels in terms of management, financing, and health economics
through training, study tours, and operational studies. This would assist the GOI in beginning to address the
next order of problems that the health sector faces, mainly in the areas of insurance and hospital management.
Strategic choices. The Bank and the Government agreed to start with a simple operation focused on primary health
care, while collaboratively developing a broad health reform strategy. In particular, given the immediate needs of
the country, the GOI's mature PHC strategy - which is updated regularly - and the Bank's knowledge of the sector
through the ongoing project, it was decided that this operation be limited to the PHC sector and be specifically
focused on nutrition. Other issues mentioned in section B2 are equally important. However, there is no well-
conceived strategy on the part of the GOI for addressing those issues at this time. The definition of such a strategy
would require close coordination among many agencies and a consensus-building process. The GOI has expressed
a great deal of interest in conducting a comprehensive analysis of the health sector, which could serve as the basis
for a broader health reform program.



Page 6
C.     Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description; Annex 3 for a detailed cost breakdown)
Sustain access to, and improve the quality   Physical  -   91.2        73.5        60.2          65.9-
of, PHC by refulrbishing older PHC    investmnents
facilities, replacing old equipment, and
providing additional equipment.
Improve nutritional status of children  Institution        21.5        17.3        19.0          88.8
under 2 years of age and of pregnant and    building, policy,
lactating women through:              technical
(i) an extensive training component
focusing on IEC and social marketing;
(ii) strengthened growth monitoring
system, shifting the focus from monitoring
only to include promotion and provision of
weaning food to children between the ages
of 6 and 12 months;
(iii) institutional strengthening of the
nutrition departmnent; and
(iv) needs assessments, operational studies,
and situation analyses.
Capacity building through:            Institution           11.3       9.2          7.8          69.0
(i) improved PHC management training;    building
(ii) evaluation activities and operational
research; and
(iii) strengthened project management.
Total                      124.0       100         87.0          70.0
' All figures have been rounded.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project
The project focuses on maintaining the gains achieved in PHC. It will support the GOI's continued focus on the
delivery of PHC as the main strategy by which to improve health and demographic conditions in the country. It
will promote decentralization and encourage provinces to experiment with ways of improving the provision and
management of health care. It will also assist the GOI in addressing the financing issues through study tours and
operational studies. In the nutritional area in particular, the gains achieved so far are not sufficient. The project
establishes a system based on UNICEF's work to expand on nutrition interventions. It is expected to substantially
develop the capacity of the Nutrition Department at the MOHME as well as of the Nutrition Institute to prepare a
comprehensive plan of action for the reduction of malnutrition. Broader policy reforms are not addressed in this
operation because they would require additional technical work.



Page 7
3. Benefits and target population
The project will help sustain and improve the delivery of PHC by the public sector, which covers about 85 percent
of the rural and 60 percent of the urban population. The PHC facilities to be rehabilitated serve about 18 million
people in rural and peri-urban areas, mostly women and children. The project will improve the growth and
development of children, thereby reducing the consequences that malnutrition and poor health impose in terms of
schooling and productivity. Children under 2 years of age and pregnant and lactating women are the targeted
population of the nutrition component, which will focus on both rural and urban areas in the 14 of the 27 provinces
where malnutrition rates (based on the latest survey results) are higher than the national average.
The project includes poverty-targeted interventions and has been designed to disproportionately benefit the poor.
One of the criteria5 for the selection of health centers to be rehabilitated is the "extent of region deprivation". This is
a regional index that is determined on a yearly basis by the Planning and Budget Organization and is therefore
available. Similarly, the nutrition component will benefit disproportionately the poor population based on available
stunting data.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements
As this project is, to a large extent, a continuation of the ongoing operation, and given the satisfactory
implementation record of the current PIU, the following ongoing institutional and implementation arrangements
will be extended to the new project:
*  Executing agency.  MOHME is the executing agency of the project, and this is where the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) is located. While project implementation is the responsibility of the relevant
MOHME directorates, the project management functions (financial management, procurement, scheduling,
monitoring, controlling, evaluating, and reporting) are handled by the PIU (see paragraph below). The unit has
demonstrated its capacity to implement the ongoing PHC and FP project. The PIU, currently consisting of a
project manager, a procurement officer and an engineer who is also in charge of the project monitoring and
evaluation, will be strengthened through the recruitment of a health and nutrition specialist and a finance
officer. Details on the scope of work, level of qualifications, and number of administrative staff are available in
the Project Implementation Plan (PIP). The staff of the PIU will be trained to implement the Loan
Administration Change Initiative (LACI).
*  Project coordination. The PIU is responsible for the day-to-day coordination of all activities. Its manager
reports directly to the Deputy Minister for Logistics and Administrative Affairs at MOHME. In order to ensure
a smooth coordination with all departments at the Ministry, an Oversight Committee (OC) monitors project
progress and advises on measures to be taken to ensure its implementation. The OC is chaired by the Minister
of Health and Medical Education and gathers membership from the various relevant departments of MOHME,
Planning and Budget Organization (PBO), and the Ministry of Finance. During negotiations, the Government
gave assurances that: (i) the OC will be maintained; (ii) it will meet at least once every trimester during the
first year, and at least twice a year in subsequent years; and that (iii) conclusions of the meetings will be sent to
the Bank for information.
*  Accounting, financial reporting, and audit arrangements. Financial management arrangements for the
project are detailed in the PIP and summarized below. The borrower will manage the project in full compliance
with Bank requirements for accounting, auditing, and reporting. To this end, the PIU will be adequately staffed
to set up and maintain, under the Ministry's Chief Financial Officer (CFO), a project-dedicated financial
management system - including procurement tracking, accounting, financial reporting, and auditing - that will
provide complete, accurate, and timely information regarding project resources, commitments, and
expenditures. As part of the PIP, a Financial Management Manual, which documents the operation of the
project's financial management system, will be finalized by loan effectiveness. The manual will inter-alia
5 The total list of selection criteria is in the PIP



Page 8
contain a description of financial policies and procedures applicable to the project, channels and arrangements
regarding the flow of funds, the Financial Management system and sub-systems (i.e., budgeting, accounting,
and reporting), and internal controls. During negotiations, the Bank obtained confirnation of the recruitment of
the CFO and reviewed an updated action plan for the upgrading and implementation of the financial
management system. Effective implementation and operationality of those systems will be conditions for loan
effectiveness.
Furthermore, in compliance with the requirements of the LACI implementation guidelines, quarterly progress
reports on the project will include additional information about the project implementation and linkage to the
use of project funds. Therefore, it is intended that the disbursement of loan proceeds be based on quarterly
Project Management Reports (PMRs) prepared by the PIU and certified by the external auditors (under specific
TORs). Documentation, report formats, and conservation of documents were discussed during appraisal and
finalized during negotiations. A final assessment of the feasibility of PMR-based disbursement will be made
by effectiveness. If PMR-based disbursement are unfeasible at the outset, then traditional methods of
disbursement (full documentation, direct payment, and SOE) will be used during a transitional period. A
conversion to PMR-based disbursement will be made no later than twelve months after loan effectiveness, after
the system is operational and the reliability of the PMRs has been established.
An independent and qualified audit firm with staff experienced in similar audits will carry out an annual audit
of the project accounts. During negotiations, a short list of firms acceptable to the Bank was agreed upon. A
one year contract, renewable year by year, subject to annual performance satisfactory to the Government and
the Bank, will be concluded between the Borrower and the selected firm. Terms of reference for the annual
audits were agreed upon at negotiations, and cover all requirements for audit of the project accounts and review
of internal controls, to assure inter-alia reliability of the PMRs. Audit reports (consisting of auditors' opinion
and a management letter) will be submitted within six months following the end of each fiscal year. The cost
of such audits is incremental, and is therefore included in the project cost.
Monitoring and evaluation arrangements. Monitoring of activities will be done using existing channels and
methods. The Iranian PHC system is known for its ingenious system of ongoing data summaries, which
ensures very complete documentation. It is all paper-based, with computerization having only just begun at the
central and provincial levels. Under the institutional strengthening sub-component, computers will be provided
at the central and provincial levels in order to improve communication and the sharing of data.
The 1998 nutrition survey will be used as baseline data, and subsequent surveys will be conducted in the
targeted areas at both mid-term and project completion in order to evaluate the achievements of the nutrition
component. A rapid assessment of compliance with iron supplementation efforts will be conducted at the start
of the project, and follow-up assessments will occur at both mid-term and project completion as well. Nutrition
literacy will be evaluated at the beginning and end of the project by comparing nutrition knowledge and
behavior before and after the intervention. UNICEF will conduct technical audits on the growth monitoring
and behavior change strategies and their implementation throughout the project.
D.    Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection
The major alternative considered was a project with a much wider scope. The GOI had asked for Bank assistance
in several other areas, such as hospital management, the national medical emergency system, and hospital waste
management, in addition to PHC and nutrition. However, a project addressing all these issues would have been too
complex, would have required the preparation of a reform program and a plan of action and, therefore, would have
necessitated a much longer preparation time. It was therefore agreed with the Government to proceed with a
smaller operation that could be prepared relatively rapidly to meet pressing needs while initiating efforts for a
comprehensive review of the sector.



Page 9
Similarly, an alternative to the proposed nutrition component of the project would have been a nutrition project of a
much broader scope, which would include food security, poverty alleviation, and food safety issues. Again, before
embarking on a major operation, a careful analysis of the nutrition issues is needed. It is proposed that such an
analysis be carried out as part of the project's activities, which will make it possible to implement small, discrete
investments and capacity building efforts before extending to other sectors that affect nutritional status. Much of
the proposed activities are an extension of activities that have been piloted by MOHME in collaboration with
UNICEF, and have shown a positive impact.
Another alternative related to the nutrition component would have been to increase the target population to also
include school-aged children - particularly adolescent girls - who have strikingly high underweight rates. However,
management and implementation arrangements would have then become much more complex. It will be important
to keep these groups under consideration for future interventions.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (whether completed,
ongoing, or planned)
Agency                          rec                     Latest Supevison JForm  590)RatIngs
(Bank4nad prpjts only)
Implementation        Development
Progress (IP)       Objective (DO)
Bank-fmanced            Iran Population Project (928-IR)            Closed;            PCR prepared
Loan cancelled        (9/4/1981);
(12/31/1976)     OED report (2/1/1982)
Primary Health Care and Family Planning
Project (3584-IRN)                            S                    S
US$141.4 million (loan amount)
3/31/1993
UNICEF                  Behavioral Change in Nutrition and
Psycho-Social Development Project
UNICEF                   Integrated Community Nutrition Project
Food and Nutrition Security Plan
PBO/National Institute for  Food and Nutrition Security Project
Nutrition and Food
Technology Research
World Food Program      Food Supplementation
Food & Agriculture       Food Security and Nutrition Plan
Organization(FAO)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory); S (Satisfactory); U (Unsatisfactory); HU (Highly Unsatisfactory).
As seen in the above table, there is very little donor involvement in the sector.
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design
* It is important to attempt to decentralize civil works management in a very large country like Iran. In the
ongoing project, civil works were grouped into large lots, which made them difficult for the contractor to
implement, as well as for the PIU to handle procurement (according to International Competitive Bidding
procedures) and supervise effectively. Therefore, it is proposed that qualified local contractors, and private
consulting engineers located at the University 6 level, be relied upon in the coming project.'
6 MOHME is also responsible for medical education. The chancellor of the university is responsible for health services in the geographical
area covered by the university. Most provinces have only one university, except for Tehran (which has four) and other large provinces.



Page 10
* The Planning and Budget Organization (PBO) is a key stakeholder and should be closely involved in project
preparation. The ongoing project suffered for two-and-a-half years from a lack of support from PBO and,
therefore, from a lack of budget allocated to its implementation. The PBO has been closely involved in the
preparation of this operation and in the sectoral dialogue, and is in full agreement with the project objectives.
* The successful Iodine Deficiency Disease Control program (90 percent of the rural and 96 percent of the urban
population consume iodized salt) has demonstrated the capacity of the government system, as well as the ability
of the government and the private sector to work together. The project will support the provision of weaning
food to malnourished children between the ages of 6 and 12 months, which will require collaboration with the
private sector.
* The ongoing project has suffered from the fixed, low exchange rate'; that resulted in the downsizing of some
activities, particularly civil works. Therefore, a rate closer to the market rate will be used for this project.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership
The objectives, scope, and content of the project are a subset of the Government's strategy. A fully staffed
preparation team was appointed during identification and has been meeting regularly at MOHME, under the Deputy
Minister's leadership, to follow up on project preparation. The PBO has presented to Parliament a proposed
national budget that includes a line allocation for this new operation. The proposed budget has already been
approved, thus overcoming a major obstacle that the ongoing project faced in the first two years after effectiveness;
namely, the unavailability of counterpart funds. Moreover, the PBO is already financing the Food and Nutrition
Security Study, and it is hoped that the study will produce viable recommendations for the national development
plan of 2000-2004.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project
In the last decade, despite lack of donor support, Iranian Government has given high priority to social sectors and as
a result, living conditions, including health outcomes, have improved. However, about 10 million people (nearly
2 million households) are considered to live in poverty: statistics compiled by the Iran Planning Institute show that
the poverty rate (defined as population consuming less than 2200 calories per day) was at 17.6 percent in 1995. In
addition, the slow economic growth in recent years has led to declining budgetary resources allocated to PHC
services. Fiscal constraints may undermine achieved social results, and the most vulnerable groups, such as
children and women, could be negatively affected by lower expenditures in social sectors. With the exception of
the UN, Iran does not receive any significant external aid for its social sector activities. In the nutrition sector, the
Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) and World Food Program (WFP) are active, but mainly in terms of
providing food security. In addition, MOHME and UNICEF are coordinating initiatives to improve nutritional
status through changes in health and care taking. However, inputs from UNICEF (US$1.7 million) alone cannot
sufficiently improve the condition of women and children in a country of 60 million people. In these circumstances
and given that one of the most effective tools for reducing poverty is to invest in children and young women s
health, Bank operation can help to: (i) improve living conditions for low-income groups through rehabilitating
health centers in deprived regions and improve the nutrition status of children; (ii) consolidate achievements in
basic social services despite tight fiscal constraints; and (iii) contribute to the preparation of a comprehensive health
sector strategy aimed at upscaling national efforts in this sector.
7The official exchange rate is IRR 1,750 to the dollar; however, the market rate has been steadily increasing during the duration of the
project and is now about IRR 8,200.



Page 11
E.    Summary Project Analysis (detailed assessments are in the project file - see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4)
As evidenced by positive trends for several health indicators, Iran achieved significant progress in terms of health
outcomes in the past decade. During this period, PHC services received nearly 40 percent of the Government's
health budget. However, due to a recent downturn in economic growth, the actual resources available for PHC
services have declined. The economy is faced with high inflation (24 percent in 1998-99), an overvalued currency,
a widening trade deficit as imports rise rapidly, and a severe lack of the financial resources needed for
reconstruction and development. Iran's future economic development depends not only on good fiscal management
and enhanced private sector development, but also on a healthy, educated population to supply its labor force.
In light of the above economic circumstances, the proposed project is designed to fulfill the most immediate health
concerns of the population, while remaining cost-effective and keeping incremental recurrent costs to a minimum.
Because today's children will constitute the foundation of the Iranian economy of tomorrow, improving the health
and nutritional status of children and pregnant and lactating women should be viewed as a means by which to
achieve long-term economic growth and stability. According to the 1993 World Development Report, nutrition
education, micronutrient supplementation, and the growth monitoring of children are among the ten least expensive
child health interventions. In addition, because the health facilities to be rehabilitated under this project are already
in existence and have a maintenance budget, it is assumed that the incremental recurrent costs of maintaining them
will be close to zero.
In terms of improving the efficiency and effectiveness of the PHC system, the project is expected to result in
potential savings through: (i) lower treatment costs due to a reduction in the cost of hospital admissions as a result
of early detection and treatment; and (ii) lower cost for the provision of a service at a lower level of care. It should
be noted, however, that a better-functioning referral system could increase hospital utilization through the increased
capacity to detect cases that require hospitalization. Nevertheless, the savings from gains as indicated in (i) and
(ii) above will offset, or at least reduce, the increased costs that would result from an increase in the utilization of
hospitals. In addition, these costs and savings do not reflect the external benefits to be gained from the project,
which may include reductions in mortality and morbidity rates and increases in productivity for those benefiting
from the project. Thus, overall it is expected that the potential benefits of the project will outweigh its costs.
2. Financial (see Annex 5) NPV=US$ N/A Million; FRR= N/A %
The Borrower will manage the project in full compliance with the Bank's requirements for accounting, auditing,
and reporting. Since the existing accounting and reporting system does not allow for adequate classification and
rapid reporting, the PIU will be adequately staffed to setup and maintain a project-dedicated financial management
system - including procurement tracking, accounting, and financial reporting capabilities and auditing arrangements
- that will adequately provide complete, accurate, and timely information regarding project resources,
commitments, expenditures, and acquired assets. At the time of appraisal, a Financial Management Manual that
documents the operation of the project financial management system was under preparation. The manual will
inter-alia contain a description of the financial management system in terms of budgeting, accounting, and
reporting guidelines; financial policies, procedures, and internal controls; and the flow of funds. At the time of
appraisal, the Government had already selected the Financial Officer, as well as a private certified accounting firm
to (i) upgrade the existing accounting system; and (ii) design and install the system required to produce the Project
Management Reports (PMRs) and train the PIU's staff.
An independent and qualified audit firm with staff experienced in similar audits will carry out audits of the project
accounts. In order to ensure inter-alia the reliability of PMRs, Terms of Reference for the annual audits that cover
all requirements for auditing the project accounts and reviewing internal controls have been prepared and were
s Especially for treatments that, if not detected early enough, would require expensive care.



Page 12
deemed acceptable by the Bank. During negotiations, a short list of audit firms acceptable to the Bank was agreed
upon. A contract for the first three years of the project will be concluded between the Borrower and the selected
firm. This contract, however, will be subject to annual performance satisfactory to the Bank. Audit reports
(consisting of the auditors' opinion and a management letter) will be submitted within six months following the end
of each fiscal year. The cost of such audits is incremental and therefore included in the project cost.
In compliance with the requirements of the LACI implementation guidelines, quarterly PMRs will include
additional information linking the project's physical progress to the use of funds. Report formats have been
discussed and are included in the PIP. Therefore, it is intended that the disbursement of loan proceeds be based on
quarterly PMRs. However, a final decision as to the feasibility of PMR-based disbursement from the start of the
project will be made at effectiveness. In the event that the PMR-based disbursement is unfeasible at the outset, the
Bank will instead use the traditional disbursement methods. A conversion to PMR-based disbursement will be
made not later than twelve months after loan effectiveness, once the dedicated system is operational and the
reliability of the PMRs has been established.
The equipment purchased under the first component of this project will include adult and baby scales, which have
low maintenance costs, and X-rays for the very few peri-urban health centers to be rehabilitated, which will account
for the bulk of the maintenance costs. Maintenance of the equipment purchased under this component will
therefore require US$214,000 per year, which is less that 1 percent of the Government's recurrent health budget
and could therefore be sustained beyond project completion. Similarly, maintenance funds required to sustain the
rehabilitation building during the project period are estimated to be less than 0.5 percent of the annual allocated
maintenance budget and hence likewise sustainable.
The assessment of the financial needs for the nutrition training (US$3.8 million) is based on MOHME's statistical
data related to numbers of personnel in the targeted provinces (10,000 health facility staff, 15,000 Behvarzes and
20,000 Community Health Volunteers/CHV) and the actual costs for the training provided by UNICEF from their
pilot nutrition project.
3. Technical
The project is based on the successful experience of the country in terms of PHC. The "Master Health Plan" for the
period 1983-2002, and the resulting PHC program that was launched in 1984, have given priority to basic curative
care and preventive activities over sophisticated hospital care, and focus strictly on the population at highest risk,
particularly in deprived rural areas. The program is continuously updated to reflect epidemiological and population
changes, such as the increasing population migration to peri-urban areas. MOHME has developed a standard list of
equipment for its PHC facilities and is using it in the ongoing operation. The same rules will apply to the proposed
project.
Overall, the PHC network in Iran has performed well in addressing the main needs of the population, and it has
been acclaimed by the international community as one of the best PHC systems in the world. The team at
MOHME, which worked with the Bank team to prepare the PHC component, is qualified and includes seasoned
technical experts. Lessons learned from previous nutrition projects, the most recent one being the Integrated
Community Nutrition Project, were incorporated into the preparation of the nutrition component. It is a
collaborative effort of MOHME, UNICEF, the Ministry of Agriculture, the National Institute for Nutrition and
Food Technology, and the Tehran School of Public Health. In its third year of implementation, it has shown
positive results and discussion is underway to upscale it. Preparation of this project has involved senior experts
from all of the above institutions.



Page 13
4. Institutional
Executing agencies. MOHME has experience in implementing a Bank-financed operation, as it is currently
successfully implementing the PHC and FP project. Its procurement and financial systems are consistent with Bank
guidelines and are therefore acceptable.
Project management. The PIU, located at MOHME, will be responsible for the day-to-day coordination of all
activities, and will report directly to the Deputy Minister for Logistics and Administrative Affairs at MOHME. The
PIU, which has been coordinating project preparation, has successfully managed the ongoing project; however,
given the additional load that this new project will bring, the PIU will be significantly reinforced and staffed
accordingly. With respect to civil works, experience gained from the ongoing project confirms that a centralized
approach would be very difficult and inefficient given the nature (small rehabilitation), scattering of the works, and
large distances involved. Therefore, these activities will be decentralized to the regions and implemented by the
Technical Units of each of the 39 universities9.
The Nutrition Department of MOHME, which will manage the nutrition component, has an excellent track record
of managing successful programs, such as the Iodine Deficiency Disease program. The National Institute for
Nutrition Research and Food Technology has ample experience carrying out research and surveys, and has an
advantage in that it encompasses the School for Nutrition; hence, it will contribute to capacity building.
5. Social
The project is expected to have a positive social impact. It targets population groups in rural andperi-urban areas
where there is a need to improve and sustain PHC services. By contributing to the improvement of the nutritional
status of women and children, the project has a clear gender focus. It will contribute to the self-empowerment of
women by helping them take action to better the nutrition of their children and community. In addition, the project
will increase awareness about nutrition problems in the community and make it a common responsibility. UNICEF
has carried out numerous social assessments, such as the Review of the Provinces, two Qualitative Youth Studies,
and a study on the Status of Girls and Women in Kurdestan. Their findings are reflected in the preparation of this
project.
6. Environmental assessment  Environmental Category      [  A   [X] B   [ ] C
It is expected that the project will have limited adverse environmental impact; therefore, it will be classified in
Category "B." The major environmental issue will be the proper disposal of clinical waste and the provision of
water and sanitation. Proper disposal of clinical waste will be monitored by the PIU, for which a checklist was
developed as part of the PIP. Provision of water and sanitation will be undertaken as part of the engineering design
of health centers and will be included as part of the bidding document. In addition, for the purpose of controlling
and preventing any particular hazardous situation, the wastes of the health centers will be collected and disposed of
in an adequate manner. The equipment and infrastructure components of the project will take into consideration
elements of environmental health in the formulation of the subprojects (e.g., septic tanks). Also, the training of
staff in the health centers will help to ensure the safe disposal of clinical waste within the PHC facility.
7. Participatory approach
Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups. Community and local groups' participation was achieved
through site visits and discussions. The Behvarzes and the Community Health Volunteers (CHVs) come from the
local communities served by the PHC facility where they work, and have provided valuable feedback during
preparation. In terms of nutrition, the project has used feedback obtained from UNICEF, which has been an active
9 The chancellor of the university is also responsible for the management and for the provision of all health services in the designated region.



Page 14
partner in project preparation and relies heavily on community and NGOs' feedback when designing its pilot
projects.
Otker key stakeholders. The participation of key official stakeholders was especially sought, particularly that of
officials from the PBO, who will influence future budgetary allocation for the project activities and are particularly
concerned with sustainability issues. The team also conducted thorough discussions with representatives from the
main health insurance organizations (MSIO and the Imam Khomeini Foundation) for consultation and information
sharing purposes. The participation of local officials was sought as part of the process of defining a strategy for
determining which PHC facilities will be rehabilitated, as well as with respect to the preparation of the situation
analysis that served as the basis for selection (see Annex 2, civil works). For the nutrition component, in addition to
the Department of Nutrition (our main counterpart), extensive contacts were made with UNICEF, FAO, WHO,
UNFPA, the National Institute for Nutrition and Food Technology, the Institute for Research and Planning, and the
School of Public Health at Tehran University.
F.    Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability
Because the health facilities to be rehabilitated are already in existence and have routine maintenance budgets, it is
assumed that the net incremental recurrent costs of maintaining them will be negligible. However, it must be noted
that, aside from aging, some of the need to upgrade and rehabilitate these facilities arises due to the systematic
under-funding of periodic maintenance in the past. Recognizing this, the Government's budget since 1997 has
included a line item for the maintenance of rural health facilities. It is estimated that sustaining rehabilitation
efforts undertaken by this project will require about 1 percent of the annual maintenance budget, an amount that is
both affordable and sustainable.
Sustainable implementation of this project will improve access to lower-level facilities, and thus the utilization of
such services. This, in turn, is expected to result in: (i) a reduction in the demand for hospital ambulatory care
services that could be provided at a lower level of service; (ii) a reduction in the demand for expensive hospital care
at secondary and tertiary facilities for some conditions that could be treated using less-expensive technology if
detected earlier; and (iii) an increase in the demand for hospital in-patient services through better and timely
detection, at the lower-level facilities, of conditions that would require hospitalization. Realization of these
potential outcomes, however, depends on the existence of a functioning referral system that integrates the entire
health system. Therefore, the lack of coordination between the Government-financed PHC system and the
MSIO/SSO-financed secondary and tertiary curative care system is of increasing concern. Recognizing this, the
MSIO is already piloting an integrated health system, in the two provinces of East Azerbaijan andYazd, which
aims to improve the referral system through the introduction of family physicians.
The sustainability of the growth monitoring sub-component of the nutrition component depends uponwhether the
target group (i.e., mothers) changes its current behaviors and practices instead, correct breastfeeding, weaning, and
intra-household distribution of food. The project focuses on proper care taking, since this has been found to be the
main limiting factor to the adequate growth of young children. The behavioral change approach has been
successfully implemented in the SIBAK project in Iran, which achieved a decrease in both wasting levels, from 6.1
to 1.8 percent, and underweight levels, from 11 to 9 percent, in 2 years. Successful international experience with
this approach has been described by Berg (1987) and Griffiths (1997) in Indonesia, the Dominican Republic, India,
and Brazil. Where access to adequate food is a limiting factor, weaning food will be provided free of charge to
children between the ages of 6 and 12 months. For the first year of the project, a more sustainable strategy will be
developed in collaboration with NGOs, the Women's NGOs Umbrella Organization in particular. Discussions are
underway to commission women's groups to produce a local weaning food at low cost.



Page 15
2. Critical risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1)
From Outputs to Objective
Possible shifts in priorities within the Health &  N       *  Government commitment to PHC and nutrition is
Nutrition sector with changes in the administration.           strong and is unlikely to weaken with political
changes.
*  Wide participation of stakeholders
From Components to Outputs
Insufficient and/or untimely allocation of budget for  M   *  Engaging PBO from the initial stages of project
project                                                        preparation.
*  Low level of incremental operating costs of the
project.
*  Budget for the first year has already been made
available.
Lack of continued cooperation and coordination     M       .  Important role of the Oversight Committee
between MOHME and the PBO with respect to this             *  Continued   involvement   of   PBO    during
project.                                                       implementation
Inadequate coordination  within  MOHME  with       M       *  Important role of the Oversight Committee
respect to this project                                    .  Commitment of the Minister of Health and Medical
Education
*  Assigning  clear  responsibilities  for  project
implementation
*  Providing PIU  with status that guarantees its
credibility and authority
*  Positive experience with on-going project.
Overall Risk Rating      M
Risk Rating: H (High Risk); S (Substantial Risk); M (Modest Risk); N (Negligible or Low Risk).
3. Possible controversial aspects
No controversy is anticipated as the project has the full support of the Government and the population.
G.    Main Loan Conditions
1. Prior to effectiveness
* PIU staff appointed
* Financial Management Manual approved by the Bank
* Recommendations of Procurement Assessment in place



Page 16
2. Other (classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements)
*  Implementation of the civil works will conform to the selection criteria agreed upon during negotiations.
*  There will be annual implementation reviews during which previous year's progress and coming year's
program and investment will be agreed by the Bank and the Government. The first of these will be an Early
Implementation Review around 12 months after loan effectiveness. The third annual review will be the mid-
term review.
*  Training to be provided under this project will be discussed and agreed upon annually.
*  A PIU acceptable to the Bank will be maintained throughout the project.
*  The required yearly project counterpartfunding will be allocated to MOHME's budget in a timely manner.
*  Accounting and auditing. Project accounts and the Special Account will be audited by an independent auditor
deemed acceptable by the Bank.
*  Procurement. To ensure full compliance with the Bank's procurement guidelines, the Bank's Standard
Bidding Documents will be used.
*  Monitoring and evaluation. The PIU will: (i) be designated with the responsibility of monitoring the progress
of the project against agreed-upon performance indicators; and (ii) forward semi-annual progress reports to the
Bank which summarize the status of project implementation and financial records; constraints faced and
corrective actions to be taken; a work plan for the subsequent six months; and an update of the agreed-upon
monitoring indicators. In addition, the PIU will prepare a detailed mid-term report to serve as the basis for a
project mid-term review, scheduled to occur three years after loan effectiveness.
* Adequate space will be identified for the Nutrition Department under MOHIMB.



Page 17
H.    Readiness for Implementation
[X]    1. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of project
implementation.
[X]   2. The Project Implementation Plan (PIP) has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
1.    Compliance with Bank Policies
[X]   1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[N/A] 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
, J O/A)A,00
Eva Jarawan _          -
Team Leader
AU
Jacques Baudouy
Sector Director
Ct_- XA
Inder Sud
Country Director






Annex I
Page I of 2
Islamic Republic of Iran: Second PHC and Nutrition Project
Project Design Summary
Sector-related CAS Goal:       Sector Indicators:              Sector / Country Reports:       (from Goal to Bank
Mission)
Poverty alleviation            *   Key maternal and child      MOHME/Central Statistics        *   Continued political
health statistics          Office (CSO) Health                  commitment
*   IMR                        Development Surveys: one        *   Stable economic
*   CMR                        during first year of project and     situation
*   Prevalence of malnutrition   one after project completion
* Maternal mortality ratio
Project Development            Outcome / Impact                Project Reports:                (from Objective to
Objective:                     Indicators:                                                     Goal):
To sustain and improve health                                                                  Administrative and
conditions in rural and poor                                                                   political stability at the
urban areas through:                                                                           central and provincial
levels
(i) sustaining access to, and the   *   Increased level of client  *   Independent client surveys
quality of, PHC; and                satisfaction with PHC      *   MOHME utilization
services                       surveys
*   Increased utilization rates
(ii) improving the nutritional  *   Reduction by 30% in the    *   MOHME/CSO health
status of children under 2 years   targeted provinces' of the       status monitoring and
of age and of pregnant and          proportion of children          periodic surveys
lactating women.                    under 2 years of age who    *   MOHME/UNICEF multi-
are malnourished               cluster periodic surveys
*   Reduction by 25% of the
proportion of pregnant
women with iron
deficiency anemia
1 The following experiences are used as the basis to estimate a 30 percent reduction in stunting and wasting prevalence among children under
2 years of age: (i) the SIBAK project in Iran achieved a decrease in wasting levels, from 6.1 to 1.8 percent, and underweight levels, from 11
to 9 percent, in 2 years; and (ii) the Indonesia Nutrition Development Program, 1979-1981, supported by the World Bank, with growth
promotion and nutrition education as its main components, found a 50 percent decrease among the participating groups. The latest
ACC/SCN publication reports that the reduction of underweight prevalence commonly associated with behavior change projects is 1-2
pp/yr for the national average. Examples of overviews of such programs which tend to show this effect include: "Managing Successful
Nutrition Programmes," ACC/SCN, 1991; "Feeding Latin America's Children," Musgrove, 1991; "Targeted Nutrition Interventions,"
Pinstrup Andersen, 1991; and "Overcoming Global Hunger," Serageldin, World Bank, 1993.



Annex I
Page 2 of 2
Output from each             Output Indicators:           Project Reports:         (from Outputs to
component:                                                                         Objective):
1.1 Improved PHC facilities    *  Physical progress of civil   *  Progress reports  No political and
works by lots of HHs,                             administrative changes that
RHCs, and UHCs                                    may affect ownership.
*  # of re-equipped, newly-    *  MOHME statistics
renovated HHs and RHCs
*  # of selected UHCs with    *  MOHME statistics
operable X-ray
2.1 Improved nutritional     *  Improved compliance-    *  Behavior change
services                        from 40 to 800/o-with        studies
iron supplementation
programs
*  Improved functional       *  MOHME statistics
nutrition literacy at the
household level
*  # and proportion of
Behvarzes and CHWs and
other health personnel
trained
3.1 Improved management of   *  # of management trainers   To be confirmed annually
PHC facilities                  trained
*  # of management courses
offered
3.2 Operational research in  *  # of operational studies  To be confirmed in annual
systems and financing           undertaken                project plan
conducted
Project Components/Sub-      Inputs (budget for each      Project Reports:         (from Components to
components:                  component):                                           Outputs):
1. Sustain and improve PHC    US$91.2M                                             Sufficient and timely
clinical service environment                                                       allocated budget for the
and delivery                                                                       project.
2. - Improve services that affect  US$21 .5M                                       Continued cooperation and
nutritional status of children                                                     coordination between
under 2 years of age and of                                                        MOHME and PBO with
pregnant and lactating women.                                                      respect to the project.
3. Capacity building         US$11.3M                                              Adequate coordination within
MOHME with respect to the
project.



Annex 2
Page I of 7
Islamic Republic of Iran: Second PHC and Nutrition Project
Project Description
Component 1.  Sustain Access to, and the Quality of, Primary Health Care (US$91.2 million;
74 percent of project costs)
The delivery of primary health care (PHC) has been at the heart of the country's success in both raising the health
status of the population and reducing fertility over the past decade. The annual population growth rate has
decreased to 1.5 percent. The infant mortality rate is down to 26/1,000 live births, maternal mortality is down to
about 35/100,000 live births, and immunization coverage - including for hepatitis B - exceeds 90 percent. Of the
1.2 million children born each year, about 42,000 die before their fifth birthday - 78 percent of these before the age
of one - mainly as a result of prematurity and low birth weight. Life expectancy at birth is 68 years for men and 70
for women. Epidemiologically, the country is passing through a transition, from a predominately infectious disease
burden to a mixed picture, where non-communicable diseases increasingly contribute to the patterns of morbidity
and mortality.
Access to health care is no longer a serious problem. According to the Ministry of Health and Medical Education
(MOHME), 85 percent of the rural and 60 percent of the urban population is now covered by the Government's
PHC network. In cities, the population is also served by the private sector, so that 96-99 percent of the population
has access to care; however, in some peri-urban areas, where new rural migrants tend to settle, the situation is not
so advantageous. While Government policy aims at universal coverage under its PHC scheme, some rural areas
pose a problem as a result of remoteness, nomadism, and, in some cases, difficulty in recruiting behvarzes
(community health workers). Reaching these communities will incur higher unit-service costs, and a modification
of its otherwise successful strategy might be necessary. With current economic exigencies, it is unlikely that
coverage will be extended to this portion of the population in the short term. So, with coverage more or less
complete, the Government is moving to ensure that existing services are sustained at the current high level, while
attempting to lower costs as well.
In rural areas, coverage is ensured through a network of Rural Health Centers (RHCs) and Health Houses (HHs)
manned by two health workers (behvarzes). At the RHC, one or two doctors, who are assigned for a two-year
period, are supported by several technicians, who have received two years' training following their school diploma,
and nurse aides. The behvarzes come from the community, and, as a result, come to know their approximately
1,500 fellow citizens very well. They are able to follow up with cases in need and check for delinquency in such
programs as immunization and family planning. They represent an extremely effective instrument of public health
policy and are a major reason for the country's improved health status. TheHHs are well supported with a 74-item
list of supplies - including 54 drugs and a motorcycle - and, in most cases, they are linked by telephone to the
RHCs. These communication tools are the means by which the system is held together and have made an important
contribution to the efficiency of the PHC network.
In serious cases, patients may be immediately referred by the behvarz to the doctor at the RHC. If the problem is
less serious, then the RHC doctor may care for the patient during one of his weekly or biweekly visits to the HH.
Such visits are made possible through the use of a car with which each RHC is provided. They are also the means
by which HHs are re-supplied, and managerial and supervisory functions are fulfilled at this time as well. Each
RHC may be responsible for supporting up to 5 or 6 HHs.
Management support is provided by District Health Centers (DHCs), which are the lowest independent unit in the
health system's management hierarchy.  The country's 220 DHCs have the responsibility of supporting,
supervising, and monitoring the PHC network.



Annex 2
Page 2 of 7
The provision of services in urban areas follows a somewhat different pattern. Generally, there are Urban Health
Centers, with HHs in only a few locations. Instead of developing more urban HHs, the Government introduced a
program to recruit Women Health Volunteers (WHVs) to work with UHCs in an outreach capacity. There are now
about 40,000 such women functioning, and their role is somewhat akin to that of the behvarzes. While they receive
no preliminary training, they are trained on a weekly basis once they become volunteers. As with all volunteer
organizations, there is an attrition rate of about 5-10 percent, so new recruitment is a constant activity.
While many Government UHCs are located in areas where the public has access to alternative services in the
private sector, this is not universally true. The marked shift of the rural population towards the cities (the urban
population now accounts for close to 60 percent of the country's 60 million people) has led to the development of
peri-urban areas, where conditions are poorer and alternative services are less available. In order to improve
services, the Government has identified UHCs which need to increase their diagnostic capacity and level of services
in order to mitigate the disadvantages felt by the peri-urban poor in their ability to access quality services. The
Government recognizes that this continual population shift may require the further development of the UHC
network in the future.
No new facilities are planned. Instead, Government attention has now turned toward consolidating its PHC system,
ensuring that its stock of physical assets remains in good condition, replacing old equipment and acquiring
additional equipment. The Bank will support three elements of this program: (i) the physical refurbishment of
older buildings (civil works); (ii) the provision of medical equipment; and (iii) the provision of transportation
(vehicles).
Civil works. The project will physically rehabilitate selected HHs, RHCs, UHCs, DHCs, and Behvarz Training
Centers that are more than 10 years old. Prior to appraisal, MOHMEI held a workshop with the regional
representatives and agreed on a methodology and on criteria for the selection of the PHC facilities to be upgraded.
In addition to the physical requirements, such as brick and mortar, one of the selection criteria is the poverty level
of the region, using a "deprivation index" determined by the Planning and Budget Organization. A complete list of
criteria is included in the PIP. A broad costing for the five-year period has been done, and the civil works and
equipping will be phased over the next 4.5 years. In the first 6 months, each province will prepare a situation
analysis that will serve as the basis for selection and any subsequent rehabilitation program. During negotiations, a
list of health centers to be rehabilitated in the first year of implementation was given to the Bank team. The list is
included in the PIP and annexed to the minutes of negotiations.
Medical equipment. It has been proposed that some equipment items be replaced, and that additional equipment be
provided in some cases. For instance, this includes the provision of X-ray equipment to selectedUHCs where the
community lacks ready access to such diagnostic capabilities (provided by neither the public nor the private sector).
MOHME has standard lists for the equipment in PHC facilities, and these are the basis for equipping theRHCs in
the ongoing project. As with civil works, equipment requirements will be finalized during the first year of the
project, after the requests from the provinces have been evaluated on the basis of the strategy agreed upon during
appraisal.
Vehicles. Much of the vehicular fleet is aging, and there is increasing difficulty in maintaining the fleet, thus
enabling officials to carry out their duties. The time has come to replace the older vehicles, whether cars or
motorcycles, in order to sustain the effectiveness of the PHC program. The distribution by type of vehicle and by
PHC facility will be based on the strategy outlined above for civil works and equipment.



Annex 2
Page 3 of 7
Component 2.   Improve Nutritional Status of Children under 2 years of age and
Pregnant and Lactating Women (US$21.5 million; 17 percent of project costs)
Based on the assessment of the main nutrition problems in Iran, the objectives, as well as the actions necessary to
reach those objectives, are described below. The focus of the project to be implemented through the health sector is
on two nutrition problems: (i) growth faltering among children under two years of age; and (ii) micronutrient
deficiencies. The nutrition transition-related problems, such as over-nutrition and cardiovascular disease, as well as
those related to food security, food safety, and food policy, will be addressed in future investments. This project
will therefore include preparatory work, such as situation assessments and surveys, which will document the
problems and begin identifying possible interventions. The focus of the project is on improving the weight gain of
children and the nutritional status of pregnant and lactating women through interventions that are intended to
change behavior. This approach has been successfully implemented in the SIBAK project in Iran, which achieved a
decrease in wasting levels, from 6.1 percent to 1.8 percent, and underweight levels, from 11 percent to 9 percent, in
2 years. International experience with this approach exists in Indonesia, the Dominican Republic, India, and Brazil
(Berg, 1987; Griffiths, 1997).
Objectives and scope. The objectives of the nutrition component are to: (i) prevent growth faltering' in children
under two years of age; (ii) resume and improve the weight gain of severely and moderately malnourished children
under 2 years of age; (iii) decrease the prevalence of iron deficiency anemia among pregnant women; and
(iv) improve functional nutritional literacy at the household level.
The nutrition component will target those provinces that have stunting rates higher than the national average of
22 percent for rural areas, as well as those with wasting rates higher than the national average of 5.6 percent for
urban areas: these include Sistan & Baluchestan, Hormozgan, Kermnan, Kohkilooyeh, Charmnahal, Khorasan,
Zanjan, Yazd, Isfahan, Hamedan, Khoozestan, Kurdestan, Semnan, and Fars. Coverage of the provinces will be
gradual, starting with Isfahan and Kermar3 in second year of the project; Semnan, Yazd, Fars, and Charmahal in the
third year; Khorasan, Sistan & Baluchestan, and Hormozgan in the fourth year; and, finally, Kurdestan, Zanjan,
Hamadan, Khoozestan, and Kohkilooyeh in the fifth year of the project. The first year will be dedicated to
formative research to develop the content of the training courses and materials, the preparation and formation of
master trainers, and the collection of baseline data. By project's end, an estimated 48 percent of the population will
have benefited from the interventions.
Implementation and management  The component will be managed under the Department for Nutrition of
MOHME, and it will be implemented through the existing health facilities: HHs in the rural areas, andUHCs in the
urban areas. Behvarzes at the HHs and the physicians at the UHCs will be the first contacts with children during
monthly check-ups. They will be trained using the existing training facilities: universities andBehvarz high
schools. The existing curriculum will be revised to include nutrition course content in order to ensure
sustainability. UNICEF will provide technical assistance and perform technical audits twice a year. The National
Institute for Nutrition Research and Food Technology will be commissioned to conduct the majority of the studies,
situation analyses, and development of the strategies. Procurement and disbursement for all activities will be
managed by the PIU, and distribution will be accomplished using the existing channels at MOHME.
Detailed description of the activities. The project proposes to improve the effectiveness of the ongoing nutrition
services in the health sector through: (i) an extensive training component that focuses on interpersonal counseling;
the Information, Education, and Communication (IEC) program; and social marketing as means of changing
behavior; (ii) strengthening of the growth monitoring program, shifting the focus from monitoring to the promotion
of growth; (iii) institutional strengthening of the nutrition department; and (iv) baseline studies, operational studies,
situation analyses, and strategy development.
I Those children that have not grown over the last month, unless an overweight problem was previously identified.
2 Functional nutrition literacy is the recognition and practice of family key behaviors by mothers/care takers, including: 6 months of
exclusive breastfeeding; correct weaning practices; understanding of active feeding concept; etc.
Both Isfahan and Kerman have good infrastructure and human resources; therefore, the project will be implemented in those two provinces
first. In addition, UNICEF has an ongoing pilot project in this province, which will be extended under the proposed project.



Annex 2
Page 4 of 7
(i)  Training of primary health care personnel, Behvarzes, and WHVs, and the IEC programs  All PHC
personnel based in facilities in the targeted provinces will be trained in nutrition and communication enabling
them promote behavioral change and improved nutrition care. The focus will be on understanding:
(i) behavior; (ii) existing attitudes, perceptions, and practices; (iii) the social context in which these practices
exist; and (iv) the obstacles or resistance to desired behaviors - such as social or cultural issues, cost concerns,
or availability aspects - as well as how these constraints might be overcome. The Behvarzes and WHVs are
the points of first contact with the community, and they will directly implement the activities and perform
interpersonal counseling aimed at changing behavior. Physicians, nurses, midwives, and other health facility
staff will supervise the Behvarzes and will see to the children referred to the health centers, and therefore will
be involved in the training. Master trainers will be developed through an extensive "training the trainers"
exercise at the national and provincial levels. The number of staff to be trained is based on the number of
personnel indicated by MOHME statistics. Training manuals and communications materials have been
created, and will be further developed, with the assistance of UNICEF. Those already created will be adapted
for the specific health personnel groups, physicians, nurses, and midwives, and manuals for the Behvarzes
and WHVs will be developed. The focus of the training will be on: (i) assessing adequate weight gain in
children; and (ii) fostering behavior change through interpersonal counseling methods in order to promote
adequate growth. IEC messages will be developed and disseminated through the proper channels in support
of the growth monitoring activities. In addition, an IEC program will be developed to support the training
program and repeat the messages given to mothers/care takers via radio and posters in health centers.
Furthermore, as soon as the first situation analysis is conducted, this program will include messages
addressing the nutrition transition problems.
The project will support: (i) development of training and IEC materials; (ii) printing of training materials;
(iii) intemational and national technical assistance; (iv) training courses; and (v) the means with which to
facilitate training, such as television and video equipment.
(ii) Strengthening of growth monitoring and ongoing nutrition activities. Behvarzes, WHVs, and the PHC
personnel will be trained to: (i) assess adequate weight gain and identify growth faltering, in particular
among children under two years of age; (ii) assess the underlying causes of growth faltering and malnutrition;
and (iii) counsel care takers on measures to improve weight gain, promote adequate growth, and prevent
children from becoming malnourished. The project will provide flow charts/algorithms that will guide the
assessment of and counseling on adequate weight gain and the prevention of growth faltering, as well as
scales4 to those health houses and health centers that currently lack them. Behvarzes will educate mothers on
correct weaning methods-including timing, quality, quantity, frequency, and the introduction of
supplementary foods-as well as on proper cooking methods. In addition to one-to-one counseling, group
demonstrations on local weaning foods and home gardening will be made available atHHs. Guidelines will
be developed and tested for locally available, acceptable, and energy-dense complementary foods for children
under two years of age, and a strategy for sustaining the provision of weaning food will be developed during
the first year of the project. Women will be counseled on the importance of daily iron supplementation during
pregnancy, as well as about its possible secondary effects. A high dose of vitamin A (200,000 IU) will be
provided to lactating mothers within 8 weeks of delivery. Behvarzes and WHVs, accompanied by the
supervising health personnel, will analyze the nutrition situation of the community every six months through
the use of a community growth chart designed to raise awareness among the population.
The project will support: (i) growth charts; (ii) flow charts/algorithm; (iii) poster-size community charts;
(iv) mother/baby scales; (v) weaning food for malnourished children between the ages of 6 and 12 months;
(vi) micronutrients; and (vii) technical assistance.
(iii) Institutional strengthening. In order to strengthen the organizational and implementing ability of the
Nutrition Unit of MOHME, the project will support: (i) the provision of communications and information
equipment in order to improve both the work environment and communications between the national- and
provincial-level nutritionists; (ii) study tours and training abroad for five Ph.D.s of the central-level
4Mother/baby scales that can be used to weigh both mothers and their children, providing the opportunity to monitor pregnant women's
weight gains, children's weight gains, and the maintenance of adequate weight for lactating mothers.



Annex 2
Page 5 of 7
nutritionists in IEC and communication for behavior change, nutrition epidemiology, food and nutrition
management, community nutrition, and food and nutrition policy; (iii) audio-visual equipment; (iv) the
rehabilitation of office space; and (v) transport.
(iv) Assessments, operational studies, and situation analyses. Assessments and situation analyses will be
conducted in order to design the IEC materials, as well as the communication strategies, which includes
content, frequency, and channels. Operational studies will provide valuable lessons before MOHME,
UNICEF, and the Nutrition Institute carry out the upscaling of the ongoing nutrition pilot activities. More
specific operational studies will be conducted to evaluate the impact of providing iron supplementation to
pregnant women, in particular concerning compliance and absorption affected by high consumption of
inhibitors. Assessments will be made of the referral system and the case management of children with special
nutrition needs-such as diabetics-and a test to improve the system will be conducted in two provinces. A
situation analysis will determine the scope and severity of the "nutrition transition issues," such as
overweightness and obesity, and their consequences. Food safety is rapidly becoming a health issue in Iran,
and an analysis of the situation will be conducted in order to document the extent of the problem. Finally, a
study on the reduction of general subsidies, and an improved system for targeting subsidies, will be supported
by the project. A weaning food sustainability strategy will be developed in the second year to prepare for the
gradual reduction of the free provision of weaning food. A strategy for reviving the High Council for
Nutrition will be developed during the project in order to prepare for the future integration of nutrition
components into the activities of the various sectors.
The project will support national and international consulting for: (i) conducting amicronutrient prevalence
survey; (ii) reviewing and testing a referral system and case management assessment of children with special
nutrition needs in two provinces; (iii) conducting a situation analysis on nutrition transition issues;
(iv) documenting food safety problems; (v) conducting an analysis of the impact of food subsidy removal;
(vi) developing a weaning food sustainability strategy; and (vii) formulating a sectoral integration strategy.
Monitoring and evaluation. The monitoring of activities will be accomplished using existing channels and
methods. The Iranian PHC system is known for its ingenious usage of ongoing data summaries, which assures
complete documentation. However, it is all paper-based, with computerization only beginning at the central and
provincial levels. Under the institutional strengthening sub-component, computers will be provided in order to
improve communications and the sharing of data. The 1998 nutrition survey data will be used as baseline data, and
control groups will be established for impact evaluations. Subsequent surveys will be conducted in the targeted
areas at mid-term and at project completion in order to evaluate the achievements of the nutrition component.
Rapid assessments of both the compliance with iron supplementation regimens and the persistence of iron
deficiency anemia among pregnant women will be conducted at the beginning of the project, and will be repeated at
both mid-term and project completion. Nutrition literacy will be evaluated at the beginning and end of the project
by comparing nutrition knowledge and behavior before and after the intervention. UNICEF will conduct technical
audits on the strategies and approaches used, their implementation, and their monitoring throughout the project.
The project will support: (i) anthropometric surveys during the third and fifth years of project implementation;
(ii) KAP studies on behavior; and (iii) surveys of pregnant women regarding iron compliance and the prevalence of
anemia.



Annex 2
Page 6 of 7
Component 3.   Capacity Building (US$11.3 million; 9 percent of project costs)
This component will: (i) improve management training; (ii) conduct evaluation activities and operational research;
and (iii) strengthen project management.
(i) Management training. The current Bank project, "Primary Health Care and Family Planning Project" (3584-
IRN), recognized management problems and made a major contribution through the establishment of a
National Primary Health Care Management Center at Tabriz. Currently, it remains physically incomplete and
has not yet started to function. However, management training for all levels of MOHME staff is expected to
commence prior to completion of the ongoing project (scheduled for December 2000), and will be continued
and extended under this project.
Management systems, particularly those related to the use of information technology and analysis, are
underdeveloped, and there are serious weaknesses in the current organization and management of health
services, including PHC. Information for decision making is frequently lacking. Some decentralization of
decision making has been instituted, but it must go further. Matters affecting the quality of PHC that require
management attention include the lack of a proper referral system between RHCs, UHCs, and hospitals,
which leads to a lack of continuity in terms of patient care and the apparent bypassing ofUHCs by patients
who seem to prefer to visit overcrowded hospital outpatient services.
To improve overall management of PHC services, the project will undertake and provide for:
(i) management training at Tabriz and other selected centers, including a "training of trainers" program and
scholarships; (ii) computers; (iii) evaluation activities and operational research; (iv) study tours; and
(v) technical assistance.
Training will stress program planning, information systems, and evaluation and research. Brief overseas
study tours will be organized to provide exposure to management practices and methods in alternative
situations. A key objective of training will be to improve the capacity to identify problems, analyze
situations, and develop and implement solutions in keeping with the overall culture and organization of the
services.
Initially, a "training of trainers" course will be organized at Tabriz in order to develop a group which will
then provide training at other centers, including at Mashad, Isfahan, and Shiraz. These subsidiary training
centers, which already exist, will draw attendees from the surrounding assigned provinces. The candidates
for this course will be selected by MOHME. To assist in the basic development and course materials, the
selected trainers will go on study tours, and technical assistance will be provided to help establish the
program.
Training will also be provided for program evaluation and operational research which will allow MOHME to
conduct their own assessments at the central and lower levels, identify research needs, and be in a position to
organize and analyze operational research studies. Such training will receive support through technical
assistance.
(ii) Evaluation activities and operational research. This component will support the continued evaluation and
monitoring of the health sector, particularly as it relates to PHC and nutrition. The project is addressing only
a few of the many issues identified. If the reform of the health sector is to move forward, it should be
implemented incrementally in response to evolving needs and demands. The PIU, under the Oversight
Committee, will receive requests for operational studies and will recruit technical expertise as needed to
explore alternative proposals for change. Procedures and guidelines for preparing such proposals will be part
of the PIP.



Annex 2
Page 7 of7
One example of the above is in the area of financing PHC services:
About 70 percent of health care costs are borne by the patients, with the rest paid for through services
provided free by MOHME, or through insurance, which is heavily subsidized by the Government. Much of
the PHC services are provided free of charge: no payment is made for visits to HHs or for basic services such
as immunization and family planning. Except for certain exempted services, a fee is paid for visits toRHCs
and UHCs. There is some public dissatisfaction over this matter, and villagers want fuller coverage under the
Medical Services Insurance Organization (MSIO) than they currently receive.
For insurance purposes, the population is divided into six social groups: (i) government employees,
including members of the armed services (9 million), who are covered by MSIO and the Armed Forces
Medical Service Organization; (ii) the self-employed (7.5 million), covered by MSIO; (iii) villagers
(20 million), covered by MSIO; (iv) welfare recipients (4.5 million), covered by the Imam Khomeini Relief
Foundation; (v) workers (20 million), covered by the Social Security Organization (SSO); and (vi) others
(1 million), covered by MSIO. So, MSIO covers about 60 percent of the population, with Government
contributions to premiums ranging from 75 percent for Govermnent workers to zero for the self-employed,
for whom insurance is optional.
The scheme is facing a number of difficulties. Self-employed persons see no virtue in paying Government
premiums unless they anticipate seeking those services. A three-month waiting period has been introduced to
offset the problem, but clearly there is a deeper issue here, one of the public's perception of risk sharing and
thfe scheme's value. That some perceive the scheme's value is suggested by villagers who want the scheme
broadened in order that they might obtain fuller coverage.
The MSIO scheme has the potential to significantly reshape the delivery of PHC services and payment
mechanisms in Iran. Iran's limited understanding of the issues and how to deal with them is, in part, a
reflection of the country's isolation, since it has not been able to consult with other governments regarding
their schemes. However, this is not to say that other countries do not encounter various problems themselves,
many of which are due to their own inexperience with health insurance.
In order to overcome this isolation, and to enable the MSIO to learn from the experiences of the government
health insurance schemes of countries with more diversified economies, the project will support: (i) study
tours for MSIO staff; (ii) operational studies; and (iii) technical assistance.
(iii) Strengthening project management. This component will help finance the incremental administrative and
operating costs of the PIU over a five-year period (1999-2004). This includes: (i) financing for PIU
consultants; (ii) travel; (iii) training; (iv) equipment and communication services; and (v) any other
administrative expenses (materials, office space, etc.).






Annex 3
Page I of I
Islamic Republic of Iran: Second PHC and Nutrition Project
Estimated Project Costs
A. Sustain access to, and the quality of, primary health  22.6          52.6           75.2
Care - Primary Health Care Network
B. Improve nutritional status of children under 2 years  11.0           4.5            15.5
of age and of pregnant and lactating women - Nutrition
C. Capacity building                                      6.6            1.5            8.1
TOTAL BASE LINE PROJECT COSTS           40.2           58.6            98.8
Physical Contingencies     2.3           4.0             6.2
Price Contingencies    15.2            3.7           19.0
TOTAL FINANCING REQUIRED          57.7           66.3          124.0
Works                                                    14.7           24.8           39.5
Goods                                                    12.5           31.0           43.5
Services                                                  0.8            1.6            2.5
Training                                                 10.0            1.0           11.0
Recurrent Costs                                           2.1            0.1            2.2
TOTAL BASELINE PROJECT COSTS           40.2           58.6            98.8
Physical Contingencies     2.3           4.0             6.2
Price Contingencies    15.2            3.7           19.0
TOTAL FINANCING REQUIRED          57.7           66.3          124.0
* All figures have been rounded






Annex 4
Page I of 5
Islamic Republic of Iran: Second PHC and Nutrition Project
Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary
This annex presents the results from the economic analysis of the Islamic Republic of Iran's Second PHC and
Nutrition Project. The economic analysis provides: (i) justification for the program based on sector priorities;
(ii) an analysis of alternatives, including the rationale for public sector involvement; (iii) assessments of the
financial and fiscal impacts of the project; and (iv) a cost-effectiveness/cost-benefit analysis of project
interventions.
Consistency with sector priorities
Iran is a lower-middle income country with a GNP per capita of US$1,780. The economy is faced with high
inflation (24 percent in 1998-99), an overvalued currency, a widening trade deficit as imports rise rapidly, and a
severe lack of the financial resources needed for reconstruction and development. 'ran's future economic
development depends not only on good fiscal management and enhanced private sector development, but also on a
healthy, educated population to supply its labor force. The health sector in Iran constitutes 5.7 percent of GDP,
while public financing comprises 2.4 percent of GDP and consumes around 10 percent of public expenditures.
In the past decade, Iran has achieved significant progress in terms of health outcomes. Between 1985 and 1997,
infant mortality rates declined from 59 to 26 per 1,000 live births; under-five mortality rates decreased from 70 to
33 per 1,000 live births; and maternal mortality ratios declined from 120 to 35 per 100,000 live births. Life
expectancy is now 68 years for males and 70 years for females. The total fertility rate has declined from 5.6 births
per woman in 1985 to 1.6 births per woman in 1997. In addition, access to health services is high, with 85 percent
of the rural and 60 percent of the urban population now covered by the Government's PHC network. In cities, the
population is also served by the private sector, so 96-99 percent of the population has access to care. Despite these
achievements (as mentioned earlier in Section B2), some issues remain.
*  The Government is facing financial hardships, which threaten the sustainability of PHC services and could
result in a drop in utilization and consumer satisfaction rates, thereby reversing some of Iran's past
achievements in terms of health outcomes.
*  Malnutrition is prevalent among children under five years of age, and micronutrient deficiencies - such as iron
deficiencies - persist among women of reproductive age.
* Decision-making is too centralized, and modern management techniques and information technologies are
lacking, as is critical data for effective decision making - especially information on the growing private sector.
*  There is a lack of coordination between the PHC system and the curative care system - the latter is financed by
the Medical Services Organization (MSIO) and Social Security Organization (SSO) - that often leads to
inefficiency and waste.
*  The revenue sources used to finance MSIO and SSO are complex, non-transparent, and may be inefficient and
inequitable.
The interventions supported through this project address these issues either directly or by supporting the piloting of
alternative arrangements through operational research. The objectives of the project are to assist the GOI in
sustaining and improving health conditions in rural and urban areas by: (i) sustaining access to, and the quality of,
PHC; and (ii) improving the nutritional status of children under 2 years of age and of pregnant and lactating
women. The following sections outline the economic rationale used in guiding the selection of interventions and
resource allocation priorities in achieving these two objectives. Factors that guided the choice of alternatives



Annex 4
Page 2 of 5
included the relative cost-effectiveness and financial sustainability of interventions, as well as the levels of political
will and implementation capacity.
Sustaining PHC infrastructure to ensure continued access to services
Analysis of alternatives. Two altematives were considered for the purpose of sustaining PHC infrastructure in
order to ensure continued access to services in Iran. They were: (i) the upgrading of existing physical
infrastructure and essential equipment; and (ii) the expansion of facilities to remote areas in an attempt to achieve
100 percent coverage.
Rationale for public financing. The project is expected to have a significant impact on poverty, since it targets
poor rural and peri-urban areas. Upgraded health facilities, if provided with adequate equipment and essential
drugs and staffed by trained personnel, could result in a much-improved PHC system. Since transportation costs
have historically constrained the access of poorer households to more modem facilities, this project is expected to
improve equity. In addition, PHC facilities provide most of the public health interventions in the country. These
interventions are pure public and merit goods, and the adequate provision of such interventions requires public
sector support. The project is not expected to result in the displacement of any private sector enterprises because
private sector activities in Iran are largely concentrated in cities. However, the project will target urban areas that
lack local facilities, whether private or public. The GOI has recognized the lack of data on private providers and
facilities in urban areas, and will therefore restrict the areas targeted in this project toperi-urban facilities only.
More information on access to services in urban areas will need to be collected before any decisions to expand PHC
services in these areas are considered.
Fiscal impact and financial sustainability of project alternatives. PHC services have received nearly 40 percent
of the Government's health budget over the past decade. However, due to a decrease in economic growth, the
actual resources available for PHC services have declined. Because the expansion of PHC services to remote areas
of the country would entail higher per-unit costs, such an endeavor would be unsustainable in the present economic
situation.
The incremental recurrent costs of this project are expected to be small. The equipment purchased under the first
component of this project will include adult and baby scales, which have low maintenance costs, and X-rays
equipment for the very few peri-urban health centers to be rehabilitated, which would account for the bulk of the
maintenance costs. All told, maintenance of the equipment purchased under this component will reauire
US$214,000 per year, which is less that 1 percent of the Government's recurrent health budget and could therefore
be sustained beyond project completion. Since the health facilities to be rehabilitated under this project are already
in existence and have a maintenance budget, it is assumed that the incremental recurrent costs of maintaining them
will be zero. However it must be noted that, aside from aging, some of the need to upgrade and rehabilitate these
facilities arises due to the systematic under-funding of the maintenance of facilities in the past. Recognizing this,
since 1997, the Government's budget includes a line item for maintenance of rural health facilities. Evidence from
Planning & Budget Office reports and from MOHME officials show that all rural health facilities have received
their allocated maintenance budget until date. In addition, since the old health facilities will be refurbished and
modernized under the project, the maintenance costs for newly refurbished facilities will be very low especially
during the first ten years. Maintenance funds required to sustain these rehabilitation efforts during the project
period are estimated to be less than 0.5 percent of the annual allocated maintenance budget and can be sustained
well beyond project completion. Annual local inflation is assumed to be 12 percent over the ten-year period. It is
estimated that the maintenance funds required to sustain the rehabilitation efforts undertaken during the project
period will amount to 0.1 percent, 0.5 percent, 0.4 percent, 0.4 percent and 0.3 percent of the allocated maintenance
budget annually. In the five years following project completion, it is estimated that the maintenance funds required
to sustain the rehabilitation efforts will be 1.3 percent, 1.1 percent, 1 percent, 0.9 percent and 0.8 percent of the
allocated maintenance budget. It is expected that additional resources for maintenance could become available in
the future, through the extension of the insurance coverage of MSIO to PHC facilities, which is soon to be piloted
in a few provinces.



Annex 4
Page 3 of 5
Sustainable implementation of this project will improve access to lower-level facilities, and thus the utilization of
such services. This, in turn, is expected to result in: (i) a reduction in the demand for hospital ambulatory care
services that could have been provided at a lower level of service; (ii) a reduction in the demand for expensive
hospital care at secondary and tertiary facilities for some conditions that could be treated using less-expensive
technology if detected earlier; and (iii) an increase in the demand for hospital in-patient services through better and
timely detection, at the lower-level facilities, of conditions that would require hospitalization. Realization of these
potential outcomes, however, depends on the existence of a functioning referral system that integrates the entire
health system. Therefore, the lack of coordination between the Government-financed PHC system and the
MSIO/SSO-financed secondary and tertiary curative care system is of increasing concern. Recognizing this, the
MSIO is already piloting an integrated health system, in the two. provinces of East Azerbaijan and Yazd, which
aims to improve the referral system through the introduction of family physicians.
If the full potential benefits of the project are to be realized, then hospital services must become more efficiently
managed and utilized. While the project itself deals with issues of improving hospital efficiency, the GOI is now
studying the possibility of introducing global tariffs for in-patient services in hospitals as a means of improving
efficiency through the provision of appropriate care. The MSIO is also in the process of defining a package of
benefits that will be covered under the insurance scheme as a means of limiting health expenditures.
Cost-benefit analysis of project intervention. This component attempts to improve the use of existing physical
capacity for the provision of outpatient care through the rehabilitation and conversion of existing capacities, rather
than through the creation of new facilities. Since the target facilities are distributed throughout both rural and urban
areas, the entire population of Iran, estimated at around 60 million, could be regarded as potential beneficiaries of
the project.
The project is expected to result in potential savings through: (i) lower treatment costs due to a reduction in the
cost of hospital admissions' as a result of early detection and treatment; and (ii) lower cost for the provision of a
service at a lower level of care. It should be noted, however, that a better-functioning referral system could
increase hospital utilization through the increased capacity to detect cases that require hospitalization.
Nevertheless, the savings from gains as indicated in (i) and (ii) above will offset, or at least reduce, the increased
costs that would result due to an increase in the utilization of hospitals. In addition, these costs and savings do not
reflect the total benefits to be gained from the project, which may include reductions in mortality and morbidity
rates and increases in productivity for those benefiting from the project. Thus, it is expected that the potential
benefits of the project will outweigh its costs.
Due to the lack of available data on both hospital utilization by type of service and wage data for workers, this
section provides an illustration of some of the benefits of the project. Table I below depicts the savings in
treatment costs for three different possible rates of reduction in hospital admissions. It is assumed that these cases
could be treated at a lower-level facility if early detection was made, and cost savings are estimated as the
difference between hospital and health center treatment costs. One such example is the expected savings from early
detection and treatment of conditions such as acute respiratory infections, as opposed to incurring the high costs of
treating heart diseases at a later stage. Average cost of a hospital bed-day and average cost of a visit to a health
center were calculated based on available MOHME statistics on utilization and costs of services at various levels of
care.  These costs are indicative and represent a very conservative estimate of the benefits of the project
intervention.
Table 1. Benefits of project intervention
Percent reduction        Present Value of Net Benefits        Internal Rate
in hospital admissions                                           of Return
5 percent                   $13,805,954.51                     4%
10 percent                 $240,662,906.75                    59%
15 percent                 $252,602,746.34                    62%
Note: Net Present Value was discountedat 10%.
Especially for treatments that, if not detected early enough, would require expensive care.



Annex 4
Page 4 of 5
Improving services that affect the nutritional status of children under two years of age and of pregnant and
lactating women
Analysis of alternatives. The project interventions will target those provinces that have malnutrition rates higher
than the national average, which is based on the latest survey results on height for age and weight for height (see
Table 2 below). The nutrition training of health personnel will be provided through existing training facilities, such
as the Behvarz high schools and universities, instead of through the proposed establishment of a new training center
outside of the Ministry.
Table 2. Malnutrition statistics for targeted provinces for
children under two years of age
Region                   H/A               W/H
National level                       15.5                4.3
Sistan & Baluchestan                 36.1                7.9
Hormozgan                            24.5                9.4
Kennan                               21.6                6
Kohkilooyeh & Boyer Ahmad            20.3                6.1
Shahannahal & Bakhtiari              11.6                6.4
Khorasan                             19.7                4.5
Zanjan                               22.6                3.7
Semnan                               15.7                4
Yazd                                 12.1                7.2
Isfahan                              11                  7.3
Hamadan                              15.1                5.5
Khoozestan                           15.8                6.8
Kurdestan                            20.3                4.8
Fars                                 16.8                5.9
H/A is height for age (chronic malnutrition)
W/H is weight for height (indictor of acute malnutrition)
Another alternative for improving nutrition, other than through increasing household incomes, would be to improve
the targeting of food subsidies. The economic crisis in the country has resulted in cuts in subsidies for major food
items, thereby reducing the consumption of meat and rice products, especially among poor households. Therefore,
the project will support a study that will aim to improve the targeting of food subsidies to poorer households.
Rationale for public financing. Investing public funds in nutrition will alleviate the consequences of poverty and
significantly promote equity, since malnutrition is essentially confined to the poorest segments of the population
and to its more vulnerable groups: children under five; and pregnant and lactating women. Public investment
targeting the malnourished is a direct investment in improving the welfare and health status of the poor in Iran.
Inadequate information on the benefits of good nutrition is often the reason for the lack of demand. As such,
imperfect information is a strong rationale for public investment in nutrition education, IEC programs, and research
and monitoring.
Investments in nutrition have multiple benefits, as they reduce the risk of mortality and morbidity among children
as well as among mothers. Malnourished children have a higher risk of dying than do well-nourished children'
Severely anemic women are at a considerably greater risk of death during childbirth, and iron deficiency anemia
may account for as much as one-fifth of maternal deaths? Malnutrition is also associated with a significant
increase in child morbidity through increased incidence of diarrhea and acute respiratory infections. Better
nutrition and health status improves cognitive ability and school perfornance among children. Conversely,
malnutrition reduces the work performance of adults, resulting in high economic costs to the individual and to
society as a whole.
2 A study by Pelletier et al [see D. L. Pelletier, E. A. Frongillo, D. G. Schroeder, and J. P. Habicht (1995) , WHO 73(4)] suggests that
54 percent of child deaths are attributable to underweightness, of which 83 percent are due to only mild to moderate underweightness.
3Judith McGuire, The Payofffrom Improving Nutrition, World Bank, January 1996.



Annex 4
Page 5 of 5
Fiscal impact andfinancial sustainability. The incremental recurrent costs that will need to be sustained beyond
project completion are limited and include the cost of the printing of training and IEC materials for nutrition
promotion, and maintenance of equipment and infrastructure. Printing will only be necessary every three or four
years; therefore, the costs will be negligible and could be covered under the Government's nutrition budget. The
sustainability of the growth monitoring sub-component of the nutrition component depends upon whether the target
group (i.e., mothers) changes its current behaviors, instead practicing correct breastfeeding, weaning, and intra-
household distribution of food. The project focuses on proper care taking, since that has been found to be the main
limiting factor to the adequate growth of young children. Where access to adequate food is a limiting factor,
weaning food will be provided free of charge to children between the ages of 6 and 12 months. For the first year of
the project, a more sustainable strategy will be developed in collaboration with NGOs; the Women's NGOs
Umbrella Organization in particular. Discussions are already underway to commission women's groups to produce
a local weaning food at low cost.
The equipment purchased under the first component of this project will include adult and baby scales, which have
low maintenance costs, and X-rays for the very few peri-urban health centers to be rehabilitated, which will account
for the bulk of the maintenance costs. Maintenance of the equipment purchased under this component will
therefore require US$214,000 per year, which is less that 1 percent of the Government's recurrent health budget
and could therefore be sustained beyond project completion. Similarly, maintenance funds required to sustain the
rehabilitation building during the project period are estimated to be less than 0.5 percent of the annual allocated
maintenance budget and hence likewise sustainable.
Cost-effectiveness of project interventions. According to the 1993 World Development Report, nutrition
education, micronutrient supplementation, and the growth monitoring of children are among the ten least expensive
child health interventions. The cost per intervention and cost per beneficiary was studied for the various
interventions proposed under the project.4 The total cost of the project per direct beneficiary will be US$3.90.
Beneficiaries will include all children under two years of age and pregnant and lactating women in the target
provinces. The total cost per beneficiary for each intervention is as follows: the iron supplementation program will
be provided at a cost of US$0.74 per pregnant woman; the Vitamin A supplementation program will be provided at
a cost of US$0.73 per lactating mother; and the growth monitoring program will be provided at a cost of US$3.70
per child (see Table 3).
Table 3. Cost-effectiveness analysis of project interventions
Iron            Vitamin A           Growth            Total*
supplementation    supplementation      monitoring
Cost per intervention        470,500            420,500           8,433,000        13,600,000
Number of beneficiaries      634,266            579,115           2,288,874         3,500,000
Cost per beneficiary           0.74               0.73               3.7              3.9
Note: Total is more than the sum of interventions since it includes cost of studies and institutional strengthening
In addition, if economic conditions in Iran remain stable, the project would be expected to reduce the number of
malnourished children by 30 percent-from 497,143 to 348,000-and the cost of preventing growth faltering in
children through the growth monitoring program would then be US$56 per prevented case. This estimated
reduction in the number of malnourished children is a realistic, conservative one based on experiences both with
similar programs in other countries and on the recent success in rapid reductions in malnutrition rates in Iran.
Between 1980 and 1995, stunting rates declined from 50 percent to 25 percent in rural areas. By 1998, this was
further reduced to 21.8 percent.
4Joint costs were attributed to each intervention, using different allocation criteria based on the respective US$ value of one intervention, or
the workload of personnel, etc.






Annex 5
Page I of 5
Islamic Republic of Iran: Second PHC and Nutrition Project
Summary of Financial Assessment
Years Ending: June 30
Year 1     Year 2      Year 3      Year 4      Year 5    Year 6   Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment costs                  20.6        37.7       20.0        22.4        20.0
Recurrent costs                    0.5         0.6        0.7         0.7         0.8         0.8      0.8
Total Project Costs    21.1      38.3       20.7        23.1        20.8
Total Financing    21.1       38.3        20.7        23.1        20.8
Financing
IBRD/IDA                          10.0        18.0        16.6       22.4        20.0
Government
Central                        11.1        20.3         4.1         0.7        0.8         0.8       0.8
Total Project Financing  21.1        38.3        20.7        23.1       20.8         0.8       0.8
* All figures have been rounded.
Assessment of Financial Management
Overall assessment
In general, Iran's financial laws and regulations are adequate, and accounting and auditing standards are considered
to be comparable to international standards. The public sector's financial management system is similar to
continental Europe's normative system. Overall, the private sector is well established and overall capacity is
adequate, although some deficiencies do exist in the public sector.
Iran's public sector has a long tradition of planning and budgeting using a robust internal control system, including
ex-ante budgetary and fund controls with a strict enforcement system that involves the use of specialized courts.
The Planning and Budget Organization (PBO) is the leading institution in planning and budgeting, while the
Ministry of Finance (MOF) plays a leading role in terms of controls. In general, ministries and government
departments each have specialized units that prepare mid-term plans and annual budgets. The head of each
expending entity (ministers or heads of autonomous entities) is responsible for executing the budget and achieving
results, and is accountable to the Parliament.
With respect to ex-ante controls, two financial controllers (for the recurrent and capital budgets, respectively), are
nominated by MOF to carry out controllership responsibilities for each ministry.' These controllers are responsible
for control of the "legality" of expenditures, for funds, and for compliance with rules and regulations, and are
accountable to the specialized courts.
However, responsibility for management accounting is not very clear. The controller has a legal responsibility for
financial reporting, but only in relation to the Government's chart of accounts, which is limited to the budget's five
main categories. In this system, the expending entity is not required to produce detailed financial reports, and, in
The scope of these controls are usually limited to documentary verification (i.e., no physical control takes place). The physical control is
with the executing agency, as well as with MOF's inspectorate)



Annex 5
Page 2 of 5
the absence of a parallel accounting system with an expanded chart of accounts, useful financial infornation is not
readily available.
External audit is a common practice in Iran, and there exist many audit firms with varying levels of competence and
quality. A professional association exists, but it does not exercise effective quality control, peer review, or self-
regulation. However, MOF does have a licensing mechanism.
In summary, in terms of financial management standards and capacity, the project will operate in a low to moderate
risk environment. With the exception of a counterpart fund release issue, other perceived risks will likely be
manageable and limited to the capacity shortcomings that exist at the ministry level in the areas of financial
management and reporting systems (see below). However, the release of counterpart funds has in the past been a
problem and presents a moderate risk of slowing the execution of projects in general.
Summary of assessment of implementing agency
Responsibilities for execution and controllership are clearly delineated in both legislation and financial regulations:
Responsibility for the preparation and execution of budgets lies with the expending entities, while responsibility for
controllership lies with independent controllers. As an illustration of the overall country context, the Ministry of
Health and Medical Education (MOHME) operates within the minimum standards and requirements set by the
Government and conforms to the generally accepted practices of the public sector. As noted above, these minimum
standards contain weaknesses. A summary assessment of MOHMIE's systems and practices, including its strengths
and weaknesses, is presented below.
MOHME has a full department for planning and budgeting that collects information from all other parts of the
Ministry. The Minister submits the annual recurrent and capital budget proposals to the PBO and defends them
before the Parliament. The annual planning and budget preparation cycle officially starts with the budget call from
PBO in the seventh month of the preceding FY (September) and culminates around the second month of the
relevant FY (April), with PBO's formal confirmation of budget envelopes approved by the Parliament. MOHME
has the authority and responsibility to execute its approved budget, and the Minister is accountable to the
Parliament. Execution of the budget is entrusted to different departments that, on behalf of the Minister, perform
all necessary steps - including commitments, liquidation, and issuance of payment orders - by certifying the
progress of works and the receipt of goods and services.
Checks and balances (ex-ante controls) are in place at all levels - from commitment to payment. Independent
controllers are responsible for ensuring that commitments are created only within approved budget limits, payments
are for actual goods delivered and services rendered (documentary evidence only), and documentation is complete.
Funds and payments are under the controller's oversight. At the commitment and payment steps, the controller
verifies the legality of expenditures (approved budget), compliance with procurement rules and other regulations,
and the completeness of supporting documentation. After issuance of payment orders by the Ministry, the
controller verifies the documentary evidence, effects payments, and records the transactions. However, the
accounting and financial reporting conducted by the controller conforms only to the legal minimum and is based on
a limited budget classification (consisting of five major headings). This limited chart of accounts does not allow for
the production of meaningful financial reports for management purposes.
2 Iranian FY is from March 21 to March 20 of the following Gregorian calendar.



Annex 5
Page 3 of 5
Weak areas needing improvement
At the project level at MOHME, the management and staff of the PIU are well trained and are familiar with
Government regulations, as well as with Bank projects and requirements. The shortcomings of the systems and
procedures, as described above, are in the classification and reporting of expenditures, and, to some extent, in the
tracking of assets. The PIU does not have the capability in terms of staffing and systems to keep detailed accounts,
and cannot rely on other units in the Ministry to do so. This weakness in classification of expenditures and
availability of information is being addressed by recruiting qualified staff to strengthen the PIU, as well as by
hiring consultants to design and install a system of accounting and reporting that will complement the system in
place at the controller's office. Terms of reference have been prepared, and a consulting firm has been selected to
design and install the necessary systems and produce a detailed manual.
The use of a cash accounting method and the absence of record keeping for assets are also hampering asset tracking
and management at the Ministry. Although MOF's inspectorate has the ability to physically inspect the assets, the
physical control over assets lies with MOHME. Furthermore, under the cash method of accounting, where
purchased assets are expensed immediately, only a general identification number is assigned to assets. Under such
circumstances, it would be difficult to track assets and distinguish project assets from others. This issue has also
been included in the terms of reference for the consultants who will design the financial management system.
Other areas of moderate risks the proposed project are the monitoring of the execution of civil works in rural areas
by provincial authorities (universities) and the timely submission of documentation for expenditures and funds
(systems and procedures at the Universities of Medical Sciences and Health Services (UMSHSs) are very similar to
the above).
The project implementation arrangements have taken the above shortcomings into account and will mitigate them
by:
a) Establishing a project oversight committee with the overall responsibility for policy decisions and conflict
resolution. The head of PIU will report to this committee and, in cases of conflict, this committee will be the
first step for conflict resolution;
b) Ring fencing the project through the use of a PIU, strengthening of the PIU by recruiting qualified staff, and
preparing a detailed Project Implementation Plan (PIP) and manuals;
c) Establishing a monitoring procedure via an independent engineer consultant for the civil works; and
d) Designing a complementary accounting and reporting system which will produce PMRs, and revising the
auditors' TORs in order to strengthen the role of independent auditors and expand the scope of the audits.
Project responsibility
According to the country's rules of accountability and financial management, the responsibility for implementation
will rest with MOHME and the PIU, with the oversight for expenditures and controls over funds to be exercised by
the independent controller for Capital Budget. This system has functioned well under the ongoing project.
Under the direct supervision of the PIU Manager, the Financial Officer (FO) and other sufficiently trained finance
staff will manage the project accounts in full compliance with international accounting standards and Bank
requirements for accounting, auditing, and reporting. The unit will set up and maintain a project-dedicated
financial management system-to include budgeting, accounting, financial reporting, and auditing systems-than
can adequately provide complete, accurate, and timely information regarding project resources and expenditures.
As a primary function, the FO will review the agreed-upon action plan and follow the implementation of the plan,
including the design and operationalization of a modified cash system of accounting (the details of which will be



Annex 5
Page 4 of 5
described in the PIP). When preparing the chart of accounts, particular attention will be given to the linkage
between the cost items and the outputs and monitoring indicators.
Schedule of actions
Under the direct guidance of the PIU Manager, inter-alia, the unit will:
Prior to Loan Effectiveness:
a) Finalize the FM section of the PIP, including financial policies and procedures governing the project, formns
and formats, and other material for the project administration (FM manual);
b) Prepare, together with implementing agencies, TORs, short lists, and project budget and cash requirements;
c) Complete the action plan for FM and ensure that the upgraded FM system is operational; and
d) Appoint the external auditors of the project.
From Loan Effectiveness:
a) Collect information and documents, and document, verify, record, and file all project-related financial
transactions;
b) Maintain systems and accounts and produce reports;
c) Carry out routine internal control functions;
d) Prepare PMRs and disbursementlreplenishment applications, as well as revised budgets for replenishment of
special accounts;
e) Monitor contracts, effect payments, record transactions, and produce relevant reports;
f) Update manuals;
g) Obtain and present/consolidate physical progress data as part of the PMRs;
h) Close annual accounts and-ensure the timely audit of project accounts.
Management of project funds
The project will maintain a US Dollar Special Account (SA) in a commercial bank that is deemed acceptable by the
Bank. The SA will be operated in accordance with the Bank's operational policies, with two signatories-the
independent controller and one signatory from MOHME (one of the two deputy Ministers or the PIU manager).
The local counterpart funds will flow through the normal MOF-Treasury channels according to the local rules of
controllership. These have already been assessed and accepted by the Bank.
With regard to the execution of the civil works component by the UMSHSs, after controls are in place, advances of
up to 90 days will be afforded to the executing agencies (under strict controllership rules). Arrangements for
internal controls and the timely collection of information and documentation will be detailed in the Financial
Management Manual.
Disbursements, replenishments, and documentation
Review of the financial management systems has not revealed material weaknesses in the control mechanism over
cash or expenditures (in fact, ex-ante controls and clearances are cumbersome). However, as described above,
there are some weaknesses in terms of the reporting of information useful for project management and the
utilization of assets. It was therefore agreed with the Government that the accounting and reporting systems be
improved through the establishment of a computerized system in the PIU which is complementary to the normal
Government accounting system (kept by the controller's office for the purpose of budgetary and cash controls).
The Ministry's commitment to the project, progress made in the recruitment of the consulting firm to design and



Annex 5
Page 5 of 5
install the system, and proposed timetable indicate that the Borrower will be technically ready for the production of
PMRs from the very beginning of implementation. However, a final decision about eligibility for PMR-based
disbursement will be made in light of the procurement assessment and external elements.
Therefore, although our plans call for PMR-based disbursement from the beginning, allowance has been made for
possible weaknesses in procurement procedures and practices, a transitional period has been suggested. During this
transitional period (not to exceed 18 months after Board presentation), disbursement of Bank funds will follow the
traditional method (explained below) and will be based on full documentation or Statements of Expenditures
(SOEs). After the transitional period, during which identified areas will be strengthened, disbursements will switch
to the PMR-based method.
Systems and arrangements for providing information
An integrated system of tracking, collecting, and providing information on procurement, commitments,
expenditures, and outputs - all measured by monitoring indicators - will be in place by loan effectiveness. Given
the nature of expenditures and the Ministry's environment, a cash method of accounting will be adopted. In order
to complement this accounting method, an asset registry and safekeeping system, as well as a contract and
commitment monitoring system, will be part of the integrated system.
With respect to progress monitoring, relevant indicators, responsibilities, and methods of data collection was
discussed and agreed upon during negotiations. The oversight committee, assisted by the PIU, will coordinate and
ensure the timely submission of this information and documentation to the PIU by other implementing agencies
(MOH departments and Universities).
Internal and external controls
Given the adequacy of the Government's overall internal control procedures, these procedures will also apply to the
project with respect to financial management. Details of these internal controls will be reflected in the Financial
Management Manual. As part of the internal control mechanisms, internal audit arrangements should be considered
as well. The internal auditors at MOHME will perform this function. Arrangements with internal and external
auditors (preferably with project auditors as part of the annual audit) will be made, with the goal being that these
auditors form and issue an opinion on the quarterly PMRs.
External audits
An independent and qualified audit firm with staff experienced in similar audits will carry out audits of the project
accounts. During negotiations, a short list of firms acceptable to the Bank has been agreed upon. Subject to annual
performance deemed satisfactory by the Bank, a contract for the first three years of the project will be concluded
between the Borrower and the selected firm. Terms of Reference for the annual audit (allowing for verification of
the PMRs) have been drafted and discussed. They cover all requirements for the audit of the project accounts and
review of internal controls in order to ensure, inter-alia, the reliability of the PMRs. Audit reports (consisting of
the auditors' opinion and a management letter) will be submitted within six months following the end of each fiscal
year.






Annex 6
Page I of 12
Islamic Republic of Iran: Second PHC and Nutrition Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
PROCUREMENT
A.  Procurement methods
Categories of expenditures and procurement methods have been estimated based on the activities to be partially
financed by the Bank, and are summarized in Table A. A procurement plan (schedule and procurement packaging)
has been prepared and is summarized in Table D. This plan will be updated semi-annually as part of the progress
report to be presented by the PIU, before supervision missions.
All Bank-financed civil works, equipment, and materials will be procured in accordance with the Bank's
Procurement Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995; revised January and
August 1996, and September 1997). Procurement of consultant services and technical assistance will follow the
Bank's Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997;
revised September 1997).
Use of standard documents. All procurement under International Competitive Bidding (ICB) will use the Bank's
Standard Bidding Documents (SBDs). For National Competitive Bidding (NCB), simpler documents that are based
on the SBDs will be developed, alternatively the General Conditions of Contract (GCC) prepared by the Planning
and Budget Organization (PBO) could be used, provided they are translated in English for review by the Bank. For
consultant services and technical assistance contracts exceeding US$50,000, the Bank's sample document (Request
for Proposal) should be used with some modifications as required. For consultant contracts below US$50,000 the
PBO's GCC for consultants could be applied, provided they are translated into English for prior review by the
Bank.
Civil works. Civil works will be implemented at the decentralized level by the technical unit of each of the
39 Universities of Health. Contracts will cover health center and health house rehabilitation (mainly painting,
sewage system, heating and cooling, tiles on walls and floors, electricity, and external walls), and will be
distributed over scattered regions throughout the country. Based on samples estimated during project preparation, it
is expected that each contract will not exceed US$50,000. The ongoing operation has demonstrated that local
contractors are efficient and sufficient for carrying out these contracts, and foreign contractors are not interested.
Because of the scattered nature and small size of the civil works contracts, NCB procedures will be used; however,
the advertisements to bid will be posted in the local communities only. In some cases, it will be possible to regroup
the rehabilitation of several health centers into packages not to exceed US$250,000. In this case, the advertisement
will be placed in the national newspapers. This grouping will affect around 700 health centers (about 25% of total)
and will represent US$17.0 million.
Goods. One contract for vehicles of about US$16.5 million will be procured according to ICB procedures. Around
17 contracts for goods (office equipment and furniture, medical equipment, computers and software, and nutrients)
totaling about US$9.4 million will be procured as follows: contracts estimated at US$500,000 or more will be
awarded according to ICB procedures and based on SBDs for the procurement of goods. Contracts below
US$500,000 will be awarded in accordance with NCB procedures and will not exceed an aggregate amount of
US$9.3 million. Smaller contracts estimated between US$100,000 and US$250,000 will be awarded according to
International Shopping (IS) procedures and will not exceed an aggregate amount of US$0.5 million. Contracts
estimated to be US$100,000 or less may be procured according to National Shopping (NS) procedures and will not
exceed an aggregate amount of US$0.8 million.



Annex 6
Page 2 of 12
Consultant and training services. Services to be contracted include short-term consultants and long-term technical
assistance, training services, and technical and financial auditing. Consultant and training services contracts will be
procured using Quality- and Cost-based Selection (QCBS) procedures; with the exception of small contracts (up to
US$50,000), for which the selection will be based on the consultant's qualifications, or for which the nature and
locality of the assignment will necessitate sole source selection. For contracts estimated not to exceed US$200,000,
the short list for selecting consultants may comprise local consultants only. Technical auditors (e.g., architects,
engineers) and financial auditors will be recruited using QCBS procedures, with cost as a substantial selection
factor (paragraph 3.18 of the Guidelines). For specific studies to be conducted under the nutrition component, the
first program (US$0.3 million) will be contracted to the National Institute for Nutrition and Food Technology
(NINFT) on a sole source basis. Given the involvement and the experience of this institute there is no comparative
advantage to contract with private firms. Nevertheless, contracting of the subsequent programs will depend upon
the performance of the Institute. Regarding training for trainers and other recipients under the nutrition component,
these training courses will be conducted by MOHME. Post review will be done on a sample of SOEs and lists of
trainees for each specific training activity.
B.   Bank prior review
For civil works contracts, prior review will apply for the first 2 contracts of each of the 39 universities. For goods,
contracts exceeding US$500,000 will be subject to prior review by the Bank. It is estimated that this review will
cover 6 percent of the works contracts and 82 percent of the goods contracts. Consultancy contracts of US$100,000
and above with firms and of US$50,000 and above with individuals will be subject to prior review by the Bank.
These thresholds will account for about 50 percent of Bank-financed contracts. Terms of reference for all services
to be provided, regardless of the amount of the contract, will be subject to prior review by the Bank. Contract
review arrangements are summarized in Table B. Contracts under these thresholds (civil works, goods, and
consultancy) will be subject to selective post-award review by Bank staff during supervision missions, or by the
auditor.
C.   Capacity and responsibility for procurement
The PIU created through the ongoing project has much experience in procurement and project management. It has
demonstrated a strong capacity and efficiency in handling complex tendering, particularly for works, and will have
full responsibility for the management of all activities of the project and the procurement related to them. The Unit
will be strengthened by. a financial manager, and the procurement service by a procurement assistant. Planning,
coordination and monitoring of the procurement process, and their linkages with the disbursement function, will be
the responsibility of the PIU. It will also be responsible for the procurement reports to be included in the biannual
project progress report.
DISBURSEMENT
D.   Allocation of loan proceeds
Allocation of loan proceeds by category of expenditures is based on the assessment of investment to be submitted
for Bank financing. The resulting allocation is summarized in Table B.
E.   Documentation for withdrawals
The project is expected to be LACI-compliant, and disbursements will take place based on submission to the Bank
of quarterly PMRs. For PMR-based disbursement, it must be certified that the project has in place an adequate
accounting and reporting system, including a procurement/contract management system that can provide the



Annex 6
Page 3 of 12
appropriate data on major procurement, contract information, and the complete financial and physical quarterly
reports required by the Bank under LACI. However, if the PIU financial management systems are not ready for
PMR-based disbursements by loan effectiveness, the traditional disbursement procedures of SOEs and SAs
replenishment based on documentation will be used until they are completely ready and operational. The readiness
for PMR disbursements will be determined before declaring the loan effective. Submission of contracts for the
Bank's non-objection will take place as detailed below. Withdrawal applications for contracts valued at more than
US$500,000 for works, US$500,000 for goods, US$100,000 for consulting firms and, US$50,000 for individual
consultants should be presented with full documentation for disbursement.
F.   Special accounts (SAs)
To facilitate the management of funds, the Govemment will establish one SA in a commercial bank to be operated
by MOHME-PIU under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. When the project is considered LACI-
compliant and ready for PMR-based disbursements, the SA will be replenished based on the PMRs submitted by
the PIU, after certification by the project auditor. The initial disbursement will be based on the first six-month
expenditures forecast for the first year of the project. Full PMRs will be produced in the 12 months after the loan
signing date.
If the project's financial management arrangements do not allow for PMR-based disbursements, then the Bank will,
upon request, make an authorized allocation of US$5.0 million to the SA for all expenditures in order to facilitate
disbursements against eligible expenditures. Initially, allocation would be limited to US$2.5 million. The full
allocation could be claimed when disbursements reach US$10.0 million. The MOHME-PIU will submit
replenishment applications on a monthly basis. The replenishment applications will be supported by a bank
statement of the SA and a reconciliation bank statement of the SA against the Bank's records. The minimum
amount for applications for direct payment and for special commitment will be 20 percent of the authorized
allocation to the SA.
Replenishment of the SA will follow Bank procedures. The SA will be audited annually by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank. The auditor's engagement letter (TOR), which defines the scope of the audit, has been
reviewed and accepted by the Bank. The audit report should be submitted to the Bank for review within six months
of the end of each fiscal year.
G.   Use of statement of expenditures (SOEs)
Disbursements for contracts not governed by the above paragraphs will be made on the basis of SOEs.
Disbursement for training activities not contracted will be made on the basis ofSOEs. During negotiations, it was
agreed that supporting documentation will be maintained by the PIU and be made available for review by Bank
supervision missions.
This will be phased out once the project is converted to PMR-based disbursement, as per the plan of action agreed
upon during negotiations.



Annex 6
Page 4 of 12
Report on the
Assessment of Project for PMR-Based Disbursements
Project Title: Second Primary Health Care and Nutrition Project
Project ID: 69943
Ineligible for PMR-Based Disbursements
Part I - Financial Management System:
I have reviewed the financial management system relating to this project. The objective of the review was
to determine whether the project has in place an adequate financial management system as required by the
Bank/IDA under OP/BP 10.02.
My review, which included visits to the project implementing agency, was based on the Bank's guidelines
for "Review of Financial Management System", and focused on the assessment of the project's accounting system,
intemal control, planning, budgeting and financial reporting system, selection of an auditor as well as the format
and contents of the Project Management Report (PMR) to be submitted by the borrower in support of Withdrawal
Applications.
In my opinion, the project satisfies the Bank's minimum financial management requirements. However, in
my opinion, the project does not have in place an adequate project financial management system that can provide,
with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely information on the status of the project (PMR) as required by the
Bank/IDA for PMR-Based Disbursements.
I have detailed in the attachment the inadequacies that I found in the system together with an agreed action
plan by the borrower to remedy the situation. A final assessment of the capacity and systems will be made before
effectiveness.
Signed by:
Financial Management Specialist
(FMS-OPR)
Iraj Talai, ARM, January 31, 2000
Part II - Procurement/Contract Management System
I have reviewed the procurement/contract management system relating to this project. The objective of the
review was to determine whether the procurement/contract management system adopted by the project conforms to
the Bank's guidelines for procurement in investment projects.
My review was based whether the procurement/contract management system adopted by the project
conforms to the Bank's guidelines for procurement in investment projects. My review was based on the
"Assessment of Agency's Capacity to Implement Project Procurement, Setting of Prior Review Thresholds and
Procurement Supervision Plan" guidelines issued by the Bank.



Annex 6
Page 5 of 12
I certify that the project satisfies the Bank's minimum procurement management requirements. However,
in my opinion, the project does not have in place an adequate procurement/contract management system that can
provide the appropriate data on major procurement and contract management (PMR - Section 3) as required by the
Bank/IDA.
I have detailed in the attachment the inadequacies that I found in the system together with an agreed action
plan by the borrower to remedy the situation.
Signed by:                           K
Procurement Specialist
f,       Christian Rey, MNSHD, January 31, 2000
Part III: Physical Monitorable Indicators and Overall Assessment
I have reviewed the project's system for' monitoring physical implementation progress, including its
monitorable indicators for major outputs, and certify that the system can provide the appropriate data on physical
progress (PMR - Section 2) as required by the Bank/IDA.
Also, based on the assessments of the FMS-OPR and PS, and/or considering my overall assessment of the
project, I am of the view that this project is not suitable for PMR-based disbursements.
Signed by:
Task Team Leader           ______                 ___U     __
Eva Jarawan-UNSHID, January 31, 2000
Part IV. Concurrence of LOA for Eligibility of Project for PM R-Based Disbursements
I have conducted a reasonable review of the process followed by the Task Team in assessing the project,
and I concur with its recommendation that this project is not eligible for PMR-Based Disbursements.
Signed by:
FMS-LOA/DO                          ha o_I_i,_U___
Thao Le Nguyen, LbDAEA;Jfnuary 31, 2000
Andrina Ambrose-Gardiner, FMS, LOAEL, January 31, 2000



Annex 6
Page 6 of 12
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN: SECOND PHC AND NUTRITION PROJECT
PROCUREMENT ASSESSMENT
(May and December 1999)
A procurement assessment of the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) has been conducted by Mr. Christian Rey,
Procurement Accredited and Ms. Christine Wong, Procurement Assistant.
The PIU is in charge of the ongoing project and has already a long experience (six years) of procurement along the
World Bank guidelines in the three main areas: works (US$250 million), goods (US$3.5 million), and consultant
services (US$0.2 million). They are also handling procurement of contraceptives (US$1.5 million).
The procurement office within the PIU is staffed with one person who has an exceptional knowledge of the Bank's
guidelines and a perfect understanding of the Iranian rules and regulations. Given the preparation of a new project
which will overlap the implementation of the ongoing (at least during eighteen months), the procurement function
will face new challenges. In this context, the workload will be more important and will be increased further with
the new orientation given to the unit by MOHME, promoting the PIU as implementation entity for several projects
(European Community, Islamic Bank of Development, etc.).
The assessment has highlighted four main areas to be improved in the near future:
- Staffing
- Procurement planning and reporting
- Contract management
- Internal manual
Staffing: In order to streamline the procurement process and handle simultaneously several procurement packages,
there is an important need to have the procurement unit strengthened with an additional person.
Procurement planning/reporting: for planning purpose, there is a need to prepare a schedule of activities for
procurement matters. This schedule could be monitored and updated every month to reflect the real path of
procurement preparation with notes indicating where are the slowness and who should take action (decisions, etc.).
The reporting has been improved in the last six months through the project progress report, but a specific reporting
on procurement activities (problems, difficulties or success and replicable lessons learned) linked to the
procurement planning has to be developed further and become a more important part of the management tools.
Contract management: given the experience of the ongoing project, particularly on civil works, resolution of
conflicts/differences with contractors/suppliers should continue to be handled thoroughly in order to face and solve
difficulties in implementation and delivery.
Internal manual: the assessment pointed out that the procurement unit does not have written instructions, as the
other units in the PIU, and should have specific written terms of reference and guidelines. The internal manual will
be part of the operational manual that is under preparation with the financial management system.
In order to comply with the increased role of the procurement unit, an action plan has been discussed and agreed
(see table attached).



Annex 6
Page 7 of 12
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN: SECOND PHC AND NUTRITION PROJECT
PROCUREMENT ASSESSMENT/ PROCUREMENT PLAN
(May and December 1999)
Issue           Remedial        Responsibility     Due date            Remarks
Action
Procurement Unit Recruit an         PIU Manager       June 30, 2000    Due to reorganization
staffing          additional person                                    of financial
management, the
second person working
in the unit will spend
100% of his/her time on
procurement
Planning and      Set up a planning   Procurement     June 30, 2000    Procurement planning
reporting         and reporting     officer                            has been already
function                                             discussed and part of
the overall project
planning. Scheduling
related to procurement
will be imported into
the unit and monitored.
Contract          Regular meetings   PIU manager with  Permanent       Regular meetings will
management        with suppliers and   procurement                     continue to be held with
contractors       officer                            contractors for CW
Internal manual   Develop an        Auditor with PIU    Sept. 30, 2000    In the process to be
internal manual for  team                            developed as part of the
the procurement                                      project manual in
function, part of                                    preparation
the PIU internal
manual



Annex 6
Page 8 of 12
Table A. Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
I. Wrks                                           51.1                                     51.1
(42.7)                                  (42.7)
2. Goods                             17.5          9.4           1.3        23.0           51.2
(17.4)        (7.5)        (1.0)                     (25.9)
3. Services                                                     3.0                         3.0
(3.0)                       (3.0)
4. Training                                                    15.5                        15.5
(15.4)                      (15.4)
5. Recurrent Costs                                                           3.5            3.5
Total    17.5          60.5         19.8         26.5          124.0
(17.4)      (50.2)       (19.4)                      (87.0)
* All figuTes have been rounded
Note: N.B.F. (Non-Bank financed) = The amount of US$23. 0 million is for vehicles which will be financed by counterpart
funds. Recurrent costs are for the salaries and operating costs of the PIU
(*) Other types ofprocurement following Iranian rules.
Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.



Annex 6
Page 9 of 12
Table B. Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
US$                                            US$ million
1. Works                Prior review for first 2         NCB                          4.0
contracts for each of the 39
universities, regardless of
their value
2. Goods                   500,000                        ICB                        16.5
500,000                       NCB                         8.6
3. Services
Studies, consultancy       100,000 for f rms            QCBS                          9.9
services, technical and     50,000 for individuals    Consultants' Qualifications
financial auditing and
training
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:             39.0
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:
High         _
Average
Low
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 month(s)
(includes special procurement supervision for post-review/audits)



Annex 6
Page 10 of 12
Table C. Allocation of Loan Proceeds
A.CVLWORKS                              40.0          |75%
B. GOODS 
Growth Measurement Material &            5.4            100% of foreign
Printing                                               expenditures, 100%
of local expenditures
EXW, and 80% of
local expenditures for
items produced
locally
Refrigerators                            0.1                   Idem
Office equipment, Informatics, &         0.9                   Idem
audio-video                                            __I
Nutrent                                  3.0                   Idem
Vehicles                         14.6                  Idem
Subtotal            24.0
-C. SERVICES
National Consultants                      0.8                    100%
International consultants                 1.2                    100%
Subtotal             2.0
D. Training_Studies/Fellowships
Training abroad                           6.0                    100%
Local training                            6.2                    100%
Studies                                   0.8                    100%
Subtotal            13.0
E. Front end fee                              0.9
Unallocated                                   7.1
TOTAL              87.0
* All figures have been rounded



Annex 6
Table D. Procurement Plan
Description         Component        Sub      Financiers  Costab      Broad       Sub Category    Methods of    Packaging of   YRI    YR2          YR3      YR4      YR5    Total
component                 ref.     Category                     procurement        items
Table
no.
SL.
1 Health centers                  HC           HC         IBRD         1    CWORKS         CW             NCB             PKs 41-481         2.89    14.54    15.43    16.42    17.50C   66.78
2 Four wheels drive               HC           HC         GOVT         1    GOODS          VEH            NBF             PKs 34-36              -   18.74    21.00     0.93        -   40.67
3 Refrigerators                   HC           HC         IBRD         1    GOODS          EQT            NCB             PK 1                        0.10        -        -             0.10
4 Motorcycles                     HC           HC         GOVT         1    GOODS          VEH            NBF             PK 2                        4.31     1.35                       5.66
5 Adult scales                    HC           HC         IBRD         1    GOODS          GMM            ICB             PK13                        0.77        -                      0.77
6 Child scales                    HC           HC         IBRD         1    GOODS          GMM            ICB             PK 3                        0.27             -                 0.27
7 Plastified flow                 HC          GMP         IBRD         2    GOODS          GMM            NCB             PKs 4-7                     0.03     0.02     0.03     0.02     0.11
charts/algorithms                        _
8 Growth chart                    NU          GMP         IBRD         2    GOODS          GMM            NCB             PKs 4-7              _      0.84     0.94     1.55     1.62     4.95
9 Community Growth Chart          NU          GMP         IBRD         2    GOODS          GMM            NCB             PKs 4-7                     0.00     0.00     0.01     0.01     0.02
10 Mother-Baby scales              NU          GMP         IBRD         2    GOODS          GMM            Sole            PKs 8-11                    0.02     0.02     0.03     0.03     .09
______ _____ _____ ______ _____ ___   _ ______ _____ ____  ___________  _____  source LUN IC EF
11 TA for the development of       NU          GMP         IBRD         2    SERVICES       NAT-CONS    CON_SRVCS    PK 24                    0.01     0.01     0.01     0.01     0.01    0.04
materials
12 Weaning food                    NU          GMP         IBRD        2    GOODS           GMM            LIB             PK 22                 -    0.07      0.07     0.20     0.10    0.44
13 Iron supplementation tablets    NU           MS         IBRD         2    GOODS          GMM            NCB             PKs 12-13             -    0.06      0.07     0.11     0.11    0.34
14 Iron supplementation bottles    NU           MS         IBRD         2    GOODS          GMM            NCB             PKs 12-13             -    0.24      0.53     1.00     0.94    2.71
15 VITA capsules /9                NU           MS         IBRD         2    GOODS          GMM            NCB             PKs 12-13             -    0.04      0.42     0.06     0.06    0.59
16 Development of messages         NU           [EC        IBRD         2    SERVICES       NAT_CONS    CON_SRVCS    PK 24                    0.06        -        -        -        -    0.06
and materials                                                                                _
17 Technical assistance for the    NU           IEC        IBRD         2    SERVICES       NAT_CONS    CON_SRVCS    PK 24                    0.01     0.02     0.00     0.00     0.01    0.05
development of materials                                                                     _
1E TA for the development of       NU           IEC        IBRD         2    SERVICES       INT_CONS       CON_SRVCS    PK 24                 0.03        -        -        -        -    0.03
materials
19 Televisions for urban health    NU           IEC        IBRD         2    GOODS          INFO_M         LS              PKs 14-17              -    0.12     0.09     0.09     0.13    0.44
centers
20 Video cassette                  NU           IEC        IBRD         2    GOODS          INFO M         LS              PKs 14-17                   0.01     0.01     0.01     0.01    0.04
21 Video players for urban health  NU           IEC        IBRD         2    GOODS          INFO_M         LS              PKs 14-17              -    0.09     0.07     0.07     0.10     0.33
centers
22 Printed materials               NU          TRN         IBRD         2    GOODS          PRINT          DC              PK1la              0.00        -        -        -        -    0.00
23 Intemational consultant         NU          TRN         IBRD         2    SERVICES       INT CONS       CON_SRVCS    NAT INST              0.03         -                               0.03
24 Trainin courses                 NU          TRN         IBRD         2    SERVICES       Trglocal        C              Budget TA          0.01                  I                     0.01
25 Intemational consultant         NU          TRN         IBRD         2    SERVICES       INT CONS       CON SRVCS    NAT INST              0.03 .                                      0.03
26 Training courses                NU          TRN         IBRD         2    SERVICES       Trg local      DC              Budget TA          0.01                                         0.01
27 Master trainers /i              NU          TRN         IBRD         2    SERVICES       Tr local       DO              Budget TA                   0.01     0.01     0.01     0.01     0.04
28 Training courses                NU          TRN         IBRD         2    SERVICES       Trg local      DC              BudgetTA                    0.12     0.13     0.18     0.16     0.59
29 Prnting materials               NU          TRN         IBRD         2    GOODS          PRINT          NCB             PK 19          _            0.01     0.01     0.01     0.01     0.03
30 Master trainers                 NU          TRN         IBRD         2    SERVICES       Trg local      DC              Budget TA                   0.01     0.01     0.01     0.01    0.04
31 Training courses                NU          TRN         IBRD         2    SERVICES       T jocal        DC              Budget TA                   0.04     0.05     0.11     0.10    0.30
32 Prnting matedrals               NU          TRN         IBRD         2    GOODS          PRINT          NCB             PK i9                       0.00     0.00     0.01     0.01     0.02
33 Training courses                NU          TRN          IBRD        2    SERVICES       Trlc DO                        Budget TA                   0.37     0.45     0.92     0.83    2.58
34 Prnting materials               NU          TRN         IBRD         2    GOODS          PRINT          NCB             PK i9             -         0.01     0 01     0.01     0 01     0 03
35 Mastertrainers                  NU      _   TRN         IBRD         2    SERVICES_ Tr local            D               BudgetTA             _      000      0.00    0.00      000     001



Annex 6
Page 12 of 12
36 TriigcussNU                               TRN         IBRD       2    SERVICES      TbJcl _   C ______Budget TA                        -     0.01    0.01    0.01    0.01    0.04
37 Pnn atrasNU                             -TR-N       I-B RO      -2   GOODS          PINT   __NCB             __PK 19                         0.00   -0.00   -0.00     0.0      .0
38 TannorssNU                                TRN       I-B-RD       2    SERVICES      Trgjo-cal      DC _____ Budget TA                  -     1.29   0-.6-6    09      0.1     3.48
39 P      rninmaterials          NU          TRN        IBRD        2    GOS___PIT                    NCB            PK 19                -     0.03    0.01    0.02    0.01    0.07
40 Matrriners/lo               N-U-           RC         IBRD       2    SERVICES   Tlrg. ,ocal       DCBudget TA                          -       -    06.00-    0. 00    0.01    0.02
41 Triin  ourses                 NU            C         IRD            fSRVICES       T gjocal    -DC               Budget TA            -        -    0.07    0.07   06.10-    0.24
42Mse riners                NURC                   IBD             -SRVICE        Trlcl          D               u  tA-0.00    0.00    0.01    0.02
43 TriigcussNU                                RC         IBRD       2    SERVICES      Trg local      DC             Budget TA     ___-            -    0.021   0.03    0.06    0.11
44 Training courses     ~~NU         RC         IBRD        2    SERVICES      Trgjlocal     DC              Budget TA            -       -     0.14    0.17    0.34    0.65
45 Matr riners                 NU-            RC         IBRD       2    SERVICES      Trg local     lDC             Budget TA-                   -    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
46 Tranigourses                  N-U   -       RC         IBRD       2    SEVCS         Trglocal       DCBde  A-                                    -    0.01    0.00    0.01   -0.02
47 Training_courses              NU           RC         IBRD       2    SERVICES      Trlcl          DC             Budget TA            -        -    0.19    0.10    0.14    0.43
48 Study tours It                NU      I SV            IBRD       2    SERVICES      Stours         CON_SRVCS    PK 25               0.25        -       -       -        -    0.25
49 TA to 're are study visits    NU           SV         IBRD       2    SERVICES      NAT CONS    CON SRVCS    PK 25                  0.01        -       -       -             0.01
50 Anthr ometrics stuo           NU          M&E         IBRD    __2    SERVICES       Study          CON SRVCS    NAT INST               -        -    0.14       -      .7     0.30
51 KA beaviour studlies          NU          M&E         IBRD       2    SERVICES      SdyCON_SRVCS  -NAT INST                            -             0.11       -      .3     0.24
52 Mi~cronuftient ~def. Prevalence  - NU  -ME            IBRD    __2    SERVICES       StdCON SRVCS    NAT INST                        0.11                -                -    0.11
53 Iron deficiency anemia        NU          M&E         IBRD       2    SERVICES      StdCON SRVCS    NAT INST                           -        -       -       -     0,07    0.07
54 Chronic disease situation     NU          M&E         IBRD       2    SERVICES      NAT_CONS    CON_SRVCS    NAT INST                  -     0.02       -                -    0.02
55 International consultants     NU          M&E         IBRD       2    SERVICES    INT CONS         CON SRVCS    NTINST                 -     0.05    0.05 ___--               0.10
56 Sector coordination           NU          M&E         IBRD       2    SERVICES      NAT CONS    CON SRVCS    NAT INST                  -        -    0.01       -             0.01
57 Fodsubsidies                  NU          M&E         IBRD       2    SERVICES      NAT CONS    CON SRVCS    NAT INST                  -        -    0.01       -        -    00
58 Weaning food sustainibility   NU          M&E         IBRD    _ 2    SERVICES       NAT-CONS    CON SRVCS    NAT INST               0.01        -       -       -             0.01
59 Food safety assessment        NU          M&E        IBRD        2    SERVICES      NAT CONS    CON SRVCS    NAT INST                  -    0.02        -       -        -    0.02
60 Technical audit               NU          M&E        IBRD      __2    SERVICES      NAT_-CONS    CON SRVCS    PK 30                 0.01    0.01    0.01    0.01    0.011   0.04
61 Cqomputers, modem, fax        NU           is        IBRD        2    GOODS         INF  M         NBP2107___-                                                  -        -    0.17
_ 62 Vehicles                      NU           IS        GOVT        2    GOODS        -VEH            NBF            PK(38             0.31        --                       -    0.31
6Aui-iual eqimnt            NU           IS        IBRD     __2    GOODS          AUDIO         IS- PK123                         00                  -       -       -     0.00
_64 Training abroad /u            NU_          Is        IBRD     __2    SERVICES       tg abroad     CON SRVCS    PK 37                0.26    0.44 ___-           -        -    0.70
65 Std  ors (MSIO)              CAPB        CAPB         IBRD     __3    SERVICES      stours         CON_SRVCS    PK(26-29               -    0.05    0.06    0.06    0.06    0.22
66 In countr triing             CAPB        CAPB         IBRD       3   ISERVICES      tgjcl          CON SRVCS    PK 31                  -    0.12    0.13    0.15    0.17    0.57
67 T      'iin  or PUpersonnel  CAPB        CAPB         IBRD     __3    SERVICES      tg abroad      CON SRVCS    PK(33               0.03    0.03    0.03    0.031   0.03    0.14
68PHD                         CAPB          SF         IBRD    __3    SERVICES        t gabroad     CON  SRVCS    PK 32                  -    0.30    0.50 ___-           -1   0.79
-69 Maste-r of Science           CAPB          SF         IBRD       3    SERVICES      t9 abroad      CON SRVCS    PK 32                  -     0.49    0.55    0.62        -    1.67
70 Oprtoa eerhCAPB                            SF         lBRD     __3    SERVICES    trg_abroad       CON SRVCS    PK( 32                 -     0.59    0.66    0.74    0.97    2.97
71 Short courses                CAPB          SF         IBRD     __3    SERVICES    trg abroad       CON SRVCS    PK(32                  -     0.25,   0.28    0.31     0.35    1.181
72 TA Local                     CAPS          SF         IBRD       3    SRIES         NAT CONS    CON SRVCS    PK(32                  0.07  -0.08    0.09    0.10    0.11    0.44
73 TA International             CPSF                     BR       __3    SRIE          INCOS           ONRVS         P320.18    0.19    0.19    0.20    0.20    0.96
74 Equipment                    CAPB         PIU    IIBRD         __4   IGOODS          ______    CB                 P1(21         1 0.02    0.02    0.02    0.02    0.02    0.11
75 Auditors                     CAPS         PlU        IBRD      __4    SERVICES      NAT-CONS    CON SRVCS    PK(20                  0.05    0.06    0.06    0.07    0.08    0.31
-76 S§alaries                     CS          PIU        GOVT        4    SERVICES      NAT CONS    NBF               PK 39             0.55    0.61    0.68    0.77    0.86    3.47
77 OraigCssCS                                PIU        GOVT        4    GOODS         NAT CONS    NSF               Pk 40             0.04    0.04    0.04    0.04    0.05    0.20
_____________________________________________________   _____  __________ ___________  ___________ ___________  5.1343.555 45.5   26.22r2.366148.7



Annex 7
Page I of I
Islamic Republic of Iran: Second PHC and Nutrition Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Time taken to prepare the project                                     22 months
(months)
First Bank mission (identification)            11/23/1998           11123/1998
Appraisal mission departure                     4/15/1999            1/03/2000
Negotiations                                    4/28/1999            3/13/2000
Planned date of effectiveness                 07/15/1999             9/15/2000
Prepared by: The Ministry of Health and Medical Education (MOHME)
Preparation assistance: None
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Project Team:
Eva Jarawan                          Sr. Health Specialist, Task Team Leader
Rekha Menon                          Economist
Christian Rey                        Portfolio Manager
Claudia Rokx                         Nutrition Specialist
Iraj Talai                            Sr. Financial Management Specialist
Christine Wong                        Procurement Assistant
Dany Bosseler                         Program Assistant
Peer reviewers:
Alan Berg                            Nutrition Specialist
Christopher D. Walker                 Lead Specialist (HNP Quality)






Annex 8
Page I of 2
Islamic Republic of Iran: Second PHC and Nutrition Project
Documents in the Project File
A. Project Implementation Plan
>  First year detailed schedule of activities
>  Overall schedule of activities for the life of the project
>  Description of components
>  Execution guidelines for PHC component
>  Strategy of rehabilitation of health centers
> Terms of reference for consultant and studies for the first year
>  Terms of reference for the technical audit of PHC component
> Financial management assessment
> Terms of reference for financial audit
>  Action plan for financial management
>  Training plan for the first year
>  Disbursement per year
>  List of equipment
>  Procurement plan and packaging
>  Implementation arrangements and organizational chart
> Procurement assessment report
>  Action plan for procurement
)  List of health centers to be rehabilitated during the first year
>  Selection criteria for health centers
>  Monitoring and evaluation strategy
> Monitoring indicators
> Bank's role on supervision
>  Costing of the project
>  Procurement reporting table



Annex 8
Page 2 of 2
B. Bank Staff Assessments
>- Missions' reports
> World Bank, Staff Appraisal Report, Islamic Republic of Iran, Primary Health Care & Family
Planning Project, Washington, D. C., World Bank, 1993.
C. Other
Bimeh Markazi, Annual Report 1995, Tehran, Bimeh Markazi, 1995.
Burns, M., WHO Mission to Iran 2nd - 14th March 1996.
CREDES, Comprehensive Health Care Financing Study, Paris, CREDES, 1997.
Government of Iran, Country Report on Population, Reproductive Health and Family Planning Program
in the Islamic Republic of Iran, Tehran, GOI, 1998.
Government of Iran, Mid-Decade Goals: Declaration of Achievements in the Islamic Republic of Iran,
Tehran, GOI, 1995.
Government of Iran, Declaration of Achievements in the Islamic Republic of Iran 1995, Tehran, GOI,
1995.
Government of Iran, Preliminary Report on National Health Accounts, Regional NHA Workshop in
Beirut, June 1999.
Medical Service Insurance Organization, The Public Medical Insurance Act and Articles of Association
of the Medical Service Insurance Organization, Tehran, MSIO, 1997.
Ministry of Health and Medical Education, The Progress of Provinces: Islamic Republic of Iran, Tehran,
MOHME, 1998.
Ministry of Health and Medical Education and UNICEF, The Multiple Health Indicator Cluster Survey of
the Islamic Republic of Iran, Tehran, MOHME, 1996.
Ministry of Health and Medical Education and UNICEF, Situation Analysis of Children and Women in
Iran, Tehran, MOHME, 1995.
Social Security Research Institute, Social Security in Iran, Tehran, SSRI, 1997.



Annex 9
Page I of I
Islamic Republic of Iran: Second PHC and Nutrition Project
Statement of Loans and Credits
Operations Portfolio
(As of November 5, 1999)
Difference between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Million                    and actual
Project ID   Fiscal  Borrower                    Purpose                                                                        disbursements a/
Year
IBRD          IDA       Cancellations   Undisbursed    Orig.    Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 34
Active Projects
IR-PE-5212    1993   GOI               IRRIGATION                      157.00        0.00          0.00          99.79          66.60      0.00
IMPROVEMENT
IR-PE-5215    1993   GOI               POWERSECTOREFFICIE              165.00        0.00           0.00         30.60          30.59     11.59
IR-PE-5222    1993   GOI               HEALTHANDFAMILYPL               141.40        0.00           0.00         65.70          65.71      0.00
IR-PE-5213    1992   GOVERNMENT   SISTAN FLOOD CTRL                     57.00        0.00          0.00          32.36          32.35      2.84
IR-PE-5216    1992   GOVERNMENT   TEHRAN DRAINAGE                       77.00        0.00           0.00         22.36          22.32      8.13
Total                                                                  597.40        0.00           0.00        250.81         217.57    22.56
Active Projects      Closed Projects           Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):               346.61                1,268.20              1,614.81
of which repaid:                            60.93                1,096.72              1,157.65
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:               536.47                  171.49                707.96
Amount sold:                                     0.00                  78.55                 78.55
of which repaid:                             0.00                  78.55                 78.55
Total Undisbursed:                            250.81                    0.00                250.81
a. Actual disbursements to date minus intended disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note: Disbursemen data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.






Annex 10
Page 1 of 2
Iran, Islamic Rep. at a glance                                                             9122/99
M. East   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                        & North   middle-
Iran    Africa  income      Development diamond
1998
Population, mid-year (millions)                     61.9      285       908                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                 1,770     2,050    1,710
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                   109.6      586     1557
Average annual growth, 1992-98
Population I%)                                       1.6       2.2      1.1
Labor force (X)                                      4.4       3.0      1.5     GNP                             Gross
per                           primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1992-98)                           capita                      enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)
Urban population (% of total population)             61        58        58
Life expectancy at birth (years)  .                  69        67        68
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)             26        49        38
Child malnutrihon (% of children under 5)            16        14                         Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)               90        81        75
Illiteracy (% oF population age 15+)                 27        38        14
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  98      96       103           Iran, Islamic Rep,
Male                                              102       103       105             Lower-middle-income group
Female                                             95        89       100
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977    1987      1997      1998
Economic rattos
GDP (USS billions)                         76.0   137.7      102.0    100.3
Gross domestic investmenVGDP               32.3    25.5       17.2     21 9                    Trade
Exports of goods and serviceslGDP          32.7      4.2      17.9     14.1
Gross domestic savings/GDP                 37.0    24.9       20.8      19.8
Gross national savings/GDP                          25.0      20.8      19.8
Current account balancetGDP                 3.7    -1.5        1.5     -2.1     Domestic
Interest payments/GDP                                0.0       0.8      0.5     Sangs                      Investrt
Total debttGDP                                       4.5      11.6
Total debt servicetexports                           3.6      31.3
Present value of debtWGDP                                     11.0
Present value of debtlexports                                 55.9
Indebtedness
197747  1988-98    1997       1998   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GDP                               -0.1      4.7      3.D       1.7       3.5        -     ran, Islamic Rep.
GNP per capita                    -3.6      2.8      1.4      -0.3       1.9              Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services     -8.4      1.7   -12.5    -30.9         4.3
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977    1987      1997      1998     Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                10.0    25.4       20.8      16.4    150
Industry                                   51.3    21.8       18.6      18.9    100-
Manufacturing                              9.3     9.5                13.1    so -
Services                                   38.7    52.8       60.6      64.7      o
Private consumption                        42.1     61.5      65.1      68.4    -50                          7    50
General govemment consumption              21.0    13.6       14.1      11.8                   GDI1       GODP
Imports of goods and services              28.0      4.8      14.3      16.2
(average annual growth)                 197747  1988-98      1997      1998     Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                 5.3      4.4       1.5       5.0    40 -
Industry                                   -3.4      5.3       5.1       0.8    20 -
Manufacturing                              2.8     6.9       8.2                                     A      .
Services                                    0.7      5.7       4.8       1.8   -2
Privateconsumption                          3.9      4.1       2.3      12.5   .40
General govemment consumption              -4.3      5.6       3.2    -11.3
Gross domestic investment                  -0.7      4.6      22.9       1.7   -o0
Imports of goods and services              -4.9    -5.4       -4.6      -3.9     -Exports                :  Imports
Gross national product                     -0.1      4.6       3.1       1.4   i
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Annex 10
Page 2 of 2
Iran, Islamic Rep.
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977    1987       1997      1998     Inflation (%)
Domestic prices                                                                  6
(% change)                                                                       60
Consumer prices                             27.1    27.7       17.3      14.7    40               > 
ImplicitGDP deftator                        19.3    22.9       14.1      16.5
20
Government finance
(% of GOP, includes current grants)                                               a
Current revenue                                                25.0      18 8            93   94   95   96   97   9S
Current budget balance                             .            6.3      -1 3              - GDP deflator        CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                     -4.9    -7.1       -2.7      -.6   I
TRADE
fUSS millions)                             1977    1987       1997      1998      Export and import levels (USS millions)
Total eXoris (fob)                        23,917   11,916    18,375    12,997    25,000
Fuel                                    23,601   10,800    15464      9,900     2
Textiles                                                                642    20,000 14  64  2,0
Manufactures                                                            5       2000
Total imports (cit)                       16,636   12,005    14,598    13,765     1000D
Food                                        ..        .         .     2,323
Fuel and energy                                     400       300       289      5.000
Capital goods                                                         5,499        o
Exportpriceindex(1995=100)                   67       94       112       119            92  93  94  95  95  97  9a
Import price index (1995--100)               59       91        92        88               I E,orts     A Imprts
Terms of trade (1995=100)                    114     104        122      135
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(USS millions)                             1977    1987       1997      1998      Current account balance to GOP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services             27.775   12,147    19,566    14,119     10-
Importsofgoodsandservices                 24,919   14,377    18,018    16,210
Resource balance                           2,856   -2,230     1,548    -2,091      s-
Net income                                    85     140       -258     -493
Net current transfers                       -126       0       288       497       0 -
Current account balance                    2,816   -2,090     1,578    -2,087
Financing items (net)                      -726    1,866    -5,546       969
Changes in net reserves                   -2,090     224      3,968     1.118    .10
Memo:                                                                            ____
Reserves including gold (USS millions)        ..       ..    4,964      3,893
Conversion rate (DEC, localUSS)             70.6   144.9   2,751.0   3,316.0
EXTERNAL DEST and RESIOURCE FLOWS
1977    1987       1997     1998
(USS millions)                                                                    Composition of total debt, 1997 (US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                6,144    11,816
IBRD                                        .      317       421       433                       A-421
IDA                                                  0          0        0                              D108
Total debt service                                   442      6,274                    0:3.3i4
IBRD                                        .       99         55       69
IDA                                                  0          0        0
Composition of net resource flows                                                         I
Official grants                                      7         51                                              E 2sa
Official creditors                                 -84    -4,045
Private creditors                                 -119       -353
Foreign direct investment                         -308         50
Portfolio equity                                     0         0                       F: 2.675
World Bank program
Commitments                                          0         0         0      A - iBRD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                        0        78       204      8 - IDA    D - Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                                74        29        50      C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Net flows                                   .      -74        49       153
Interest payments                                   25        26        19
Net transfers                                      -99        23       135
World Bank                                                                                                        9/22V99



-                                                                                                6
LIJ?E009g                                                 C a%s p ian                         TURKMENISTAN                                            ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
141RaroS                   a                              o
Paved Roads
K-al                                                            r~a l kh aejerd1uchkn  -,                                                  Highways
RasI<   ON. tzadsh h<                                                                  N             '      t                        Railroads
00   ~~~~~~~cnHalk..b.d                                                                                                       S-kslltA
Zanion                                     ..9....    Gargnspa                       Soll-bod       M Ma}hkadt''                        Airports
)KMahabadn                                       cern Shchr~~~~ch.  Sari
TokestoX                                                                    Neyslna uSe.±sr.                                    Rivers
, DivandorreR>   ,qJ                            Tebest   >,,,aran  9                                                                                SS-          Seasonal Lakes/Flooded
-K5o5 0Rar aj  K asehmar                            -^                              l orbol e Jatf't t5-cKa r-btHyc-=;n==    Areas
R ...  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    ~ ~       Ksmr&r.y-~6a                                          Cities
Na3sud 5s s_ 9<> c                                                --+    G  r e a t   S a   t   D  esert   (                  K            z                    Province  Capitals
fYlos<,avi aWtSMalay ralafk  <  >   r =c-7                                            ,s                      A                   National Capital
)   X slu m o bt   >  B. rui. rd                                                                       *  <        nm-,tr s h a                In te rn a tio n a l   B o u n d a rie s
r?        <2lum~~~~~orram Abad  l  (w                                                                                s ,H                            <
Doro ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                           4                N ~~~~~~~~~~~~~mMILES
N                            'CD a   _  Biri..d  0  50  100    1 50    200
n % ^   t  gi esh k  S h  h r- e- K lsfak-d                                                                                          0 I  0   100       200       300        400
di-hk  Shakr-e-Kord  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~      ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~ ~ \q.             (KILOMETERS
/                         '\ %  ;    10  yX   W \   (fi-   \\t  azd rn+  A  \tt f    Thi,s map has been pepare-d by The Wafd B-aks
nd i F, ,thnt        Th. Wand Bank
,   +.< S?andorvahshahr  <i)                                  Great/S              nd      D e er                             Grss  Theensns-t-n-seanth
30~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ r e a t jS a@ nt ci D^ e s Zaed r                                                                          --_1.
--   U   WA   fV   t  '<  8<  3+  @  > v a ) <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h                                                             tmpy
I f   AiMnC; 8 QzbeLseor =d ,-uJhehG < lt Xbzpvor\n ,parh                                                                                                                            .a       n
7  te egl sats t ny t-ritory an an-ed--esan
R A ~ ~~~~~~~                                          sf                                                                                        'Q  A          aracceptanceatsachbaendanies rcns ahS 
An.ra
r-~~~~ ~                ~~               oeaeigcQsai J~' .                                                            flCtn4 ) 4  5             -   -    /   <   h   r      S     <          _             5
300~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                                                                  0 
30'                                                 AV ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IZahedn
Ka-    hiraz  ~~~~~~~SrjnMft Jna
-  s~~~~~~~~U W A                    /~~~B sh k                                                          b ....r.                         Kkas1~Pr fl
TURKEY                                                                 on: sa  stnn:;~KIa                                         aseoa                          $hs            .~A
SYRIAN    S           brnInP                                                                                                                                                                   K       TA
ARAB                                                                                                                                                    Iahh
IRA Q <h    SCD\                                                                                                          h Eb.t
JORDAN                                                                                                Banarab/   DehnbarC 
; .,    ARABI          lAAHRAIN                                                                                        M  
'0   tO                     Arabian                   7)                                                                                                     .       bar                                         Ed
0      o                                                            OAT  K'                                 515                                                60 1550                                                   C



