Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4550-IRN
Loan Agreement
(Second Primary Health Care and Nutrition Project)
between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated June 26, 2000
LOAN NUMBER 4550-IRN
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 26, 2000, between the ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN (the 
Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997) with the modifications set forth below in Schedule (the 
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 9, is modified to read:
“’Euro' and 'EUR' each means the lawful currency of the member states of 
the European  Union that adopt the single currency in accordance with the Treaty 
establishing the European  Community, as amended by the Treaty on European Union."
(b)
A new paragraph (d) is added to Section 3.04 to read:
Page  2
“If the Bank shall at any time receive less than the full amount then due 
and payable 
to it under the Loan Agreement, the Bank shall have the right to allocate 
and apply the 
amount so received in any manner and for such purposes under 
the Loan Agreement as the Bank 
shall in its sole discretion determine.”
(c)
Section 11.01 is modified by replacing, in the second sentence, the word 
“radiogram” with the word “facsimile” and adding a new sentence at the end of the said 
Section to read:
“Deliveries made by facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by 
mail.” \0c
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Action Plan” means the action plan referred to in Section 4.02 of this 
Agreement;
(b)
“Eligible Categories” means categories 1, 2, 3 and 4 set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(c)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works and 
services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(d)
“Financial Management Manual” means the manual, acceptable to the Bank, 
setting forth guidelines and procedures for the financial management of the Project;
(e)
“Health Facilities” means collectively, the health facilities selected 
under the Project, as defined in the PIP;
(f)
“MOF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance or any successor thereto;
(g)
“MOHME” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Health and Medical Education, or 
any successor thereto;
(h)
“MSIO” means the Borrower’s Medical Services Insurance Organization;
(i)
“OC” means the Oversight Committee established by the Borrower to monitor 
Project progress and to advise on measures to be taken to ensure its implementation, 
chaired by the Minister of Health and Medical Education and including representatives 
from MOHME’s planning and budget office, PBO, as hereinafter defined, and MOF, as 
hereinafter defined;
(j)
“PIU” means the Project Implementation Unit within MOHME;
(k)
“Procurement Assessment Plan” means the plan agreed with the Borrower and 
satisfactory to the Bank for the strengthening of the procurement functions of the 
PIU;
(l)
“Project Implementation Plan” and “PIP” mean the plan, agreed with the 
Bank, for Project implementation, including the Financial Management Manual, as 
hereinafter defined, documenting the operation of the financial management system 
under the Project and the sequencing of rehabilitation of Health Facilities, as 
hereinafter defined;
(m)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(n)
"Rial" means the currency of the Borrower; \0c
(o)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; and
(p)
“PBO” means the Borrower’s Planning and Budget Organization or any 
successor thereto.
Page  3
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to eighty 
seven million Dollars ($87,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods, works and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2005, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan. On, or promptly after the effective date, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amount of said fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay Commission on the principal amount of 
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Commission 
Period equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
"Commission Period" means the initial period from and including 
the date of 
this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Commission 
Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each 
period from and including a 
Commission Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Commission 
Payment Date.
(ii)
"Commission Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.07 
of this 
Agreement.
(iii)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Commission Period, the London 
interbank 
offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for 
value the first day of such 
Commission Period (or, in the case of 
the initial Commission Period, for value 
the Commission Payment 
Date occurring on or next preceding the first day of 
such Commission 
Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as 
a 
percentage per annum.
(iv)
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Commission Period: (A) three 
fourth of 
one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 
average margin, for 
such Commission Period, below (or above) the 
London interbank offered rates, 
or other reference rates, for six-month 
deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund 
single 
currency loans or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each commission Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the commission rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank 
determines that it is in the commission of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the commission rates applicable to the Loan other than 
Page  4
as provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the 
commission rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months' notice to 
the Borrower of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the 
notice period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its 
objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.07. Commission and other charges shall be payable semiannually on June 
15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall, through 
MOHME, carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate environmental, administrative, financial, medical, public health 
administration and engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works, and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank and furnish to 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures 
related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph 
(a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to 
the Bank, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year as so 
audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements, records and accounts and 
report of such audit, by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have 
Page  5
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records 
and 
accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank may 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the Project 
Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound Action Plan acceptable to the 
Bank for the strengthening of its financial management system for the Project in order 
to enable the Borrower, not later than twelve (12) months after the effectiveness of 
this Agreement, or such later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare quarterly 
Project Management Reports, acceptable to the Bank, each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources 
and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following 
the period covered by said 
report, and (B) shows separately expenditures 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan during the period covered by said 
report 
and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan during the six-month period following the period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, and (B) explains 
variances between 
the actual and previously forecast implementation 
targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under 
contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, 
as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the Action Plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end of 
each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Effective date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely that:
Page  6
(a)
the staff of the PIU shall have been appointed under contractual 
arrangements and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank;
(b)
the Financial Management Manual, including provisions for the upgrading 
of the Borrower’s financial management system, has been approved by the Bank; and
(c)
the Procurement Assessment Plan is being implemented in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 5.02. The date one hundred and twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Economic Affairs and Finance of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance
Davar Avenue
Tehran
Islamic Republic of Iran
Facsimile:
98 21 39 17 043
98 21 39 01 033
98 21 39 10 024
For the Bank:
International Bank for Reconstruction
  and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI); or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI) 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
By /s/ Mohammad Khazaee Torshizi 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
Page  7
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Inder K. Sud 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Middle East and North Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works
    40,000,000
75%
(2)
Goods
    24,000,000
100% of foreign 
expenditures;
100% of local 
expenditures (ex-
factory cost); and 
80% of other
items procured
locally
(3)
Consultants' services  
      2,000,000
100%
(4)
Training
     13,000,000
100%
(5)
Fee
 870,000
Amount due under
Section 2.04 of this
Agreement
(6)
Unallocated
      7,130,000
TOTAL
     87,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure under contracts not exceeding $500,000 equivalent for 
works and $350,000 equivalent for goods, $100,000 equivalent for consulting firms and 
$50,000 equivalent for individual consultants, under such terms and conditions as the 
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a 
Page  8
commercial bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.
2.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Bank shall have received (i) the first Project Management 
Report referred to in Section 4.02(b) of this Agreement and (ii) a request from the 
Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Bank of a Project Management Report pursuant to 
Section 4.02(b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project Management Report 
does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of this 
Agreement;
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account or (B) the records 
and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on 
the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part 
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account 
may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the 
Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
Page  9
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of 
this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are Not 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex:
(a)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $5,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$2,500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account, plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal or exceed the equivalent of 
$10,000,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special 
Account of an amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such 
amount as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank 
shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn 
by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the Special Account’s Eligible 
Categories.
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Special 
Account’s Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such 
deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account 
under one or more of the said Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
Page  10
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and 
(b) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the Project Management Report 
accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order to finance 
Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such report; 
provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount indicated by 
said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special Account, shall not 
exceed the equivalent of $17,000,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in sustaining and 
improving health conditions in rural and urban areas through (i) ensuring access to 
and quality of health care; and (ii) improving the nutritional status of children 
under 3 years of age and lactating and pregnant women.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Sustained Access to and Qualitative Improvement of Health Care
1.
Physical rehabilitation of selected Health Facilities.
2.
Renewal of the medical equipment for selected Health Facilities.
Part B:
Improvement of the Nutritional Status of Children under 3 Years of Age 
and Lactating 
and Pregnant Women
1.
Training of primary health care personnel focusing on interpersonal counseling, 
information education and communication so as to improve the effectiveness of the 
ongoing nutrition services in the health sector.
2.
Provision of technical assistance for the strengthening of children growth 
monitoring and ongoing nutrition activities.
3.
Provision of office space, equipment and technical assistance for the 
institutional strengthening of the MOHME nutritional department.
4.
Studies on needs assessment, operational and situation analyses.
Part C:
Capacity Building
1.
Provision of technical assistance to improve management of primary health care 
services.
2.
Study tours and technical assistance for MSIO staff aimed at improving the 
Borrower’s health insurance scheme.
3.
Strengthening the PIU implementation capacity through the provision of technical 
assistance, travel, training and equipment.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2005.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
 Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in Dollars)*
Page  11
On each June 15 and December 15
beginning December 15, 2005
3,625,000
through June 15, 2017
__________________________ 
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except 
as provided 
in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits", published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and  August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and all vehicles, 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $350,000 equivalent per contract up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $9,300,000 may, and works estimated to cost less than 
$5,000,000 shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
Page  12
aggregate amount not to exceed $800,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international/national shopping procedures in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance 
with such procurement plan as shall have been agreed with the Bank, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to (i) each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$500,000 or more, (ii) each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$350,000 or more, and (iii) the first two (2) contracts estimated to cost less than 
$500,000 for works and $350,000 for goods, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 
and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers", published by the Bank in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. 
The short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant’s Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Individual Consultants
Services for technical assistance and training under Part B of the Project shall 
be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. \0c 2.
Single 
Source Selection
Services for short term technical assistance under the Project which are 
estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may, with the Bank’s 
prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 
through 3.11 of the Consultants Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
Page  13
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance 
with such selection plan as shall have been agreed with the Bank, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 
1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded 
only after said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
1.
Responsibility for overall Project implementation shall be vested with MOHME.
2.
Responsibility for day to day Project operation shall be vested with the PIU. 
The Borrower shall, through MOHME, maintain the PIU under terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Bank and shall provide it, at all times, with qualified staff 
including a Project manager, a procurement officer, a health and nutrition specialist, 
a finance officer and a planning and evaluation monitoring officer. The Borrower 
shall, through MOHME, provide the PIU with functions and authorities as to enable it 
to carry out the aforementioned responsibility, in accordance with the PIP.
3.
Responsibility for Project coordination, monitoring and supervision shall be 
vested with the OC. The Borrower shall, through MOHME, maintain the OC throughout the 
duration of the Project. The Borrower shall, through MOHME, ensure that throughout 
Project implementation, OC meetings are held at least once every three months for the 
first year of the Project and, thereafter, every six months, and that minutes of OC 
meetings shall be sent to the Bank for information promptly after each such meetings.
4.
The Borrower shall, through MOHME:
(a)
cause the PIU to (i) monitor, in a manner acceptable to the Bank, the 
disposal of clinical waste in accordance with a checklist developed as part of the 
PIP, (ii) ensure that any physical rehabilitation works under Part A of the Project 
shall be designed and implemented in accordance with environmental standards 
acceptable to the Bank, and (iii) no later than 12 months after Project effectiveness, 
and thereafter, for every 6 month period during Project implementation, prepare for 
Bank review and approval, an implementation report containing full review of Project 
implementation for the preceding 6 month implementation period, including detailed 
data regarding the nutrition component under Part B of the Project.
5.
The Borrower shall, through MOHME:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators agreed upon between 
the Borrower and the Bank the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
Page  14
objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about June 30, 2003 report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and \0c (c)
review with the Bank, by 
December 30, or such later date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in 
subparagraph (b) of this paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to 
ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank 
views on the matter. 
