                            Document of
                          The World Bank




                                              Report No: ICR0000111



   IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                    (IBRD-45500)

                            ON A LOAN

              IN THE AMOUNT OF US$87.0 MILLION

                              TO THE

                   ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN

                               FOR A

 SECOND PRIMARY HEALTH CARE AND NUTRITION PROJECT



                            July 30, 2009




Human Development Sector
MNCO2
Middle East and North Africa Region
                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                (Exchange Rate Effective June 16, 2009)

                   Currency Unit = Iranian Rial (IRR)
                        IRR 1000 = US$ 0.1020
                         US$ 1.00 = IRR 9,805

                            FISCAL YEAR
                          March 21 ­ March 20

                ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ANSC    Anthropometric Nutritional Status of Children
AUB     American University of Beirut
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CDC-I   Center for Disease Control and Management-Iran
CFO     Chief Financial Officer
CHV     Community Health Volunteer
DHC     District Health Center
EMS     Emergency Medical Services
FC      Financial Controller
FM      Financial Management
FP      Family Planning
FPP     Family Physician Program
FY      Fiscal Year
GOI     Government of Iran
HH      Health House
HMIS    Health Management Information System
HSR     Health Sector Reform
ICB     International Competitive Bidding
ICR     Implementation Completion and Results Report
IEC     Information, Education, and Communication
IS      International Shopping
LA      Loan Agreement
MOEAF   Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance
MOHME   Ministry of Health and Medical Education
MOU     Memorandum of Understanding
MPO     Management and Planning Organization
NCB     National Competitive Bidding
NCL     National Control Laboratory
NHSRU   National Health Sector Reform Unit
NPMC    National PHC Management Center
NRA     National Regulatory Authority
OC      Oversight Committee
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PDO     Project Development Objective
PBO     Planning and Budget Organization

                                    ii
PHC      Primary Health Care
PHCFPP   Primary Health Care and Family Planning Project
PIP      Project Implementation Plan
PIU      Project Implementation Unit
PMR      Project Management Report
QCBS     Quality and Cost-based Selection
RHC      Rural Health Center
SA       Special Account
SBD      Standard Bidding Document
SOE      Statement of Expenditure
SPHCNP   Second Primary Health Care and Nutrition Project
STC      Short Term Consultant
TOR      Terms of Reference
TOT      Training of Trainers
UHC      Urban Health Center
UMSHS    University of Medical Sciences and Health Services
UNICEF   United Nations Children's Fund
WBI      World Bank Institute
WHO      World Health Organization
WHV      Woman Health Volunteer




                       Vice President: Shamshad Akhtar
                     Country Director: Hedi Larbi
                      Sector Manager: Akiko Maeda
                 Project Team Leader: John C. Langenbrunner
                    ICR Team Leader: Jean-Jacques Frère




                                      iii
                               ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
                       Second Primary Health Care and Nutrition Project



                                           TABLE OF CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information.....................................................................................v
    B. Key Dates...............................................................................................v
    C. Ratings Summary......................................................................................v
    D. Sector and Theme Codes............................................................................vi
    E. Bank Staff.............................................................................................vi
    F. Results Framework Analysis........................................................................vi
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs...........................................................ix
    H. Restructuring..........................................................................................x
    I. Disbursement Graph..................................................................................xi

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 13
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 20
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 20
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 23
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 24
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 25
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 26
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 40
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 41
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 43
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 44
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 45
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 61
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 62
  MAP: IRN 33421.................................................................................64




                                                             iv
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Second Primary Health
                        Iran, Islamic Republic
Country:                                       Project Name:              Care and Nutrition
                        of
                                                                          Project
Project ID:             P069943                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-45500
ICR Date:               07/30/2009              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIM                     Borrower:
                                                                          IRAN
Original Total
                        USD 87.0M               Disbursed Amount:         USD 86.2M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 87.0M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Health and Medical Education (MOHME)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process           Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       04/21/1999     Effectiveness:                               02/22/2001
Appraisal:            05/11/1999     Restructuring(s):                            06/20/2004
Approval:             05/18/2000     Mid-term Review:                             03/03/2004
                                     Closing:                12/31/2005           09/30/2008

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower            Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Unsatisfactory     Government:         Moderately Satisfactory
                        Moderately         Implementing
Quality of Supervision:
                        Unsatisfactory     Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank            Moderately         Overall Borrower
                                                               Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:            Unsatisfactory     Performance:



                                                v
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                             Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           Yes                                             None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                             Satisfactory
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original                Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                      5                     5
Health                                                                95                   95


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Child health                                                          29                   60
Health system performance                                             28                   30
Nutrition and food security                                           29                   10
Participation and civic engagement                                    14

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                        At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Shamshad Akhtar                      Kemal Dervis
Country Director:          Hedi Larbi                           Inder K. Sud
Sector Manager:            Akiko Maeda                          George Schieber
Project Team Leader:       Jean-Jacques Frere                   Eva Jarawan
ICR Team Leader:           Jean-Jacques Frere
ICR Primary Author:        Paul Geli


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
 The objectives of the project are to assist the Government of Iran in sustaining and
improving health conditions in rural and urban areas through: (i) ensuring access to and
quality of health care; and (ii) improving the nutritional status of children under 3 years
of age and pregnant and lactating women.



                                                vi
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)


(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target     Formally       Actual Value
                                                Values (from       Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value
                                                  approval         Target        Completion or
                                                 documents)        Values        Target Years
                Increased patient satisfaction with EMS (due to greater comfort in new vehicles
Indicator 1 :
                and faster response time).
                Data on each site            10% increase in
Value
                provided in the April        patient satisfaction             Satisfaction rate
quantitative or
                2005 Project Status          with EMS                         almost tripled.
Qualitative)
                Report.                      services.
Date achieved 04/30/2005                     12/31/2007                       12/31/2007
Comments
                Services greatly improved and users satisfied. Percentage of village council that
(incl. %
                are satisfied with the referral system increased from 17% to 46%.
achievement)
                Physicians learn about public health approaches to nutrition during nutrition
Indicator 2 :
                training workshops.
                                             Significant
                                             difference between               An evaluation has
                Zero - physicians do not
Value                                        pre/post test scores             been planned, but
                receive health oriented
quantitative or                              for more than 75%                delivery of the
                nutrition training during
Qualitative)                                 of the training                  product is
                their medical training.
                                             workshop                         uncertain.
                                             participants.
Date achieved 02/22/2001                     12/31/2007                       12/31/2007
Comments
                Training workshops completed. Sixty five nutritionists trained overseas, with 4
(incl. %
                PhDs to teach future nutrition programs.
achievement)
                Improved management skills of participants in training programs of three weeks
Indicator 3 :
                or more.
                                             Improved                         All ratings were
                Zero - people who would
Value                                        management skills                either average, high
                benefit from management
quantitative or                              exhibited by more                or very high (none
                training selected to
Qualitative)                                 than 50% of the                  were below
                participate.
                                             participants.                    average).
Date achieved 02/22/2001                     12/31/2007                       12/31/2007
Comments        A survey was carried out to assess the opinions of the superiors of the
(incl. %        participants regarding the impact of the courses on the quality of the work of the
achievement) participants in these jobs positions.
                Percentage of hospital health workers at the District and Provincial Hospitals
Indicator 4 :
                trained on Avian Influenza infection control guidelines.
                                              Number of                       All the health
Value
                                             hospital health                  workers in the
quantitative or Zero
                                             workers trained,                 public sector have
Qualitative)
                                             based on survey to               been trained on

                                               vii
                                           determine                         Avian Influenza
                                           knowledge level of                infection control
                                           hospital health                   guidelines.
                                           workers.
Date achieved 12/31/2006                   12/10/2007                        09/30/2008
Comments        More than 44,000 individuals have been trained. In addition, 7.5% of poultry
(incl. %        farms have been trained in terms of personal protection and controlling of the
achievement) farms against AI infection and transfer of disease.
                Percentage of selected provinces that implemented simulation exercises, based
Indicator 5 :
                on the revised preparedness plan.
                                            Three provinces
                                                                             Simulation exercise
Value                                      were selected to
                                                                             has been carried out
quantitative or Zero                       carry out
                                                                             in one province
Qualitative)                               simulation
                                                                             only.
                                           exercises.
Date achieved 12/31/2006                   12/10/2007                        09/30/2008
Comments
                Of the three simulation plans that were to be launched during 2008, only one was
(incl. %
                carried out in Tehran with the Veterinary Organization and the CDC-I.
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target                       Actual Value
                                                                 Formally
                                            Values (from                          Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                              Revised
                                              approval                           Completion or
                                                              Target Values
                                             documents)                          Target Years
                EMS call volume increased in areas which receive a new ambulance due to
Indicator 1 : higher number of ambulances. Note: "Call volume" in EMS terminology refers
                to the number of emergency responses.
                                                                              Call volume in
Value
                                         Call volume                          2007 increased by
(quantitative   No data.
                                         increased by 10%.                    21% compared to
or Qualitative)
                                                                              2006.
Date achieved 06/30/2005                 12/31/2007                           12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %        Ambulances delivered. Satisfaction overall.
achievement)
Indicator 2 : Average national response time on rural roads has been reduced significantly.
Value                                                                         Average response
                Average response time: No quantified
(quantitative                                                                 time: 14 minutes
                25 minutes (2005).       target.
or Qualitative)                                                               (2007).
Date achieved 06/30/2005                 12/31/2007                           12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %        Response time has been reduced by 44%.
achievement)
                Average national response time in cities with a population of 500,000 has been
Indicator 3 :
                reduced significantly.
Value           Average response time: No quantified                          Average response


                                              viii
(quantitative   15 minutes (2005).         target.                            time: 7 minutes
or Qualitative)                                                               (2007).
Date achieved 06/30/2005                   12/10/2007                         12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %        Response time has been reduced by 53%.
achievement)
                Coverage of flour fortification with iron in Bousher, Golestan, and Sistan and
Indicator 4 :
                Baluchistan.
                                           100% flour
                                           fortification with
                                                                              90% flour
                                           iron in all three
Value                                                                         fortification with
                Zero - flour fortification pilot provinces
(quantitative                                                                 iron in Bousher,
                was not practiced.         (Bousher,
or Qualitative)                                                               and 94% in
                                           Golestan, and
                                                                              Golestan.
                                           Sistan and
                                           Baluchistan).
Date achieved 02/22/2001                   12/10/2007                         12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %        National program under implementation.
achievement)
Indicator 5 : Graduate nutrition training program available.
                                            4 graduate
Value           Zero - graduate nutrition                                     A curriculum for
                                           nutrition training
(quantitative   training programs not                                         nutrition has been
                                           programs
or Qualitative) available.                                                    developed.
                                           developed.
Date achieved 02/22/2001                   12/10/2007                         09/30/2008
Comments
                A nutrition curriculum has been developed but it needs to be integrated into the
(incl. %
                university program.
achievement)
Indicator 6 : WHO certification of the Government's ability to monitor quality of vaccines .
                                                                              A recent assessment
Value           Programs do not meet        WHO positive                      indicate conditional
(quantitative   WHO standards for          assessment of                      passing for full
or Qualitative) certification .            certification.                     functionality of
                                                                              NRA and NCL.
Date achieved 02/22/2001                   12/10/2007                         09/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %        Pending formal WHO certification. All criteria have been fulfilled.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                  Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                             DO                          IP               Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                              (USD millions)
  1     06/27/2000            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     0.00
  2     12/21/2000            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     0.00
  3     03/02/2001            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     0.87

                                               ix
  4    08/03/2001      Unsatisfactory                 Unsatisfactory         0.87
  5    01/22/2002      Unsatisfactory                 Unsatisfactory         0.87
  6    04/11/2002      Unsatisfactory                 Unsatisfactory         0.87
  7    05/30/2002      Unsatisfactory                 Unsatisfactory         0.87
  8    09/12/2002      Unsatisfactory                 Unsatisfactory         0.92
  9    11/27/2002      Unsatisfactory                 Unsatisfactory         2.93
 10    03/26/2003      Unsatisfactory                 Unsatisfactory         2.93
 11    09/16/2003      Unsatisfactory                 Unsatisfactory         3.02
 12    03/11/2004      Unsatisfactory                 Unsatisfactory         3.21
 13    04/26/2004      Unsatisfactory                 Unsatisfactory         3.47
 14    10/26/2004      Unsatisfactory                  Satisfactory          4.78
                         Moderately
 15    04/20/2005                                      Satisfactory         15.73
                       Unsatisfactory
 16    05/31/2005   Moderately Satisfactory           Satisfactory          22.24
 17    06/30/2005   Moderately Satisfactory           Satisfactory          25.07
 18    12/10/2005   Moderately Satisfactory           Satisfactory          61.95
 19    06/21/2006   Moderately Satisfactory           Satisfactory          73.44
 20    12/14/2006   Moderately Satisfactory           Satisfactory          74.10
 21    05/25/2007   Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory   75.92
 22    08/14/2007   Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory   76.02
 23    02/24/2008       Satisfactory                  Satisfactory          79.61
 24    09/29/2008   Moderately Satisfactory           Satisfactory          82.82


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     The restructuring was submitted
                                                     to the RVP for approval, but a
                                                     "formal" restructuring was not
 06/20/2004       N       U      U            3.95
                                                     submitted to and approved by
                                                     the Board of Directors of the
                                                     Bank.




                                              x
I. Disbursement Profile




                          xi
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

The country context

Iran was an active borrower until the early 1970s when, following the oil revenue
windfall, it graduated from borrower status. Lending was resumed in 1990 following an
earthquake when, as a result of the long war with Iraq, incomes had again declined and
the Government had initiated a program of economic reform and major reconstruction.
During the period 1990-1993, the Bank made six loans to Iran for earthquake recovery,
flood works rehabilitation, drainage, irrigation, power, and health (Primary Health Care
and Family Planning Project - Ln 25840-IRN). When the Bank Loan was made in 2000
for this Second Primary Health Care and Nutrition Project (SPHCNP), there had been no
lending to Iran since 1993 and there was no current CAS. Iran was a challenging country
in which to work: the country had limited knowledge of the Bank and few staff trained to
work on Bank-financed projects. Likewise, Bank staff was initially not very familiar with
Iranian administrative regulations and procedures.

The sector context

The delivery of primary health care had been at the heart of the country's successes in
raising the health status of the population and reducing fertility rates over the previous
decade (1990s). The Ministry of Health and Medical Education (MOHME) presides over
the management of the State's health system and regulates the provision of private and
NGO health care services. The Ministry is also responsible for the planning and
management of medical education through a unified structure that brings together the
health network and the universities, responsible for medical education at the provincial
level, in a single management arrangement. The ability of the MOHME to train qualified
paramedical personnel and the satisfactory supply and use of medicines and other
consumable items were among the main strengths of the PHC network. However, in a
period of economic hardship, MOHME was encountering difficulties in securing the
budget necessary to sustain and upgrade rural and urban health centers in terms of
physical infrastructure, vehicles and essential equipment in some of the poor and remote
areas.

The health sector was a high priority for the government. Through the Primary Health
Care and Family Planning Project (PHCFPP), the Bank supported the GOI's policy on
health care which, in the short run, emphasized the extension of PHC to underserved
areas and the expansion of family planning (FP) services and, in the long run, sought to
expand the types of services offered by the PHC network, and to adopt measures for the
financial sustainability of the health system.

When the project was appraised in May 1999, the under-five malnutrition rate was high.
One out of every five children was chronically malnourished or stunted (low height for
age); this figure was even higher for rural areas. Seven percent of all children under the


                                            1
age of five suffered from acute malnutrition or wasting (low weight for height), the
prevalence being higher in urban areas. Iron deficiency was a widespread problem, and
Iran has always been an endemic area for iodine deficiency. Malnutrition was mainly a
result of intra-household mal-distribution of food, inadequate care, and nutrition
illiteracy. Iran lacked a concrete National Nutrition Program. However, the Government
of Iran (GOI) was working on a comprehensive action plan for the reduction of
malnutrition.

Government Strategy.

Since the early 1980s, the Government's health sector policies focused on the delivery of
PHC as the main strategy by which to improve health conditions in the country; these
policies received strong political support. The positive relationship between the
development of the PHC network and recent improvements in health outcomes has been
clearly established. According to MOHME, when the project was appraised 85 percent of
the rural and 60 percent of the urban population were covered by the Government's PHC
network. In cities, the population was also served by the private sector (except in a few
peri-urban areas). While Government policy aimed at 100 percent coverage under its
PHC scheme, some rural areas posed a problem due to remoteness, the existence of
nomads and, in some cases, difficulty in recruiting behvarzes (community health
workers). Nevertheless, coverage was more or less complete. Therefore, the Government
was moving to ensure that existing services were sustained and, where necessary,
upgraded.

Rationale for Bank assistance

Although the previous Primary Health Care and Family Planning Project had its share of
problems, its achievements were significant. When the new project was appraised, the
Bank believed it was important to continue a dialogue with Iran on health sector issues.
The new project focused on maintaining the gains achieved in primary health care, in
addition to badly needed interventions in nutrition.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

According to the Loan Agreement (LA), the objectives of the project were to assist the
Government of Iran in sustaining and improving health conditions in rural and urban
areas through: (i) ensuring access to and quality of health care; and (ii) improving the
nutritional status of children under 3 years of age and lactating and pregnant women. This
is the definition of the PDO that matters for the purpose of the ICR, but it should be noted
that the definition of the PDO was slightly different in the Project Appraisal Document
(PAD)1.



1
  According to the PAD, the PDO is "to assist the Government of Iran (GOI) in improving health conditions
in rural and urban areas through: (i) sustaining access to, and the quality of, primary health care; and (ii)
improving the nutritional status of children under 2 years of age and pregnant and lactating women".


                                                     2
According to the PAD, the following key performance indicators were to be monitored
through periodic surveys:

        To sustain and improve health conditions in rural and urban areas through:
(i) ensuring access to and quality of health      Increased level of client satisfaction
care.                                                with PHC services.
                                                  Increased utilization rates.
(ii) improving the nutritional status of          Reduction by 30% in the targeted
children under 3 years of age and of                 provinces of the proportion of
pregnant and lactating women.                        children under 3 years of age who
                                                     are malnourished.
                                                  Reduction by 25% of the proportion
                                                     of pregnant women with iron
                                                     deficiency anemia.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

When the project was substantially restructured in June 2004, the Bank team considered
revising the PDO, but Bank management decided that the PDO would not be revised due
to country relations considerations.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The project was designed to help sustain and improve the delivery of PHC by the public
sector, which covers about 85 percent of the rural and 60 percent of the urban population.
The PHC facilities to be rehabilitated would serve about 18 million people in rural and
peri-urban areas, mostly women and children. The project would improve health and
child development, thereby reducing the consequences that malnutrition and poor health
impose in terms of schooling and productivity. Children under 3 years of age2 and
pregnant and lactating women were the targeted population of the nutrition component,
which focused on both rural and urban areas in the 14 provinces (out of 27 provinces)
where malnutrition rates (based on the latest survey results) were higher than the national
average. The project included poverty-targeted interventions and had been designed to
disproportionately benefit the poor. One of the criteria for the selection of health centers
to be rehabilitated was the "extent of region deprivation". This is a regional index that is
determined on a yearly basis by the Planning and Budget Organization and is therefore
available. Similarly, the nutrition component would benefit disproportionately the poor
population based on available stunting data.




2
    In practice, the monitoring is done for children under 5 years of age.


                                                         3
1.5 Original Components

According to the Loan Agreement (LA), the project had three parts (or components):

Part A. Sustained access to and qualitative improvement of health care, through: (i) the
physical rehabilitation of selected health facilities; and (ii) the renewal of the medical
equipment for selected health facilities (US$91.2 million; 74 percent of project costs
according to the PAD).

Part B. Improvement of the nutritional status of children under 3 years of age and of
pregnant and lactating women, through: (i) training of primary health care personnel
focusing on interpersonal counseling, information, education and communication (IEC)
so as to improve the effectiveness of ongoing nutrition services in the health sector; (ii)
provision of technical assistance for the strengthening of children-growth monitoring and
ongoing nutrition activities; (iii) provision of office space, equipment and technical
assistance for the institutional strengthening of the MOHME's nutrition department; and
(iv) studies on needs assessments, and operational and situation analyses (US$21.5
million; 17 percent of project costs according to the PAD).

Part C. Capacity building, through: (i) provision of technical assistance to improve
management of primary health care services; (ii) study tours and technical assistance for
Medical Services Insurance Organization staff aimed at improving the health insurance
scheme; and (iii) strengthening the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) implementation
capacity through the provision of technical assistance, travel, training and equipment
(US$11.3 million; 9 percent of project costs according to the PAD).

1.6 Revised Components

The project components were revised twice: first, in connection with the 2004
restructuring, and second, in December 2006 to add a subcomponent on Avian Influenza.

A. Under the June 2004 restructuring, the PDO was not changed but the project
description was amended to ensure that what remained under the project could
realistically be implemented in the time remaining. The amendment included the
following changes:

   1) In Part A - Sustained Access to and Qualitative Improvement of Health Care:
      adding the acquisition of new medical equipment, vehicles and ambulances.
   2) In Part B ­ Improvement of the Nutritional Status of Children under 3 Years of
      Age and Lactating and Pregnant Women: (i) broadening the definition of training
      (training in nutrition science); (ii) deleting the studies, the provision of technical
      assistance, office space and equipment; but (iii) adding the acquisition of micro-
      nutrients, including provision of services for flour fortification.
   3) In part C ­ Capacity building: (i) focusing the training on the improvement of
      management skills; (ii) referring to the strengthening of the PIU implementation
      capacity; (iii) building capacity for better health policy through targeted health


                                            4
       sector reform pilot projects; and (iv) improving the quality of vaccine production
       by strengthening the National Regulatory Authority and the National Control
       Laboratory.

B. Following the Avian Influenza crisis in the region, including neighboring countries
such as Azerbaijan, the Government requested assistance to refine and assist in the
implementation of the Government's Preparedness and Surveillance Plan. Therefore, at
the request of the Government, the project was amended in December 2006 to include the
development of an Avian Influenza Preparedness and Surveillance Plan (AI Plan) with an
allocation of US$6 million. The PDO did not need to be changed since the objective of
the new subcomponent was to assist the government in strengthening its preparedness for
a potential outbreak of Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza (HPAI), to which Iran is
susceptible, through strengthening its capacity to prevent, diagnose and manage any
suspected or confirmed human cases. The new subcomponent included five activities: (1)
strengthening the surveillance system; (2) strengthening the health system response
capacity; (3) communication and coordination; (4) capacity building and knowledge
sharing; and (5) project management and monitoring and evaluation.

1.7 Other significant changes

There were some changes in implementation arrangements and funding allocations. GOI
financed the rehabilitation of health centers (which originally were to be financed by the
Bank Loan), and all vehicles and ambulances were financed by the Bank Loan instead of
by counterpart funds.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

The health sector was a high priority for the government and the project addressed a key
social need in the country: it targeted those rural areas where health conditions were
particularly poor and existing health services were relatively inadequate. However, with
about 13 distinct, somewhat unrelated project sub-components without a central theme,
the project was complicated and difficult to manage. Some initial preparation work for
the project was carried out under technical assistance, but overall the preparation process
was undertaken with minimal resources and in a very short period of time. The design of
the components and the allocation of the Bank Loan to various components were not
based on a needs assessment and a clear understanding of the priorities in the health
sector. Furthermore, preparation faced constraints due to the challenging country
relations context which included uncertainties regarding the Bank lending program.
When the project was submitted to the Bank's Board of Directors a number of sub-
components were not ready for implementation, which taxed scarce procurement and
project implementation resources and posed a risk to overall project implementation.

The project components were designed to address some of the prevailing sectoral issues
in three important areas: (i) sustaining GOI's PHC services, particularly in rural areas;
(ii) providing families with the needed knowledge, skills, and motivation to take proper


                                            5
care of their children's nutritional needs; and (iii) building capacity at both the central
and regional levels in terms of management, financing, and health economics through
training, study tours, and operational studies. As this project was, to a large extent, a
continuation of the Primary Health Care and Family Planning Project (PHCFPP), the
ongoing institutional and implementation arrangements were extended to the new project.

However, there were problems with project ownership and design, and there were critical
project implementation issues. On the government side, there was a lack of necessary
coordination and consent with the Planning and Budget Organization (PBO) before the
finalization of the project and the signing of the Loan Agreement. A lesson learned is that
it is important for the Bank to ensure that there is a consensus within the country on a
proposed project before seeking approval for it.

The project design tried to take into account some lessons of the PHCFPP, but it turned
out that some of those lessons were not fully thought through or were not relevant. First,
it was felt that in a large country, like Iran, it was important to decentralize civil works
management to the Medical Universities, but the design did not take into account the
implications of that decision, i.e. the need to define the implementation and training
arrangements for the Medical Universities3 and their financial controllers. Second, in
view of the Government's policies regarding imports, it was decided that the GOI would
purchase the vehicles needed for this new project with counterpart funds. It turned out
that the Government accepted the Bank procurement guidelines for the procurement of
vehicles (including ambulances) that were financed under the Bank Loan, whereas GOI
funds financed the rehabilitation of health facilities that originally were intended to be
financed under the Bank Loan.

The major alternative under consideration was a project with much wider scope, both in
addition to PHC and nutrition, and with respect to the nutrition component. This would
have required a greater preparation effort and longer time. It was decided to proceed with
a smaller operation to meet pressing needs.

The participatory processes included site visits and discussions with communities and
local groups. The Behvarzes and the Community Health Volunteers (CHVs) come from
the local communities served by the PHC facility where they work, and provided
valuable feedback during preparation. For nutrition, there were extensive consultations
with UNICEF, which was an active partner in project preparation relying heavily on
community and NGO feedback when designing pilot projects.

Critical risks (related to possible shifts in priorities, budget allocations and inadequate
coordination) and mitigation measures were identified and included in the PAD. The
overall risk rating was "modest". However, the project team should have done a better
job of foreseeing the problems that arose. The first project had numerous problems and
they were not accounted for fully or candidly in the PAD for this second project.



3
    According to the Health Sector review report dated June 2008, there are 39 Medical Universities in Iran.


                                                       6
There was no adequate system for monitoring and evaluation. The definition of the
project development objective (PDO) was too broad, with no clear baseline data and, in
some cases, no quantified targets. There were no agreed upon arrangements to monitor
the achievement of the PDO. A lesson learned is that PDOs should be defined in more
precise and concrete terms with corresponding measurable quantitative key performance
indicators (KPIs). A clear results chain is critical, and the PDO should not include items
that are not going to be influenced by activities or will not be measured by the project.
Bank staff had a limited understanding of the country system and of what the Bank was
allowed to finance in the country (because of import restrictions or other regulations).
Overall, the Project was not ready for implementation when it was approved by the
Bank's Board of Directors. The fact that the quality at entry was unsatisfactory explains
in great part the implementation difficulties and delays in the first few years of the
project.

2.2 Implementation

The SPHCNP was approved on May 18, 2000 and declared effective on February 22,
2001. The project launch workshop was held in Tabriz on January 25-26, 2001.

The difficulties of working in Iran had some negative effects on the project.
Implementation from February 2001 until mid 2004 was extremely slow; there was little
progress on most subcomponents. Implementation delays related to poor project design,
lack of ownership, and critical project implementation issues due to conflicts between
Bank policies and procedures and Iranian administrative regulations and procedures.
There were high turnover rates at the senior level of MOHME, which resulted in the need
to increasingly build capacity in the MOHME. An important factor was the lack of
knowledge of Iranian staff about Bank policies and procedures. A lesson learned is that
arrangements must be made to ensure that the Borrower's key project staff are hired and
familiarized with Bank processes and procedures before the actual start of project
implementation. Likewise, Bank staff must familiarize themselves with the unique
characteristics of the country.

On the financial side, there were delays in opening the Special Account (SA) for the
Bank Loan, and the Management and Planning Organization (MPO) failed to include
counterpart funding in the MOHME budget allocation. Counterpart funding was finally
included in the budget for FY 2002/2003, and made available in May 2002. Counterpart
funds allocated by the MPO have generally been insufficient, and allocated funds have
not been released in a timely manner. On the other hand, the Government provided
substantial amounts to finance the Family Physician Program (FPP).

Very early in project implementation, it became apparent that the PIU needed to be
strengthened in many areas (procurement, financial management and MIS) and to be
better integrated into the MOHME with improved collaboration and routine coordination
among MPO, MOEAF, MOHME and the PIU. Project management has continued to be
problematic. There has been a high turnover of managers at the PIU with four PIU
managers in the first three and a half years of project implementation. There was a lack of
proactivity on the part of Iranian staff who lacked experience in working with the World


                                            7
Bank, and a lack of clarity and communication4 between the Bank and the GOI regarding
project direction. Getting a person stationed in Tehran for about 6 to 12 months was
necessary in order to get the project off the ground. The language barrier has also been a
problem. Some component managers and PIU staff had limited knowledge of English,
and Bank staff had to rely on translators.

Finally, the Oversight Committee (OC)5, to be established to monitor project progress
and advise on measures to be taken to ensure its implementation, was not established
until 2003 and did not meet frequently; therefore, the OC's objective of ensuring a
smooth coordination with all departments at the MOHME was not achieved.

As of June 30, 2003, or 28 months after effectiveness, only about US$200,000, or 0.23%
of the loan amount had been disbursed.

The SPHCNP was a problem project (with a rating of unsatisfactory) until the June 2004
restructuring, by which point only US$3.95 million of the Loan had been disbursed. The
restructuring marked a turning point for the project. The Government and the Bank
reassessed project activities to address critical project implementation issues and
restructured the project to ensure that what remained under the project could realistically
be implemented in the time remaining.

The components were modified, and some changes were made regarding the specific
inputs to be financed from the Bank Loan (vehicles including ambulances) versus
government resources (rehabilitation of health facilities). A lesson learned is that it is
inefficient for a Bank project to finance, procure and monitor a large number of low cost
small works scattered over a large geographic area, but very efficient in procuring large
numbers of equipment or vehicles where a centralized tender process is possible.

The Loan Agreement was amended accordingly. Although the Bank team considered
revising the project development objective (PDO) to bring it more in line with the revised
components and to facilitate monitoring of achievements, Bank management decided that
the PDO would not be revised because of country relations considerations.

Following the restructuring, project implementation improved considerably, because
there was greater clarity about, and ownership of project activities, detailed
implementation plans were available, and an international implementation and
procurement expert (as of April 2004) and an M&E consultant were recruited to support
implementation. However, even after restructuring, the project remained complex,
requiring the involvement of several departments of MOHME who were not familiar with
World Bank guidelines and procedures. On the Bank side, the high turnover of Task
Team Leaders was also a hindrance.


4
  The fundamental basis for this communication is a component description, a work plan, a procurement
plan and a monitoring and evaluation plan.
5
  To be chaired by the Minister of Health and Medical Education with membership from the various
departments of MOHME, MPO and the Ministry of Finance.


                                                   8
In 2002, the Ministry of Health established a Health Sector Reform (HSR) Committee
with a secretariat reporting directly to the High Council of Health and the Minister. The
Health Sector Reform Unit in the ministry was supported through technical assistance
under the project and provided the technical inputs to the Committee. According to the
Aide Memoire of the Bank Health Sector mission in June 2002, the main focus of the
Health Sector Reform strategy was in seven priority areas, which included the
development of a Family Physician model. In 2003/2004, the Government of Iran (GOI)
introduced the Family Physician Program (FPP), which established a system of family
physicians functioning as gatekeepers to the health care delivery network, and included
measures to improve clinical and ethical practices by family physicians. The FPP had a
positive effect on the project's outcome, and the project provided complementary support
to the implementation of the FPP, including rehabilitation of health facilities and
physician houses, provision of medical equipment and vehicles, and medical staff
training. Moreover, in 2003/2004, the project funded the World Bank Institute (WBI)
Flagship Course on Health Sector Reform and Sustainable Financing (delivered by the
American University of Beirut) which included a senior policy seminar ("Wise Men
Seminar") and a series of technical workshops aimed at informing key policy makers and
technical staff on essential policy tools and instruments for implementing and evaluating
the GoI's Health Sector Reform Strategy. The HSR Unit played a key role in the
articulation of the Ministry's Health Sector Strategy, and also contributed technical
studies, including a study on the referral program which defined the relationship between
family physicians and higher levels of care. The Health Sector Reform program was later
incorporated into the Government's Five Year Development Plan (2005/6). The HSR
Unit also worked jointly with the Bank to prepare the Iran Health Sector Review Study
(2007), which provided a comprehensive assessment of the GoI's health sector reform
program to date, and identified the next generation of reforms, including further
refinements in the family physician model and extending insurance coverage to provide
better financial protection against a wider range of illnesses, including chronic diseases.

GOI's original intention was to design and pilot the FPP only in selected provinces.
However, the GOI proceeded to expand the FPP in all rural areas of the country. As a
result, more than 23 million rural dwellers are covered by this scheme, which employs
5,492 family physicians (of which 3,042 new recruits) and 4,546 midwives (of which
4,162 new entrants). The FPP increased the salary and employment benefits of doctors
and midwives as an incentive for them to transfer to rural areas. As an example, the
salary of doctors was increased from about US$300.00 per month to about US$2,500.00
per month, which corresponds to additional expenditures of about US$145 million per
year; in addition, doctors were provided with free housing and utilities.      These steps
were aimed at improving the quality of primary care services in the rural areas.

Implementation of training activities and consultancies continued to face a number of
challenges, including the difficulty of finding Iranian training candidates with acceptable
language skills to study abroad, the lengthy procedures for securing visas to travel, and
the challenge of finding qualified international consultants willing and able to travel to
Iran.




                                            9
The new component for the Avian Influenza Plan which was added at the end of 2006
was slow to start due to the implementing agency's (Center for Disease Control and
Management - Iran) lack of familiarity with Bank procedures.

As a result of the delays in project implementation, the closing date was extended three
times. The first extension (for 12 months) was approved on July 1, 2004; the second
extension (also for 12 months) was approved on November 8, 2005; and the third
extension (for 9 months) was approved on December 26, 2007.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Monitoring of activities was supposed to be done using existing systems, which would
ensure complete documentation.

There were problems with the design of the project and, with the exception of the
nutrition component, the PAD did not include any satisfactory arrangements for
monitoring and evaluation (M&E). A lesson learned is that a well functioning M&E
system with agreed-upon indicators is very important and should be established early on
in project preparation for a systematic follow up of PDO and component outcome
indicators.

The project financed an international M&E consultant who helped component managers
and the PIU identify and introduce the use of simplified outcome indicators for the
components. The consultant delivered workshops to a wider audience in the MOHME to
raise the level of awareness and interest in the use of M&E indicators and management
by results. This was a very useful capacity building exercise. In order to assess whether
the PDO had been achieved, plans were made to recruit consultants to evaluate the level
of satisfaction with the delivery of services, the utilization rate of health facilities and the
impact of the nutrition activities; however, not all results are available on time to be
incorporated into this ICR. In conclusion, the monitoring and evaluation (M&E) function
remained weak, despite the fact that the PIU recruited an international M&E consultant to
help develop and measure component outcome indicators.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Environment

The project had limited adverse environmental impact and was, therefore, classified as a
Category "B" project. The major environmental issues were the proper disposal of
clinical waste and the provision of water and sanitation. In October 2005, the Bank
produced a Policy Note on Health Care Waste Management (HCWM). The note presents
a diagnosis of the main issues and barriers toward improvements of a well structured
HCWM system, and recommended an action plan for better performance. The policy note
focused on sector actions to increase efficiency of the institutional framework, at both the
national and municipal levels. The main issue for HCWM in municipalities, which are
subsidizing waste management and collection, is the quality of implementation. A new



                                              10
Waste Management Law (WML) which includes a "polluter pays" principle was enacted
in June 2004.

There have been unjustifiable delays in the completion of the environmental management
plan (EMP) for the project. Because of other pressing issues in the health sector, it seems
that addressing environmental concerns was not a high priority. The MOHME contracted
the services of the Tehran University of Medical Sciences, School of Public Health, to
carry out the EMP for 112 selected primary health care centers in five regions. The Phase
I report was submitted to the Bank in March 2008. The Phase II report of the EMP which
includes an analysis of environmental issues by Primary Health Center and a section on
mitigation measures was received in December 2008.

Provision of water and sanitation was undertaken as part of the engineering design of
health centers and was included in the bidding documents. The equipment and
infrastructure component of the project took into consideration elements of
environmental health in the formulation of the subprojects (e.g., septic tanks).

Financial management

With respect to fiduciary aspects, the project had a difficult start. Both the Bank staff and
the Iranian project staff had to spend time to understand each other's systems better.
Initially, the financial management arrangements within the Financial Controller
Departments did not completely meet the Bank's minimum requirements. An action plan
was developed to ensure that the Financial Controllers (FCs) at the universities complied
with Bank regulations on all project matters, and in particular on procurement and
financial management issues. It would have been easier if only one Financial Controller
(instead of one financial controller for the PIU plus one for each medical university) had
been involved with the project. Financial management oversight was insufficiently
proactive in finding solutions to issues that remained pending for many months. The fact
that for the PIU there were three financial controllers in the last two years did not help.
There have been significant delays for the processing of some payments, particularly for
consultants and training activities. Part of the problem was the sheer number of steps
required to process a payment request (for example, there are ten steps from receipt of the
consultant's report in the PIU to submission of the payment request to the Financial
Controller of the MOHME). Another part of the problem was the lack of accountability
to complete each of the steps in a timely manner.

In the end, the project managed to put in place and continue to operate a financial
management system which is able to follow up on project accounts and generate project
management reports (PMRs). All payments made under the project have been subject to
the approval of the respective directorate within MOHME, the verification by the PIU
and the signature by the Financial Controller. The introduction in 2007 of the Euro
currency with a new Special Account, which rendered the accounting system obsolete (as
it can only deal with two currencies while the project was now dealing with three),
affected the timeliness of the financial management reports. SOE reviews were
performed regularly by the Bank Financial Management Specialist and a consultant.



                                             11
Because of the Government decision to increase the length of a fiscal year by four
months (for the purpose of closing the accounts), audit reports have been submitted late
by several months. As an example, the audit report for the period ended March 20, 2008
(plus the four-month grace period) which should have been submitted by September 20,
2008 was received by the Bank on June 16, 2009, a delay of almost nine months. Audits
for the project have been unqualified, apart from some problems with minor travel
expenditures that could not be justified since the persons that benefited from travel
advances could not be traced.

Procurement

Regarding procurement, MOHME and the PIU had to become familiar with the Bank
Procurement Guidelines. Also, Bank staff had to understand the country systems,
particularly the import restrictions. The procurement timetable could have been better
managed in a more realistic manner, so that launching of activities would have been
expedited. Even during the last year of the project, it took the PIU six months to take
action on pending procurement activities for the Avian Influenza Plan (due to the fact that
the CDC-I was a new entity to the project). However, one reason for the procurement
delays is that instead of continuing with the work at the required pace, the procurement
activities slowed down before every loan extension (and there were three extensions of
the closing date) as the officers involved at the PIU were not certain whether the
extensions would be agreed. Moreover, project activities were quite different from the
normal day-to-day business of the ministry, which explains the delays in recruiting
consultants and in obtaining authorizations to import equipment. To ensure full
compliance with the Bank Procurement Guidelines, the procurement staff was fully
trained in World Bank financed procurement, and the Bank's standard bidding documents
were used. To facilitate the use of the National competitive bidding (NCB) method, a
generic NCB package specifically prepared for Iran on the basis of the Bank's standard
bidding documents was used during the last two years of the project. Ex-post
procurement reviews carried out by Bank missions/consultants found out that, even
though there have been shortcomings in contract management of some packages, there
has been a gradual and positive trend in improvements to the procurement process
because of additional training during project implementation. The reviewed procurement
activities substantially complied with the provisions in the Loan Agreement. Procurement
activities are rated as moderately satisfactory.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

There are no explicit transition arrangements since the delivery of health services is a
continuous operation. Iran has been committed to primary health care since the early
nineteen eighties and, due to the successes engendered by its policies, is an example for
many countries around the world. As discussed in Section 4, the sustainability of the
investments may be problematic but the Government has managed in the past to provide
the resources needed for the operation and maintenance of health facilities. The
guidelines that have been issued for the preparation of the Fifth Five-Year Development
Plan (2010-2015) indicate that the health sector remains a priority for the Government.
However, the future of nutrition activities is unclear at this stage.


                                            12
There is no Bank-financed follow-up operation planned at this stage.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

In approving the Loan, the Bank's Executive Directors requested that management
prepare a strategy note reviewing the current development situation and the challenges
and prospects faced by the country, the progress of economic reform and the Bank Group
assistance strategy. The report (No. 22050 IRN, dated April 16, 2001) outlined an Interim
Assistance Strategy to be followed by the Bank while preparing a Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) for consideration by the Executive Directors. The interim assistance
strategy included, inter alia, targeted lending in key social and environment areas
consistent with the Third Five-Year Development Plan (FYDP) for 2000-2005.
Regarding health, the Plan emphasized the need to develop a nationwide nutritional
education program, and to improve the geographical coverage of basic health services,
the efficiency of the health system and the quality of services at all levels. A CAS was
not presented in the Bank's Board of Directors.

The revised project which addresses some key social needs is relevant to current country
priorities, including the need to sustain Iran's past achievements for primary health care.
The Health Sector Review (Report No. 39970-IR dated June 2008) confirmed that health
remains a high priority for the Government. More recently, the Guidelines issued in
January 2009 by Iran's Supreme Leader for the preparation of the Fifth Five-Year
Development Plan (2010-2015) emphasize the promotion of physical and psychological
health. They mention the promotion of clean air (through a reduction of risks and
pollutants that threaten health), food security and improvements in the composition and
wholesomeness of food products, and the development of health insurance and expansion
of the social security system with a reduction of the population's health care share of
costs to 30 percent by the end of the Fifth Plan.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The analysis of the achievement of objectives deals first with the primary objective
(sustaining and improving health conditions in rural and urban areas) and then with the
two secondary objectives (ensuring access to and quality of health care, and improving
the nutritional status of children under 3 years of age and of pregnant and lactating
women).

Primary objective - Sustaining and improving health conditions in rural and urban
areas: significant.

The primary objective refers to both "sustaining" and "improving" health conditions in
the country. Although the World Bank loan financed health facilities (rehabilitation and
equipment) in both rural and urban areas, the Government decided to give particular
emphasis to the rural areas through the FPP. It would have been better to delete "urban
areas" from the PDO but, as mentioned earlier, Bank management had decided that the


                                            13
PDO would not be revised due to country relations considerations. The analysis shows
that the physical outputs of the project made a contribution to the "improvement" of
health conditions of the rural population, whereas the health sector reform sub-
component and the health sector review were initial steps to ensure that in the future the
health conditions of the population were "sustained" despite changes in the burden of
diseases with the growing importance of non-communicable diseases.

A. Since the project benefitted mostly Iran's rural areas and focused on primary health
care which concerns mostly women and children, the ICR looks at the trends between
2000 and 2007 for a few indicators particularly relevant for children and women's health
in rural areas, based on a November 2008 study of trends of main health indicators for
rural Iran.

    Indicators for Iran's         2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007
    Rural Areas
    Maternal Mortality Rates -
    MMR (Per 100,000 live         38.7 32.4 37.5 31.9 34.3 34.5 34.8
    births)
    Infant Mortality Rates -
    IMR (Per 1,000 live births) 25.2 25.1 24.2 22.3 21.0 19.8 18.7
    Under-5 Mortality Rates ­
    U5MR (Per 1,000 live          30.5 30.0 29.7 26.7 25.0 23.4 21.8
    births)
    Percentage of deliveries
    assisted by untrained         14.5 12.3 10.9 8.8          7.5    5.7     3.9
    persons
     Source: "Trends and Geographical Inequalities of the Main Health Indicators
    for Rural Iran", Health Policy and Planning, MOHME, November 28, 2008.

The above table shows that, over the last seven years (i.e., the project period), the health
conditions of the population in rural areas have improved. The improvements are
significant for IMR, U5MR and deliveries assisted by untrained persons. The above-
mentioned study of November 2008 on the main indicators for rural Iran indicates that
the reduction in child mortality is a result of the health system's success in controlling
infectious diseases, previously the most common cause of death. The picture is not as
clear for the MMR, which shows wide variations in trends and a lack of strong positive
correlation with unskilled attendance at birth. According to the study, one possible
explanation is the fact that current maternal deaths are mostly due to high-risk
pregnancies. Generally, high-risk pregnancies cannot be managed in rural health centers,
requiring specialist care at secondary and tertiary levels. More attention to these care
levels and to the referral system is needed for further improvements in the MMR.

The main factor that contributed to the improvements in infant and under five mortality
rates is the Government's Family Physician Program (FPP) which led to health facilities
in rural areas being adequately staffed with doctors and midwives. Although financed
entirely by the government, the FPP was linked to the Bank project. As discussed in


                                            14
section 2.2 on Implementation, the FPP concept was fully supported by the Health Sector
Reform (HSR) Unit which was supported by the Bank project. The Bank Loan financed
the rehabilitation of health facilities and the provision of much needed equipment and
vehicles/ambulances, all of which were essential for the introduction of the family
physician model. The variety of medical equipment that was purchased enabled the
medical personnel to do a professional job both in terms of prevention (such as
vaccination campaigns) and the diagnosis and treatment of diseases. Thanks to the
availability of vehicles, doctors could regularly visit the health houses to provide services
(the number of visits by doctors to the Health Houses increased tenfold from 2003 to the
end of the project), and midwives could physically assist pregnant women's deliveries.

The Bank has recently received summary data from MOHME on project results. The
report stressed that clients and staff were most satisfied with the improvements in
medical equipment and the physical environment. This indicates that the population and
the staff are sensitive to these changes and improvements. In addition, the report reflected
the following changes in service delivery during the project life: (i) increase in the
number of doctors from 2450 in 2004 to 5492 in 2007; (ii) increase in the number of
midwives from 384 in 2004 to 4546 in 2007; (iii) increase in the number of patients
visited by a doctor per day from 14 in 2005 to 17 in 2007; (iv) increase in the number of
visits/patient/year from 1.23 in 2005 to 1.38 in 2007; (v) increase in the number of people
visiting rural health centers per day from 23 in 2005 to 26 in 2007; and (vi) increase in
the percentage of people registering and establishing a family file at rural health centers
from zero in 2004 to 70% in 2007.

Life expectancy indicators are not available for rural areas, but it is interesting to note
that nationwide, the average life expectancy (for both men and women) increased from
69 in 2001 to 72 in 2007 (MOHME Vital Horoscope statistics).

B. According to the health sector review, the country is currently experiencing a youth
bulge but in the next two decades its demographic profiles will be aging. The changing
mix of population can be expected to impact the epidemiologic profile and the burden of
diseases. Iran will face a burden of disease increasingly predominated by non-
communicable diseases and accidents. Over time, the increasingly complex pattern of
mortality and morbidity will place greater demand on the health system, straining the
existing structure and resources available in the sector. Faced with these new challenges,
the health sector might restructure and modernize across five strategic interventions to
address issues of efficiency and equity. These include: (i) governance; (ii) delivery
system, including primary care, specialized care, and hospital services; (iii) financing;
(iv) pro-poor programs; and (v) evidence-based policy development. The health sector
review and the health sector reform (HSR) sub-component highlighted some of the
measures and reforms that will have to be carried out in order to sustain the health
conditions in the country.

To conclude on the primary objective regarding health conditions, the achievements are
rated as "significant".




                                             15
Secondary objective - Ensuring access to and quality of health care: modest

At appraisal, the following two indicators had been selected to assess the achievement of
this secondary objective: (i) increased level of client satisfaction with PHC services; and
(ii) increased utilization rates in primary care facilities. There were no pre-determined,
quantified targets regarding the extent of the increases to be achieved. Regarding this
secondary objective, it is also clear that the rehabilitation works and the provision of
medical equipment, vehicles and ambulances were very timely and complemented the
family physician initiatives introduced in the rural areas of Iran.

Increased level of client satisfaction with PHC services.

In 2007, an independent local consulting firm carried out an evaluation of the satisfaction
rates among the population (members of village councils that are representative of the
rural population, but also some women) as well as health providers with regard to
physical facilities, equipment and referral system (transfer of patients to hospitals). The
report shows very positive outcomes with increases in the level of client satisfaction.
Some satisfaction rates are shown in the table below:

Satisfaction rates of              Physical             Equipment          Referral system
council members and              Environment                                 (transfer of
women regarding:                                                             patients to
                                                                              hospitals)
I. Village council members
- before intervention                38%                    15%                 17%
- after intervention                 60%                    52%                 46%
II. Women                            60%                    57%                 48%

Increased utilization rates

MOHME is funding a study to assess the utilization rates of health centers. According to
the terms of reference, the study will analyze 112 PHC centers that benefitted from the
project, compared to a control group of another 112 PHC centers that were not major
beneficiaries under the project. There have been delays in the start-up of the study and
problems with the retrieval of baseline data. Pending the results of the study, which are
not likely to be available before September 2009, there is some anecdotal evidence that
the number of visits increased and that the quality and accessibility of services (including
the referral system) improved. Also, a recently completed study on the analysis of health
expenditures in Iran shows that during the period 2001-2006 health insurance coverage in
rural areas increased by 2.3 times (from 33.3% of households to 76.3 % of households),
whereas in urban areas the proportion of households with health insurance has remained
unchanged at about 61%. These finding show that, for the rural population, there is better
financial protection against catastrophic health events.

To conclude on the secondary objective regarding access and quality of health care, the
achievements are rated as "modest".


                                            16
Secondary objective - improving the nutritional status of children under 3 years of
age and of pregnant and lactating women: not rated

At appraisal, the following two indicators had been selected to assess the achievement of
this secondary objective: (i) reduction by 30% in the targeted provinces of the proportion
of children under 3 years of age6 who are malnourished; and (ii) reduction by 25% of the
proportion of pregnant women with iron deficiency anemia. According to the PAD, the
1998 nutrition survey would be used as baseline data, and subsequent surveys would be
conducted in targeted areas at both mid-term and project completion in order to evaluate
the achievements of the nutrition component. Similarly, a rapid assessment of compliance
with iron supplementation efforts would be conducted at the start of the project, and
follow-up assessments would occur at both mid-term and project completion. Nutrition
literacy would be evaluated at the beginning and end of the project by comparing
nutrition knowledge and behavior before and after the intervention. UNICEF would
conduct technical audits on the growth monitoring and behavior change strategies and
implementation throughout the project. However, those arrangements were not
implemented, and the nutrition component was restructured in June 2004, with activities
geared toward fortification and capacity building.

Proportion of children who are malnourished

Data from the Anthropometric Nutritional Status of Children (ANSC) for 1998 and 2004
shows positive trends in malnutrition rates for children under 5-years (see table below)
with significant reductions of 24% to 69% depending on the category.

           Category                % for 1998                % reduction in
                                                        % for 2004
                                   (ANSC I)                  2004 compared
                                                        (ANSC II)
                                                                to 1998
           Stunting               15.4               4.7           69
           Underweight            10.9               5.2           52
           Wasting                 4.9               3.7           24
           Source: The Nutritional Status of Children, MOHME/UNICEF

The next ANSC will provide data for 2009 or 2010, too late to be used for this ICR. The
significant reduction percentages listed above may be reduced, since there is concern that
malnutrition rates are on the rise due to the current food crisis, increased economic
difficulties, and revisions to health protocols, including environmental and external
factors.

Proportion of pregnant women with iron deficiency anemia

Fortification has been implemented in the whole country (with the exception of Tehran
proper). However, the success of the nationwide program cannot be attributed to the
6
 Although Bank documents always refer to children under 3 years, the monitoring is only done for children
under 5 years.


                                                   17
project which included only a pilot operation in three provinces, all the more so given
that the 54 micro feeders that were purchased under the Bank Loan have not yet been
used.

A program evaluation of flour fortification with iron in Bushehr and Golestan provinces
was carried out in 2009. The flour fortification program appears to have had beneficial
effects on the ferritin levels (iron deficiency) in both provinces. However, the prevalence
of anemia (low hemoglobin) was significantly higher after intervention in women from
both Bushehr and Golestan provinces. The lack of apparent beneficial effects of this
program on the prevalence of anemia in Iran may be due to a number of factors, such as
parasitic and infectious diseases, and the low availability of other micronutrients (e.g.,
vitamin A). Therefore, it seems that other interventions besides flour fortification with
iron will be needed to substantially reduce the prevalence of anemia in Iran.

In view of the uncertainties regarding the results of the next ASNC in 2009 or 2010, the
achievement of the secondary objective regarding the nutritional status of women and
children cannot be rated at this stage.

Causal linkages between outputs and outcomes

Annex 2 lists all the outputs of the project; these outputs have been substantial in terms of
rehabilitation of health facilities, delivery of vehicles and equipment, training and
consultancies. They were perfect complements to the Government's Family Physician
Program that was introduced nationwide, so that together they contributed to the
achievement of the Project Development Objectives.

Other achievements

   a) Regarding the Emergency Medical Services (EMS), call volume increased, call
      response time decreased and patient satisfaction with EMS increased.
   b) Capacity building has been a very positive aspect of the project. Qualitative
      information reflects perceived improvements in management capacity and
      upgrade of technical skills for all components.
   c) A mid-term and a long-term national nutrition strategy and nutrition training
      programs have been developed.
   d) Regarding the quality of vaccine production, the last WHO assessment shows a
      significant increase in scores and conditional passing for full functionality of the
      National Regulatory Authority (NRA) and National Control Laboratory (NCL).
   e) The Avian Influenza Subcomponent helped MOHME prepare the health sector for
      a possible pandemic of influenza: (a) health staff continues to be trained through a
      training of trainers approach; (b) hospitals have been designated for case
      management and isolation of possible human cases in each province; and (c) each
      hospital has dedicated rooms specially equipped to handle human cases. This may
      turn out to be very useful if Iran is affected by a pandemic of influenza.
   f) The Health Sector Review is a good practice example with a quality report and a
      good dissemination strategy. This sector work was rated "satisfactory" on all



                                             18
       dimensions by a QAG Panel. The report of the health sector review is now on the
       WEB site of the MOHME.

3.3 Efficiency

It is likely that the cost savings due to the improved efficiency and effectiveness of the
PHC system that were estimated at appraisal (see Annex 3) have materialized; however,
they are not documented since no economic analysis has been carried out after project
completion.

The implementation arrangements allowed the Borrower to get good value for money.
The rehabilitation of health centers financed by GOI funds was procured at competitive
prices following national competitive bidding (NCB). The use of international
competitive bidding (ICB) was also very cost effective since it enabled MOHME to
obtain low prices for the vehicles and ambulances financed by the Bank Loan.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately satisfactory.

On balance, the assessment of overall outcomes is positive. The project's PDO remained
relevant, the objectives have been basically achieved, and Iran got good value for money.
The overall outcome is rated "Moderately Satisfactory".

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
 (a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The project had a positive social impact since it targeted those regions where health
conditions are poor and existing health services relatively inadequate. The "deprivation
rate" updated yearly by sector, and according to the poverty line, was one of the criteria
for selecting PHC facilities for rehabilitation.

By focusing on primary health care for women and children, the project had a clear
gender focus.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

MOHME already had a good track record for the delivery of health services and some
experience in implementing projects such as the PHCFP. The nutrition department had
shown that it could manage successful programs such as the iodine deficiency program.
The project's institutional strengthening concerned mainly three areas. First, it increased
the knowledge available in Iran on Bank-financed projects and their implementation
modalities. Second, it built capacity on management at different levels of the health
system. Component managers learned to carry out their activities on the basis of a work
plan and a procurement plan. Third, it built capacity on nutrition among the management
and staff of the MOHME and Medical Universities. However, the nutrition department
that consisted of 24 professionals has decreased substantially in importance and size,



                                              19
having been incorporated into the Population, Family and Schools Health Department
(PFSHD) of the MOHME.

Capacity building has been seen by Iranian authorities as a very positive aspect of the
project. The impacts from the capacity building component have led to a reorganization
of services and departments within the MOHME and the Medical Universities in
revisiting how health care and health care reform measures are being programmed and
implemented.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

Although not part of the SPHCNP, the health sector review that was carried out during
the project implementation provided an opportunity for improved dialogue between the
GOI and the Bank on sector issues. The findings and recommendations of the health
sector review are being used for the preparation of the Fifth Five-Year Development Plan
(2010-2015). The report of the health sector review is now on the WEB site of the
MOHME.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

There has been no beneficiary survey or stakeholder workshop.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

The priority that GOI gives to the health sector should help ensure that the development
outcomes that have been achieved are maintained. However, the sustainability of the
investments in rural and urban health centers may be problematic because of persistent
weaknesses in the maintenance management capacity and budget allocations at the
provincial and district levels. In the past, the government has managed to provide, albeit
with some delays, the resources needed for the operation and maintenance of health
facilities. The risk is mostly financial but is counterbalanced by a strong government
commitment.

Based on the above considerations, the ICR rates the overall risk to development outcome
­ i.e. the risk that development outcomes will not be maintained - as "Moderate".

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Unsatisfactory

According to the PAD, the Bank and the Government agreed to start with a simple
operation focused on primary health care, while collaboratively developing a broad health
reform strategy. In particular, given the immediate needs of the country, the GOI's mature


                                           20
PHC strategy, and the Bank's knowledge of the sector through the ongoing project, it was
decided that this operation be limited to the PHC sector and be specifically focused on
nutrition. Other sector issues were equally important, but there was no well conceived
strategy on the part of the GOI for addressing those issues at the time. In a situation
where only UN agencies were providing very limited assistance to Iran for its social
sector activities, the Bank operation was intended to help: (i) improve living conditions
for low-income groups through rehabilitating health centers in deprived regions and
improve the nutritional status of children; and (ii) consolidate achievements in basic
social services despite tight fiscal constraints.

Actually, there was no real agreement on the part of GOI on the project scope and
contents, and some Bank staff had misgivings about the project contents.

As discussed in Section 2.1 on "project preparation, design and quality at entry", the
project was complex, with too many, somewhat unrelated sub-components without a
central theme. The definition of the project development objective (PDO) was too broad,
with no clear baseline data and no agreed upon arrangements to monitor the achievement
of the PDO. When the project was submitted to the Bank's Board of Directors, it was not
ready for implementation. The preparation time was too short; the Bank did not invest
enough to understand the country system, constraints and regulations, and to ensure that
the Iranian side was fully knowledgeable about the Bank implementation requirements
and procedures.

The ICR rates the Bank performance in ensuring quality at entry as "Unsatisfactory".

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

At the supervision stage, the Bank project team realized early on that the project was in
serious trouble and began to take immediate action to try to resolve problems. It worked
with the client to restructure the project as it became clear that the project as appraised
was not viable. The October 2002 Quality of Supervision Assessment (QSA5) rated the
overall quality of project supervision as "satisfactory" because the Bank staff was
working very closely and intensively with MOHME on the restructuring. However, the
restructuring was politically sensitive, and was hampered by a challenging country
relations context. Moreover, for reasons mentioned above the project development
objective (PDO) was not changed at restructuring to bring it in line with the revised
components and to facilitate the monitoring of its achievement.

In recent years, Bank staff made a lot of effort to establish a relationship of trust and
policy dialogue with Iranian counterparts. Those efforts were successful in dealing with
procurement and financial issues. Attempts were also made to strengthen the monitoring
and evaluation (M&E) system for the project, but with mixed results. From preparation to
Loan closing, there were five Bank Task Team Leaders (TTL) who had to familiarize
themselves with project issues, and two sector managers. Supervision budgets were quite
high; in the staffing of missions, however, nutrition was somewhat neglected, and there



                                            21
were very few field visits. There were three extensions between loan effectiveness and
closing date.

The rating for the quality of supervision is "moderately unsatisfactory".

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

The rating for ensuring quality at entry is "Unsatisfactory" and the rating for quality of
supervision is "Moderately Unsatisfactory". The Overall Bank Performance is rated
"Moderately Unsatisfactory".

5.2 Borrower Performance

a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Project preparation

A fully staffed preparation team was appointed during identification and met regularly at
MOHME, under the Deputy Minister's leadership, to follow up on project preparation. As
this project was, to a large extent, a continuation of the Primary Health Care and Family
Planning Project (PHCFPP), the ongoing institutional and implementation arrangements
(including the Project Implementation Unit - PIU) were extended to the new project.
According to the PAD, the objectives, scope, and content of the project were a subset of
the Government's strategy. However, there was a lack of ownership, and the Government
was not committed to the project as approved. Regarding the project scope and content,
there was a lack of necessary coordination and consent with the planning and budget
organization (PBO) before the finalization of the project and the signing of the Loan
Agreement with the Bank. This explains why at the beginning of the project counterpart
funds were not included in the MOHME budget allocation. The Government shares some
responsibility with the Bank (but probably on a much smaller scale than the Bank) for the
unsatisfactory quality at entry of the project (as discussed above).

Project Implementation

When it became evident that the project could not be implemented as planned and had to
be modified, Government did not want to cancel any part of the Loan and it took about
two years to reach agreement on project restructuring.

Over the project period, GOI counterpart funds have not been released in a timely
manner, which had an impact on completion of the facility rehabilitation program,
financed exclusively by Government resources. On the other hand, the Government
provided substantial amounts to finance the Family Physician Program (FPP). The
introduction of the FPP in all rural areas in 2004 (i.e., at about the same time as the
beginning of actual implementation of the SPHCNP) had a big impact on the delivery of
medical services in those rural areas. Complemented by the project's outputs in terms of


                                             22
health centers rehabilitation, medical equipment and vehicles/ambulances, the FPP
helped achieve the project development objective (PDO).

Throughout project implementation, there were a number of weaknesses in MOHME
Departments and the PIU: (i) audit reports have been submitted several months late; (ii)
the procurement timetable could have been better managed, in a more realistic manner;
(iii) there have been significant delays for the processing of some payments, particularly
for consultants and training activities; (iv) the monitoring and evaluation (M&E) function
remained weak; and (v) there were unjustifiable delays in the completion of the
Environmental Management Plan ­ EMP.

In the first two to three years of the project, project management was unsatisfactory.
However, after the restructuring of June 2004, project management improved in many
respects. The PIU managed to effectively launch all ICB contracts, all the management
training studies abroad, and the recruitment of consultants. All the capacity building and
training activities have been completed. These achievements are to the credit of both the
managers of the components and subcomponents and the Project Implementation Unit
(PIU) in MOHME. In the end, despite all the initial difficulties and problems, the project
was successfully implemented with 99.3 percent of the loan disbursed.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating:

The implementing agency for this project is the Ministry of Health and Medical
Education (MOHME), which is part of the Government. The assessment of its
performance is included in 5.2(a) above.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The above assessment shows that the identified shortcomings of Government (including
MOHME) are more than offset by the Government support for the Family Physician
Program (FPP) which was linked to the project and which contributed to the achievement
of the PDO. In the end, the project was successfully implemented and basically the entire
loan was disbursed. The performance of the Government is rated "Moderately
Satisfactory".

6. Lessons Learned

   1. It is important for the Bank to ensure that there is a consensus within the country
      on the proposed project before seeking approval for it, even when the Bank is
      time constrained to take a project to the Board.

   2. Especially when the Bank is trying to move quickly on a project or country
      relationship, arrangements must be made to ensure that the Borrower's key
      project staff are hired and familiarized with Bank processes and procedures before
      the actual start of project implementation.


                                           23
   3. At the preparation stage, it is very important that Bank staff understand the unique
      system, regulations, procedures and institutional characteristics of the country in
      order to design a viable project.

   4. During implementation, special efforts must be made to establish a relationship of
      trust with the Borrower's staff.

   5. In a country like Iran where nothing can be done without the approval of the
      relevant Financial Controller who must therefore be familiar with World Bank
      guidelines and requirements, it is advisable to design a project that is simple and
      can be managed and implemented under the jurisdiction of only one Financial
      Controller.

   6. It is inefficient for a Bank project to finance, procure and monitor a large number
      of low cost small works scattered over a large geographic area, but very efficient
      in procuring large numbers of equipment or vehicles where a centralized tender
      process is possible.

   7. PDOs should be defined in precise and concrete terms with corresponding
      measurable quantitative key performance indicators. A clear results chain is
      critical, and the PDO should not include items that are not going to be influenced
      by activities or will not be measured by the project.

   8. A well functioning M&E system with agreed upon indicators is very important
      and should be established early in the project cycle for a systematic follow up of
      PDO and component outcome indicators.

   9. Attribution of results must take into account parallel programs and the synergy
      must be acknowledged.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

(b) Co financiers

(c) Other partners and stakeholders




                                           24
                         Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                     Actual/Latest
                                  Appraisal Estimate                            Percentage of
           Components                                Estimate (USD
                                   (USD millions)                                Appraisal
                                                        millions)
 Sustained Access and Qualitative
                                          75.20             94.03                  125.0%
Improvement of Health Care
 Improvement of the Nutritional
Status of Children under Three
                                          15.50              8.15                  52.6%
years of age and Lactating and
Pregnant Women
 Capacity Building                         8.10             20.86*                 257.5%

Total Baseline Cost                         98.80              123.04              124.5%
Physical Contingencies                       6.20                0.00               0.00
Price Contingencies                         19.00                0.00               0.00
Total Project Costs                        124.00              123.04              99.2%
Project Preparation Fund                     0.00                0.00                .00
Front-end fee IBRD                           0.00                0.87                 -
Total Financing Required                   124.00              123.91              99.9%


* including USD 6.35 million for the Avian Influenza Project.


(b) Financing
                                                      Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                         Type of Co   Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
          Source of Funds
                                          financing    (USD        (USD       Appraisal
                                                      millions)   millions)
 Borrower                                              37.00       37.51       101.4%
 International Bank for Reconstruction
                                                       87.00            86.40         99.3%
and Development




                                               25
                           Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1, or Part A - Sustained Access to and Qualitative Improvement of
Health Care

As revised, this component had two objectives.

(1) First, improving the access to and quality of health care. Based on the implementation
arrangements agreed with the Bank, the Center for Development of the Health Network
(CDHN) of the Ministry designed three sub-components: 1(a) rehabilitation of health
centers; 1(b) purchase of vehicles for health centers; and 1(c) provision of medical
equipment for health centers.

(2) Second, improving the quality of the EMS services in the country. This objective was
to be achieved through the purchase of 500 ambulances and additional EMS equipment
as well as some training activities (subcomponent 1d).

Subcomponent 1(a): Rehabilitation of health centers

Based on the experience of the previous project, a centralized approach would have been
very difficult and inefficient for small and scattered works, given the large distances
involved. Therefore, these activities were decentralized to the regions and implemented
by the technical units of the universities. The rehabilitation of health centers was financed
by the GOI funds and carried out by medical universities in four different phases, as
follow:

       Phase 1: about 32.30 billion IRRs were transferred       to the universities and 228
       centers were rehabilitated in 21 provinces.
       Phase 2: about 19.92 billion IRRs were transferred       to the universities and 139
       centers were rehabilitated in 18 provinces.
       Phase 3: about 54.62 billion IRRs were transferred       to the universities and 448
       centers were rehabilitated in 24 provinces.
       Phase 4: about 54.96 billion IRRs were transferred       to the universities and 629
       centers were rehabilitated in 25 provinces.

In total, about IRRs 161.80 billion were transferred to the universities and close to 1,500
centers (588 urban health centers, 793 rural health centers and 81 rural health houses) in
universities all over the country were rehabilitated at an average cost of about US$14,000
per center, but with wide variations between urban health centers, rural health centers and
rural health houses. Approximately, 25 percent of existing urban or rural health centers
was rehabilitated under the SPHCNP. The rehabilitation work was timely and
complemented the Family Physician Initiative introduced in the rural parts of Iran.
According to Mazandaran University of Medical Science, in the last year, the number of



                                             26
patient-visits in PHCs increased 2.5 times due to the successful synergy of the Family
Physician Initiative and the physical rehabilitation of the PHCs.

One local engineering consulting firm was hired for supervision of rehabilitation works.
In addition, starting in 2007, the School of Public Health of the Tehran University of
Medical Sciences (TUMS) carried out an environmental impact assessment study of
rehabilitation projects. The Phase I report assessed about 112 primary health care centers
in five different regions of the country. The Phase II report of the Environmental
Management Plan (EMP) which includes an analysis of environmental issues by Primary
Health Center and a section on mitigation measures has been completed in August 2008
and received by the Bank in December 2008.

Subcomponent 1(b): Purchase of vehicles for health centers.

The project purchased under ICB 1,080 4WD vehicles, which have been distributed to
the medical universities. The technical specifications were prepared by the CDHN and
the procurement of the vehicles was carried out centrally by the PIU.

Subcomponent 1(c): provision of medical equipment for health centers.

Nearly all of the health centers or rural health houses received some kind of medical
equipment under the SPHCNP. The lists of equipment and the technical specifications
were prepared by the CDHN and the procurement of the packages under ICB was carried
out centrally by the PIU. All the items purchased have been distributed to the medical
universities. In total, 2,507 urban health centers, 2,296 rural health centers and 11,821
rural health houses received upgraded equipment for improvements to patient care.

       Package 1: Supply of Weighing Scales for Adults and Babies.
       Package 2: Supply of 8200 Stethoscopes and Manometers.
       Package 3: Supply of 4700 Laryngoscopes, 4700 Otoscopes and 1100 Diagnostic
       Set.
       Package 4: Supply of 1100 Autoclaves and 1100 Disinfectors.
       Package 5: Supply of 1100 ECG Machines.
       Package 6: Supply of 1100 Suction Units.
       Package 7: Supply of 2200 Oxygen Cylinders.
       Package 8: Supply of 4700 Refrigerators for Vaccine.
       Package 9: Supply of 3600 Vaccine Carriers and 1200 Cold Box.
       Package 10: Supply of 35 Refrigerated Vehicles.
       Package 11: Supply of 5600 Air Conditioners.
       Package 12: Supply of 3600 Motorcycles.
       Package 14: Supply of 54 Micro Feeders.
       Package 15: Supply of 373,464 KG of Premix.
       Package 16: Supply of 600 Dental Units.
       Package 17: Supply of 2000 Blood Glucose Measuring Devices.




                                           27
Evaluation of sub-components 1(a), 1(b) and 1(c). In 2007, one independent local
consulting firm ( eb & Tosei Salamat Institute) carried out an evaluation of the outcomes
of sub-components 1(a), 1(b) and 1(c). The consulting firm interviewed members of
village councils that are representative of the rural population, but also some women and
health providers. The report shows very positive outcomes with increases in the level of
client satisfaction with physical facilities, equipment and the referral system (transfer of
patients to hospitals).

MOHME is funding a study to assess the utilization rates of PHC centers measured by
the average number of patient visits with general physicians. According to the terms of
reference, the study will analyze what happened in 112 PHC centers that benefitted from
the project, compared to a control group of another 112 PHC centers that were not major
beneficiaries under the project. There have been delays in the start of the study and
problems with the collection or retrieval of baseline data. Pending the results of the study,
which are not likely to be available before September 2009, there is some anecdotal
evidence that the number of visits increased and that the quality and accessibility of
services (including the referral system) improved.

Subcomponent 1(d): Purchase of ambulances and EMS equipment.

The project purchased through LIB [it started as ICB, but the bids were not fully
responsive to the bidding documents, so the bidding process was canceled and GOI
started a new bidding process limited to the seven bidders that had submitted proposals]
500 ambulances financed by the Bank Loan, and through NCB some additional EMS
equipment to be installed in the ambulances and financed by GOI counterpart funds (300
EMS backpacks, 260 wireless systems, 10 four-wheel drive vehicles, 60 DC shocks, and
17 mobile stations), which have been distributed to the medical universities. International
training courses were included in the subcomponent (an Advanced Trauma License
Support - ATLS - course was held in Qatar in 2007 for 18 staff of the Emergency
Management Center (EMC)). According to MOHME, the project made a critical
contribution to the establishment of EMS in the country. According to the PIU Status
report of May 2008, the national response time average7 on rural roads was reduced
significantly from 25 minutes in 2005 to 14 minutes in 2007. The response time in cities
with a population of less than 500,000 was reduced from 15 minutes in 2005 to 7 minutes
in 2007. It is estimated that the SPHCNP accounts for about one fourth of these
improvements. However, although the number of emergency ambulance missions
increased by about 21% (from 1.16 million in 2006 to 1.40 million in 2007), the mortality
rates prior to hospital admission remained steady at around 3.2% to 3.6% between 2005
and 2007. According to the EMC in the MOHME, the project made a critical contribution
to the establishment of EMS in the country. Through intersectoral efforts, GOI aims to
further strengthen the capacity of the EMS sector and provide more timely responses to
emergency cases. The GOI intends to increase the number of emergency stations from a
current figure of 1,576 to 2,100 by the end of 2009.



7
    The response time means the time required between the receipt of the call and the arrival of the ambulance.


                                                            28
Component 2, or Part B ­ Improvement of the Nutritional Status of Children under
three Years of Age and Lactating and Pregnant Women

As revised, this component included two subcomponents: 2(a): nutrition education
through nutrition graduate level training, technical assistance and on-the-job nutrition
training for health care providers; and 2(b): micronutrient fortification.

Subcomponent 2(a): Nutrition Education.

This subcomponent included the design of long-term graduate programs for PhD and
Masters Programs, graduate level and short-term programs overseas as well as workshops
on child malnutrition and the management of child malnutrition in medical universities.

The MOHME developed a three-year and ten-year nutrition strategy to strengthen human
resource training in nutrition science and nutrition surveillance. The graduate level
nutrition programs were designed under four contracts with the International Union for
Nutritional Sciences (IUNS) and University of the Philippines in partnership with three
Iranian universities, and are waiting for funding to be implemented in the three medical
universities. A nutrition curriculum has been developed and needs to be integrated into
the university program.

Four PhD students completed their overseas training (three in Australia and one in the
UK) in January 2009 (after project closing) and are expected to teach future nutrition
programs in Iran. In addition, 65 nutritionists participated in the short-term international
courses in Australia, Philippines, Thailand and The Netherlands, and 150 workshops on
child nutrition and growth monitoring were conducted in the medical universities for
10,000 General Physicians and Pediatrics nationwide.

A number of nutrition reports prepared in 2006 describe in some detail the results of the
project-supported activities to build up the graduate programs in nutrition. They include:
(i) the Final Report "Improving Graduate Education in Nutrition in Iran"; (ii) the
supplemental report "Integrated Education Model"; (iii) the "Three-Year Start-Up Plan
for Institution-Building Plans for MSc and PhD in Nutritional Epidemiology and Cellular
and Molecular Nutrition"; and (iv) the "Ten-Year Plan for MSc and PhD in Nutritional
Epidemiology and Cellular and Molecular Nutrition".

A qualitative evaluation of the effectiveness of the capacity development and training
activities under the nutrition component to be carried out by an independent consultant
was planned; it is not clear whether it will be done and when it might be completed.
According to the TORs, the consultant's report would include a discussion on project
impact on the prevalence of child malnutrition and iron deficiency anemia among
reproductive age women at the national level, and any lessons learned from the
implementation of the nutrition capacity building subcomponent in the SPHCNP (success
factors and challenges).




                                            29
In September 2007, the Nutrition Department was incorporated into the Population,
Family and School Health Department (PFSHD) of the MOHME. The Government
believes that this integration of nutrition into family health will reinforce recent
achievements in nutrition and contribute to their sustainability.

Subcomponent 2(b): Micronutrient fortification.

This subcomponent included two sets of activities: (i) the design and development of a
national plan of action for food fortification; and (ii) implementation of two pilot
programs for micronutrient fortification.

In 2005, MOHME signed an agreement with WHO for developing a National Plan on
Iron Malnutrition and Flour/Food Fortification. The work included a technical
consultation workshop in July 2005 and the constitution of working groups to review and
assess micronutrient deficiencies, the milling industry, the regulatory framework, the
inspection and control system, communication and advocacy, quality control and
assurance, and institutional roles. A synthesis report was discussed at a first Technical
Consultative meeting in October 2006 and a preliminary National Plan was discussed at a
second Technical Consultative meeting in November 2006. The study confirmed that: (i)
in Iran, bread is a staple food and wheat is a strategic product; (ii) iron fortification is
feasible for the local flour industry; (iii) the existing national standards for wheat flour
include specific provision for iron/folic acid fortification, and there is no barrier for
implementing a mandatory wheat flour fortification (but, there is still no law to make it
mandatory); and (iv) quality control of fortified flour is potentially available.

In 2005, 18 provinces started flour fortification and 22 million people were consuming
fortified flour. Since 2006, the national plan has been implemented, and the whole
population of Iran (with the exception of Tehran proper) is now consuming fortified
bread. All millers have been sensitized and have equipped their mills with micro feeders
with their own resources. There is capacity for locally producing premix and micro
feeders. The budget needed for implementing the national flour fortification plan (US$5.3
million) was allocated in May 2007, and the same amount was allocated for 2008. Under
the subcomponent for micronutrient fortification, 54 micro feeders and 373 tons of
premix were purchased and have been distributed to the medical universities. However, a
local manufacturer produced micro feeders and sold them to private flour mills at a price
lower than the cost of imported micro feeders, which have not been used up to now.
Therefore, the success of the national micronutrient fortification cannot be attributed to
the project.

The first pilot flour fortification project was started in 2001 in Boushehr Province, after
baseline data gathering. A mid-term evaluation in 2004 showed that the program has had
only a beneficial effect on the prevalence of low ferritin levels for the intervention group
in Boushehr Province against the control group in Fars province. An independent study
was carried out in 2009 by the Academic Center for Education, Culture and Research and
by the Institute for Health Sciences Research (IHSR) to evaluate the effectiveness of the
flour fortification program on decreasing iron deficiency anemia among women of child



                                            30
bearing age in the Boushehr and Golestan provinces. The study found similar trends in
the indicators of anemia/iron deficiency among the studied women in both Bushehr and
Golestan provinces. The flour fortification program appears to have had beneficial effects
on the ferritin levels (iron deficiency) in both provinces. The prevalence of iron
deficiency in women of Bushehr province decreased from 22.2% in 2001 (before
intervention) to 15.7% in 2009, while that in women of Golestan province decreased
from 26.7% in 2007 (before intervention) to 14.6% in 2009. However, the prevalence of
anemia (low hemoglobin) was significantly higher after intervention in women from both
Bushehr and Golestan provinces.

The lack of apparent beneficial effects of this program on the prevalence of anemia may
be due to low bioavailability of the iron used for fortification, the inhibitory effect of
dietary components (e.g. phytate) on iron absorption, the relatively low level iron content
in the fortified flour, low consumption of other iron-containing foods (e.g. meat), and low
consumption of fortified bread. Some of the important factors that diminish the beneficial
effects of flour fortification on anemia in Iran include parasitic and infectious diseases,
and other diseases prevalent in these areas (e.g. minor thalassemias). The relatively low
availability of other micronutrients (e.g., vitamin A) should not be ignored. Studies have
shown that the prevalence of anemia is high in developing countries affected by vitamin
A deficiency, and improvement of vitamin A status has been shown to reduce anemia.
Therefore, it seems that other interventions besides flour fortification with iron will be
needed to substantially reduce the prevalence of anemia in Iran.

In summary, the study has shown that the flour fortification program in Iran is a useful
component of a public health strategy aimed at improving iron deficiency status.
However, in areas where anemia is not due mainly to iron deficiency, an iron fortification
program might decrease the prevalence of iron deficiency without affecting the
prevalence of anemia.

Component 3, or Part C ­ Capacity Building:

As revised, this component includes the following five sub-components: Subcomponent
3(a) - Management Training; Subcomponent 3(b) - Improving the Quality of Vaccine
Production; Subcomponent 3(c) - Health Sector Reform; Subcomponent 3(d) - PIU
Management; and Subcomponent 3(e) ­ Avian Influenza project.

Capacity building has been seen as a very positive aspect of the project by the Iranian
authorities interviewed during the ICR mission, including the advisor to the Minister. The
impacts from the capacity building component have led to a reorganization of services
and departments within the MOHME and the Medical Universities in revisiting how
health care and health care reform measures are being programmed and implemented.

Subcomponent 3(a): Management Training.

The quantitative data shows that the following numbers of health managers and staff have
participated in the following training courses:



                                            31
       English training courses (113 persons in IELTS and 87 persons in different
       English courses) for all the persons nominated for Ph.D and Master courses to
       improve the ability of managers and experts of MOHME and medical universities
       to communicate better with other institutes around the world.
       Ph.D courses in health informatics, clinical education, public health, health policy
       and management for 15 students (10 in Sweden, 2 in Australia, 1 in India, and 2
       in UK) that completed their studies in December 2008.
       Twenty one MSc students have completed their studies: 18 in Heidelberg
       University (Germany) from October 17, 2005 to October 13, 2006, one in
       Australia, one in the UK and one in Iran. As a result of this training, theses have
       been prepared which are actionable plans for health sector reform in Iran and
       there are health care management experts that now have the knowledge, skills and
       motivation to implement these plans. Student evaluations of the program ranked
       the program component as "good" to "excellent" with no evaluation falling below
       "satisfactory".
       Short-term training courses of two or three weeks on "restructuring in hospital
       management" and "health facility management" under three contracts with
       Karlsruhe University (Germany) were completed for 350 participants.
       Short-term training courses on emergency medicine, hospital management, and
       project cycle management, etc. for 152 participants.
       Fifty (50) persons participated in an emergency medicine leadership workshop in
       Tehran University by the George Washington University Medical Center for one
       week.
       One hundred and fifty (150) managers of medical universities and MOHME
       participated in six local short-term courses at the NPMC center in Tabriz on
       Project Cycle Management and Human Resource Management that have been
       organized in collaboration with the International Labor Organization (ILO).

Seven training centers in Ahvaz, Bandar Abbas, Golestan, Ispahan, Shiraz, Tabriz and the
University of Rehabilitation and Welfare Sciences have been strengthened to cover a
wide range of health sector issues, with the goal that these become centers of excellence.
Graduates and trainees have created "Teams of Health Mentors" who have organized the
workshops and reviewed the training packages in order to identify their strengths and
weak points and upgrade them with the latest findings in the relevant areas.

Subcomponent 3(b): Improving the quality of vaccine production.

WHO was contracted in May 2004 to manage the implementation of the subcomponent
activities, which included a series of international and local training courses and
workshops and international and local technical assistance interventions. This
subcomponent was completed at the end of 2006. The project submitted an evaluation
report in December 2006.




                                           32
The following activities have been carried out:

a) Review and updating by one long-term consultant (11 months) of all the seven critical
functions of WHO for assessment of the national authorities involved in the regulation of
vaccines:
     1. National regulatory system;
     2. Marketing authorization (MA) and licensing activities;
     3. Post-marketing activities including surveillance of adverse events following
         immunization (AEFI);
     4. NRA lot release;
     5. Laboratory access;
     6. Regulatory inspections;
     7. Authorizations /approval of clinical trials.
b) Evaluation training courses in Iran and abroad for staff of MOHME and vaccine
manufacturers.
c) Preparation of all the documents needed for updating the system in all the seven
critical function areas, including guidelines, standard operating procedures, checklists,
etc.
d) Purchase of books and of equipment for training and for improving the control on
vaccines.

The 2006 WHO assessment shows significant improvement in six out of seven critical
functions from 2002 to 2006, with an increase in the overall score from 72% to 86%. A
new WHO assessment was carried out in November 2007; the WHO formal report has
not yet been received, but the team presentation showed a significant increase in scores
and conditional passing for full functionality of the National Regulatory Authority (NRA)
and National Control Laboratory (NCL).

Subcomponent 3(c): Health Sector Reform (HSR).

The objective of the subcomponent was to build capacity for better health policy through
targeted health sector reform pilot projects. The subcomponent was designed to include a
series of consultancies, training activities (fellowships, short courses, study tours,
workshops and preparation of local training modules), provision of equipment and
supplies, and publication of reports generated by the studies. According to the Aide
memoire of the Bank Health Sector mission of June 2002, Health Sector Reform was the
main objective of the Minister of Health and Medical Education. The Ministry set up a
HSR committee with a secretariat reporting directly to the High Council of Health and
the Minister. The HSR included various activities and studies that contributed to the
establishment of the Family Physician Program (FPP) in Iran. Together with the
rehabilitation of health facilities and physician houses and the provision of medical
equipment and vehicles, HSR research and studies were part of the preliminary steps for
the establishment of the FPP within the framework of the SPHCNP.

The original plan was to have a Health Sector Reform Study by an international
consulting firm implemented under the responsibility of the HSR Committee (HSRC).



                                            33
Actually, part of the subcomponent was implemented by WHO (under a contract signed
in May 2004) under the guidance of the HSRC: it was completed in December 2006.
WHO was a very good vehicle for implementation (particularly for consultant
recruitment). However, since the subcomponent was experiencing difficulties, the WHO
contract was downsized: a number of activities in the initial work plan were canceled and
the procurement of equipment and supplies were transferred to the PIU. The
subcomponent provided support for the establishment of the NHSRU and an information
resource center, under the auspices of which a number of books and reports were
published and/or translated into Farsi.

The Health Sector Reform (HSR) sub-component assisted the government in
implementing its reform objectives: (a) preparation of evidence-based models to improve
the health system and improve data collection and analysis; (b) strengthening the capacity
of the health system; (c) preparation of the reform package based on the Family Physician
model; and (d) review of health reform initiatives. The results of the HSR sub-component
is being used for the preparation of the government's Fifth Five-Year Development Plan
(2010-2015).

The list of activities that were initiated and are still underway under the subcomponent is
quite impressive. Some examples of these activities are listed below:

   -   In October/November 2002, a one-week study tour to the UK organized by the
       British Council to familiarize senior Iranian MOHME officials with the National
       Health Service.

   -   In 2003/2004, a series of workshops under the World Bank Institute (WBI)
       Flagship Course on Health Sector Reform and Sustainable Financing were
       delivered by the American University of Beirut (AUB), including a senior policy
       seminar (Wise Men Seminar). Under a 12-month contract, it included the delivery
       of 8 courses: 1) Module on basic health economics; 2) Module on assessing health
       performance; 3) Module on financing health care; 4) Module on provider payment
       mechanisms; 5) Module on designing benefit packages and targeting public
       subsidies; 6) Module on reforming and managing health institutions; 7) Module
       on decentralizations; and 8) Module on quality and equity in health systems. The
       objective of the flagship program was to enable MOHME to: (i) develop a core
       team of Iranian trainers in the areas of health economics/finance; (ii) provide
       training in the area of health sector reform to key decision makers and managers;
       and (iii) help develop training capacity in the health sector. In sequel to the
       flagship course delivered by the AUB, the Lorestan University of Medical
       Sciences was contracted to develop and adapt the flagship courses for use in Iran.

   -   A total of 23 students have participated in short courses abroad, three post-
       doctoral students have completed their studies abroad, 19 fellows participated in
       study tours, and 22 candidates participated in four local training modules of one
       week duration.




                                            34
   -   The HSR developed 29 sub-projects all over the country, with 23 research
       projects completed in the last two years. These projects dealt with improving
       leadership and governance functions, and health planning and management, and
       strengthening the health financing functions in MOHME.

   -   In December 2006, a two-day Senior Policy Seminar in Tehran, with experts from
       MOHME, MPO and parliament and with the participation of the World Bank
       Institute (WBI). The topics covered financing, organization, regulation and
       payment systems for providers.

The MOHME is working toward three major goals: Healthy People, Equitable Access to
Healthcare, and Sector Development to Improve Health Planning and Promote Equity.
These goals are currently being implemented in four pilot provinces. In addition to these
activities, the HSR is working on a health dictionary, and a policy paper on data
collection, frequency and methods, as well as the establishment of a performing HMIS
through increased automation, integration of HSR into the Health Policy Planning and
Development of the MOHME, implementation of a clinical governance course at the
Tehran Medical University, preparation of clinical and ethical guidelines for Family
Physicians in rural areas, and the establishment of Health Policy Units in each university.

The main achievements of the Health Sector Reform subcomponent are: (i) dissemination
of the concepts of reform within and outside the health system; (ii) provision of a
common language between policy makers, managers and experts in health system; (iii)
capacity building in health system research areas at the National and Provincial levels;
and (iv) provision of key information for policy making.

Subcomponent 3(d): Project Implementation Unit (PIU) Management

The PIU has been set up and maintained for the day-to-day coordination of all project
activities implemented by the relevant MOHME Directorates. The PIU handled the
project management functions such as financial management, procurement, scheduling,
monitoring, controlling, evaluating and reporting. Despite the initial difficulties and
problems, the project was successfully implemented with 99.3 % of the Loan disbursed.

The key staff of PIU participated in the following short term courses: (a) Health Planning
and Management/England; (b) Project Management / ILO-Italy; (c) Project Cycle
Management/ILO-Italy; (d) PCM/ Monitoring and Evaluation/MDF-the Netherlands; (e)
Procurement of the Consulting Services-ILO-Italy; (f) Financial Management-ILO-Italy;
(g) Financial Management-AUB-Lebanon; (h)PCM/ILO-Italy; (i) Procurement of the
health goods-ILO; (j) Special English courses; and (k) Computer courses.

The technical services provided for the implementation of the components included the
recruitment of two International consultants who successfully provided the required
services: (i) a former senior Bank staff who was very experienced in procurement; and
(ii) an international monitoring and evaluation (M&E) consultant who helped the PIU and
subcomponent managers in developing and measuring indicators.



                                            35
Subcomponent 3(e): Avian Influenza (AI) project

The objective of this supplemental project subcomponent was to assist the GOI in
strengthening its preparedness for a potential outbreak of Highly Pathogenic Avian
Influenza through strengthening its capacity to prevent, diagnose, and manage any
suspected or confirmed human cases. The new subcomponent included five activities: (1)
strengthening the surveillance system; (2) strengthening the health system response
capacity; (3) communication and coordination; (4) capacity building and knowledge
sharing; and (5) project management and monitoring and evaluation.

This subcomponent was started in 2007 and implemented by the Center for Disease
Control and Management ­ Iran (CDC-I). The project consisted of procurement of
various equipment and items, training activities and workshops, and some consulting
services.

Of the capacity building activities that were carried out by CDC-I and the Medical
Universities, 90% of the objectives were reached (221 seminars and 612 workshops were
held, 545,696 pamphlets were distributed, 47,749 posters were developed, 264 radio and
206 TV spots were produced). Seminars and workshops improved the level of
preparedness and knowledge on control and prevention of AI of health and veterinary
professionals and poultry farmers, reaching more than 20,000 beneficiaries. For the
organization of these workshops, about 71 contracts (for about US$500,000 in total) were
signed between the PIU and medical universities all over the country. The CDC-I
organized also a refresher course on Avian Influenza for health workers in the country.
Post-test evaluation scores reflect an increased knowledge of AI.

Following LIB, 250,000 doses of Influenza vaccine (Euro 798,000) were imported from
France and delivered in November 2007. Other procurement through ICB included the
purchase of 72 ventilators and 55,000 protection Kits. In addition, 72 ICU/CCU beds and
72 patient monitors, 72 Infusion pump, and 72 Syringe pumps were purchased through
NCB.

In term of consulting services, five (5) individual consultants were contracted to provide
the technical services to the AI project: (i) a Senior Advisor (who had to be replaced for
health reasons); (ii) a consultant to prepare an educational package for health community
workers (HCWs ­ Behvarz or volunteers); (iii) a laboratory consultant to coordinate
activities and upgrade the capacity of influenza sub national laboratories; (iv) a national
consultant to prepare the National Pandemic Preparedness and Response Plan; and (v) an
IEC consultant to prepare IEC materials.

A National Preparedness Plan for Pandemic Influenza has been prepared and adopted,
and Avian Influenza guidelines on surveillance have been updated and published. The
ICR mission received the translated version of the Health Preparedness Plan (2nd
revision). The plan details the actions to be taken through six different phases with
respect to five domains: (i) planning and coordination; (ii) situation monitoring and



                                            36
assessment; (iii) prevention and containment; (iv) health system response; and (v)
communication and education. The Center for Disease Control and Management-Iran
(CDC-I) is now working on revising the comprehensive plan which includes all the key
sectors and which will be validated by the President's Office.

Of the three simulation plans that were to be launched during 2008, only one was carried
out in Tehran with the Veterinary organization and the CDC-I.

In conclusion, the Avian Influenza activities have been successful; the Avian Influenza
Subcomponent helped MOHME prepare the health sector for a possible pandemic of
influenza: (a) health staff continue to be trained through a training of trainers approach;
(b) hospitals have been designated for case management and isolation of possible human
cases in each province; and (c) each hospital has dedicated rooms specially equipped to
handle human cases. All the investments made to prepare the health sector for a
pandemic of Avian Influenza may turn out to be very useful if Iran is affected by a
pandemic of influenza.

Health Sector Review

In February 2005, the Bank proposed conducting a review of the health sector in
collaboration with GOI. The objective of the review was to take a comprehensive look at
the sector as a basis for identifying its relative strengths and weaknesses, and options for
reform.

The review was prepared in collaboration with key counterparts from the Government of
the Islamic Republic of Iran. National experts prepared eight policy papers on the
following subjects: (1) Primary Health Care (PHC); (2) Secondary Health Care (SHC);
(3) Tertiary Health Care (THC); (4) Pharmaceuticals; (5) Human Resource Management;
(6) Stewardship; (7) MIS; and (8) Health Financing. The process included among others a
review of health financing and insurance, an update of the national health accounts, an
assessment of the performance of the health system, and a review of the external
environment of the health system.

A well-attended and successful Forum on the Health Sector Review was held on
November 24-25, 2007. The Forum included excellent presentations on Health Sector
Reform (HSR) topics by key counterparts. It reviewed elements of the health sector
(health service delivery, health financing, human resource, pharmaceutical sector) and
provided a platform for an exchange of ideas and analysis on the challenges facing the
sector, including cross-cutting issues related to governance and stewardship, monitoring
and evaluation, and evidence-based policymaking.

The Health Sector Review Report (No. 39970-IR, dated June 2008) attempts to: (i) assess
the strengths, challenges, and opportunities facing the current health system; (ii) offer
analytic assessments of the health policies and plans; (iii) provide a framework for
developing strategic options; and (iv) offer short- and medium-term recommendations
and action plans to achieve the goals identified in the country's Fourth Five-Year



                                            37
Development Plan. The health sector report has been translated into Farsi and will be
published after approval by the Minister of Health.

Although originally not part of the SPHCNP, the Health Sector review that was carried
out during the project implementation provided an opportunity for improved dialogue
between the GOI and the Bank on sector issues. The contents of the report are being used
for the preparation of Iran's Fifth Five-Year Development Plan (2010-2015).The report is
now on the WEB site of the MOHME.




                                          38
                       Actual Project Components and Costs
                                   (US$ Million)



 Components                                  IBRD         GOI       Total

 Part A - Sustained Access to and
 Qualitative Improvement of Health
 Care
 Rehabilitation of PHC                        0.16        21.21     21.37
 Vehicles                                    18.79         3.62     22.41
 Equipment                                   17.20         3.82     21.02
 EMS ambulances                              27.00         2.23     29.23
 Sub-total Part A                            63.15        30.88     94.03

 Part B ­ Improvement of the
 Nutritional Status of Children under
 Three Years of Age and Lactating and
 Pregnant Women
 Capacity development                         4.13        } 1.34    } 8.15
 Food fortification                           2.68        } .....    } ....

 Sub-total Part B                             6.81           1.34    8.15

 Part C ­ Capacity Building
 Management training                          6.06           1.33    7.39
 Quality of vaccine production                1.25           0.48    1.73
 Health sector reform                         2.30           0.67    2.97
 PIU management                               0.42           2.00    2.42
 Avian Influenza (AI) Project                 5.54           0.81    6.35
 Sub-total Part C                            15.57           5.29   20.86

 Front-end fee IBRD                           0.87            -      0.87


 Grand Total                                 86.40        37.51     123.91

Source: Project Implementation Unit (PIU) ­ MOHME (January 2009)




                                        39
                     Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
                        (including assumptions in the analysis)

An annex of the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) presented the results of the
economic analysis of the Project. The economic analysis provided: (i) justification for the
program based on sector priorities; (ii) an analysis of alternatives, including the rationale
for public sector involvement; (iii) assessments of the financial and fiscal impacts of the
project; and (iv) a cost-effectiveness/cost-benefit analysis of project interventions.

In light of the prevailing difficult economic circumstances, the project was designed to
fulfill the most immediate health concerns of the population, while remaining cost-
effective and keeping incremental recurrent costs to a minimum. Improving the health
and nutritional status of children and pregnant and lactating women was viewed as a
means by which to achieve long-term economic growth and stability. In addition, because
the health facilities to be rehabilitated under this project were already in existence and
had a maintenance budget, it was assumed that the incremental recurrent costs of
maintaining them would be close to zero.

In terms of improving the efficiency and effectiveness of the PHC system, the project
was expected to result in potential savings through: (i) lower treatment costs due to a
reduction in the cost of hospital admissions as a result of early detection and treatment;
and (ii) lower cost for the provision of a service at a lower level of care. Those savings
would offset, or at least reduce, the increased costs that would result from an increase in
the utilization of hospitals (a better-functioning referral system could increase hospital
utilization through the increased capacity to detect cases that require hospitalization). In
addition, there would be external benefits to be gained from the project, which may
include reductions in mortality and morbidity rates and increases in productivity for those
benefiting from the project. Thus, overall it was expected that the potential benefits of the
project would outweigh its costs.

The cost savings due to the improved efficiency and effectiveness of the PHC system that
were estimated at appraisal may have materialized; however, they are not documented
since no economic analysis was carried out after project completion.

The implementation arrangements allowed the Borrower to obtain good value for money.
The rehabilitation of health centers financed by GOI funds was procured at competitive
prices following national competitive bidding (NCB). The use of international
competitive bidding (ICB) was also very cost effective since it enabled MOHME to
obtain low prices for quality vehicles and ambulances financed by the Bank Loan.




                                             40
   Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                      Responsibility/
             Names                       Title               Unit
                                                                        Specialty
Lending
Eva Jarawan               Sr. Health Specialist             MNSHD Task Team Leader
Rekah Menon               Economist                         MNSHD Health Economics
Christian Rey             Portfolio Manager                 MNSHD Implementation
Claudia Rokx              Nutrition Specialist              MNSHD Nutrition
                          Lead Financial Management
Iraj Talai                                                  MNAFM Finance
                          Specialist
Christine Wong            Procurement Assistant             MNSHD Procurement


Supervision/ICR
Nicole Klingen            Health Specialist                 MNSHD Task Team Leader
George Schieber           Health Sector Manager             MNSHD Health
Christian Rey             Portfolio Manager                 MNSHD Implementation
                          Lead Financial Management
Iraj Talai                                                  MNAFM Finance
                          Specialist
Claudia Rokx              Nutrition Specialist              MNSHD Nutrition
Gail Richardson           Sr. Health Specialist             MNSHD Task Team Leader
Mario Antonio Zelaya      Consultant                        MNSHD Implementation
Christine Wong            Procurement Assistant             MNSHD Procurement
Frederick Yankey          Financial Management Specialist   MNAFM Finance
Suha Rabah                Program Assistant
Thao Le Nguyen            Senior Finance Officer            LOAFC Disbursement
Christopher Walker        Lead Implementation Specialist    AFTH1 Lead Specialist
Dennis Streveler          Lead HMIS Expert                  MNSHD HMIS
Daniel Kress              Sr. Health Economist              MNSHD Task Team Leader
                          Sr. Financial Management
Nezam Motabar                                               MNAFM Finance
                          Specialist
Mahtab Zolghadri          Sr. Procurement Specialist        MNAPR Procurement
Hadia Samaha-Karam        Operations Officer                MNSHD Operations
Dominic Haazen            Sr. Health Specialist             MNSHD Health
Alia Achsien              Sr. Program Assistant             MNSHD
                                                                    ICR Task Team
Jean-Jacques Frere        Senior Public Health Advisor      MNSHD Leader
Eileen Brainne Sullivan   Operations Analyst                MNSHD Operations
Claudine Kader            Sr. Program Assistant             MNSHD
John Langenbrunner        Lead Economist, Health            MNSHD Task Team Leader
Miho Tanaka               Health Specialist, consultant     MNSHD Health
Sylvia Robles             Senior Public Health Specialist   HDNHE Health



                                          41
Enis Baris                Senior Public Health Specialist      MNSHD Health
Alaa Mahmoud Hamed
                          Sr Health Specialist                 MNSHD Nutrition
Abdel-Hamid
Afifa Alia Achsien        Senior Program Assistant             MNSHD
Robert Bou Jaoude         Sr Financial Management Specialist   MNAFM Finance
Kelechi O. Ohiri          Health Specialist                    HDNHE Health
Sepehr Fotovat            Procurement Specialist               MNAPR Procurement
Paul Geli                 Consultant                           MNSHD ICR


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                        Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                       USD Thousands (including
                                      No. of staff weeks
                                                             travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY00                                           7                       37.24
  FY01                                           5                       13.70
  FY02                                                                    0.00
  FY03                                                                    0.00
  FY04                                                                    0.00
  FY05                                                                    0.00
  FY06                                                                    0.00
  FY07                                                                    0.00
                          Total:                 12                      50.94
Supervision/ICR
  FY00                                                                    0.00
  FY01                                       19                          94.42
  FY02                                       26                         183.35
  FY03                                       45                         242.16
  FY04                                       35                         175.92
  FY05                                       17                         126.06
  FY06                                       28                         118.14
  FY07                                       12                          87.32
                          Total:            182                        1027.37




                                           42
                         Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
                                       (if any)

Client satisfaction with PHC services.

In 2007, an independent local consulting firm carried out an evaluation of the satisfaction
rates among the population (members of village councils that are representative of the
rural population, but also some women) as well as health providers about physical
facilities, equipment and referral system (transfer of patients to hospitals). The report
shows very positive outcomes with increases in the level of client satisfaction. Some
satisfaction rates are shown in the table below:

Satisfaction rates of              Physical            Equipment          Referral system
council members and              Environment                                (transfer of
women regarding:                                                            patients to
                                                                             hospitals)
I. Village council members
- before intervention                38%                   15%                  17%
- after intervention                 60%                   52%                  46%
II. Women                            60%                   57%                  48%

Emergency Medical Services (EMS)

According to MOHME, the project made a critical contribution to the establishment of
EMS in the country: call volume increased, call response time decreased and patient
satisfaction with EMS increased.

According to the PIU Status report of May 2008, the national response time average on
rural roads were significantly reduced from 25 minutes in 2005 to 14 minutes in 2007.
The response time in cities with a population of less than 500,000 was reduced from 15
minutes in 2005 to 7 minutes in 2007. It is estimated that the SPHCNP accounts for about
one fourth of these improvements. However, although the number of emergency
ambulance missions increased by about 21% (from 1.16 million in 2006 to 1.40 million
in 2007), the mortality rates prior to hospital admission remained steady at around 3.2%
to 3.6% between 2005 and 2007.




                                            43
              Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
                                   (if any)

There was no stakeholder workshop.




                                     44
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


                         In The Name of God




  Implementation Completion Report
               (ICR)



     Second Primary Health Care and Nutrition Project
                      (SPHCNP)


                              May 2009




              Prepared by Project Implementation Unit (PIU)
            Ministry of Health and Medical Education (MOHME)
                          Islamic Republic of Iran




                                  45
                         Acronyms

AIP      Avian Influenza Project
APW      Agreement for Performance of Work
AUB      American University of Beirut
CDC      Center for Disease Control
DMMDR    Deputy Minister for Management Development and Resources
EMS      Emergency Medical Services
FFCI     Fairness in Financial Contribution Index
GOI      Government of Iran
HMIS     Health Management Information System
HSR      Health Sector Reform
HTA      Health Technology Assessment
ICR      Implementation Completion Report
MOEAF    Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance
MOHME    Ministry of Health and medical Education
MOU      Memorandum of Understanding
MOWSS    Ministry of Welfare and Social Security
MPO      Management and Planning Organization
NCL      National Control Laboratory
NHA      National Health Account
NHSRU    National Health Sector Reform Unit
NPMC     National PHC Management Center
NRA      National Regulatory Authority
OC       Oversight Committee
PDO      Project Development Objectives
PHCFPP   Primary Health Care and Family Planning Project
PIU      Project Implementation Unit
SPHCNP   Second Primary Health Care and Nutrition Project
STC      Short Term Consultant
TOT      Training Of Trainers
WB       World Bank


                                46
Executive Summary

This Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is prepared for the Second Primary
Health Care and Nutrition Project (SPHCNP) and also covers the Avian Influenza Project
(AIP) implemented in the framework of SPHCNP. The SPHCNP was a continuation of
the Primary Health Care and Family planning Project (PHCFP) which was financed by
the World Bank and terminated in Year 2001. Based on the agreement reached between
MOEAF, World Bank and MOHME the overall agreement of the Bank for lending a
second loan to Iran in the health sector was received on Year 1998. After such agreement
several packages in the different fields of the health were designed by MOHME and were
submitted to the Bank for approval. After long discussions between MOHME and World
Bank during Year 1998, some of the projects such as EMS air ambulances and Hospital
Waste Management and production of vaccine were rejected by the Bank due to the
incompleteness of the project documents and other reasons related to the conditions and
requirements of the Bank for approval of the project. Following that the SPHCNP,
including some of the packages proposed by MOHME, was approved by the Bank in the
beginning of Year 1999 and the Loan Agreement was signed on June 26, 2000.
Based on the agreements reached, the Bank agreed to lend to Iran on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, an amount equivalent to eighty seven million
U.S. Dollars (US$87,000,000).
The objectives of the project were to assist the Government of Iran (GOI) in improving
health conditions in rural and urban areas through:

   Sustaining access to and quality of primary health care;
   Improving the nutrition status of children under two and of pregnant and lactating
   women;
   Capacity building in the health sector.

Due to the delay in signature of the Loan Agreement and problems on provision of local
budget caused by the objection of MPO on the structure and initial design of the project,
and other implementation problems, substantial delays occurred in starting of the project
in the first two years.
Delays in implementing the project were mainly related to the late effectiveness of the
loan; lack of counterpart funds; insufficient experience of different departments of the
MOHME involved in the implementation of the components with Bank Guidelines and
procedures; inadequate capacity and the time spent for restructuring of the project and
preparation of the new components.
Because of the delays occurred in implementation of the project, based on the agreements
reached with MPO by the end of Year 2001, the World Bank and GOI conducted an
assessment of the project activities to define what could realistically be achieved by the
project closing date. Based on this assessment, changes were made to the project
subcomponents and the project restructured on Feb. 2002 maintaining the original
objectives of the project.
The components of the restructured project as agreed between MOHME, World Bank
and MPO is shown in the following page;



                                           47
Part A- Improving Access to and Quality of the Health Services, including
Emergency Services

            A(1) - Rehabilitation of Health Facilities;
            A(2) - Purchase of vehicles;
            A(3) - Purchase of equipment
            A(4) - Purchase of Ambulances.

Part B- Improving Nutritional status

            B(1) - Nutrition Education; and
            B(2) - Micronutrient Fortification.

Part C- Capacity Building

            C(1) - Management Training;
            C(2) - Improving Quality of Vaccine Production;
            C(3) - Health Sector Reform; and
            C(4) - PIU Management.

However despite restructuring of the project on Year 2002, there was still very little
progress on most subcomponents until early 2003. One of the problematic issues was
financing rehabilitation of the health facilities in rural areas using loan through
centralized payments from Special Account. The nature of the rehabilitation, the small
amount and big numbers of the contracts and the scope of the works spread over all the
country made the project impractical to be managed centrally by PIU and to be financed
through loan. This matter and also the impossibility to reach a practical agreement
between universities, PIU and the World Bank on the method and financing process of
the activities prevented any progress in finalization of the agreements with the
universities on the process of procurement and payments out of the loan created
substantial delays in implementation of the rehabilitation component after restructuring.
Moreover other implementation problems such as inadequate resources and institutional
arrangements, full time project manager, and problems in identification and contracting
of the international and local consultants of the complex components such as HMIS, HSR
and Vaccine components delayed substantially the progress of the project after
restructuring. In addition, purchasing the medical equipment and vehicles through ICB
where the local regulations not allowed the importation of the medical equipment and
vehicles slowed down the progress of the components 1(a) and 1(b) after restructuring.
As the result the amount of funds utilized remained insignificant until end of 2003.
However considering the commitment of then newly assigned administration in MOHME
to overcome the delays in implementation of the project, substantial progress was made
in a short span of time that included:

    -     Obtaining special permissions for importation of the vehicles and equipments;
    -     Reaching an agreement with the World Bank and MPO to finance
          rehabilitation totally from local funds;



                                            48
    -     Reaching agreements on specific issues such as assigning WHO as executing
          agency for implementation of Health Sector Reform and Quality of Vaccine
          Projects and
    -     Solving other problems hindering the progress of the components resulted in
          reaching a comprehensive agreement and signature of a Memorandum of
          Understanding (MOU) between MOHME, MOEAF and the World Bank in
          Feb. 2004 and applying the required changes to the Loan Agreement.

Based on such comprehensive agreements and MOU and due to the commitment and
efforts made by different departments of MOHME especially then Deputy Minister for
Management Development, component managers and PIU manager and experts, and also
support, cooperation and assistance of the World Bank, MOEAF and MPO to implement
the SPHCNP, by the end of loan closing date about 99.2% (More than 86 million USD)
of the total amount of the loan (87 million USD) was disbursed and all the activities were
implemented and the project achieved substantial part of it's objectives. The brief
explanation about each component and the achievements are mentioned in the following
paragraphs:

Sub-component A(1): Rehabilitation of Rural Health Centers
In the framework of this sub-component about 1400 selected Rural Health Centers in 41
medical universities all over the country, 588 Urban Health Centers, 793 Rural Health
Centers and 81 rural health houses nationwide were rehabilitated. As the result in total
approximately 25% of existing Urban or Rural Health Centers were rehabilitated under
the SPHCNP.
After restructuring of the SPHCNP based on the agreement reached on financing this
component by GOI funds, the total amount spent for rehabilitation came to IRR 162
billion financed totally through local budget;

Sub-component A(2): purchasing vehicles for the Health Centers
In the framework of this sub-component 1080 four-wheel drive vehicles for rural health
centers were purchased through ICB and delivered to the medical universities. The total
amount spent for purchase of the vehicles was 18,790,000 USD financed out of the loan.

Sub-component A(3): purchasing medical equipments
In the framework of this sub-component 24 items of medical equipment for 2,507 Urban
Health Centers, 2,296 Rural Health Centers and 11,821 Rural Health Houses were
purchased through ICB and delivered to the medical universities. The initial estimated
budget for the implementation of this sub-component was 20,630,000 USD, but the total
amount actually spent for purchasing of the equipment was 17,921,000 USD financed out
of the loan. This saving helped MOHME to implement Avian Influenza project as an
additional and complementary initiative during Year 2006 and 2007 in the framework of
SPHCNP.
Evaluation of the outcomes of components A(1), (2) and (3) carried out by an
independent consulting firm (Teb va Touseh institute) shows the following improvement
and achievement in line with the objective of these components at the end of the project:




                                           49
1. About 60% of women and members of villages council expressed satisfaction with
      new environment of rehabilitated health centers
2. About 52.4% of members of village councils and 57.7% of women expressed
      satisfaction with the new equipment
3. About 46% of members of village councils and 48.5% of women expressed
      satisfaction with the transfer method of patient to hospital
4. Level of satisfaction of members of village councils from environment increased
      from 38.4% to 60.9%
5. Level of satisfaction of members of village councils from equipment increased from
      14.6% to 52.4%
6. Level of satisfaction of members of village councils from the transfer method of
      patient to hospital increased from 16.5% to 46%
7. About 83% of the health providers and patients are satisfied with the health facilities.

In line with the objective of the components A(1), A(2), A(3), the implementation of the
activities has contributed to the improvement access to and Quality of the Health Care
Services. The indicators shown in table 11 are evidence of such improvement in
provision of Health Care Services since beginning of the project.
Also in order to evaluate the outcome of these projects a survey was undertaken by an
independent consulting firm. The final report of consultant "Evaluation of the Projects on
Sustaining Access to and Improving the Quality of Primary Health Care" is attached to
this report as Appendix 9

Sub-component A(4) - Improving Emergency Medical Services (EMS)
In line with the objective of this component, since the old ambulances were outdated and
not fully equipped and efficient, during the restructuring of the SPHCNP, the MOHME
decided to use part of the loan for improving the EMS in the country and renewing the
ambulance fleet.
After long process and huge effort made by MOHME and cooperation of the World
Bank, 500 ambulances were purchased through ICB and delivered to EMS department to
be used all over the country.
The estimated budget for the implementation of this sub-component was 25,910,000
USD, But finally 23,870,000 USD was paid out of the loan for procuring the
ambulances.
Moreover during the extension of the loan for AI project, due to the emergency need of
the MOHME to improve the EMS services some equipment as mentioned in the Avian
Influenza project section was purchased and delivered to the EMS department;
The following indicators are evidences of improving the EMS situation after termination
of the project:
Despite increasing of the emergency missions from 1,159,887 in Year 2006 to 1,401,942
missions in Year 2007 which shows an increase of about 20.9% and increasing the level
of EMS coverage from 35% in Year 2006 to 52% in Year 2007, the mortality rate due to
the accidents had only decreased about 2.6% from 2004 to 2005, (from 7,213 in Year
2005 to 7,026 in Year 2006) showed a substantial reduction from 7,026 dead in Year
2006 to 6,552 dead in Year 2007 which show an average rate of 6.7% decrease of
mortality rate due to the accidents.



                                            50
Response time of reaching to the accident place in the cities has decreased from 10
minutes in Year 2005 to 8.69 minutes in Year 2006 and to 7 minutes in Year 2007. The
Response Time in roads is also decreased from 25 minutes in Year 2005 to 16.63 minutes
in Year 2006 and to 10 minutes in Year 2007.
The call volumes to the Emergency Stations in Tehran is increased from an average of
13,000 calls per day in Year 2005 to 14,000 calls in Year 2006 and to 15,500 calls in
Year 2007.

Sub-component B(1) : Developing Nutrition Capacity
Based on the results of situation analysis which was conducted by an international
consultant to assess the current situation of nutrition education curricula in Iran, the needs
for capacity building in nutrition education in Iran was elaborated upon.
Based on the results of this report ,it was decided that 4 programs, namely 1- Community
Nutrition at the MSc level, 2- Food and Nutrition Policy, 3- Nutrition Epidemiology and
4- Cellular and Molecular Nutrition all 3 at PhD and MSc levels, be designed with the
help and guidance of international consultants.
After long procedure of selection of the consultant based on the World Bank guidelines,
two consulting services contracts with the IUNS and another two contracts with
University of the Philippines for the design of four graduate level nutrition training
programs were signed in December 2004 and the Work Plan, Situation Analysis report
and the Future Vision report and the 7 program packages (4 MSc and 3 PhD programs)
were finalized and approved by MOHME. Due to the integrative nature of the project the
local and international partners of the program have come to the conclusion to prepare a
unified vision, start up and institution building plans and presents the programs as one
single package containing 4 different programs to the Board of reviewers in the Deputy
for Education, MOHME.

Developing the nutrition knowledge and capacity of the physicians and health staff
involved in the Nutrition related fields was a substantial effort carried out in the
framework of the project. Six rounds of national workshops for master trainers were
conducted for relevant sectors in the framework of this sub-component. The provincial
workshops for, physicians and health staff have been conducted in the medical
universities all over Iran. By the end of the project, about 15,000 physicians and health
staff were successfully participated in workshops and were trained in public health
approach to nutrition.
There were also some other training activities carried out in the framework of the
capacity development of the Nutrition Project mentioned in section 5.3.1

Sub-component B(2): Improving the Nutritional Status
After restructuring of the SPHCNP, the Nutrition Project was also redesigned and the
project was focused on fortification and capacity building. In line with the objectives of
this sub-component different kinds of the activities were carried out. The activities were
designed to support food fortification in country and build capacity in the related areas.
As the result the project has contributed to implementation of flour fortification program
which is initiated on Year 2006 all over the country. The main activities carried out in the
framework of this sub-component are as follow:



                                             51
Design of National Plan for Food Fortification
As the basic step for controlling of the food deficiencies and reducing malnutrition,
design of National Plan for Food Fortification was an important initiative which was
contracted with WHO for being carried out.
The output of the contract with WHO was the National Plan for Food Fortification . The
Plan was successfully designed under supervision of Nutrition Department and with
contribution of international and local consultants recruited by WHO.

Other consulting services and studies in relation of flour fortification that were carried
out are:
The project contributed to the flour fortification program in the country by financing
purchase of premix and micro feeders, organizing the training workshops and printing of
the books, manuals, posters and pamphlets.

To assess the impact of the activities implemented in the framework of this sub-
component (Nutrition workshops and other activities in line with the Capacity
Development Part of Nutrition Project), the former director of the Nutrition Department
of MOHME was selected by the MOHME as an individual consultant to carry out an
evaluation study of this part of the project. At the time of finalization of the ICR this
study was not started yet due to the administrative and institutional problem.

Regarding the evaluation of outcomes of the Nutrition Project, the collected data shows a
positive trend in the nutritional status of the population from Year 1998 which was
considered as the base line until Year 2006 which was the date of termination of the
project. Data analysis showed a positive trend for anemia indicators for the intervention
group in Boushehr province against the control group in Fars province. In addition data
were obtained from Anthropometry and Nutrition Indicator Survey (ANIS) carried out
in Year 1998 and Year 2004 show the positive trend related to the child malnutrition rates
for children under 5 years as shown in the following table;

Category                       1998 (ANIS 1)                   2004 (ANIS 2)
Stunting                       15.4                            4.7
Underweight                    10.9                            5.2
Wasting                        4.9                             3.7

Due to the importance of evaluation of the activities carried out in the framework of Food
Fortification sub-component and the needs for evaluation of the results achieved to be
used in the future interventions and sustainability of the flour fortification in the country,
Research Center of Public Health Sciences was contracted on Oct. 2008. The study was
started in November 2008 until May 2009. The final report of the consultant on the
evaluation of flour fortification and assessment of the activities and outcome of this sub-
component is attached to this report as Appendix 4.




                                             52
Sub-component C(1) : Management Capacity Building
During the restructuring of the PHCNP, considering the importance of strengthening the
management capacity of the health system, Management Training project was designed
and proposed to the Bank. The project envisaged a comprehensive plan for the continuing
in-service training of health managers. This was considered an intervention essential to
build the capacity and bring efficiency to the health system. The project was approved by
the Bank and was accepted as the first component of the Capacity Building section of the
restructured PHCNP.
Following objectives were laid down for the component:

     Undertaking the training of trainers;
     Developing up-to-date and tailor-made training packages;
     Undertaking the training of trainees; and
     Developing critical mass of trained personnel for sustaining the project's
     intervention.

The main activities undertaken in the framework of this component were as follow;

Ph.D programs:
In the framework of this activity 10 individuals selected by the Medical universities
participated in the PhD programs in Karolinska Institute of Sweden (KI). Also 5
individual selected by the different departments of MOHME were participated in PhD
courses in England, Australia, and India.
The activity achieved its objective in term of output. However the evaluation of the
outcome of this activity cannot take place at the time of preparation of ICR due to the
uncompleted PhDs at this time.

Master Degree Training:
18 persons from medical universities participated in master science in international health
with a concentration in "health care management" program held in Heidelberg
University of Germany from Oct. 17, 2005 through Oct. 13, 2006.
One person participated in Master of Science in health services in York university of
England
In term of output, 18 Master Theses which are actionable plans for health sector reform in
Iran and 18 health care management experts that now have the knowledge, skills and
motivation to implement these plans are available to the health sector.

Short Courses:
In line with the objective of developing critical mass of trained personnel for sustaining
the project's intervention and overall objective of the MOHME to improve the
management capacity in the health sector about 32 MOHME's experts participated in the
short term courses abroad. Also the following short term courses were organized;

   50 persons participated in emergency medicine leadership work shop in Tehran
   university by George Washington university medical center for 1 week.



                                            53
   6 local short term courses in at the NPMC center in Tabriz for 150 managers of
   medical universities/ MOHME by ILO collaboration.
    PCM ( project cycle management).
    HRM ( Human recourse management)

Short-Term courses in Karlsruhe University. - Germany
Restructuring in Hospital Management, 200 persons
Facility Management, 50 Persons
Health Management 100 Persons
Other training activities and TOT courses were organized in the framework of this
component which are mentioned in section 5.4.1

Sub-component C(2): Improving the Quality of Vaccine production
Objective: Capacity building of National Regulatory Authority and National Control
Laboratory for evaluation of Quality, Safety and Efficacy of the vaccines.
After restructuring of the project in Year 2002 and including the vaccine project as an
operational research sub-component of capacity building section of the SPHCNP, due to
the implementation problems of this sub-component during Year 2003, the Bank and the
MOHME reached final agreements regarding this sub-component.
The Bank recommendation to assign WHO as an executing agency for implementation of
this sub-component was find justified and a sound decision. Based on the negotiations
between the World Bank, MOHME and WHO the agreements reached on the
implementation issues and WHO was contracted for this purpose. .
According to WHO assessment of National Regulatory Authority (NRA) and National
Control Laboratory (NCL) it was identified that training and technical assistance are the
principal needs of the MOHME to prepare the ground for ensuring full compliance with
WHO standards, therefore the contract financed by the Bank focused only on technical
assistance and training.




                                           54
                             Table 13 : Evaluation of Vaccine Project

                            2002 Assessment
                                                April 2006        %            2007           %
                             By WHO team
                                                assessment    improveme    assessment      improve
          Function           Before start of
                                               By WHO team        nt      Internal audit     ment
                             vaccine project

     National
                              4.5/5 (90%)       6.5/7 (93%)     (3%)       7/7 (100%)      (10%)
     regulatory system

     Marketing
     authorization (MA)
                              11/14 (79%)       8/9 (89%)       (10%)      8.5/9 (94%)     (15%)
     and licensing
     activities
     Post-marketing
     activities including
     surveillance of
     Adverse Events            7/9 (78%)        7.5/8 (94%)     (16%)      7.5/8 (94%)     (16%)
     Following
     Immunization
     (AEFI)

     NRA Lot release          3.5/5 (70%)       4/4 (100%)      (30%)      4/4 (100%)      (30%)



     Laboratory access        11/13 (85%)      7.5/12 (63%)    (-12%)     11/12 (92%)       (7%)


     Regulatory
                              6/10 (60%)        5/6 (83%)       (23%)      5.5/6 (92%)     (32%)
     inspections

     Authorization/App
     roval of Clinical        2.5/6 (42%)       3.5/4 (88%)     (46%)      3.5/4 (88%)     (46%)
     Trials



Sub-component C(3): Health Sector Reform Project

Objective : Capacity Building to manage and implement Health Sector Reform
In Year 2003 after overall agreement with MPO on the priorities of the MOHME and
restructuring of the SPHCNP the Health Sector Reform project (HSR) was designed and
submitted to the Bank to be funded in the framework of SPHCNP. The HSR project was
submitted to the Bank as a part of restructuring process and the project was accepted to
be financed by the WB as the Sub-component 3C of the SPHCNP. Due to the
implementation problems such as resources, institutional arrangements, full time project
manager, etc.. and also the complexity of the project in term of managing and contracting
of about 25 international consultants and a great numbers of the local consultants,
coordination and integration of the studies, etc.. and required technical capacity, as a part
of overall agreement with the Bank, the WHO office in Tehran was selected as the
executive agency for implementation of HSR project. The relevant contract was signed
with WHO and project implementation was carried out starting May 2004 and was
completed after one year delay at the end of 2006.




                                                    55
Main Achievement:
1. Disseminating the concepts of reform within and outside the health system.
2. Providing a common language between policy makers, managers and experts in the
Health System of country.
3. Capacity building at National and Provincial levels.
4. Providing key information for policy making.
5. Devising some models for improving the key subsystems in health system.
6. Designing family physician system and referral path instruction and piloting it in
     Bam district (Earth Quake affected 2003).
7. Putting some key articles in 4th national development plan (85,90,91,92,...).
8. Building an Intersect oral team.
9. International Collaboration with WHO and WB.
10. Preparing situation analysis in some parts of health system.
11. Working with international Short term Consultants.
12. Participating in fellowships, study tours and short term courses.
13. Increasing the capacity of the experts at national and provincial level in health system
research areas.


Sub-component C(4): PIU Management and Staff Training

Objective 3- Capacity Building to manage and implement the project
An important element in the successful implementation of the SPHCNP was the
management and implementation capacity of the PIU. This matter was considered since
the preliminary steps and during the design of the PHCFP. As part of Capacity Building
component of the project, the fourth sub-component designed with the objective of
Strengthening the PIU implementation capacity through the provision of technical
assistance, office equipment, training and capacity building. Based on the requirements of
the World Bank, as executing agency, MOHME had to establish a PIU. While project
implementation was the responsibility of the relevant MOHME departments, the project
management functions (financial management, procurement, scheduling, monitoring, and
coordination) should have been handled by the PIU.
The established PIU consisted of PIU manager and the key staff handling the
procurement, financial, and monitoring and evaluation tasks. Being responsible for the
day-to-day coordination of the activities8 the important responsibility of successful
implementation of the project was shared between PIU and the project managers.

In accordance with the conditions of the World Bank and terms of the Loan Agreement
the PIU which was established for implementation of the SPHCFP has been maintained

8
    Section 4, Institutional and Implementation Arrangements, project Appraisal Document ( March 2000)


                                                    56
and strengthened by MOHME. After restructuring of the SPHCNP, due to the complexity
of the sub-components which required very high capacity in terms of management,
coordination, planning, procurement, financial, monitoring and administration matters the
PIU had to be strengthened. Therefore the sub-component 3(d) were redesigned and
strengthened with the objective of improving the management and implementation
capacity. The sub-component consisted of training courses in Iran and abroad,
workshops, technical assistances and consulting services and purchasing needed
equipment.




                                           57
                      Table 15 : Evaluation of Component 3(d)


Subcomponent:  3d.  PIU Management 
Expected Results        Indicators                      Actual Results and
                                                        Explanation of variance
Outcome:

Successful implementation    Level of the               About 99% of the loan is
of the project               disbursement of the loan   disbursed
                             in % out of total amount
                             of the loan

Outputs:
- Professional specialized
  in implementation,         Number of the PIU staff    The key staff of PIU participated in the following
                                                        short term courses;
  management,                trained in specialized     Health Planning and Management / England
  procurement, financial,    courses in local and       Project Management / ILO ­ Italy
                                                        Project Cycle Management / ILo ­ Italy
  planning, monitoring       courses abroad             PCM/ Monitoring and Evaluation / MDF-
  and evaluation capable                                Netherland
                                                        Procurement of the Consulting Services ­ ILO ­
  to communicate and                                    Italy
  work in English                                       Financial Management ­ ILO ­Italy
                                                        Financial Management ­ AUB- Lebanon
  language environment                                  PCM/ ILO ­ Italy
                                                        Procurement of the health goods ­ ILO
                                                        Special English courses
                                                        Computer courses
                                                        MSP and Primavera course
                                                        IELTS and Commercial English courses




                                                        - International Procurement
                                                        Consultant is contracted and
                                                        provided the required services
-   Technical services                                  successfully
    provided for the         Number of International
    implementation of the    Consultants recruited      - International Monitoring and
    components                                          Evaluation Consultant is
                                                        contracted and provided the
                                                        required services successfully




                                         58
Extension of the Loan and AI Project

By the end of Year 2006 and approaching the closing date of the loan, the MOHME
considering the remaining amount of the loan and emergency need for capacity building
for controlling AI, expressed it's concern over the gaps in the Comprehensive Emergency
Animal and Human Avian Influenza Preparedness and Surveillance Plan (AI Plan) and
sought the Bank's assistance in addressing such concerns. In line with the objective of
getting the most benefit from the remaining amount of the loan estimated to be around 7
million USD, the MOHME explored whether the Bank would be able to provide any
assistance in strengthening the AI Plan through an extension of the ongoing health
project. Based on overall agreement of the Bank and emergency nature of the AI, the
MOHME sent its official request to the MOEAF. The request presented the justification
for the Bank's consideration to extend the loan closing date by one more year and utilize
the uncommitted loan proceeds to finance timely actions to complement the GOI efforts
on the AI Plan.
As the Bank also shared the concerns raised by the MOHME for addressing the urgent
need to implement the AI Plan in anticipation of a future outbreak of the disease in the
region and the fact that the Bank was cooperating with several countries in the region and
neighboring regions on similar programs, agreed to extend the loan closing date until
Dec. 31, 2007.
The key areas agreed for possible cooperation were identified namely (i) improving
laboratory capacity particularly to address surges resulting from increased sudden
demands if there is an outbreak; (ii) strengthening the surveillance system capacity
through building capacity at the lower tiers of health service delivery and integrating this
at the PHC level; (iii) improving multi-sectored horizontal coordination to enable parallel
AI surveillance and preparedness; (iv) improving communication through an assessment
of how the information disseminated has contributed to any changes in attitudes or
practices; (v) building capacity and knowledge sharing through study tours to learn from
the experiences in other countries; and (vi) strengthening regional and cross-border
cooperation.
The AI project started beginning of Year 2007 and was managed by CDC. Due to the
especial nature of the project and also lack of familiarity of the CDC with the Bank's
procedures regarding the procurement of the goods and services the project remained
incomplete by the end of Year 2007. Therefore MOHME expressed the importance of
completion of the whole activities under AI project and requested additional time for
completion of the project. Considering the status of the AI project and emergency nature
of the activities, The World Bank agreed to extend the loan closing date for a limited
time. Following this step the official request of MOHME was sent to MOEAF for
extension of the loan closing date until 30, Sept 2008. Based on the justification provided
to MOEAF, the official request of the latter was sent to the Bank and the World Bank
agreed on the extension of the closing date of the loan until September 30, 2008. All of
the AI project activities was terminated by the closing date of the loan and the project
achieved the main part of it's objectives.
 By the closing date of the loan i.e. September 30, 2008, out of total amount of loan equal
to 87 million USD, whole of the loan has been disbursed only very little amount of the



                                            59
loan was cancelled. The original closing date of the loan was December 31, 2005. The
loan was extended from Dec. 2005 till Dec. 2006 for completion of the remaining
activities under SPHCNP. Following the first year extension of the loan closing date, due
to the emergency needs of the Center for Disease Control (CDC) for strengthening of the
system for prevention and control of Avian Influenza (AI) caused by the probability of
risk of the outbreak of AI in the country, the MOHME decided to use the remaining
amount of the Loan for such purpose and requested the Bank to extend the loan until Dec.
2007 for this purpose. Following such decision, the request of MOHME and the purpose
was discussed with the Bank and after receiving the prior approval of the Bank, the
request of MOHME was sent to the MOEAF and the Bank agreed on the extension of the
loan for implementation of emergency Avian Influenza Project (AIP) for another 1 year
from Dec. 2006 to Dec. 2007. Due to the complex nature of the AIP and also lack of
implementation capacity in CDC, after request of CDC and MOHME, another extension
of the loan from Dec. 2007 till Sept. 30, 2008 was granted by the Bank for completion of
the remaining activities under AIP and also strengthening of Emergency Medical
Services (EMS). This ICR is prepared by PIU using the material in the project file and
discussions with Bank staff, who were involved in the project. It draws on the Monitoring
and Evaluation reports prepared by M&E consultant, contracted by PIU and the
evaluation report of the sub-components of the project carried out by the sub-components
project managers assisted by the local private consulting firms and universities.

The following indicators show the achievement of the project in term of outputs:
Percentage of the hospitals staff trained in the workshops and training courses reached to
19.6 %
The number of the hospitals staff trained is reached to 44,099 individuals
The percentage of the provinces selected for simulation exercise is 10%
The number of the provinces which the simulation exercise is carried out is 1 province
The number of the reports received in Year 1386 ( 2007 ) is equal to 864 cases. (The
number of the samples sent to National Influenza Laboratory from the hospitals and
centers in the provinces)
Capacity to conduct sequencing of H5N1 is in place
The percentage of the poultry farms trained in term of personal protection and controlling
of the farms against AI infection and transfer of disease is equal to 7.5%.




                                           60
       Annex 8. Comments of Co financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

There are no cofinanciers and no comment from other partners / stakeholders.




                                          61
                   Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

a) Project Appraisal Document (PAD) for a Second Primary Health Care and
   Nutrition Project ­ Report No. 20202-IRN - April 3, 2000
b) Project Information Document (PID) ­ Report No. PID8574 ­ December 29, 1999
c) Loan Agreement ­ Loan Number 4550-IRN ­ June 26, 2000
d) Quality of Supervision Assessment (QSA5) ­ October 29, 2002
e) IRI ­ Management of HealthCare Waste Policy Note ­ Report No. 33286-IR ­
   October 17, 2005
f) Status Reports ­ IRI ­ Prepared by the Project Implementation Unit (PIU),
   particularly the Status Report dated May 2008
g) Request for extension of closing date and amendment to the Loan Agreement ­
   Avian Influenza (AI) Plan ­ December 22, 2006
h) Food/Flour Fortification ­ Joint Project with World Bank ­ Nutrition Department
   ­ MOH&ME - Undated
i) Report of Management Training Project ­ July 3, 2007
j) Final report on Evaluation of Rehabilitation of Health Centers and Purchase of
   Equipments and Vehicles ­ Primary Health Care and Nutrition Project -
   Component 1 ­ Sub-components 1(a), 1(b) and 1(c) ­ Teb & Tosei Salamat
   Institute (Medicine and Health Development Institute) ­ 2004-2007
k) Flour fortification with iron: a mid-term evaluation ­ Institute for Health Sciences
   Research ­ Tehran University of Medical Sciences ­ MOHME ­ 2007 ­
   published in Public Health, journal of the Royal Institute of Public Health.
l) The effect of flour fortification with iron and folic acid on micronutrient status:
   baseline data from Golestan province, Iran ­ Institute for Health Sciences
   Research (IHSR), Academic center for Education, Culture and Research, and
   Ministry of Health and Medical Education ­ 2007
m) Iran ­ Health Sector Review ­ Report No.: 39970-IR - June 2008- Volume I:
   Main Report and Volume II: Background Sections.
n) Technical Support in Monitoring and Evaluation ­ April 6 to 23, 2005 ­ Final
   Mission Report, by Françoise Coupal.
o) Improving Graduate Education in Nutrition in Iran ­ Final Report (November
   2006) and the supplemental Report Integrated Education Model (December 2006)
   ­ International Union of Nutritional Sciences (IUNS) and University of the
   Philippines Los Baños (UPLB).
p) Three-Year Start-Up Plan for Institution-Building Plans for MSc and PhD in
   Nutritional Epidemiology and Cellular and Molecular Nutrition.
q) Ten-Year Plan for MSc and PhD in Nutritional Epidemiology and Cellular and
   Molecular Nutrition.
r) WHO Final Report ­ December 2006 ­ Sub-component 3(b) ­ Improving the
   quality of vaccine production in the Islamic republic of Iran.
s) WHO Final Report ­ April 2007 ­ Sub-component 3© - Health Sector Reform
   Project.
t) I.R. Iran ­ National Preparedness Plan for Pandemic Influenza ­ Deputy of Health
   ­ Center for Disease Control Autumn 2007 (Revised in: 13/11/2007).




                                        62
u) Environmental Impact Assessment of Solid Waste and Wastewater and
   Environmental Management Plan for primary Health Care Centers of Iran ­
   Volume 1 ­ August 2008 ­ Tehran University of Medical Sciences.
v) Draft Final Report ­ Program evaluation of flour fortification with iron and folic
   acid in Bushehr and Golestan Province ­ Iran
w) Trends and geographical inequalities of the main health indicators for rural Iran,
   by Mohammad Movahedi, Behzad Hajarizadeh, Azamdokht Rahimi, Masoumeh
   Arshinchi, Khadijeh Amirhosseini and Ali Akbar Haghdoost ­ MOHME ­
   November 28, 2008.




                                       63
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 IBRD 33421




                                                                                                          I S L A M I C R E PU B L I C O F I R A N
                                                           ISLAMIC
                                                           REP. OF IRAN
                                                                                                            SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                         MAIN ROADS
                                                                                                                           -
                                                                                                            PROVINCE (OSTAN) CAPITALS                                                         RAILROADS
                                                                                                                                                                                                           -
                                                                                                            NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                  PROVINCE (OSTAN) BOUNDARIES

                                                                                                            RIVERS                                                                            INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES




             ARMENIA                           AZERBAIJAN                         50°E                                              55°E                                                    60°E                       UZBEKISTAN
  40°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     40°N
To Ankara


                                                    Ar
                                                      as                                                                                          TURKMENISTAN
                  Khvoy                  -                                               Caspian                                               To Turkmenbashy
 TURKEY




                                 AZARBAYJAN-E
                                    SHARQI                               -
                                                                                           Sea
                                                                    Ardabil
                                                           AR




                        - -        -
                      Orumiyeh Tabriz                                                                                                                  A tr
                                                            R
                                                            R




                                                                                                                                                              ak

                                                                                                                                   ek
                                                             DA




                                                                                                                                Atr
                                                              B
                                                              B
                                                              BIL
                                                              -




          -                                                                                                                 -                                     -
                                                                                                                                                              Bojnurd
  AZARBAYJAN-E                                             - Rasht - -                                                GOLESTAN
     GHARBI Mahabad
               - -                                     ZANJAN GILAN                                           - -
                                                          -
                                                      Zanjan                                                 Sari                   Gorgan
                                                                                                                                                                                  Mashhad           Sarakhs
                                                                                 Qazvin        -      -
                                              -                                               MAZANDARAN                                  - -
                                                                                                                                        Shahrud
                                       KORDESTAN                                                     Qolleh-ye                                                            -
                                                                                                                                                                    Sabzevar
                                                                        QAZVIN            TEHRAN     Damavand                   -
                                               Sanandaj                                              (5,671 m )             SEMNAN
                                                             ADAN




                                                                        -                      -                        -                                                  -
                                                                                                                                                                        Kavir-e
  35°N                                                                                    TEHRAN                    Semnan                                                                                                                 35°N
                                                                              RKA -
                                                                                 ZI




                                                                                                                                                                        Namak
                                                                      -
                                                                 Hamadan                                                                                                                            - -
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Taybad
                                   -   -                                                  QOM                              Dasht-e-Kavir
                                                           HAM




                               KERMANSHAH                                                  Qom                              (salt desert)
                                                                            MA




To Baghdad                         -   -                                                                                                                                   - -
                                                                                                                                                                        Gonabad
                               Kermanshah                                                                                                                                                                             To Herat
                                                                                 -                - -
                                                                                                 Kashan
                                                     -                         Arak
                                          --
                                          Ilam LORESTAN                                                        -                                                       - -
                                                                                                          ESFAHAN                                                  KHORASAN
           To Baghdad                     - -
                                          ILAM
                                                                  - -
                                                           Khorramabad
                                                                                                                                                                                   -
                                                                                                                                                                                  Birjand                     AFGHANISTAN
                                                                                                      -
                                                                                                 Esfahan
                                                                              Shahr-e                                                                                                                             To Delaram
                                                                                Kord                                       YAZD
  IRAQ
                                       T ig




                                                                                        -
                                                                                  CHAHAR
                                                             -    -
                                        r is




                                                                                                                                Yazd
                                                           KHUZESTAN             MAHALL VA-                                                 -
                                                                                                                                           Bafq
 Eu




    ph                                                   -                        BAKHTIARI
          r at
                 es                                   Ahvaz
                                                                                                                                                                                                               -
                                                                                                                                                                                                              Zabol
                                                                                    -
                                                                              KOHGILUYEH-VA
                                                                               BUYER AHMADI
                                                                                                  - -
                                                                                                 Yasuj                                                                                                                    H el m a n d
                                                                                                                                                                        -
                                                                                                                                                                    Kerman
  30°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     30°N

                                                                                                   - -
                                                                                                 Shiraz                                                          -
                                               KUWAIT
                                               KUW                                                           -                                               KERMAN                                  -   -
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Zahedan
                                                                                                            FARS                                     - -
                                                                                                                                                    Sirjan                          -
                                                                                                                                                                                   Bam
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PAKISTAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  To Quetta
                                                                               -
                                                                              Bushehr
                                                                                   -
                          To Unayzah                                              BUSHEHR                                                                                                         - -
                                              To Ad Dammam                                                                                                                                       SISTAN VA
                                                                                                                                                                                                   -     -
                                                                                                                                                                                               BALUCHESTAN
                                                                                          Bandar-e                                                    -
                                                                                                                                               HORMOZGAN
                          SAUDI                                                                 -
                                                                                           Kangan                                                                                                                --
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Iranshahr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                To
                                                                                                                                                                  -
                                                                                                                                                              Bandar                                                                           Bela
                          ARABIA                                                                                                                              'Abbas
                                                                                  BAHRAIN                                  Bandar-e
                                                                                                                             Langeh                                                                                                      To Bela
                      0          100            200 Kilometers                                                                                                                 -
                                                                                                                                                                              Jask

                                                                                                                                                                                                       -   -
                                                                                                                                                    ES




  25°N                                                                              QATAR                                                                                                            Chabahar                              25°N
                                                                                                                                                AT




                      0         50            100   150 Miles
                                                                                                                                               IR




                                                                                                                                                                        Gulf of Oman
                                                                                                                                        EM




      This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                           B                                                                           Arabian
      The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                                                                  A
      shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                    AR                                                                                   Sea
      Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any                                                          D
                                                                                                                           TE                            OMAN
                                                                                                                    U NI
      endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                         50°E                                                        55°E                                                              60°E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 JANUARY 2005
