GLOBAL
ENVIRONMENT
FACILITY
Republic of Indonesia
Solar Home Systems Project
Project Document ;
December 1996
IU
THE WORLD BANK



I  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
GEF DocUmentation
The Global Environment Facility (GEF) assists.dev,eloping countries to protect
the -lblevrnet n4u  ra:global warming, pollution of international waters,-
*        ~~~destruction of biodiversity, and.depletion of the ozone layer. The GEF is jointly implemented
-bythe Unitedl Nations DevelopmentProgrimrne, the United Nations Environment Programme,
and the World Bank.                                                     --
GEF Project Documents'- identified by a green band-- provide extended' project-
specific information. The implementing agency lesponsible for each.project is identified by 
its logo on the cover of the dodument.
-          I    -   r             -                       
Global Environment Division        * 
Environment-Departmneni    -
---World Bank    *
1818 H Street,NW
Washington, DC 20433 
Telephone: (20?) 473-1816 *              w
-.  Fax: (202)522-3256                     - 



Report No. 16238-IND
Republic of Indonesia
Solar Home Systems Project
Project Document
December 1996
Indonesia Policy and Operations Division
Country Department III
East Asia and Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
(As of September 1996)
US$ I          = Rp2,341
Rp I billion   = USS 0.427 million
FISCAL YEAR
April I - March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I metric ton                      -    1,000 kilograms (kg)
I liter (l)                       =   0.0063 barrels (bbl)
I kilometer(km)                   -   0.6215mile(mi)
I kilovolt (kV)                   =    1,000 volts (V)
I megavolt ampere (MVA)                1,000 kilo-volt amperes (kVA)
I megawatt (MW)                   =    1,000 kilowatts (kW)
1 gigawatt hour (GWh)                  I 1 million kilowatt hours (kWh)
I terrawatthour (TWh)                  I 1 billion kilowatthours (kWh)
ABBREVIATIONS
BAKOREN        -  National Energy Board
BAPPENAS    -  National Development Planning Agency
BPPT           -  Agency for the Assessment and Application of Technology
CO2            -  Carbon Dioxide
DGEED          -  Directorate-Generalof Electricity and Energy Development
DRE            -  Decentralized Rural Electrification
EA             -  EnvironmentalAssessment
FCCC           -  The Framework Convention on Climate Change
GEF            -  Global Environmental Facility
GBHN           -  Garis-Garis Besar Haulan Negara (Outlines of State Policy)
GOI            -  Govemment of Indonesia
IERR           -  Internal Economic Rate of Return
ISO            -  International Standards Organization
LRMC           -  Long Run Marginal Cost
LSDE           -  Technical Implementation Unit & Energy Technology Laboratory
MME            -  Ministry of Mines and Energy
MOC            -  Ministry of Cooperatives and Small Enterprises Development
PERTAMINA   -  National Oil and Gas Company
PLN            -  State Electricity Corporation
PIP            -  Project Implementation Plan
PSG            -  Project Support Group
PV             -  Photovoltaic
RE             -  Rural Electrification
REPELITA       -  Five-Year Development Plan
SHS            -  Solar Home System
TA             -  TechnicalAssistance
Actg. Vice President: Ms. Marianne Haug
Director:         Ms. Marianne Haug
Division Chief:   Mr. Peter R. Scherer
Staff Member:     Mr. Arun Sanghvi



PART I: Project Summary






i
INDONESIA
SOLAR HOME SYSTEMS PROJECT
LOAN/GRANT AND PROJECT SUMMARV
Borrower                          The Republic of Indonesia
ImplementingAgency                Private sector firms engaged in the supply and installation of solar
photovoltaic home system
Beneficiaries                     Rural households without access to grid electricity in the provinces of
West Java, South Sulawesi and Lampung (Sumatera)
Poverty                           Not applicable
Loan Amount                       US$20.0 million equivalent
Terms                             Standard variable interest rate for a termn of 20 years, including five years
of grace for currency pool loans.
CommitmentFee                     0.75 percent on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after
signing, less any waiver.
Grant Amount                      GEF Trust Fund Grant of SDR 16.8 million (US$24.3 million equivalent)
Terms                             Grant
Financing Plan                    See para 3.21
Economic Rate of Return           39% including global environmental benefits
Map                              IBRD 26570
Project ID Number                ID-PA-35544
I      GEF and IBRD are financing mutually dependent activities and therefore this document is intended to meet both
GEF and IBRD processing requirements. A GEF project document based on the SAR has been prepared to meet GEF
Council and Public Information needs.






1. THE ENERGY AND POWER SECTORS
Energy Sector Overview
1.1   Indonesia is richly endowed with diverse and large energy resources including oil, natural gas,
coal, hydropower and geothermal. The oil and gas sectors continue to play a critical role in the
Indonesian economy, together accounting for over 85 percent of commercial net energy consumption and
for about 20 percent of the country's export receipts.
1.2   Indonesia's basic goals and policies for the future development of the energy sector are described
in the Outlines of State Policy (GBHN). promulgated by the People's Consultative Assembly (MPR) in
March 1993 to guide the formulation of the Sixth Medium- Term (five-year 1994/95-1998/99)
Development Plan (REPELITA VI); and the Second Stage Long-Term (twenty-five year) Development
Strategy (PJPT-II). The GBHN highlights the importance for Indonesia's sustained economic and social
development of meeting its rapidly growing energy needs efficiently-including through conservation
and diversification of primary energy resources and their more efficient utilization-and of minimizing
the adverse environmental and social impacts of energy use.
1.3   In the power sub-sector, the GBHN recognizes that an adequate, reliable and reasonably priced
electricity supply is essential for the country's continuing development, emphasizing its essential role in
serving the productive sectors and in contributing directly to improving the living standards of the people
in all regions of the country. Rural electrification (RE) is a key and integral part of the Government's
rural development strategy; the long-term goal is to electrify all villages and enable the basic services
provided by the modern energy form, electricity.
1.4    The Government of Indonesia (GOI) has also relied on the following policies in support of its
objectives for the energy sector:
(a) diversification: A central and continuing thrust of the Government's energy strategy is to
slow the pace of Indonesia's transition to a net oil importer by diversifying domestic energy
consumption towards alternative and more economic and indigenous energy resources that
either have a non-exportable surplus (coal, natural gas), or are renewable and non-tradable
(hydro, geothermal). In the power sector, a major user of petroleum fuels, the plans are to
further reduce oil's share in power generation from about 15 percent in 1995/96 to about 5
percent by the end of this decade.
Considerable potential exists for substituting conventional energy supplies and especially for
meeting the decentralized energy needs of the rural sector, by use of cost effective renewable
energy supplies, particularly mini-hydro and mini-geothermal power schemes, biomass-
based power projects (including cogeneration), and solar power energy systems. The
Government has been undertaking several solar photovoltaic (PV) pilot projects for
demonstration purposes.
(b) energy pricing: On the demand side, the Government's policy has been to maintain average
petroleum product prices at or above international parity (efficiency pricing), while cross-
subsidizing as necessary the price of kerosene in order to ensure its affordability, with an
implicit tax on gasoline. Likewise with electricity, while periodic adjustments have generally



2
maintained the average retail price close to the long-run marginal cost of supply in Java,
electricity prices have been maintained below economic cost for small residential and
industrial users who account for about 40 percent of sales. The Govemment's pricing policy
has also maintained a uniform price structure for electricity and petroleum products in all
parts of the country.
(c) private sector participation: The private sector operates significant amounts of captive
power capacity, and is expected to play an increasingly important role in the supply of oil,
gas and electricity. In oil and gas, Pertamina forms joint ventures with private Production
Sharing Contractors (PSCs) for exploration and production; private sector participation is
also being welcomed in the emerging gas transmission grid. In power, 55% (11,600 MW) of
the additional grid capacity planned for Indonesia between 1994/95 and 2003/04 (excluding
captive power) is projected to come from independent power producers (IPPs). To date, over
2,500 MW of IPP capacity is under construction and expected to come on line by 1999-2000.
In addition, Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs) have been signed with IPPs for over 3,000
MW of capacity. Private participation in PLN, the national power utility, is also envisaged.
(d) regionally balanced development: The GOI has: (i) maintained a uniform price structure
for electricity and petroleum products in all parts of the country; and (ii) has plans to extend
the supply of electricity in a balanced manner to all parts of the country. This policy entails
the subsidization of higher cost energy supply to outside Java and to the rural population.
(e) environmental protection: The GOI's environmental policies include support of greenhouse
gas reduction, and development of renewable energy resources. The Basic Environment
Law of 1982 provides the overall framework. The Govemment has established and utilizes
uniform procedures and guidelines for the preparation, and approval of environmental
impact analysis (AMDAL), for issuance of environmental clearances, as well as periodic
reporting requirements on environmental management and monitoring during project
implementation.
Sector Institutions
1.5    The principal agency responsible for implementing Government policies in the energy sector is
the Ministry of Mines and Energy (MME); which coordinates all activities in the energy sector and
supervises the state enterprises in the sector: PERTAMINA (oil, gas and geothermal), P.T. Bukit Asam
(coal), PGN (gas distribution) and PLN (electricity). Other ministries and agencies are also involved in
the sector, for example, the Ministry of Public Works is responsible for hydropower resource surveys
and the operation of multipurpose hydro plants, the National Atomic Energy commission is responsible
for nuclear development, and the Ministry of Cooperatives and Small Enterprises Development (MOC)
is responsible for enhancing the role of cooperatives in rural electrification. An inter-ministerial National
Energy Board (BAKOREN) coordinates energy policies and development with those of other sectors.
BAKOREN is supported by a Technical Committee (PTE) consisting of senior officials in different
departments, chaired by the Director General of Electricity and Energy Development (DGEED). The
electricity subsector is regulated by the MME through the DGEED. The Rural Electrification (RE)
Steering Committee, chaired by the DGEED, is responsible to ensure inter-agency coordination and
cooperation in matters related to the Government's rural electrification program. The organization chart
of MME is shown in Annex 1.1. Environmental policy development is led by the State Coordinating



3
Minister for Environment and implementation is led by the national and newly enabled regional
Environmental Impact Agencies.
1.6   The Agency for the Assessment and Application of Technology-BPP Teknologi (BPPT)-was
established in 1978 as a non-departmental government agency directly subordinated and reporting to the
President. The organization chart for BPPT is shown in Annex 1.2. Both DGEED and BPPT have
responsibility for solar photovoltaics (PV) project development and implementation; one of BPPT's
major responsibilities related to solar PV is the implementation of GOI's "50 MWp" program, under
which about one million solar home systems will be installed in rural households. They have assisted
other govemment agencies in project specification, procurement, supervision, monitoring and evaluation.
The principal responsibility of DGEED's Directorate of Energy development is to set energy technology
policy, although they have also implemented a number of pilot and demonstration projects using solar
energy. BPPT is responsible for technology development, and its Technical Operations Unit for Energy
Resources (LSDE) is responsible for R&D, demonstration and testing PV systems performance, and
assisting both BPPT and DGEED in preparing PV system specifications and proposals. The photovoltaic
industry is represented by its trade association, AP Surya.
Electricity Subsector
1.7   The Electricity Act (Law No. 15 of 1985) defines the legal framework for electricity sector.
Under this Act, PLN, the State Electricity Corporation-established by Government Regulation No.
18/1972- has both the right and obligation to supply power in Indonesia. The provisions of the
Electricity Act are amplified in Government Regulation No. 17/1990 for PLN, the State Electricity
Corporation; and No. 10/1989 for others. The Electricity Act permits establishment of private power
producers, distributors and licensees. Presidential Decree No. 37/1992 specifically authorizes private
sector participation under BOO schemes, and permits cooperatives and other legal entities to generate,
transmit, and distribute power for public use.
1.8   The power sector has expanded rapidly during the 1980s and 1990s. Electricity sales of PLN
grew at an average annual rate in excess of 14% between 1981/82 and 1994/95, from 7,845 GWh to
49,740 GWh. During the same period, the number of customers grew nearly six-fold, from 3.2 million to
about 19.5 million. In order to meet this growth, PLN's installed capacity increased nearly five-fold from
3,032 MW in 1981/82 to over 15,000 MW in 1995. Over the same period, PLN's implementation
capacity has grown significantly, whereby it is connecting over 1.5 million new customers a year, a pace
unmatched by a single utility, and PLN now carries out an investment program of about US$3.5 billion
annually.
1.9    Rural electrification The primary means for achieving the national development goals for rural
electrification (para 1.3), is through the realization of explicit targets set for village electrification in the
national Five Year Development Plans (REPELITA), starting with REPELITA III (1979/80-1983/84),
and ongoing under REPELITA VI (1994/95-1998/99). The primary agent for implementing the
Government's targets for RE is PLN. For nearly the last two decades, PLN has consistently met or
exceeded the Government's targets for RE and the record is impressive. Starting around 1978/79,
electricity access has reached over 39,000 rural villages-a ten-fold increase from the figure of 3,400
electrified villages in 1980/81-and about 12 million rural households receive PLN supply (Annex 1.3).
The interregional variations in village electrification coverage reflect the Government's balancing of two



4
divergent pulls, balanced regional development on the one hand versus economic considerations on the
other hand.
Sector Issues and Strategy
1.10   The task ahead In spite of the rapid growth in electricity generation capacity and in coverage by
PLN, there is considerable unmet demand at economic prices. Today, the majority of the households
must do without electricity; many industrial establishments must rely on more expensive self generation
since PLN has been unable to meet their entire consumption requirements. Electricity consumption today
averages about 260 kWh per capita, a level below that in many countries with lower per capita incomes
than Indonesia . Furthermore, the rapid pace of sector growth has strained PLN's institutional and
management capacities to a point where customer service, and quality-service reliability, power quality
and customer responsiveness-have been compromised, while costs remain stubbornly high, especially
outside Java2. The rural household electrification coverage in Indonesia, about 40 percent, is
considerably behind its regional peers; with Thailand reporting a coverage around 80 percent and
Malaysia having a coverage of about 98 percent. Moreover, the wide disparities in coverage-urban-
rural as well as across Indonesia-pose a direct challenge to the Government's objective of achieving a
balanced spatial distribution of development and to reduce the inequality in quality of life.
1.11   Challenges Mobilizing sufficient resources-financial, managerial and technical-for ensuring
the adequacy and reliability of power supply and at competitive prices, and quickly and efficiently
expanding the access of electricity to households throughout the country, poses a formidable challenge to
the continued development of the sector. Prospects for attracting the large sums of money required year-
in-and-out to just one sector in Indonesia-US$ 5-6 billion per year-must also be viewed against the
backdrop that in the future the Government will be hard pressed to maintain past levels of financial
contributions to PLN, because of increasing demands on its resources from priority social sectors. The
task of financing expansion of RE coverage is daunting, to say the least; due to the geographic dispersion
and low energy demand of much of the rural population, the unit costs of conventional means of
electrification by grid extension are extremely high (para 2.14).
1.12   Strategy To meet the challenges associated with the goal of enhancing service availability and
reliability at competitive cost, the Government, with Bank assistance, has formulated and initiated a
major reform of the sector. The four pillars of the ongoing reform are: (i) expand entry to private
investors and operators to access additional management and finance capacity; (ii) decentralize,
corporatize and divest PLN, to improve operating performance and customer service and reliability, and
to prepare the company to directly access capital markets; (iii) reform regulatory and sectoral functions
to promote high quality service at least cost; and (iv) rationalize tariff levels to strengthen sector finance,
while providing incentives to PLN and the private sector to deliver performance more in line with best
practices.
1.13   With respect to rural electrification (RE), the Government's strategy until recently has focused
on the conventional approach of grid extensions coupled with, where necessary, deployment of isolated
1/    For exarnple, the average consumption in India is about 300 kWh per capita.
2/    Indonesia: Economic Consequences ofPower Sector Inadequacy in the ManufacturingSector, Yellow Cover Report No.
15623-IND, EA31E, World Bank, June, 1996.



5
diesel generator(s); for this purpose, GOI, with Bank assistance, has developed a Master Plan for
expanding RE coverage. More recently, GOI has begun to recognize the potential role for off-
grid/decentralized rural electrification (DRE), such as solar photovoltaic (PV) home systems, as a
complement to the least cost grid extension program (para 2.17). Underlying the Government's longer
term vision of installing one million solar home systems (the 50 MWp program) is the recognition that
increasing penetration of solar PV systems in rural Indonesia will help to: (i) increase the pace of
electrification coverage, at a time when PLN's "hands are full" implementing the Master Plan for grid
extension; and (ii) reduce the mounting burden of financing expansion and operations of PLN supply to
satisfy uneconomic rural loads.
Climate Change
1.14   Indonesia has ratified the FCCC on August 23, 1994, so that it is eligible to receive GEF funds
under this convention. In order to help fulfill its FCCC national commitments, Indonesia has initiated
two greenhouse gas mitigation strategy studies. The Asia Least-Cost Greenhouse Abatement Strategy
(ALGAS) project, financed by UNDP/GEF, examines Indonesia's GHG emission reduction options in an
Asia regional context. Indonesia is also a participant in the second round of study activities financed
under the U.S. Country Studies Program. Although both studies are still under preparation, the relevance
of photovoltaics as a greenhouse emissions abatement option for Indonesia is clear. The country is
characterized by a large, growing and dispersed rural population, a substantial fraction of whom are not
electrified but who presently consume fossil fuel-based energy for lighting and radio and TV services. As
a zero greenhouse gas emitting technology, the Solar Home Systems can meet these energy demands
while substituting for higher polluting kerosene, diesel and grid-based options.



6
2. DECENTRALIZED RURAL ELECTRIFICATION
Rural Well Being and Solar Power
2.1    The transition to electricity proceeds at a slow pace for much of rural Indonesia. On the eve of the
21st century, over 115 million Indonesians, out of an estimated 195 million, remain "in the dark", without
electricity, and most with little or no hope of getting it in the near future. Most of those without electricity
reside in rural areas. The entire 20th century-with its electric lights, radio, TV, recorded music and access
to up to date information and communications-has passed them by. For meeting their basic lighting needs,
rural households have little choice but to make do with a 19th century energy source-kerosene. This is
vastly inferior, costs more and is polluting and dangerous. For example, illumination is dim and causes eye
strain if reading is attempted. Further, such forms of lighting produce toxic fumes and particulate matter and
pose a fire hazard.
2.2    Against this reality, the backdrop of experience overwhelmingly indicates that sustainable rural
development and the accompanying benefits of increases in the quality of life and standard of living of the
rural population will not occur without the presence of modem energy forms, in particular, electricity .
2.3    Continued sole reliance on the conventional mode of expanding rural electrification, i.e. grid
extensions, fossil fuel generation and scattered diesel-generator operations, will neither serve the best
interests of the Government and the peoples of Indonesia nor would it be globally sustainable. Even with
acceleration of PLN's impressive grid extension program, and setting aside the financial challenge and
environmental consequences of doing so, for many rural homes electricity service will be 30 years away.
2.4    Solar power, an environmentally friendly option and a promising renewable energy source, until
recently was considered uneconomic. This has now changed. Home sized solar photovoltaic (PV) systems
that convert sunlight directly into electricity (Figure 2.1), offer a fast and competitive alternative for
improving the quality of life of rural households (Figure 2.2). These systems can meet the demand for the
most highly valued electricityend uses: lighting, security, entertainment, and informational and educational
services (Figure 2.3). An estimated 35 million people in Indonesia live on remote islands and villages and
in rural households that are dispersed and outside the economic reach of a grid in the foreseeable future.
For these 8 million households, solar PV systems offer a rapid means to reduce some of the inter-regional
and rural-urbandifferentials in quality of life, and at a lower cost than grid supply.
2.5    Technology is no longer a barrier. Over a quarter million rural households worldwide-over
20,000 in Indonesia-are already using solar home systems (SHS). Success in catalyzing market
development of SHS for rural consumers now depends primarily upon two factors: (a) implementing a
commercially sustainable financing mechanism that will allow rural households to pay for their SHS on an
installment basis, with the initial down payment and monthly payments set at affordable levels, and SHS
suppliers/dealerswho are responsive in meeting rural household needs can expect to earn an adequate return
on investment; and (b) attracting credit worthy businesses led by experienced entrepreneurs interested in
this type of business.
1/    Rural Energy and Development, Improving Energy Supplies for 2 Billion People A World Bank Best Practice Paper,
Report 15912-GLB, July 1996.



7
Figure 2-1 : Solar Photovoltaic Systemiis
Direct Conversion of Sunlight into Electricity
~~~~~~~~~~ -w
Components of a solar home systemi-
*  PV module (A)                                            .s1 .;:  . *
*Balance of system (B &  CJ                                        . ...@w  ..... .'+ 
*  battery to store energy..  
* battery charge controller 
* lamps, wiring, switches ;_._
* mounting hardware                                    |'



8
Figure 2-2: A Solar Home System Sigrnificantly Improves
the Quality of Life of Rural Households
.
A._r '*.:



9
Figure 2-3: A 50-Watt-peak Solar Home System Provides Adequate Energy
for the Highest Valued Benefits of Electricity to Rural Households
l 1*.. _^_ .Hrs.D'
5 Hrs/Day
;     _ _1Hr  D
4 Hrs/Day
_                           ~~~~~~12 Hrs/Day
a                                4 ~~~~~~~~Hrs/Day
Top three appliances purchased by rural households once                El
they get grid supply:
1. lights                                                                   2 Hrs/Day
* indoor (100%)
* outdoor (85%)
2. radio (70%)
3. TV (65%)
6 Hrs/Day
* Fluorescent tube light



10
The Rural Village Environment
2.6   Indonesia's efforts to provide electricity to all its citizens poses a technical and cost challenge on
account of its geography. Nearly 70 percent of Indonesia's population lives in rural areas, comprising about
31 million households. The last census reported 62,000 rural villages, of which 39,000 villages outside Java
and Bali are dispersed across an archipelago comprising of over 13,600 islands. These are geographically
spread over 5,100 kilometers from east to west and nearly 1,800 kilometers from north to south. Not only
are the rural villages often scattered wide and far, so are the rural households within a village. A rural
village typically comprises a central core population of households and several scattered hamlets-
individual clusters of 5 to 50 households-and isolated farmsteads within the village area boundary. This
translates into average densities of about 150 households per square kilometer in Java, and 6 households per
square kilometer off-Java.
2.7    Disparities in development There is now growing concern about the significant and possibly
rising inequality in development across regions (i.e., Java-Bali versus other islands), across demographic
groups (e.g., rural versus urban), and across ethnic groups, of which there are over 300. Average per capita
monthly expenditures in rural areas are about 50 percent of comparable expenditures in urban areas, and
other social development indicators are lagging as well (Table 2.1),
Table 2.1 Disparities in Rural-Urban Social Development Indicators
Rural               Urban
Under five child mortality
(per thousand units)        106                    59
Fertility rates (per woman)    3.2                  2.3
Vaccination coverage         44                     62
among children (%)
Prevalence of child          38                     27
malnutrition (%)
Junior high school           54                     78
completion rates (%)
Primary school               78                     89
completion rates (%)
2.8    Low electricity coverage While the vast majority of urban households have PLN supply, only
about 40 percent of rural households have access to electricity. GOI's strategy for expanding RE accords
priority to extensification-increasing village coverage --- over intensification, i.e., increasing household
coverage. As a consequence, household electrification ratios are still very low. For example, household
electrification ratios projected for year-end 1995/96, and based on the 1989/90 census data for the number



II
of households, are: Java-Bali (53 percent), Sulawesi (35 percent), Sumatra (32 percent), Kalimantan (36
percent), and Eastern Indonesia (20 percent). Within Eastern Indonesia, there is considerable variation;
ranging from a high of 40 percent in Maluku to a low of 3 percent in East Timor (Annex 2.1).
2.9    Rural people are forced to make do with inferior service Denied access to electricity,
Indonesia's rural population resorts to a variety of more expensive and inferior sources for illumination:
such as candles, flashlights, and most commonly, kerosene fueled wick lamps, hurricane lanterns and
2
petromax lamps. Besides being more polluting, dangerous and more expensive, the traditional sources
produce illumination that at best creates a "twilight" effect. The more affluent rural households also use car
batteries to power TVs. These batteries usually must be re-charged at least once a week and at considerable
time, expense, and inconvenience to the household. Typically, the heavy battery is transported to a battery
charging service shop, that could be located as far as 10 to 20+ km away; and must be left there at least
overnight to enable charging by an inefficient fossil fuel burning and polluting diesel generator. The
household must then make a second trip for pickup or alternately make arrangements to pay another
commercial transportation service for the drop off and pickup. This process can deny the household access
to the TV for at least two nights a week.
2.10    Absence of proper lighting restricts far reaching economic and educational benefits to and
otherwise denies the empowerment of rural peoples in significant ways By now it is well known,
though perhaps not commonly appreciated by people who have become accustomed to electricity, that the
quantum improvement in lighting quality made possible following the introduction of solar or grid electric
lighting in rural communities, in homes, schools and streets, leads to:
*       a profound and positive effect on the quality of education and learning experienced by
children. Faster and higher rates of homework completion as well as higher pass rates and
improvements in grades are reported;
*       increased productivity and in-home income generation activities made possible for
women by extending available hours for work; and
v       increased freedom of movement and ability for community participation. Street and
community lighting, by affording more flexible work patterns and a sense of security, also
make it possible for village residents to spend more time for socializing, and participation
in community activities.
2/      An ESMAP study in Indonesia concluded that access to electricity implies a seven-to-ten fold increase in lighting
(lumens), mainly because of increased efficiency of electric lights compared to kerosene lamps. For example, a 60-watt
incandescent light bulb produces the same luminous flux (lumens) as about 60 candles, or 20 kerosene wick lamps, or
2 kerosene pressure lamps. Moreover in quality terms, non-electric lighting is far inferior because of a much lower
lumen output level and a more limited spatial distribution. It has been estimated that without adjusting for quality
difference, rural households without electricity pay a very high unit price for energy for lighting, with the equivalent
cost per lumen of light output from kerosene estimated to be 8 to 20-fold or even higher than from electricity. (Source:
Robert van der Plas, IENDR).



12
Limits to Expanding RE Coverage by Conventional Means
2.11   The conventional modes of expanding RE coverage by grid extension and diesel mini-grid
operations are likely to prove to be too expensive to finish the remaining job of extending coverage to all
households, even within the next 30 years. Presently, PLN owns and operates about 3,400 diesel plants
scattered throughout Indonesia-over 2,000 MW of diesel generating capacity-as a primary means to
supply power for rural electrification. These plants are to be found in: (i) the dozens of mini--grids served
by one or more interconnected diesel power plants in the I to 12 MW unit size range; and (ii) about 1,000
isolated small diesel plant based operations-in the 20 to 200 kW size range-which are very high cost
systems in operations, many supplying power only for a few hours in the evening and night time.
2.12   Marginal cost of supply The marginal costs of supply to rural households within proximity of a
PLN grid are already very high: about 11.8 cents/kWh in Java-Bali (of which distribution network costs are
about 0.8 cents/kWh); 15.5 cents/kWh in the case of regional grids off-Java (of which distribution network
costs are about 2.5 cents/kWh); and 15 to 25+ cents/kWh for the scattered diesel-grid operations. These
costs are orders of magnitude higher for connecting rural households that are scattered and only a few
kilometers from the grid.
2.13   For example, consider Bali, which has achieved 100% village electrification,yet about 40% of rural
households do not have access to electricity and a large number of them are unlikely to receive PLN supply
for a considerable time, or if they do PLN will be forced to incur very high losses. This situation repeats
itself in other provinces. Even in the province of West Java within 150 km of Jakarta, large numbers of rural
households are to be found without access to PLN supply even though in many instances there is a grid line
a few kilometers away. Typically these households are clustered in hamlets of 5 to 30, as well as isolated
homesteads, and situated 2 to 5 km from the nearest connecting point to the 20 kV grid. The costs of
conventional schemes for extending the grid to such dispersed clusters or installing an isolated diesel based
mini-grid are extremely high. When coupled with low consumer and load densities that result in low
capacity utilization, and with a high percentage of consumption during the higher cost peak hours, most
such situations pose an uneconomic proposition using conventional approaches.
2.14   Mounting subsidy burden Under the present policy of the Government to maintain uniform
national electricity tariffs, the cost of PLN supply to many rural households (para 2.12) is well in excess of
the average revenue from the typical small rural household, about US 6.5 cents/kWh. Continued and sole
reliance on the conventional approach for rural electrification in the instances highlighted by the examples
above (para 2.13), will further and seriously aggravate the subsidy burden on PLN's ratepayers and the
government for financing such expansion and operations and strike at the very foundations of the
sustainabilityof the RE program.
Government's Strategy for Decentralized RE using Solar Photovoltaics (PV)
2. 15 The Government of Indonesia (GOI) has begun to assess the suitability of various supply options
for meeting the energy needs of the remaining approximately 30,000 unelectrified villages and households
in a least-cost and economic sequence. One element of this assessment is the Rural Electrification (RE)
Master Plan-financed under the Bank's first Rural Electrification Project (Loan 3180-IND)--which
analyzed the conventional options of grid extensions and use of scattered diesel generation to support
isolated mini-grid operations.



13
2.16   The Government attaches high priority to cost effective renewable-based energy supply as a means
of ensuring high and environmentally sustainable rates of economic growth. Increased penetration of
renewable based generation will have a significant and positive impact on the environment by reducing
local pollutants such as SO2 as well as pollutants of global concern such as emissions of green house gases
(GHG). To the extent that this development displaces kerosene consumption and diesel generation, it
reduces the negative environmental impacts of transport, waste disposal and burning of these fossil fuels.
2.17   Beginning in 1987, the Government of Indonesia (GOI) has sponsored a series of pilot solar PV
demonstration programs. The most recent initiative-"Banpres" (Presidential Aid)-is directly linked to
the President of Indonesia, under which about 3,000 units were installed over 1988-1992. Today, in
Indonesia about 20,000 SHS units have been installed primarily through Government programs, and more
recently by commercial dealers. The Government programs have helped to demonstrate the potential of
solar PV technology for meeting the electricity end-use needs that most rural households perceive to be
most important. An evaluation of this experience indicates that customers are generally satisfied with the
performance of their solar home system (SHS) and there is no evidence of systemic problems or high
premature failure rates for critical components such as batteries, panels, and controllers. A few technical
problems were reported, primarily in instances where households had modified the systems after
installation.
2.18   These early and various Government-agency sponsored programs were primarily geared to
technologydemonstration; as such, they did not focus on cost recovery or building a base for future product
or market development, nor did they offer a means to mainstream private sector delivery and sustainability.
Specifically, in Indonesia, the Government/public agency led model is best characterized as a procurement
system, not as a commercial market, with the SHS units typically distributed in small lots to homes widely
dispersed all over Indonesia. Such a technology distribution mechanism has proved to be incompatible with
the development of cost effective and sustainable private dealer chains, given the limited scale and
geographic fragmentation.
2.19   It is the GOI's goal to ensure that modem forms of energy become accessible to all rural households
in a phased, least-cost manner. In recognition of the role that solar PV can play in meeting the energy needs
of rural households, the Government of Indonesia has formulated the outlines of a plan to install solar PV
systems with a total capacity of 50 MWp. However, there still remains a need to develop a detailed solar
PV strategy and its implementation plan. A technical assistance component of the proposed project will
facilitate the preparation of a Decentralized Rural Electrification (DRE) Strategy Study and SHS Action
Plan (para 3.16).
2.20   The GOI recognizes that a number of different delivery and financing approaches are required in
Indonesia, based on the incomes, energy requirements, and geographic location of the target population.
Broadly speaking, the Government's solar PV strategy for decentralized rural electrification has two prongs:
(i) Government-basedprograms targeted at the higher-costremote areas and for the poorer segments of the
population, and (ii) commercially-based private sector led programs initially targeted to the relatively
closer-in and more affluent segments of the rural population without PLN supply.
2.21   For example, as part of the first prong, the Government, in association with AusAID, is currently
formulating a plan to install about 36,000 solar PV systems in the remote islands of Indonesia. It is
recognized that a commercial approach is not appropriate for the target population; though the details of the
payment schemes have not yet been finalized, it is likely that there will be a small downpayment, a long
repayment period of 8-10 years, low monthly payments, and interest rate subsidies. At the same time,



14
recognizing the heavy and recurrent subsidy burden inevitably associated with such public agency
programs, the Govemment is also keen to promote altemate delivery and financing approaches that are
commercially sustainable, private sector based, and that offer the prospect of achieving high levels of
penetration at a much faster pace than is feasible with the Govemment-based approach. In short, the GOI
recognizesthatGovernment-basedprogramswill be complementaryto the commercially-basedprograms.
Solar Home Systems - The Technology
2.22   A solar home system typically consist of: (i) one or more solar photovoltaic panels; (ii) battery
storage; (iii) battery charge/discharge controllers; and (iv) energy-efficient appliances, such as lights and
TV that are suitable for use with PV systems (see Annex 2.2). The solar PV panels produce electricity, with
the amount of electrical energy produced being directly proportional to the size of the panel and the amount
of sunshine falling on the panel. Full sun shine is not required for the solar PV panels to produce a current,
though the output of the panel will be reduced in cloudy weather. PV panels usually are rated in Watt-peak
(Wp) output, e.g., this Project will use solar PV panels with a 50 Wp rating. The Watt-peak rating of a panel
is not directly comparable to the wattage associated with conventional electrical appliances, e.g., a 50 Watt-
peak rating cannot be directly compared to the, say, 60-watt rating of a conventional electric light. This type
of comparison is misleading, and greatly underestimates the amount of service that a SHS with a 50 Wp
rating would normally provide. In particular, the SHS units to be used under this project would permit the
use of 3-5 lights and a black-and-whiteTV for four to five hours a day.
2.23   Batteries similar to those used in automobiles, are used to store the electricity produced by the PV
panels. The battery capacity required depends upon the daily energy load to be met as well as the prevalence
of cloudy weather. Battery capacity is usually stated in Ampere-hours (Ah); in this Project, the minimum
size will be a 70-Ah 12-Volt battery, which, together with a 50 Wp panel, is expected to permit normal
electricity levels of usage by the consumer even when there is a string of 3-5 days of cloudy weather. An
automatic cut-off switch, called a discharge controller is used to continually measure the state of the battery
charge and disconnect the appliances when battery charge falls below the set limit. Further, to avoid
consistent overcharging, an automatic cut-off switch called a charge controller is provided to measure
battery charge and reduce or tum off charging current to the batteries before damage can occur. It is
common to combine the functions of discharge and charge controllers into a single controller.
Economic Potential for SHS in Decentralized Rural Electrification
2.24   Decentralized rural electrification (DRE) utilizing Solar Home Systems (SHS) offer many
advantages Solar home systems offer the least cost RE solution --cheaper than conventional RE options --
for a large segment of the population, as illustrated in the following, in niche areas where households are
dispersed and demand is low. Increased penetration of solar PV home systems in rural Indonesia-on a
cost recovery basis-will reduce the tremendous pressures on GOI to require PLN to extend its supply to
satisfy uneconomic rural loads as well as reduce the potential demand for subsidized PLN supply.
Furthermore, the sale and installation of solar PV systems offer a clear path to increasing private sector
participation in the energy markets, a matter of high priority for GOI as well as a matter of priority on the
Bank's agenda.
2.25   Solar PV home systems are ideally suited for remote islands and villages and for dispersed
households. Even in the case of electrified villages-intensification-there exist a large number of
households that are situated in small clusters and scattered throughout the geographical area within the
village boundary and that are more than a few kilometers from the grid. In such instances also, solar PV



15
systems provide the most cost effective solution for meeting the basic needs of the community. To illustrate
the tradeoffs between a solar PV home system and grid extension in such instances, a comparative cost
analysis of SHS versus conventional electrification(Annex 4. 1), shows that: (i) a SHS is less expensive than
extending grid supply when household density is less than approximately 30 households per square km;
and (ii) if the number of households to be served in a cluster is less than 50, then even a 3 km MV extension
is more expensive than SHS, regardless of household density. To illustrate a specific cost comparison,
consider a cluster of 50 households outside Java with a spatial density of 10 households per square
kilometer --almost twice the average for outside Java --and situated 3 kilometers from an MV grid line. The
levelized cost of conventional rural electrification by grid extension is estimated at $30 per month per
household, and $26 per month per household if the cluster is serviced by an isolated diesel generator. By
comparison, the levelized cost of a solar home system providing approximately equivalent service (about 15
kWh) is about $1 1 per month, based on the present prices in Indonesia.
2.26   One of the main implications of the RE Master Plan for grid extension and diesel operations is that
the scope for decentralized rural electrification (DRE) as a complement to economic grid extensions is
large. There are about eight million households-consisting of the isolated or scattered rural households for
whom it will never be economic to provide grid-based supply, and of the households for whom the least
cost supply option is grid extension, but who will not receive grid-based supply during the project duration
and even beyond. These households comprise the economic potential for decentralized rural electrification
by SHS, a cheaper and environmentally superior alternative to the conventional alternative of diesel-based
mini-grids. A detailed study to estimate and more sharply delineate this potential by region and customer
segments will be undertaken as part of a technical assistance component of the proposed project (para 3.16).
2.27   Market Potential Market surveys and extensive field visits conducted in several provinces during
the course of project preparation clearly indicate that a significant segment of today's rural households,
without PLN supply, have a high willingness-to-payfor energy to meet the end uses the they value the most
- lighting, security, and entertainment and informational services from radios and TV. This revealed
preference is reflected by survey data on out-of-pocket expenditures for kerosene for lighting, and battery
charging for other uses such as TV3 (Table 2.2). The survey response data indicate that 26 percent of the
houses sampled in Lampung province, that do not have PLN service, spend between $6.67 to $15 per month
on kerosene for lighting and batteries and battery charging, to power radios, cassettes and TVs. Very
significantly also, another 40 percent of the sample-selected randomly in areas without PLN service-
spend between $ 3.33 and $6.66 per month. By way of comparative interest, a small rural household with
PLN service, pays a monthly bill of about $1. Rural households in the top quintile segment identified above
represent the near term market, and provide a convenient market entry segment for SHS; the size of this
market entry segment is sufficiently large to enable SHS dealers establish scale economies in supply and
delivery chains.
Barriers to SHS Market Development
2.28   The limited sales of solar home systems taking place at present do not provide the base for broader
market development, which would be based on the significant number of households who could afford a
SHS, provided they can get financing. Today, consumer credit is not widely available and current credit
schemes suffer from short repayment periods forcing monthly payments that are not affordable to even the
households in the top income quartile.
3/    A copy of this study is contained in the Project File.



16
Table 2.2: Distribution Of Monthly Expenditures On Energy
By Rural Households Without PLN Electricity Supply
$/Month            Lampung            South Sulawesi          West Java
Under 3.33            34%                   28%                   62%
3.33 to 6.67           40%                  49%                    23%
Over 6.67             26%                   23%                   15%
Total                100%                  100%                  100%
2.29   The limited scale of dealer operations today implies that the vendors do not realize the benefits of
economies of scale in the establishment of supply-and-service chains to the consumer and in the
procurement and assembly of system components. At the same time, there is no possibility of diffusion of
solar PV systems from urban markets into rural areas. In many instances, modem consumer goods and
services are initially designed for urban mass market consumption and percolate into rural areas over a
period of time, by the urban-based dealer and supplier chains linking up with rural entrepreneurs. Solar PV
systems are perhaps among the very few exceptions in that they are economic and ideally suited primarily
for rural and remote locations. Thus, unlike the case of consumer products such as motorcycles and TV sets,
in Indonesia the urban markets for SHS units cannot provide the base for geographically driven diffusion
into rural areas. In other words, the market for solar PV is singularly a rural area-based market; and its
emergence will depend on removal of the major market failures/barriers unique to such markets, instead of
simply waiting for urban-based expansion to arrive.
2.30   The present market conditions can be characterized as a "high price low volume" equilibrium,
while an expansion of the market requires a move to a self-sustaining "low price high volume" equilibrium.
Three inter-locking factors together form a barrier to market development:
(i)    Lack of established high-volume supplier-dealer chains. At present, there are only a
limited number of supplier-dealer chains, and they operate at low volumes in limited
geographical regions within and outside Java. Most of the potential customers are not being
offered an opportunity to buy a SHS and therefore consumer awareness is limited;
(ii)    High prices. At present, the annual volume of SHS direct household sales is low, and the
prices are high; at the same time, the dealers are unable to reduce their prices, given the
small scale of their operations;
(iii)   Lack of term credit. At present, the bulk of the potential rural customers, both within and
outside Java, are unable to secure the credit they need to buy the SHS. Even if banks were
to extend credit for SHS, under current Indonesian banking practices, they would expect
repayment over 1-2 years maximum, which would be an insufficient amortization period
for the majority of potential customers.



17
2.31   What this means in practical terms is that the barriers blocking rapid, sustainable expansion of SHS
in rural Indonesia are not amenable to simple, single-problem solutions. Rather, a multi-pronged strategy is
required to lower the key barriers identified above simultaneously, taking into account affordability of the
target market segment of rural households and the terms and conditions under which term credit would be
extended by the commercial banks. For instance, by itself, without a reduction in the selling price, making
credit available and stretching out the maturity/term of such credit will not eliminate the barriers that
presently restrict market development. Without price reductions, affordable levels of downpayment and
monthly installmentswould require installment terms of 6 to 8+ years duration, given current interest rates.
However, the maximum loan duration feasible under a sustainable private sector approach, given conditions
would be in the 3 to 4 year range. Amortizing the cost of an SHS over 3 to 4 years, without a price
reduction, would result in monthly payments that exceed the capacity of most target households.
2.32   In light of this, for a sustainable delivery approach led by the private sector, it would be necessary
to design an installment payment mechanism that addresses rural households' cash constraints and the
practical system's upper limit of a 3 to 4 year amortization period. Analysis of the data from market surveys
(para 2.27), indicates that for target rural households, an affordable down payment would range from
$80-125, and that monthly installment payments should be close to potential customers' present monthly
expenditures on energy (about $8-10). For these consumer cash flow limits to be compatible with the 3 -4
year amortization period, it would be necessary to bring down the final price to the household by a "first
cost buy down".
Past Bank Experience and Lessons Learned
2.33   Overview. The Bank has been active in Indonesia's power sector for twenty-five years during
which time the Government has borrowed more than US$4.7 billion in Bank loans and IDA credits to
undertake 25 power projects (Annex 2.3). Despite some problems with implementation,past Bank-financed
PLN projects have in general been very successful and have helped strengthen PLN's capabilities in almost
every aspect of its operations. Taken altogether, these projects have assisted in the expansion of generation,
transmission and distribution facilities and rural electrification and institutional development of PLN. The
technical assistance provided by the Bank has also strengthened PLN's technical and management
capabilities in engineering, project management capabilities, distribution and rural electrification planning
and management, and corporate and financial planning; as a result of these efforts, PLN's implementation
capacity and operational efficiency have increased significantly.
2.34   The positive lessons from the Bank's involvement have been brought out by successive Project
Performance Audit Reports (PPARs), Project Completion Reports (PCRs) and Implementation Completion
Reports (ICRs). These reports attribute the success of power operations in Indonesia to the facts that: (i)
there was a long-term vision for the development of the sector and this vision was shared by the Bank,
Government and PLN; (ii) the vision was translated into a long-term strategy which was resolutely pursued;
and (iii) a reasonable balance was struck between the physical and institutional development components of
the projects. The negative lessons largely concern implementation. Most projects have suffered delays due
to extended procurement cycles. Technical assistance for institutional capacity building has in some cases
fallen short of expectations due to limited absorptive capacity and inadequate supervision and ownership. In
recent years, beginning with the Sumatera-Kalimantan Project in 1994, the Bank and Government have
shifted their emphasis towards issues of sector structure, private sector participation and regulation. The
Bank is now supporting specific interventions where private sector participation is not readily forthcoming;
they are transmission and distribution management and investment, sector expansion outside Java,
renewable energy and demand side management, and rural electrification.



18
2.35   Experience with rural electrification. The Bank's first lending operation for rural electrification
by grid extension (RE I, Loan 3180-IND), provided US$329 million to finance the bulk of the foreign
exchange costs of a time slice of the RE development plan through FY 94/95, and closed in June 1995. In
its evaluative memorandum OED noted that the project achieved or exceeded most of its physical
objectives, in spite of some delays mainly due to procurement procedures. On the institutional side, RE
planning was substantially improved by PLN's development of a RE Master Plan for grid extension to
electrify the remaining villages. The project's successes prepared the ground for the more ambitious targets
being pursued under the ongoing successor lending operation for grid-expansion-basedrural electrification,
the Second Rural Electrification Project ( RE II, Loan 3845-IND approved FY95). The RE II project also
aims to reduce the present and future unit cost of RE expansion by grid extensions, and thus address a
primary constraintto the long term sustainabilityof the national RE program as implemented by PLN.
2.36   Experience with solar PV and decentralized RE Given the Bank's limited involvement in solar
PV projects, there are no relevant Bank reports on past projects. Ongoing experience is limited to the
IDA/GEF-supported solar PV component of the India Renewable Resources Development Project (Ln.
3544-IN/Cr.2449-IN). Key lessons learned from the India project are: (i) timely project implementation is
facilitated by pipeline development, i.e., pre-identificationand preparation of sub-projects; and (ii) interest
rate subsidies do not necessarily attract private sector response. Rather the private sector is far more
concerned that the procedures they can use for procurement are in line with commercial business practices
and that the process and disbursement of funds is simple, straightforward, and fast..
2.37   International experience and best practice To complement the limited Bank experience solar PV
projects, the experience of solar PV projects in other countries, including the Dominican Republic Mexico
and Kenya, has also been reviewed with a view to improving the design of the proposed Indonesia SHS
project. This review shows that in the Dominican Republic, a commercial approach has been successful in
delivering SHS to rural households, but the overall scale has been restricted by the limited availability of
credit, both to the SHS suppliers as well as the households. In Mexico, nearly 90% of the households are
served by grid supply, and the SHS are being supplied on a subsidy basis to the remaining households for
whom grid supply is uneconomic, and most of whom cannot afford to pay for the systems. Experience in
other countries also points to the ability of the private sector to deliver SHS to rural households, the need for
credit, and the benefits of some government involvement especially in promoting and helping ensure quality
products. For example, the Kenyan private sector has successfully made cash sales of about 25,000 SHS on
a purely commercial basis, but after a few years, in the absence of credit, the sales have slowed
significantly, and further, in the absence of technical standards or other forms of support from government
agencies, it is reported that about 25% of the systems are no longer functioning.
2.38   The proposed Indonesia SHS Project design (section 3)-central elements of which are a private
sector based and market conforming supply, delivery and financing mechanisms, with a key role for the
Government in raising technology awareness and promoting quality equipment and performance by setting
standards and certification-builds upon the positive experience in Indonesia, while taking account of the
lessons learnt from the international experience.



19
3. THE PROJECT
Project Concept
3.1    The proposed Solar Home Systems (SHS) Project would assist the market penetration of solar PV
systems that are "essentially commercial" but whose initial market development is delayed and constrained,
for example, by high transaction costs or perceived commercial risks due to unfamiliarity with this type of
investment. Such projects are also hampered by other barriers, including a lack of in-country experience in
the organization and financing. Hence, the SHS project would pioneer the earlier introduction of SHS in
Indonesia and catalyze the creation of a potential market with critical mass, paving the way for accelerated
and wider scale adoption of Solar Home Systems, and over the longer term, an increase in the overall
penetration of other types solar of PV systems and to non-residentialconsumers as well.
3.2    The project implementation strategy is to catalyze in a targeted and phased manner, regional rural
markets for solar PV systems. The longer term lending program vision is one of a series of linked projects
over time; each seeking to build upon the lessons learnt from the predecessor project, while broadening the
regional market and product focus, enhancing the efficiency and reducing the costs of existing delivery and
financing mechanisms.
3.3    The target segment for market entry, to establish the necessary initial and sustainable market base
for further expans:on and broadening of the solar PV systems market, would be primarily the in-filling
market segment i.e., rural households and small commercial facilities that are "electrically isolated" from
the grid, but that are in reasonable geographical proximity to urban centers. The initial demand is expected
to be largely for entry/starter size SHSs (e.g., 50 Watt-peak), and should be sufficient to establish the scale
economies for commercial dealer chains to financially sustain themselves, and establish the initial bases in
regional operations. Subsequently, and with further cost reductions that are expected-in equipment cost
and in dealer operating costs and markup-the market demand for such systems would expand to a broader
income base of households as well as to the small commercial facilities segment. Furthermore, once the
initial market bases are established, the pace of product development would be expected to accelerate and
the range of product offerings broaden considerably; with increased demand likely from the early adopters
for "trading up" to larger sized systems, to meet increases in the demand for end-uses (e.g. 75 or 1 00+watt-
peak systems) '. In addition, the product lines would be expected to be broadened to meet the demand from
shops and to meet community needs, at competitive prices.
Project Objectives
3.4    The principal national objectives of the proposed project are to: (i) provide the modem energy form
of electricity to rural customers who cannot be served economically or in a timely manner by conventional
rural electrification; (ii) facilitate participation by the private sector in advancing renewable energy
commercialization; (iii) promote environmentally sound energy resource development in Indonesia and
reduce the energy sector's dependence on fossil fuels; and (iv) strengthen Indonesia's institutional capacity
to support and sustain decentralized rural electrification using solar photovoltaics.
1/     These broader product offerings would not be part of the SHS Project, which would support only the
products that meet the Project's technical specifications (para 3.18).



20
3.5    Global objective The global environmental objective of the SHS project is to mitigate emissions of
CO2 in Indonesia. At present, a significant portion of Indonesia's rural population satisfy their energy needs
by fossil fuels in various ways, such as kerosene for lighting or diesel-based power generation, which lead
to the emission of CO2. The penetration of SHS would reduce CO2 emissions by displacing the use of the
fossil fuels. It is anticipated that the SHS project would directly abate about 1.3 million tons of CG2, with
an additional indirect programmatic effect of about 0.9 million tons of CO2 for a total abatement of about
2.2 million tons of CO2..
Measuring Project Performance
3.6    Performance Indicators The key performance indicators for monitoring achievement of the
project objectives outlined above are: (i) the number of SHS units sold per year and the cumulative number
of people served by the Project, which are measures of the effectiveness of the Project in serving the rural
population; (ii) C02 emissions abated, which is a measure of the extent to which the global objective has
been attained; (iii) fossil fuel conserved, which is a measure of the reduction of the sector's dependence on
fossil fuels; (iv) customer timely repayment rates, which is an indicator of customers' satisfaction with their
SHS systems and also of the extent of cost recovery; (v) installed price, which is a measure of the cost-
effectiveness of the SHS units in meeting the customers' needs; (vi) number of dealers, which is a measure
of the extent of market development; (vii) number of dealers considered as having "problem loans" by
participating banks, which is a measure of the extent to which the Project is successful in establishing a
sustainable delivery mechanism; and (viii) timely completion of the various steps for (a) the decentralized
rural electrification study and action plan, and (b) strengthening BPPT's capacity to certify the technical
capabilities of solar PV systems as well as to monitor their functioning in the field. Baseline levels and
future target levels for each are shown in Table I of Annex 3.1. During negotiations, agreement was
reached on these performance indicators and their target levels.
Project Description
3.7    The SHS project consists of two major components: (i) a credit component-comprising an IBRD
loan and a GEF grant-to enable purchase of solar home systems by rural households and commercial
establishments on an installment plan basis; and (ii) technical assistance including support of detailed
monitoring and evaluation activities during project implementation.
3.8    Credit component The proposed project involves the provision of the modem energy form of
electricity to about 1 million people in rural areas. This would be achieved by the sale and installation of
200,000 solar PV systems (10 MWp) for homes, and in commercial establishments such as small shops.
The geographical scope of the SHS project is three selected regional markets-centered around the
provinces of West Java, Lampung, South Sulawesi-in areas where PLN service under the least cost grid
expansion plan for rural electrification (the "RE Master Plan") is not expected for at least three years, or
where it will be uneconomic for PLN to provide such service. A fourth market area, North Sumatera, would
be added if it is assessed during the mid-term review that this would benefit the project.
3.9    The sales of SHS units to rural households will be undertaken by private enterprises. These "SHS
dealers" will take responsibility for procurement of components, installation and maintenance, and will
enter into hire-purchase-contracts(HPC) with the households. The funding will broadly work as follows.
The rural households purchasing solar home systems are the ultimate beneficiaries of the proposed project.
They will need credit extended to them by the SHS dealers, to enable them to pay back in regular monthly
installments the balance of the purchase price after subtracting the customer's down payment-determined
by the dealer but typically in the range of US$ 75 to US$ 100 equivalent-and after the GEF grant payment



21
to be made on the rural household's behalf-US$ 75 per unit installed in Java and US$ 125 per unit
installed in Lampung and South Sulawesi. It is expected that, in order to make monthly installment
payments affordable to a sizable segment of the population, the dealers would offer loans of about four
years, with the actual length of the loan to be determined by the dealers. The SHS dealers would bear the
collection risk for customer payments.
3.10   To enable the SHS dealers to sell solar home systems on an installment plan basis as well as to
finance their ongoing operations, the SHS dealers will require access to credit from commercial banks of
their choosing-the "Participating Banks (PBs)"- for up to five years. Over the period of project
implementation, successful SHS dealers will require from time-to-time and on a regular basis, credit to
enable them to expand their sales on installment plans. The credit extended by a PB to a dealer would be
based on the dealer's cash flow requirements as well as the PB's assessment of the dealer's performance
history up to that point and credit worthiness. The loans to the dealers would be made by the PBs, at the
prevailing interest rates for similar transactions, since the PBs would bear the responsibility for appraising
dealer requests for credit, and for bearing the commercial risk on the credit extended to a dealer. The PBs,
in turn, would re-finance 80 percent of the credit extended to SHS dealers from the IBRD credit made
available to them at market rates, under onlending arrangements through the Government of Indonesia
(GOI). During negotiations, agreement was reached that, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, GOI
will not provide to the SHS dealers, whether directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind, any loan, subsidy,
grant, credit enhancement or financing of any kind other than the GEF grants and the credit extended by
the PBs under the SHS Project.
3.11   To date, a pipeline of thirteen potential SHS dealers (subborrowersy-"Group 1"-has been
identified (Annex 3.2), and it is expected that some additional potential dealers-"Group 2"-will be
forthcoming over the first next twelve months. Bank-managed grant-financed local consultants have
assisted the Group 1 dealers in preparing their business plans and credit applications, which have been
submitted to four PBs (para 3.13) that have formally expressed interest in participating in the proposed
project. All of the Group I dealers are small businesses, which have had, so far, only limited, if any at all,
credit extended to them by commercial banks. Most of the Group I dealers are engaged solely in the solar
PV business, mainly as suppliers to government procurement programs, with limited experience in direct
household sales, while the remaining Group 1 dealers also have interests in other lines of business, such as
air-conditioning, auto parts, and computers. Eight of the Group I dealers are based in Java, three in South
Sulawesi, and the remaining two in Lampung; two of the Group 1 dealer businesses are owned and operated
by women, one in Java and the other in South Sulawesi.
3.12   The commercial banks have evaluated these plans, and have developed preliminary estimates of
credit requirements. The PBs are continuing their discussions with the dealers, and are making best efforts
to refine their appraisals and assessment of credit requirements by negotiations. It is expected that in the
case of 5 to 7 dealers the discussions with the respective PBs would have advanced sufficiently so as to
enable financial closure between the PBs and the subborrowers shortly following loan effectiveness. It is
anticipated that up to three more dealers could be added during the first twelve to eighteen months of the
project implementation.
3.13   The four PBs identified to date would not be appraised by the Bank, given that these commercial
banks that have been classified as financially sound by BI. These PBs have a current "sehat" classification



22
from Bl's Bank Supervision Department, and they would be required to maintain throughout the Project 2.
Further, all four of these PBs are among the select group of the strongest and dynamic banks in Indonesia
today. Two of these PBs are private commercial banks: Bank Niaga and Bank Bali; the other two PBs are
state owned commercial banks: Bank Negara Indonesia (BNI), and Bank Ekspor Impor Indonesia
(BankExim). BNI has been identified by GOI as the first among the select group of state owned commercial
banks for partial divestiture.
3.14   Technical assistance The three TA components of the proposed project are individually identified
by category and value in Table 3.1. Draft TORs for all three components have been prepared and agreed to
with BPPT and DGEED, and are contained in the Project Implementation Plan (PIP) report (para 3.45).
Table 3.1: Allocation of Technical Assistance
Value
Category                Component                           $ million /a
1. Implementation Support  Project Support Services               3.10
2. Policy Support         Decentralized Rural Electrification
Strategy Study and SHS Action Plan     0.70
3. Institutional Development Strengthening BPPT's Solar PV
Testing and CertificationCapabilities  0.50
Total                                                          4.30
/a Excludingcontingenciesand taxes (VAT)
3.15   Out of a total value of US$4.3 million equivalent, about 70 percent is accounted for by project
implementation support services. A Project Support Group (PSG) will be established and would be
responsible for, inter alia, (i) for dealers: verifying compliance by the dealers of the equipment installed and
proper utilization of the GEF grant, establishing contacts with and assessing any new dealers who wish to
participate in the Project; (ii) for customers: consumer protection, such as maintaining two-way links with
prospective and actual customers (end-users), making available information about the technical and
financial benefits of SHS as well as risks such as the future availability of PLN service; (iii) monitoring and
evaluation of the project's progress, including an assessment of the dealers' progress and updated business
plans over time; and (iv) limited training -- for selected officials from BPPT, DGEED, and BAPPENAS, as
well as private sector organizations involved in the implementation of solar PV systems -- in the form of
conferences, seminars, workshops and study tours, in Indonesia as well as in other countries. While the PSG
will be contracted by BPPT and will work with BPPT to coordinate Project activities within the framework
of the GOI's broader 50 MWp solar PV project, the PSG will report to the Rural Electrification Steering
Committee (MME), which will meet on an ad hoc basis as necessary. To safeguard the role of the PSG for
purposes of GEF grant related audits and verifications and in its dealings with the dealers and the
commercial banks, the PSG will take instructions only from the RE Steering Committee.
2/     Any new PBs would also not be appraised by the Bank, but would be required to maintain a "sehat" rating by Bl.
Annex 3.3 outlines Bl's bank rating system for monitoring and classifying the financial health and overall soundness of
state as well as private commercial banks.



23
3.16   The remaining 30 percent of TA is directed to capacity building that would facilitate the design and
implementationof a longer term program for solarPV penetration in Indonesia that is consistentwith a least
cost and sustainable rural electrification strategy. About $0.7 million equivalent of the TA is for policy
support, to assist GOI's Rural Electrification Steering Committee to develop a strategy and corresponding
action plan for meeting the modem energy needs of the segments of the rural population for which solar PV
systems represent the least-cost strategy. For this purpose, a "Decentralized Rural Electrification Strategy
Study and SHS Implementation Plan" will be prepared, which will complement the recently completed least
cost grid-based rural electrification plan ("RE Master Plan"), financed under the Bank's first Rural
Electrification project (Loan 31 80-fND). The decentralized rural electrification (DRE) plan would consider
a variety of technological, delivery, and financing options, and develop a 1 0-year implementation plan for
solar PV in the niches for which it is best suited. During negotiations, agreement was reached that GOI
will: (a) undertake and complete a study on "DecentralizedRural ElectrificationPlan ", in accordance with
terms of reference and in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, andfurnish the draft final report of the study to
the Bankfor review and comments by no later than September 30, 1998, and (b) based on the said study's
results and recommendations and subsequent review, comments and discussions: (i) prepare a draft
DecentralizedRural Electrification Plan, with a focus on the niche for solar P V, for Indonesia, (ii) furnish
the said draft plan to the Bank for review and comments, by March 31, 1999, and (iii) by November 30,
1999, finalize and adopt the same taking into account the comments, if any, thereon by the Bank. Further,
during negotiations, agreement was reached that DGEED, MME would form and activate, no later than
November 30, 1997, a SHS Working Group, headed by the Director of the Directorate of Electric Power
Planning, DGEED, with representation from other Government agencies concerned with rural
electrification policy, including BAPPENAS, BPPT, MOF, Ministry of Cooperatives and Small Enterprise
Development, and PLN. The SHS Working Group will report to the Rural Electrification Steering
Committee, DGEED, and will be the local working counterpart to the consultants who will undertake the
preparation of the Decentralized RE Strategy Study and SHS Action Plan.
3.17   About US$ 0.5 million equivalent of TA is for capacity building to assist GOI in building
Indonesia's institutional capabilities for the dissemination of solar PV technology. Specifically, this
componentwill help strengthen BPPT-LSDE's capabilityto technicallycertify SHS systems by carrying out
type testing as well as product testing, and to monitor systems in the field; staff from DGEED's subdivision
of Electricity and New Energy Testing would also benefit by participating in the training. The focus would
be on testing and certifying PV systems, and not on PV module testing and qualification. The long-term
goal is that, with the assistance of this TA as well as support from other sources, BPPT-LSDE would attain
ISO 25 status. In order to reach this goal in a timely manner, during negotiations, agreement was reached
that BPPT-LSDE would: (i) initiate and undertake without delay all steps necessary to ensure that the
consultants are mobilized no later than October 31, 1997, in accordance with TOR acceptable to the Bank;
(ii) submit, by no later than February 28, 1998, a time-bound action plan -- acceptable to the Bank --
including major intermediate milestones to achieve ISO 25 status by December 31, 2001, with this date
subject to revision based on the consultant's report; and (iii) ensure that the TA work under this Project
would be completed by no later than October 31, 1999.
Technical Specifications
3.18   Each SHS system to be sold under the proposed project would consist of one or more solar
photovoltaic (PV) modules with an output of 50 Wp or more, a 12 volt DC lead-acid battery (minimum
capacity of 70 Ah), a battery charge/discharge controller, provision for at least three fluorescent light
fixtures, and related components such as wiring, switches and mounting hardware. All SHS units supported
by the project will have to meet rigorous technical specifications, which have been developed by BPPT in
cooperation with solar PV dealers, reviewed by several international research laboratories, and acceptable to



24
the Bank. During negotiations, agreement was reached that the participatingSHS dealers will be required
to furnish certifications -- to the PSG --from testingfacilities acceptable to the Bank, that their components
meet or exceed the selected specifications. Assistance is being provided to a subset of dealers, who have
reached an advanced stage in the consideration of their credit applications by the PBs, in getting their
equipment certified from international laboratories. Annex 3.4 provides further details of the technical
specifications and the means for verification of the selected standards.
Dealer Eligibility Criteria
3.19   During negotiations, agreement was reached that a participating dealer must demonstrate an
ability and intent to: (i) undertake installment payment based sales of SHS to rural customers in the target
markets, including taking responsibility for collecting installment payments; (ii) offer the customers a
comprehensive consumer protection package, including warranties and adequate after-sales service; (iii)
agree to the establishment of an escrow account, based on the GEF grant_funds due to the dealer, to be used
solely to assist the dealer's customers to whom the dealer was unwilling or unable to provide adequate
service; (iv) use certified equipment and components only; (v) agree to abide by a dealer conduct code; and
(vi) provide the operational and financial information required by the PSG for project monitoring and
evaluation (Annex 3.5, para 3.51). The Bank, after reviewing information provided by a dealer and the PSG,
would inform a PB of the dealer's choice of the dealer's eligibility to participate in the Project; the financial
and credit appraisal of a dealer's business plan would be undertaken only by a PB, and not by the Bank or
the PSG.
Project Cost
3.20   The total project cost, inclusive of duties and taxes and price contingencies is estimated at US$
118.1 million equivalent, with a foreign exchange cost component of US$ 85.0 million equivalent, or about
72 percent of the total, arising primarily from the direct costs of the imported solar PV panels as well as the
significant imported content in locally made components such as batteries and battery controllers. Cost
estimates are in June 1996 prices and utilizing an exchange rate of US$1 = Rp. 2,341. Price contingencies
for foreign costs are assumed to be 2.4 percent per year during the project implementation period, and for
local costs at 8.7 percent per year. A summary of the project cost estimates is presented in Table 3.2.
Table 3.2: Project Cost Summary
(Rp billion)       (US$ million)            Foreign
Local Foreign  Total  Local Foreign  Total   as % of total
1. Credit Component                        53.9  161.7 215.6   23.0   69.1  92.1            75%
2. Technical Assistance                     4.7  10.1  14.7    2.0    4.3   6.3              68%
of which
- Implementation Support               2.3   7.3   9.6    1.0    3.1   4.1              76%
- Policy Suppor;                        1.2   1.6   2.8    0.5    0.7   1.2             58%
- Institutional Development             1.2   1.2   2.3    0.5    0.5   1.0             50%
Base Cost                                  58.6  171.8 230.3   25.0   73.4  98.4             75%
Duties and Taxes                         5.9   17.2  23.0    2.5    7.3   9.8
Price Contingencies (Credit Component)    13.0  10.1  23.1    5.5    4.3   9.8
Total Project Cost                         77.4  199.0 276.4   33.1   85.0 118.1             72%
Interest During Construction                0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0
Total Financing Required                   77.4  199.0 276.4   33.1   85.0 118.1             72%
Exchange Rate US$1 = 2,341



25
Financing Plan
3.21   The financing plan is shown in Table 3.3. A proposed Bank loan of US$ 20.0 million equivalent,
combined with a GEF grant of SDR 16.8 million (US$ 24.3 million equivalent), would finance about 38
percent of the project cost. The GEF grant would finance the "incremental costs" of the SHS Project (para
3.24)
Table 3.3: Financing Plan
(US$ million)              % of
Local    Foreign       Total      Total
Credit Component
IBRD                        0.0        20.0       20.0         17%
GEF                         0.0        20.0       20.0         17%
Participating Banks         1.2         3.8         5.0        4%
Subborrowers/Endusers      29.9        36.9       66.8        57%
Subtotal      31.1        80.7      111.8        95%
Technical Assistance
- Implementation Support
GEF                         0.0         3.1        3.1         3%
GOI/BPPT                    0.5         0.0        0.5         0%
Subborrowers/Endusers       0.5         0.0        0.5         0%
Subtotal       1.0         3.1        4.1         3%
- Policy Support
GEF                         0.0         0.7         0.7         1%
GOI/DGEED                   0.5         0.0        0.5         0%
Subtotal       0.5         0.7        1.2         1%
- Institutional Development
GEF                         0.0         0.5         0.5        0%
GOI/BPPT                    0.5         0.0        0.5         0%
Subtotal       0.5         0.5        1.0         1%
Total                            33.1        85.0       118.1      100%
IBRD                               0.0       20.0        20.0        17%
GEF                                0.0       24.3        24.3        21%
GOI/BPPT                           1.5        0.0         1.5         1%
Participating Banks                1.2        3.8         5.0         4%
Subborrowers/Endusers            30.4        36.9        67.3        57%
Note:  Subborrowers are dealers, who will be providing equity and reinvested profits; endusers are
the households, who will be providing the downpayments



26
3.22   The total cost of the credit component is US$ 111.8 million equivalent; of this amount, the
subborrowers (SHS dealers) would provide an estimated US$ 66.8 million equivalent, consisting of equity
infusions and profit reinvestmentsby the private dealers selling solar home systems and the endusers' (SHS
customers) down payments. The balance of the financing of US$ 45.0 million equivalentwould be provided
by: (i) a GEF grant of US$ 20.0 million equivalent, which is the incremental cost of this component (para
3.24), and (ii) with the remainder(US$ 25.0 million equivalent) provided as loans on the basis of 80 percent
(US$20.0 million equivalent) from the Bank, and 20 percent (US$ 5.0 million equivalent) from the PBs.
3.23   The TA component (US$ 6.3 million equivalent) would be financed by: (i) GOI/BPPT, which
would provide US$ 1.5 million equivalent, (ii) a GEF grant in the amount of US$ 4.3 million equivalent,
which is the sum of the incremental costs of the implementation support, policy support, and institutional
development, with the purpose of reducing the implementation barriers obstructing the wider use of solar
PV systems in Indonesia, and (iii) subborrower contributions of US$ 0.5 million equivalent for
implementation support.
3.24   The GEF grant would finance all the incremental costs of the proposed project. At present, which
forms the baseline scenario, most of the target households for SHS units use a combination of kerosene for
lighting and diesel-based battery charging for other activities such as powering a black-and-white TV. The
costs of the SHS units are currently higher than those of the baseline scenario on a lifecycle basis, with the
difference between the two being the incremental cost. Based on the available data, the unit incremental
cost is $75/SHS in Java and $125/unit off-Java. For total project sales of 200,000, split about equally
between the new Java areas and off-Java, the total incremental cost for the SHS units is $20 million. In
addition, there is an incremental cost of $4.3 million associated with the TA component of the project. The
detailed incremental cost analysis, with information on the costs of the baseline scenario and the GEF
altemative, is presented in Annex 3.6.
3.25   Whereas the full GEF grant amount of US$24.3 million would be committed upon Board
approval, disbursements would be authorized in two phases. The first phase grant amount of US$15.75
million equivalent would be available for disbursement upon loan effectiveness, and would cover grant
payments for the sale and installation of 120,000 units (US$ 12 million equivalent) over the entire
project duration period as well as the bulk of the TA (US$ 3.75 million equivalent). The second phase
amount of US$ 8.55 million equivalent would cover the remaining 80,000 units (US$ 8 million
equivalent) and the residual TA costs (US$ 0.55 million equivalent); the second phase grant funds could
be disbursed only after written authorization by the GEF Chief Executive Officer, based on the outcome
of the mid-term review (paras 3.52 and 3.53).
Lending and Funds Allocation Arrangements
3.26   The proposed Bank loan and GEF grant would be made to the Republic of Indonesia. The Bank
loan would be provided to GOI, denominated as a standard multi-currency pool loan at the Bank's standard
variable interest rate, with a commitment fee of 0.75 percent per annum or such other percentage as
established by the Bank on the undisbursed amount under the Loan Agreement from time to time. The term
would be 20 years, including five years grace period.
3.27   The Government would channel and allocate the total loan and grant proceeds to the PBs as
follows:
(i)    For the state-owned PBs, loan funds would be lent and grant funds channeled by MOF through a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement (SLA), while for the private PBs, loan and grant funds would go in the



27
first instance from the Government to BI, through a separate SLA between MOF and BI. BI would
then re-lend the loan funds and channel the grant funds to the private PBs through the respective
Onlending Loan Agreements (OLAs) between BI and the respective PBs. The SLAs between MOF
and the state owned PBs and OLAs between BI and the private PBs will also incorporate provisions
governing the flow and use of the GEF grant.
During negotiations, agreement was reached that signing of: (a) the SLA between MOF and BI; (b)
at least two SLAs/OLAs between MOF/BI and the PBs, on terms and conditions acceptable to the
Bank, would be conditions of loan effectiveness. Further, signing of an SLA/OLA, acceptable to the
Bank, between MOF/BI and a PB would be a condition of disbursementof the IBRD loan and GEF
grantfor each PB.
(ii)    During negotiations, agreement was reached that in the event of a PB losing its "sehat"status: (a)
Bl would require the concernedPB to take remedial measures within a prescribedperiod of time to
regain a "sehat" status, (b) Bf would notify the Government, and the Government would notify the
Bank that a situation has arisen that may require the reallocation of the uncommitted portion of
funds previously allocated to the PB; and (c) in the event the PB fails to regain "sehat" status after
the prescribed period, funds which have been allocated to the concerned PB but have not been
committed, would on request of GOI, be reallocated to those PBs which continue to be classified as
"sehat"and which have requestsfor subloans in excess of their allocations.
(iii)   The loan allocation to each PB will be part of its SLA/OLA, and will be based upon the PB's
estimates of its credit requirements for this Project. During negotiations, agreement was reached
that: (a) MOF/BI would amend, at the request of a PB and with the Bank's approval, the amount of
such PB's loan allocation once every calendar year; and (b) each PB would pay to the
Government, at the same rate as the Government would pay to the Bank, commitmentfee on the
portion of its loan allocation that has not been disbursedto the PB.
(iv)   Loan reallocations During negotiations, agreement was reached that in order to provide flexibility
and to respond to unforeseenfluctuations in demandfor credi?, the Bank would approve, on the
request of GOI, reallocation offunds from PBs that would not be able to utilize their allocated
funds. This would happen for example, in the case of PBs that have: (a) fully committed, or are
likely to fully commit, their allocation to their subborrowers; (b) used up all the loan funds
available on a "first-come, first served basis"; and (c) have requests for additional subloans from
their subborrowers. Further, upon the Bank's request, GOT would be willing to review the need for
such reallocations. From the date of a reallocation, the PBs would be obligated to pay commitment
fee on the undisbursed amount of their respective new allocations.
I/     Primarily driven by variances that will unfold over time between the SHS dealers' initial business plans for the entire
project implementation period and modifications thereof in response to the degree of success achieved in realizing
such plans, and by the financial health of the enterprises and future prospects thereof.



28
Subproject Review
3.28   After assessing the credit application, when a PB is satisfied that it is willing to extend credit to an
eligible dealer (para 3.19), the PB would submit to the Bank for review the particular subproject, along with
a summary information report (Annex 3.7), as well as a copy of the subborrower's (SHS dealer's) business
plan; Annex 3.8 provides details of the information required in a subborrower'sbusiness plan.
3.29   During negotiations, agreement was reached that the Bank, after reviewing the PB's submission,
will approve a particular subproject, i. e., dealer, to participate in the Project, with the maximum amount of
the IBRD loan to be extended to the particular subproject to be determined by the PB. The approval would
be sent by the Bank to the PB and MOF.
Grant Authorization
3.30   For the GEF grant, the Bank would authorize the ceiling amounts that each dealer could claim from
MOF on a year-by-year basis. During negotiations, agreement was reached that: (i) For the initial calendar
year, the grant authorization for each dealer would take place along with the approval by the Bank of the
dealer to participate in the Project; (ii) in subsequentyears, the PSG would submit to the Bank, by no later
than October I of each calendaryear, for Bank review and clearance each dealer's grant authorizationfor
the next calendar year, based upon PSG's review of each dealer's historical performance and future
expectations; and (iii) the Bank would inform the PBs and MOF, of each dealer's grant authorizationfor
the next calendaryear. In the event that a dealer's actual claims for grant payments in a particularyear are
less than the authorized amount, the unclaimed amounts would lapse and could not be carried over to the
next calendar year.
Onlending Terms
3.31   GOI to PBs Loan proceeds would be on-lent to the PBs in rupiahs for a term of 20 years including
five years of grace. The onlending rate for the Bank loan to the PBs would reflect the market rate for
domestic term funds in Indonesia. This rate will be a variable interest rate equal to BI's domestic money
market certificate (Sertifikate Bank Indonesia - SBI). This rate would be adjusted on January I and July I of
each year, based on the average of the 3-month SBI maturity quotations, during the preceding six months.
In addition, the PBs will pay to GOI a commitment fee of 0.75 percent per annum or at such other
percentage rate as the Government shall pay to the Bank on the undisbursed amount of the Subsidiary Loan
from time to time. During negotiations, agreement was reached that GOI would not levy any administration
fee on the IBRD loan. While the Government would bear the foreign exchange risk, it would be
compensated for the cost of bearing this risk as the cost of funds from GOI to PBs includes an implicit
premium reflecting market expectations regarding exchange rate changes, since deposit rates in Indonesia
are market-determined and capital flows are generally unrestricted. In order to protect PBs from possibly
excessive volatility in the reference rate, or otherwise, on July I of each year, commencing July 1, 1997, the
basis for determining the onlending rate from GOI to the PBs would be reviewed with the objective of
either ensuring that the 3-month SBI rate appropriately reflects the cost of domestic term funds or agreeing
on an altemative that does reflect this cost.
3.32   PBs to subborrowers (SHS dealers) During negotiations, agreement was reached that proceeds
of the Bank loan, along with financing out of the PBs own resources, would be on-lent to the subborrowers
by the PBs, at market rates, using interest rate spreads chargedfor similar loans. The terms for sub-loans
would be up to five years. The terms and conditions of subloans would be freely negotiated between the PBs
and sub-borrowers.



29
3.33   GEF Grant During negotiations agreement was reached that no fees for administering the GEF
grant would be charged by GOI and the PBs.
Procurement
3.34   Procurement arrangements for the proposed project are summarized in Table 3.4. International or
national competitive bidding for equipment and services-such as procurement of solar panels, batteries,
light fixtures, electronic controllers-would not be feasible for the SHS dealers because the size of
individual procurement would be too small, and the grouping of contracts is not practical due dispersal in
time and location. All of the contract packages would be under $ 5.0 million, with the typical package in
the range of $ 0.25-0.50 million. The typically small sizes of the individual procurement packages offer
several advantages to the dealers: (i) just-in-timeprocurement reduces inventory carrying costs; (ii) smaller
packages reduce the incremental borrowings from the PBs and the associated need for injecting fresh equity
and collateral, a critical constraint; (iii) the dealers have an opportunity to buy panels on the spot market,
where good deals are commonly available; and (iv) given that the prices of solar PV panels are expected to
continue to decline over time, smaller packages provide an opportunity to take advantage of lower prices
over time. Efficient procurement in the private sector in Indonesia is ensured through a competitive market
operating in an open economy where commercial purchasers normally solicit various bids to obtain
reasonable quotes (prices and terms of suppliers' credit), since it is in their best commercial interests to do
so.
3.35   Although the PBs do not have formal procurement requirements, they do require their clients to
justify their procurement decisions, and often require them to provide comparative price quotations. Under
the proposed project, the PBs would require participating SHS dealers to show that their procedures for
procuring goods and services are appropriate. The PBs would ensure that the goods and services are
procured at reasonable prices, taking account of efficiency, economy, reliability, and other relevant factors
such as terms of supplier credit, availability of spare parts, backup technical assistance, warranty
arrangements. These procedures are consistent with the principles of Bank financing to the private sector
through financial intermediaries; the Bank would conduct ex-post reviews to ensure that procurement is
economic and efficient.
3.36   Technical assistance Consultants to be financed under the technical assistance component of the
proposed project--Table 3.1-would be selected in accordance with the Bank Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants, August 1981 and use the Bank's standard contract for Consultant's Services. All consulting
services above US$ 100,000 equivalent provided by firms, and above US$ 50,000 equivalent to be provided
by individuals would be subject to the Bank's prior review; further, for contracts below US$ 100,000
equivalentprovided by firms, and below US$ 50,000 equivalentto be provided by individuals, there would
be prior review of: (a) the terms of reference, (b) single-source selection of consulting firms, (c)
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank, (d) amendments to contracts for the
employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to US$ 100,000 equivalent or above; and (e)
amendments to contracts for the employment of individuals raising the contract value to US$ 50,000
equivalent or above. This would result in prior review of 100 percent of the TA contracts.



30
Table 3.4: Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million)
Procurement Method
Other /a   N.B.F. /b    Total
A. Credit Component                         101.9         0.0    101.9
(20)                 (20)
[20]                 [20]
Taxes                                 0.0        9.8       9.8
Subtotal                            101.9        9.8     111.8
(20)      (0.0)      (20)
1201      10.01      [201
B. Technical Assistance
Implementation Support                4.1        0.0       4.1
[3.1]                [3.1]
Policy Support                        1.2        0.0       1.2
[0.7]                [0.7]
Institutional Development             1.0        0.0       1.0
[0.5]                [0.5]
Subtotal                              6.3        0.0       6.3
(0.0)      (0.0)     (0-0)
[4.31  _  [0.01     [4.31
Total                                       108.2        9.8    118.1
(20.0)      (0.0)    (20.0)
[24.31      10.01    124.31
Note: Terms in ( ) and [ are amounts financed by IBRD and GEF, respectively
/a Goods and services to be procured by limited international bidding or established commercial
practice
/b Not Bank financed
Disbursement
3.37   Table 3.5 shows the allocation of loan and grant proceeds to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures to be financed in each Category. The Bank loan would be disbursed against 80 percent of the
subloan amounts extended from time-to-time by the PBs to the SHS dealers. The grant would be disbursed
as follows: (a) US$ 75 equivalent per SHS unit installed in Java and US$ 125 equivalent per SHS unit
installed in the project areas outside Java; and (b) 100 percent of expenditures for consultancy services
under the technical assistance component. Withdrawal applications for consulting firm contracts above
US$100,000 equivalent and individual consultant contract cost above US$50,000 equivalent would be
based on the Bank's full documentation requirements; others would be on SOE procedures. Documents
supporting SOEs would be retained by the PBs, SHS dealers and DG-Budget, and made available for
review by the Bank supervision missions.
3.38   In order to facilitate timely disbursement, two Special Accounts (SA) would be maintained by
MOF at BI, one for the IBRD loan, in the amount of $1.4 million, and a second SA for the GEF grant, in the
amount of $1.6 million, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. These SAs will be maintained
in the name of Director General of Budget, Ministry of Finance, using established procedures.as discussed



31
in the following. After initial deposits by the Bank into these accounts, further replenishment would take
place upon the Bank receiving applications for withdrawals from GOI/MOF. Replenishmentto the SAs will
be made on a monthly basis, or when 20 percent of an SA's balance has been used, whichever comes first.
Table 3.5: Allocation of Loan and Grant Proceeds
Amount of Loan and Grant                 % of Expenditures
Category             Allocated (US$ mill. equiv.)              to be Financed /a
A. IBRD Loan
- Sub-loans                  20.0              Refinance 80% of the sub-loans made by
participatingbanks to dealers
B. GEF Grant
-SHS Installation             20.0             100% /b
-T.A.                         4.3              100% /c
/a Expendituresfinanced are exclusive of value-added-tax (VAT)
b $ 75/SHS unit installed in Java, and $ 125/SHS unit installedoutside Java
c In addition, GOI/BPPT will finance $1.5 million equivalent TA for implementation support, policy support and institutional
development, and the subborrowers would finance $ 0.5 million equivalent for implementation support.
3.39   IBRD loan Disbursements from the SA for the IBRD loan would be triggered by the actions of the
SHS dealers (Annex 3.9). The PBs would disburse subloan credit to the SHS dealers, based on a
demonstration of their credit requirements, backed up by the documentation required by the PBs. The PBs
would periodically submit a request for re-financing 80 percent of the subloan credit amounts to MOF,
which would issue a payment authorization to BI. In turn, BI would transfer the loan funds from the SA to
the PBs. MOF officials have indicated that the time from the receipt of the payment request at MOF from a
PB to the time of payment by BI would be under two weeks. During negotiations, agreement was reached
about the procedures and the supporting documentation to be utilized by MOF for disbursement of the
IBRD loan and the GEF grant (para 3.40).
3.40   GEF grant Disbursement of the GEF grant would follow essentially the above scheme for
disbursement of the IBRD loan, with one significant difference; unlike the loan, disbursement of the GEF
grant would be based on the sale and installation of SHS units. During negotiations, agreement was
reached that: (i) the grant would be disbursed only after the dealer has installed a SHS unit and provided
documentation of acceptance of installation and a duly executed hire-purchase-contract (HPC) with the
buyer; (ii) in the initial instance, grant disbursement to a particular dealer would take place only after the
Bank notifies MOF that the PSG has conducted a satisfactory audit of the dealer's initial 50 installed units.
The SHS dealers would submit this documentation to the PBs, along with their request for a grant
disbursement. The PBs would forward this request to MOF, and ultimately, BI would transfer the grant
funds to the PBs from the grant SA. For the TA, the consultants would submit invoices to BPPT, which will
forward them with a payment request to MOF, which will then issue a payment authorization to BI, which
will transfer the funds from the grant SA to the consultant's account.
3.41   Disbursement Schedule The estimated disbursement schedule is shown in Annex 3.10.
Disbursements are expected to be relatively slow in the first two years, primarily because the SHS dealers
will need to establish themselves before undertaking rapid expansion of sales in the latter half of the project.
The PBs also favor this "start small, finish big" strategy, as it allows the PBs to incrementally exercise
control of their risk exposure to the SHS dealers, by modulating their scale of operations and rate of growth
along a trajectory outlined in the dealers' five year business plans, but at the same time conditioned as time
progresses on their respective performance and creditworthiness at each future decision point on extending
additional term credit.



32
Implementation
3.42   The credit component will be executed by qualified private dealers, who will take the responsibility
for procurement, sales, installation and maintenance of the solar PV systems to rural customers, and who
will also be responsible for collection of installment payments for the systems sold under a hire-purchase-
contract arrangement. Contracting for the technical assistance components of implementation support and
institutional development (Table 3.1) as well as contractor management would be the responsibility of
BPPT, while DGEED would have responsibility for the technical assistance component of policy support.
In particular, the Directorate of Energy Technology within BPPT would administer and provide counterpart
support for the TA related to the Project Support Group (PSG), while BPPT's LSDE unit would have lead
responsibility for hosting, providing counterpart support and facilities, and otherwise ensuring successful
implementation of the TA on "Strengthening BPPT's Capabilities in Solar PV Testing and Certification'.
3.43   A project implementation schedule depicting major milestone dates is contained in Annex 3.11.
The schedule assumes a loan effectiveness date of May 1, 1997, project completion date of October 31,
2001, and a loan closing date of April 30, 2002. A more detailed implementation schedule of the proposed
project is contained in the Project Implementation Plan (para 3.45).
3.44   Accounting and Audit  The project accounts of all PBs and BPPT would be audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. During negotiations, agreement was reached that BPPT and
the PBs would submit their project audit reports to the Bank no later than six months after the end of their
respective fiscal years. Specifically, the following audit reports would be required: (i) the SOE
documentation for BPPT and the SAs maintained by MOF; (ii) the SOE documentation maintained by the
PBs; and (iii) the project accounts for BPPT. All PBs would provide, through MOF, the relevant
information on disbursements and balances to the Project Support Group (PSG) -- see para 3.15 -- to enable
the PSG to maintain the project monitoring and management information system (MIS).
Project Management and Monitoring
3.45   Project Implementation Plan (PIP) A PIP has been prepared and is available in the Project files.
The PIP recognizes that this Project has a number of innovative elements and risks, so that careful
monitoring and, possibly, corrective actions are required for successful implementation. The PIP describes
the: (i) critical success factors; (ii) strategy and implementation plan for catalyzing sales and installations of
SHS units and capacity building (iii) management structure; (iv) milestones and performance indicators; (v)
details of mid-term review; (vi) monitoring and reporting requirements; and (vii) procedures related to
compliance by dealers of their responsibilitiesunder the Project.
3.46   Project management On an overall basis, the Rural Electrification Steering Committee (MME) is
responsible for overseeing the implementation and impact of the Project. In undertaking this responsibility,
the RE Steering Committee will largely rely upon the PSG (para 3.15), which will provide regular progress
monitoring reports.
3.47   The PSG will have a Director, acceptable to the Bank, with substantial and relevant intemational
and Indonesian experience, a Manager with local experience, and a small technical and support staff. The
PSG will subcontractto NGOs and local companies much of its dissemination, audit, and business advisory
services. During negotiations, agreement was reached that: (i) PSG would be established in accordance
with TOR, membership, staffing and resources acceptable to the Bank; and (ii) BPPT will undertake
contractingin a timely mannerso that the PSG can be mobilized no later than May 15, 1997.



33
3.48   Project monitoring The project's performance will be monitored by the PSG, the Bank's
supervision missions, and a mid-term review that would be undertaken by a panel of experts (para 3.52).
For this purpose, it is essential that PSG have easy and timely access to the relevant project information
directly from the participating dealers and through MOF from the PBs to enable it to maintain its MIS.
Some of the key elements of the monitoring would be to verify that: (i) the private dealers are using the
credit and grant funds provided to them under the project in accordance with the project design, (ii) the
dealers are complying with the pre-designated technical, after-sales service and consumer protection
standards, and (iii) that customers are satisfied with their SHS units. The PSG would prepare an annual
report and an additional report for the mid-term review (para 3.52)
3.49   Actions to be taken on non-compliance by dealers If any dealer is found to be not in compliance
with the Project rules, immediate action would be taken, the nature of which would depend upon which of
two categories the problem fell in (Annex 3.5). First there may be isolated and contained incidents of non-
compliance, resulting, for example, from management, internal control or quality control deficiencies. For
this type of non-compliance, the PSG would give the dealer an opportunity to remedy the problem within a
given time period. If the PSG finds that the dealer does not meet the timetable, or if there are repeated
incidents of non-compliance,the PSG may classify the non-compliance to be in the second category.
3.50   The second category of non-compliance comprises those in which the dealer has committed fraud,
or has an extensive incidence of non-compliance with project rules, such technical specifications or after-
sales service standards. In this case, after receiving the report and recommendations of the PSG, the Bank
would take appropriate steps to exercise the remedies available to it, including suspending or terminating
disbursements in respect of specific dealers. Should the Bank determine that a dealer is no longer eligibility
to participate in the Project, it would immediately notify the MOF and the concerned PB. During
negotiations, agreement was reached that the PBs will not make loans to dealers that are no longer eligible
to participate in the Project. It is envisionedthat the concerned dealer would no longer be entitled, as of the
date of notification to MOF and the concerned PB, for further grant disbursements or refinancing of the
credit extended by the PB .
3.51   Escrow account An escrow account, based on the GEF grant funds due to a dealer, will be
established for each dealer, with the purpose of assisting any customers who are adversely affected by a
dealer's non-compliance with the Project rules (Annex 3.5). These escrow accounts would be terminated at
the end of the Project, with any funds in the accounts transferred to the respective dealers. During
negotiations, agreement was reached these escrow accounts would be established, utilized and terminated
in the manner specified in Annex 3.5.
3.52   Mid-term review  A mid-term review will be conducted to assess the Project's progress and take
any corrective actions required to facilitate implementation of the Project. As part of the mid-term review,
an independent panel of experts will assess the Project from the perspective of the release of second phase
of the GEF grant (para 3.25). The central issue to be considered by the panel is whether there is any
scenario that could be successfully implemented under which the SHS Project's target of attaining total
sales of 200,00 SHS units over the life of the Project could be attained. While there may be one or more
scenarios under which the target of 200,000 units would not be met, this question relates on the existence
of one or more reasonable scenarios under which the target could be met, because the intent would be to
focus implementation on the scenarios under which the target would be met. Hence, a positive answer to
the above question would be the basis for the release of Phase 2 of the GEF grant. In the event that the
panel concludes that there is no reasonable scenario under which the target of 200,000 units could be
met, the panel would provide its judgment of the maximum unit sales that could occur over the life of the



34
SHS Project. The composition and terms of the reference for the independent panel as well as the manner
of the processing of its report are described in Annex 3.12.
3.53   During negotiations, agreement was reached that GOI would: (i) as per agreed TOR (Annex 3.12),
convene an independent technical panel that will conduct and complete a mid-term review and submit its
report to the GOI by no later than June 30, 1999, (ii) submit its report to the Bank, with the independent
panel's report included as an attachment, to the Bank by no later than July 31, 1999, and (iii) not
disburse grants in excess of an aggregate amount of USS 15.75 million equivalent, unless notified by the
Bank that the GEF Chief Executive Officer has authorized the release ofpart or all of the residual US
8.55 million equivalent.
3.54   Bank supervision The supervision schedule is shown in Annex 3.13. The supervision will be
relatively heavy up to the midterm review, and will require assistance from the Bank's Resident Mission in
Indonesia (RSI), specially on matters related to disbursements and audits and accounts. It is expected that
this would help to reduce any implementation problems as well as ensure that the dealers' activities are in
compliance with project design and standards.
Environment and Resettlement
3.55   SHS are considered to be one of the most environmentally benign form of energy generation.
There are no air or water emissions associated SHS; in addition, there is replacement of fossil fuels which
lead to emissions of green house gases and other pollutants. Since SHS are usually located on roof tops,
they avoid any environmental or resettlement impacts derived from land use, and the two dimensional flat
shape of the collectors minimizes any potentially adverse aesthetic impacts. Further, the lead batteries are
located inside the house and do not affect aesthetics or environment in any way.
3.56   Investigations made with the Directorate for Hazardous and Toxic Substance Management of
BAPEDAL, and the Association of Waste Metal Recycling in Indonesia clearly indicate that there is
recycling of used batteries in Indonesia. At present, the large scale modem battery manufacturers have to
compete vigorously with small "pirate type" primitive battery recycling operations in the market of used
batteries. The severe shortage of used batteries is responsible, in part, for the partial capacity utilization of
the three large battery manufacturers in Indonesia. In response, the government has changed its rules
(regulation PP/19) to allow, on a case by case basis, the import of used batteries. Further, the life of a
battery used in the SHS is about three years, which is longer than the life of the battery under the present
system of charging batteries at a central station (about two years) because the daily partial discharge/charge
cycle under the SHS leads to slower depreciation than the weekly near full discharge/chargecycle common
with central charging schemes. Thus, the number of batteries required under the SHS scheme will be
significantly less than under the present system of centralized battery charging.
3.57   There are no resettlement issues since there will be no land transactions under this project, given
that the solar PV systems will be installed on existing homes or commercial establishments.



35
4. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
Rationale for World Bank Involvement
4.1    Links to Country Assistance Strategy The Bank is committed to supporting renewable energy
development in Indonesia, as stated in the Indonesia Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) that was presented
to the Bank's Board on March 21, 1995, and the CAS Progress Report that was discussed on June 4, 1996.
The proposed project design and implementation strategy typify the defining characteristicsof the transition
that is underway in the assistance strategy for Indonesia: (i) achieving poverty reduction through increased
funding for regional development, and a shift towards smaller and regionally oriented projects targeted at
reducing urban-rural disparities in the quality of life; and (ii) striking the appropriate balance between
public and private roles in energy distribution.
4.2    Links to Economic and Sector Work The proposed project draws upon general economic and
sector work related to renewable energy as well as analyses undertaken specifically for this project. In
particular, the project design and strategy are consistent with the findings and recommendations in: (i) the
Bank's rural energy policy paper , (ii) an ASTAE best practices paper on solar PV2, (iii) the Bank's report
on the challenges Indonesia faces in sustaining development 3, (iv) OED's review of Rural Electrification in
Asia4, (v) a review of the BANPRES solar PV project in Indonesia5, and (vi) demand surveys conducted
specifically for this project.
4.3    Links to ongoing Bank activities in Indonesia The Bank continues to actively support
implementation of an efficient and sustainable Rural Electrification (RE) program, initiated in the Rural
Electrification I project (Loan 31 80-IND) and now through the successor Rural Electrification II project
(Loan 3180-IND), primarily by financing extension of the various regional grids, and related institutional
capacity building. Solar home systems are one of the key elements of the overall least cost decentralized RE
strategy in Indonesia, and they complement the least cost grid extension program for RE. The SHS project
will provide a means to continue the Bank's dialogue with the Government of Indonesia and to influence
the implementation of a sustainable and environmentally sound RE development program, while
encouraging private sector participation and the creation of commercial markets for alternative energy, and
continue the process of improving the policy and institutional environment, all matters of high priority on
the GOI's as well as the Bank's agenda.
1/     Rural Energy and Development: Improving Energy Supplies for 2 Billion People, A World Bank Best Practice Paper,
Report 15912-GLB, 1996.
2/     Cabraal, A., M. Cosgrove-Davies and L. Schaeffer, Best Practices for Photovoltaic Household Electrifcation
Programs, World Bank Technical Paper Number 324, Asia Technical Department Series, 1996.
3/     Indonesia: Sustaining Development, A World Bank Country Study, 1994.
4/     Rural Electrification in Asia: A Review of Bank Experience, Operations Evaluation Department, World Bank, 1994
Report No. 13291.
5/     Wade, H., 1. H. Sejahtera, and T. Ball, Evaluation of the Indonesian Photovoltaic Household Electrification Project,
Consultant report, EA31E, 1993.



36
4.4    Rationale for credit component The Project's credit component requires a combination of IBRD
credit and GEF grant in order to facilitate the sale and installation of 200,00 SHS units to be paid for by
rural customers on an installmentpayment basis. At present, the commercial viability of lending for SHS in
rural areas has not been established, and no commercial bank has extended credit either to dealers or
households for the sale of SHS. Further, the combination of current high SHS costs and the high share of
initial costs in lifetime SHS costs makes it unlikely that the viability of this type of lending would be
established on its own. Hence, initial Bank/GOI support is justified to demonstrate and establish the
commercial viability of this type of lending.
Eligibility for GEF Support
4.5    The SHS project is fully consistent with the: (i) the guidance from the Convention of the Parties
(COP), and (ii) GEF Operational Strategy, in particular with Operational Program 6, which has the aim of
promoting the adoption of renewable energy by removing barriers and reducing implementation costs. The
barriers targeted by this project are (i) the lack of established high-volume supplier dealer chains, high
prices, and (iii) lack of term credit (paras. 2.29-2.32). The SHS project is expected to help lower the unit
costs of solar PV technologies in Indonesia, given the downward sloping technology cost learning curve. In
addition, the SHS project is expected to set a new lower global benchmark price for SHS, thereby
stimulating further penetration and global environmental benefits from abatement of GHG emissions in
other countries as well.
Alternatives to SHS Project
4.6    The baseline alternative to the SHS project is the business-as-usual scenario under which the
households would continue to use a combination of kerosene for lighting and diesel-based battery-charging
for other end-uses. The costs of this baseline alternative were used, inter alia, to develop the incremental
costs (para 3.24).
4.7    The counter-factual scenario used in the least-cost analysis is the provision of electricity to the
households by conventional means, i.e., grid electrification and decentralized diesel generation. The costs of
this counter-factual scenario are discussed in Annex 4. 1.
4.8    Several alternatives were considered in the design of the SHS project. For the executing agency, the
alternatives considered included PLN, BPPT, NGOs and cooperatives, and it was concluded that none of
them offered better prospects than the private sector for an efficient delivery mechanism targeted at the
commercial end of the solar PV market. In particular, PLN's "hands are full" implementing the grid-based
RE program, while BPPT is focused on the non-commercial end of the solar PV potential market.
Indonesian NGOs or cooperatives are not precluded from participating in this project, provided they meet
the eligibility criteria (para 3.19).
4.9    For the provision of credit, the alternative of bank-financing directly to households was considered,
but it was found that, even though Indonesia has a relatively well-spread rural bank network, that it would
be difficult for the households to obtain bank-financing for the required term, and that there would be
significant transaction costs and delays in getting whatever credit was made available. By contrast, under
the dealer-financing scheme, the credit will be extended at the household's doorstep without any delays; in
addition, the implicit rates of interest charged by the dealers are competitive with the rates of the organized
banking sector.



37
4.10   The alternative mechanism considered for the GEF grant was to buy down the interest rate.
However, this was rejected as this would introduce an unnecessary distortion, and would also provide an
incentive for excessive borrowing, some of which could possibly be channeled to non-Project activities. By
contrast, the proposed mechanism does not introduce any distortions, provides no incentives for excessive
borrowing, and is performance-based, i.e., the grant is made available only after a unit has been installed.
Fiscal Impact Analysis
4.11   Since the credit component of the proposed project is to be executed entirely by the private sector,
there are no public expenditures for this purpose. While there is an element of subsidy in the project, this is
being funded entirely by GEF grants. Further, the commercial risk of the subloans to the private dealers is
being borne entirely by the commercial banks. Thus, the only possibility of any adverse fiscal consequences
would arise from a default by a PB on its loan obligation to the GOI, which is considered unlikely since the
PBs have been classified as financially sound by BI, and assessed to be among the well-managed banks in
Indonesia. Hence, the proposed Project does not have any adverse fiscal consequences for the Government;
further, by providing an alternative to PLN supply, the Project tends to reduce the subsidy required by PLN
for conventional rural electrification (para 2.14).
Project Benefits
4.12   Least-cost analysis When the SHS costs are compared with an alternative modern form of energy
that provides a comparable level of service, i.e., conventional rural electrification options, there are a large
number of rural households for whom the SHS costs are lower (Annex 4. 1), i.e., for the target households,
6
the SHS is least-cost in the provision of a comparable, modern form of energy . The principal reason for
the cost advantage enjoyed by SHS is that, given the relatively small loads that are typical of rural
households in Indonesia, it is uneconomical to extend or develop a grid even over relatively short distances
(Annex 4.1).
4.13   Benefits The fundamental benefits from this project are: (i) the improvement in the quality of life
of the rural households as they switch to a clean, modern form of energy for high-value end-uses such as
lighting, security, and education, and (ii) global environmental benefits. Within the rural households, the
primary beneficiaries of the SHS will be women and children, as the burden of the low quality, polluting
lighting associated with kerosene lamps falls mainly on them. In particular, the light from kerosene lamps is
far less suitable for reading than the electric lighting provided by the SHS, and the exposure to the fumes
from these lights is typically higher for women and children, who tend to stay indoors (paras. 2.9-2.10).
Specifically,the benefits of the proposed project are:
6/     While the present value of the expenditures of the target households on lighting and battery charging is less than the
present value of the cost of the SHS, the service from kerosene and battery charging is inferior to the service from SHS
(para 2.9).



38
A.      Direct benefits to the households:
*      There would be a quantum improvement in lighting quality and quantity, which is expected
to lead to: (i) a profound and positive effect on the quality of education and learning
experienced by children; (ii) increased productivity and potential for in-home income
generation activities, made possible by extending available hours of work, particularly for
women; and (iii) increased freedom of movement and ability for community participation.
*       The households would have access to the information flow, and outreach provided by
television, which is one of the few channels to the external world available to rural
Indonesian women and children.
B.      Global environmental benefits:
*      There are global environmental benefits from the reduction in CO2 emissions (about 2.2
million tons) as a result of the switch from fossil fuels to solar energy 7. This mitigation in
emissions is the rationale for the GEF grant.
C.     Regional development benefits:
*      The project scope includes two provinces (Lampung and South Sulawesi) outside Java, in
view of the fact that rural household electrification ratios are particularly low off-Java, and
there is an urgent need to initiate development of sustainable means of providing service to
the households in these areas. Further, the higher GEF grant for SHS units installed off-
Java ($125/unit for Lampung and South Sulawesi compared to $75/unit for West Java)
recognizes the higher costs that have to be incurred off-Java, and thus provides an incentive
for regionally-balanceddevelopmentof the solar PV market.
4.14    Cost-benefit analysis As indicated above, there are two types of benefits associated with the
project: (i) global environmental benefits, which are given by the international community's willingness-to-
pay (WTP) and (ii) local benefits that accrue directly to the participating households, which are given by the
households' WTP.
4.15    In this analysis, in accordance with Bank guidelines8, the global environmental benefits are taken to
be equal to the value of the GEF grant; this grant payment represents the international community's
willingness-to-pay (WTP) for CO2 abatement as well as for the positive externalities of expected
7/      The estimates of the emissions avoided include both the emissions avoided as a result of the SHS units directly installed
under the SHS project ("project effect")-about 1.3 million tons of C02,-as well as the acceleration of SHS market
penetration in Indonesia ("programmatic effect") as a result of the SHS project-about 0.9 million tons of C02. With a
total GEF grant of $24.3 million, the unit cost of abatement is about $1 1/ton C02, including project and programmatic
benefits, and about $1 8/ton C02, when only project benefits are considered. As a point of comparative interest, in the
IBRD-GEF financed India Renewable Resource Development Project (Ln. 3544-lN/Cr. 2449-IN), the unit costs were
estimated to be about $ 105/ ton C02, for the windfarm component, and between $1 02-294/ ton C02, for the solar PV
component.
8/      Bank OP 10.04, Paragraph 8 (revised September, 1994).



39
innovations and cost reductions in solar panels, whose production is characterized by a declining cost
curve.
4.16   The typical household's WTP for the SHS is more complex to estimate. Conceptually,
WTP = "actual payments made by the household" plus "consumer's surplus"
While the household's actual expenditures are readily available, there are no reliable estimates available of
the consumer's surplus associated with SHS. For this reason, only the household's actual expenditures on the
SHS (excluding the GEF grant co-downpayment made on behalf of the consumer) are used as a measure of
the household's benefits. This use of the household's expenditures as a measure of the benefits is similar to
the practice in conventional power projects of treating "tariff payments" as a measure of the benefits.
4.17   In the case of SHS, over fifteen years, the household's expenditures consist of four elements: (i) the
initial downpayment, (ii) the monthly payments to amortize the loan, (iii) the replacement costs for
batteries, controllers, etc., depending upon their economic lives, and (iv) the routine monthly O&M
expenditures, essentially for replenishing the water in the battery. The last two categories of expenditures
reflect the fact, unlike in a conventional power system, the household acts as both the producer and the
consumer, so that these costs are also a measure of the benefits accruing at that time to the household.
4.18   Based on this analytical framework, the internal economic rate of return (IERR), including the
global environmental benefits, is 39%; if the global environmental benefits are excluded, then the IERR is
12% (Annex 4.2). These rates of return are biased downwards because of the exclusion of the consumer's
surplus from the benefits.
Project Risks and SensitivityAnalysis
4.19   Risks This Project faces a number of implementation risks that would adversely affect the
outcomes. Specifically, Objectives A (sales of SHS to rural households) and B (establishment of dealers
selling SHS to rural customers)-see Annex 3.1 for details-face the following inter-relatedrisks:10
-  Market demand risk, i.e., the potential customers buy less than the target number of 200,000
systems even though the dealers are willing and able to make the sales. The resultant lower
penetration of SHS could be due to lack of affordability of the SHS, lack of confidence in or
information about the SHS, or concerns that PLN service would become available in the near
future.
*  Dealer failure risk, i.e., the dealers are unable to make sales of 200,000 systems or only 2-3
dealers are able to establish themselves even though, in principle, there is sufficient demand
for SHS. This could happen due to factors such as lack of management skills, or poor
installment collection mechanisms.
9/     D. Anderson, "Cost Effectiveness in Addressing the 'C02' problem, with Special Reference to the Investments of
Global Environmental Facility," Annual Review of Energy and Environment (1994), Volume 19, pp. 423-455.
10/    The implementation risks that would affect Objective C (capacity building of key sector institutions) have been
addressed by strong participation and involvement of the concemed agencies during project preparation (para 4.23).



40
* Consumer dissatisfaction risk, i.e., the customers who buy the SHS are not satisfied with
their systems. This could happen because of a number of reasons, such as a failure of the
systems to function properly, poor after-sales service, an inability of the systems to meet the
customers' energy needs, or a perception that SHS do not offer "good value for the money."
4.20   Steps to mitigate risks Apart from the steps that have been taken in Project preparation to mitigate
these risks, the Project's supervision will be relatively heavy in the initial years (Annex 3.13), so that
problems can be identified and corrective actions taken in a timely manner. The key actions already taken,
or already identified for the future, are:
*  Facilitating sales Some of the steps taken to facilitate sales are:
* Prior to the commencement of sales in a region, the PSG would undertake an
informational campaign to provide the potential customers with the technical and
financial information they need to make an informed decision about the purchase of
a SHS. The materials for this campaign are being prepared by Bank-managed
grant-financed local consultants as part of project preparation.
* In case of insufficient demand in the target markets, the dealers would be allowed to
operate in extended market areas, which in the first instance would be the rural
areas of the adjacent districts (kabupatens) of the provinces adjoining W. Java,
Lampung, and S. Sulawesi; and possibly into a fourth province (North Sumatera).
* The option of adding new dealers would be kept open.
-  Facilitating dealer success Some of the steps taken to facilitate dealer success are:
* A strategy of "good dealer" selection has been adopted by: (i) explaining the risks
to the dealers, while requiring them to have a large stake in the business. This
approach has led a number of potential dealers, who were not sure of themselves, to
opt out from participating in the project; and (ii) asking the PBs to use their normal
commercial appraisal criteria in extending credit to the dealers. This approach has
led the PBs to undertake a detailed investigation of the dealers' past, present and
future operations, as a result of which one of the PBs has already rejected the credit
applications of some dealers.
* The dealers have been encouraged to adopt a "start small, finish big" strategy so
that they have sufficient time to identify and resolve any weaknesses in their
management or operational systems.
* The dealers are free to "seek stronger partners," whose managerial and financial
strengths would assist the dealers. These partners are likely to be larger private
sector firms that are interested in entering this business, or subsidiaries of
multinational companies involved in renewable energy.
* Facilitating consumer satisfaction Some of the key steps taken to facilitate consumer
satisfaction are:



41
*  The dealers are required to install only the equipment that is certified, by world-class
laboratories, to meet the Project's "technical specifications," which will greatly
reduce the odds of equipment failure.
*  The dealers are required to develop comprehensive consumer protection packages,
including return policies, warranties, and after-sales service.
*  The PSG will maintain two-way links with the customers, including (i) auditing
installations on a purposive as well as random sample basis to ensure that only the
certified equipment is used and verify that there are no problems in the installation, and
(ii) providing the customers convenient means of bringing any issue that they have to
the attention of the PSG.
4.21   Sensitivity analysis The sensitivity of the IERR has been analyzed with respect to the three risks
discussed above (para 4.19). Specifically, two alternative scenarios are considered (Annex 4.2):
*  Scenario A, under which sales of only 160,000 SHS are achieved, i.e., 80% of the target of
200,000 sales, which reflects both the market demand and dealer failure risks. Under a number
of reasonable assumptions (Annex 4.2) related to the higher costs and prices under this
scenario, the IERR is found to decline from 39% to 32%, including the global environment
benefits, and from 12% to 8%, excluding the global environmental benefits.
*  Scenario B, under which SHS units fail to provide benefits after they have been installed,
which represents the consumer dissatisfaction risk. It is assumed that the customers stop
making monthly payments or incurring replacement expenditures if their SHS units fail. The
analysis shows that the failure rate (i.e., these units would not provide any economic or
environmental benefits at all) of the SHS units would have to be 19% for the IERR, including
the global environment benefits, to fall to 10%. Such a high system failure rate has not been
experienced in Indonesia's Government sponsored programs (para 2.17), and it is unlikely that
failures on this scale would occur in the proposed Project, given the risk mitigation measures
outlined above. Furthermore, a leading indicator of customer dissatisfaction, customer loan
repayment rates, is a key performance indicator for the proposed project (para. 3.6).
Post-Project Sustainability and Participation
4.22   Post-Project Sustainability In the post-project phase, when the GEF first cost buydown would
end, it is expected that the dealers will be able to maintain themselves in business as a result of a
combination of the following outcomes:
*  Cost reductions in real terms, stemming from: (i) economies of scale, particularly in sales-
and-service chains and assembly of balance-of-system components, (ii) expected long-term
world-wide trend reductions in solar PV panel prices, and (iii) the ending of the need to incur
the high initial costs of establishingsales-and-servicechains.
*  Increases in consumer affordability, arising from the expected continued rapid growth of the
Indonesian economy as a whole and of rural incomes in particular.



42
* Elimination of other key barriers, such as lack of commercial banks' familiarity with the
SHS business, limited customer awareness of SHS, lack of an official plan for decentralized
rural electrification plan that defines a clear role for solar PV products, lack of a local testing
facility, and the absence of well-defined world-class technical standards specifically suited for
Indonesia.
4.23   Participation Within the Government of Indonesia, the primary stakeholders in the SHS project
are: the Agency for the Assessment and Application of Technology (BPPT), the Directorate-General of
Electricity and Energy Development (DGEED), and the Planning Agency (BAPPENAS) These agencies
have been involved to varying degrees in project preparation. In particular, BPPT has played a very active
role, and has been involved in activities such as conducting market surveys, developing technical
specifications, publicizing the SHS project within Indonesia, and providing office facilities for project
preparation work. The SHS project would strengthen BPPT's institutional capabilities.
4.24   Within the private sector, the primary stakeholders include the Indonesian Solar Energy
Association and individual solar PV systems dealers and suppliers. A number of presentationsrelated to the
SHS project have been made to and extensive discussions held with the Solar Energy Association as well as
all interested dealers on an individual basis. The dealers have been active participants in the process of
finalizing equipment technical specifications, and the project design has benefited from their comments and
suggestions.



43
5.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
Agreements with the Borrower
5.1    The following agreements were reached during negotiations with the Government of Indonesia:
(i)    Terms and conditions of the BI Subsidiary Loan Agreement (para 3.27);
(ii)   Terms and conditions of the respective Onlending Agreements for the private PBs and
Subsidiary Loan Agreements for the State owned PBs (paras 3.27 and 3.31);
(iii)   Terms and conditions of the Subloan Agreements between PBs and SHS dealers (para
3.32);
(iv)   Terms and conditions for the authorization and channeling of GEF subgrants (paras 3.27,
3.30 and 3.33);
(v)    Loan allocation and reallocation amounts and procedures for the PBs (para 3.27);
(vi)   No additional Government finance or support for the dealers (para 3. 10);
(vii)  SHS equipmenttechnical specificationsand certificationrequirements(para 3.18);
(viii)  Scope of and arrangements for mid-term review (para 3.53);
(ix)   Performance indicators to be utilized for monitoring (para 3.6);
(x)    Establishment, use and termination of escrow accounts designed to assist customers who
are adversely affected by a dealer's non-compliance with Project rules (para 3.51);
(xi)   Borrower shall: (a) undertake and   complete a study on "Decentralized Rural
Electrification Plan", in accordance with terms of reference and in a manner satisfactory
to the Bank, and furnish the draft final report of the study to the Bank for review and
comments by no later than September 30, 1998; and (b) based on the said study's results
and recommendations and subsequent review, comments and discussions: (i) prepare a
draft Decentralized Rural Electrification Plan, with a focus on the niche for solar PV, for
Indonesia, (ii) furnish the said draft plan to the Bank for review and comments, by March
31, 1999, and (iii) by November 30, 1999, finalize and adopt the same taking into
account the comments, if any, thereon by the Bank (para 3.16);
(xii)  Borrower shall activate, no later than November 30, 1997, a SHS Working Group,
headed by the Director of the Directorate of Electric Power Planning, DGEED, with
representation from other Government agencies concerned with rural electrification
policy, including BAPPENAS, BPPT, MOF, Ministry of Cooperatives and Small
Enterprise Development, and PLN. The SHS Working Group will report to the Rural
Electrification Steering Committee, DGEED, and will be the local working counterpart to



44
the consultants who will undertake the preparation of the Decentralized RE Strategy Study
and SHS Action Plan. (para 3.16);
(xiii)  Borrower shall ensure that BI shall inform the Borrower, and the Borrower inform the
Bank, that a situation has arisen that may require the reallocation of the uncommitted
balance of funds allocated to a PB if that PB fails to meet BI's requirements for "sehat"
classification (para 3.27);
(xiv)  Borrower shall ensure that the PBs shall:
(a)    utilize the specified eligibility criteria for subborrowers (para 3.19);
(b)    utilize the specified subproject review criteria and process (paras 3.28-3.29);
(c)    take reasonable steps to ensure that the goods and services procured by the
subborrowers are at reasonable prices taking account of efficiency, economy,
reliability and other pertinent factors (para 3.3 5); and
(d)    submit their project audit reports to the Bank no later than six months after the end
of their respective fiscal years (para 3.44)
(xv)   BPPT shall:
(a)    With respect to the technical assistance component for strengthening BPPT-LSDE
capabilities for testing and technical certification of SHS equipment, BPPT shall:
(i) initiate and undertake without delay all steps necessary to ensure that the
consultants are mobilized no later than October 31, 1997, in accordance with TOR
acceptable to the Bank; (ii) submit, by no later than February 28, 1998, a time-
bound action plan -- acceptable to the Bank --including major intermediate
milestones to achieve ISO 25 status by December 31, 2001, with this date subject
to revision based on the consultant's report; and (iii) ensure that the TA work
under this Project would be completed by no later than October 31, 1999 (para
3.17).
(b)    With respect to the technical assistance consultancy contract for the Project
Support Group (PSG), that: (i) PSG would be established in accordance with TOR,
membership, staffing and resources acceptable to the Bank; and (ii) BPPT will
undertake contracting in a timely manner so that the PSG can be mobilized no later
than May 15, 1997 (para 3.47).
(c)    Submit its audit reports to the Bank no later than six months after the end of its
fiscal year (para 3.44).



45
Condition of Effectiveness
5.2    The condition of loan effectiveness is:
(a)    Execution of subsidiary loan agreement between MOF and BI, and at least two
SLAs/OLAs between MOF/BI and the PBs, which include provisions governing the
channeling of GEF grant funds, satisfactoryto the Bank (para 3.27).
Actions to be taken before Withdrawal of Loan and Grant Proceeds
5.3    The conditions of disbursement for each PB are:
(a)   signing of an SLA/OLA between MOF/BI and the PB, satisfactory to the Bank
(para 3.27);
(b)    obtaining prior authorization from the Bank for the subborrower (3.29) and
continuing dealer eligibility (para 3.50); and
(c)    obtaining prior authorization from the Bank (para 3.30 and para 3.40) for ceiling
amounts on the grants to a dealer, and continuing dealer eligibility(para 3.50).
5.4    The condition for disbursement for part or all of the Phase 2 GEF grant funds is the written
authorization by the GEF Chief Executive Officer (para 3.53).
Recommendation
5.5    With the above agreements and conditions, the proposed project is suitable for a loan of US$ 20.0
million equivalent and a GEF grant of SDR 16.8 million (US$24.3 million equivalent), to the Republic of
Indonesia.



46
Schedule A
INDONESIA
SOLAR HOME SYSTEMS PROJECT
Estimated Costs and Financing Plan
(US$ million)
Local      Foreign       Total
Credit Component                         23.0        69.1          92.1
Technical Assistance                      2.0         4.3          6.3
of which
- Implementation Support            1.0         3.1          4.1
- Policy Support                    0.5         0.7          1.2
- Institutional Development         0.5         0.5          1.0
Base Cost                     25.0         73.4        98.4
Duties and Taxes                    2.5         7.3          9.8
Price Contingencies (Credit Component)  5.5     4.3          9.8
Total project Cost            33
Financing Plan:
IBRD                               0.0         20.0         20.0
GEF                                0.0         24.3         24.3
GOI/BPPT                            1.5         0.0          1.5
Participating Banks                 1.2         3.8          5.0
Subborrowers                       30.4        36.9         67.3
Total                              3801



47                                     Schedule B
Page 1 of 2
INDONESIA
SOLAR HOME SYSTEMS PROJECT
Procurement and Disbursement
A. Summaries of Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million)
Procurement Method
Other /a N.B.F. /b     Total
A. Credit Component                                   101.9       0.0      101.9
(20)                (20)
[20]                [201
Taxes                                         0.0       9.8        9.8
Subtotal                                    101.9       9.8      111.8
(20.0)     (0.0)    (20.0)
120.0]     [0.0]    '20.01
B. Technical Assistance
Implementation Support                        4.1       0.0        4.1
[3.1]               [3.1]
Policy Support                                1.2       0.0        1.2
[0.7]               [0.7]
Institutional Development                     1.0       0.0        1.0
[0.5]               [0.5]
Subtotal                                      6.3       0.0        6.3
(0.0)     (0.0)     (0.0)
[4.3]     [0.0]     [4.31
Total                                                 108.2       9.8      118.1
(20.0)     (0.0)    (20.0)
[24.3]     [0.01    [24.31
Note: Terms in ( ) and [ are amounts financed by IBRD and GEF, respectively
/a Goods and services to be procured by limited international bidding
or established conuercial practices
/b Not Bank fmanced



48
Schedule B
Page 2 of 2
INDONESIA
SOLAR HOME SYSTEMS PROJECT
B. Disbursement Arrangements
Amount of                  Percentage of Expenditures
Category                         Loan and Grat                     to be Financed /a
Alkocated
(US$ mill. equiv.)
A IBRD Loan
- Sub-loans                         20.0          Refinance 80% of the sub-loans made by
participating banks to dealers
8 GEF Grant
- SHS Instalation                   20.0           100% /b
- T.A.                               4.3          100% /c
/a  Expenditures financed are exclusive of value-added-tax (VAT).
lb $75/SHS unit installed in Java, and S125/SHS unit installed outside Java.
/c In addition, GOI/BPPT will finance S1.5 million equivalent TA for implementation support, policy support and
institutional development, and the subborrowers would finance S 0.5 million equivalent for implementation
support.
Estimated Disbursements (Smillion)
Bank Fiscal Year           1997          1998        1999      2000      2001      2002
D3RD        Annual         0.3           2.2         4.5         7.0       6.0       0.0
Loan    Cumulative         0.3           2.5         7.0        14.0      20.0      20.0
GEF         Annual         0.3           3.5         5.2         6.2       7.3       1.8
Grant   Cumulative         0.3           3.8         9.0        15.2      22.5      24.3



49                                  Schedule C
INDONESIA
Solar Home Systems Project
TIMETABLE OF KEY PROJECT PROCESSING EVENTS
(a) Time taken to prepare the project:    2 years'
(b) Prepared by:                       BPPT, but mostly with assistance from Bank-managed
grant financed consultants- local and foreign
(c) First Bank mnission:               June 1994
(d) Appraisal mission departure:       May 1996
(e) Negotiations:                      December 1996
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:     May 1997
(g) List of relevant PCRs and PPARs:    Loan 31 80-IND, Rural Electrification ICR
Date: December 1995, Report No. 15210
Project processing took more time than the norm for power projects in Indonesia, since preparation
for this project has led the Bank's power operations into new areas -- decentralized rural electrification,
renewable energy, private sector, rural markets -- that entailed the laying of considerable ground work to
collect the baseline data, and to seek out stakeholder views and commitments. Furthermore, there is no
single agency/Ministry that has as its mandate the filling of this preparatory void. In addition to ensuring
quality at entry, the additional time was required to pre-identify several private sector dealers that would
qualify for sub-loans and grants under the project; a process that could normally have been undertaken
following loan effectiveness, but that would also delay actual implementation. Increased processing time
also resulted from having to comply with two sets of reviews and procedures - IBRD and GEF.
The report is based on an appraisal mission undertaken in June 1996 comprising Mr. Arun P. Sanghvi
(Task Manager), Messrs. Subodh Mathur and Jim Finucane (consultants), and Mr. Anil Cabraal
(ASTAE). Peer reviewers were Messrs./Mmes. Magdalena Manzo (SA2EI), Khalid Siraj (FSD), and
Ernesto Terrado (IENPD). The GEF external technical reviewer was Mr. Scott Sklar (Executive
Secretary, Council of International Solar Electric Industries Association). Mr. Javad Khalilzadeh-Shirazi,
Acting VP (EAP), Mrs. Marianne Haug, Director (EA3DR) and Mr. Peter R. Scherer, Division Chief
(EA3IP) have endorsed the project.



MOP Schedule D
Run Date: 10/16/96
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Status of Bank Group Operations in Indonesia
Difference
Original amount in US$ millions               between expected
Project      Loan or      Fiscal                                                                                                                      and actual
ID        Credit No.     Year         Borrower                      Purpose                           IBRD    IDA    Cancellations  Undisbursed  disbursemetite
Number of Closed Loans: 147/ Credits: 48
Active Loans
ID-PE-3923     1.2932        1988      GOI            JabotabekUrbanTransmort                             150.00                                7.83            7.83
ID-PE-3946    1[3112         1990      GOI            Public Works Institutional Dev. & Tmg                36.10                                0.01            0.01
ID-PE-3873      [3158        1990      GOI            Second Secondary Education                          154.20                               25.24           25.24
ID-PE-3973     [3182         1990      GOI            Third Telecommunications                            350.00                  37.50        23.23           60.73
ID-PE-3960     [3209         1990      001            Gas Utilization                                      86.00                               42.53           42.53
ID-PE-386S     L3219         1990      001            Second labotabek Urban Development                  190.00                               33.07           32.11
ID-PE-3977     U3246         1991      GOI            Third Jabotabek Urban Development                    61.00                               21.64           20.36          L
ID-PE-3959     U282          1991      GOI            FertilizerRestructuring                             221.70                   0.24        10.71            8.05
ID-PE-39S1     12302         1991      001            Provincial Irrigated Agriculture Dev.               125.00                  20.50        22.70           43.20
ID-PE-3943     13304         1991      GOI            EastJava/Bali Urban Development                     180.30                               28.01           28.01
ID-PE-3912     13305         1991      GOI            YogyakartaUplandAreaDevelopment                      15.50                                3.51            3.23
ID-PE-3922     [3340         1991      GOI            Sulawesi-lrian Jaya Urban Development               100.00                               11.65            8.87
ID-PE-3975     12349         1991      GOI            Power Transmission                                  275.00                 103.40        19.24          117.14
ID-PE4002      [3385         1991      GOI            Technical Assistance for Infrastructure              30.00                               11.33           11.33
ID-PE-3928     [3402         1992      GOI            Agricultural Financing                              106.10                               54.03           48.73
ID-PE-3966     L3431         1992      GOI            Third Non-Formnal Education                          69.50                               14.17            2.47
ID-PE-3940     [3448         1992      GOI            Primary Education Quality Improvement                37.00                               21.20           11.90
ID-PE-4012     [3454         1992      001            BAPEDAL Development                                  12.00                                2.16            0.66
ID-PE-3S60    .L3464         1992      GOI            Treecrops Smailholder                                87.60                               46.19           20.09
ID-PE-3997     U3482         1992      GOI            Fourth Telecommunications                           375.00                             222.24            42.24
ID-PE-3949     U3490         1992      GOI            bhird Kabupaten Roads                               215.00                                5.06            5.06
ID-PE-3969     13496         1992      GOI            Primary School Teach&r Development                   36.60                               15.34           10.04
ID-PE-3916     L3501         1992      GOI            Suralaya Thermal Power                              423.60                             232.21            13.11
ID-PE-3970     L3526         1993      001            Financial Sector Developrnent                       307.00                  39.81        45.14           84.95
ID-PE-3914     L3550         1993      GOI            ThirdComniunityHealth &Nutrition                     93.50                               50.63            7.13
ID-PE4006      L3579         1993      GOI            E. Indonesia Kabupaten Roads                        155.00                               41.82           17.81           1|
P
Page 1 of 3                                                                                             ONl



Difference
Original amount in USS millions             between expected
Project     Loan or      Fiscal                                                                                                                and actual
ID       Credit No.     Year        Bo!rrwer                     Puepse                           IBRD    IDA    Cancellations  Undisbursed  disbursements'
ID-PE4009      L3586        1993     GOI            IntegratedPestManagement                          32.00                             23.62           13.12
ID-PE-3999     12588        1993     GOI            Groundwater Development                           54.00                             36.53            2.73
ID-PE-401S     U3589        1993     GO            FloresEarthquakeReconstruction                    42.10                              8.96            8.96
ID-PE4007      12602        1993     GOI           CirataHydroelectricPhasell                        104.00                             78.51           52.71
ID-PE-3990     12629        1993     GOI            Water Supply & Sanitation for Low Income          80.00                             57.70          22.70
ID-PE-3985     12658        1994     GOI           National Watershed Mgmt and Consvation             56.50                             49.37            5.07
ID-PE-3945     12712        1994     GOI           SecondHighwaySectorlnvestment                     350.00                            244.10          74.10
ID-PE-3952     U3721        1994     GOI            Skills Development                                27.70                             22.80           17.85
ID-PE-3998     12726        1994     GOI           SurabayaUrban Development                         175.00                            152.34           54.24
ID-PE4020      12732        1994     GOI            Fifth Kabupaten Roads                            101.50                             56.68           -2.81
ID-PE-4010     12742        1994     GOI           Dam Safety                                         55.00                             45.92            8.52
ID-PE-3890     12749        1994     GOI           Semarang-Surakarta Urban Development              174.00                            136.27           22.37
ID-PE-4017     L3754        1994     GO1           University Research for Graduation Study           58.90                             47.60            6.20
ID-PE-3937     L3755        1994     GOI           Integrated Swarnps                                 65.00                             53.47            6.22
ID-PE-3910     12761        1994     GOI           Sumatera&KalimnantanPower                         260.50                            244.36          43.86
ID-PE-3954     12762        1994     GOI           Java Irrigation Improvemnents and Wtr Resource    165.70                            137.29          21.49
ID-PE-3984     12792        1995     0OI           Land Administration                                80.00                             72.66            8.64
ID-PE-4019     12801        1995     GOI           SecondAccountancyDevelopmnent                      25.00                             22.14           9.94
ID-PE-3988     12825        1995     GOI           Second Professional Resource Development           69.00                             52.85          -0.16
ID-PE-3979     12845        1995     GOI           Second Rural Electrification                      398.00                            380.29          46.63
ID-PE-3951     L3854        1995     GOI           KalitnantanUrbanDevelopnent                       136.00                            115.77          25.27
ID-PE-3972     12886        1995     GOI           Second Agriculture Research Management             61.00                             61.00
ID-PE-3968     12887        1995     GOI           Book & Reading Development                        132.50                            130.22          -2.24
ID-PE-34891    1288S        1995      GOI           Village Infrastructure                            72.50                             39.37            5.63
ID-PEA4001     1904         1995     GOI           Telecommunications Sector Modernization           325.00                            325.00
1D-PE-3965     L3905        1995     GOI           Fourth 11ealth                                     88.00                             S6.72          -1.25
ID-PE-39754    12913        1995      GOI           Second Technical Assistance for Infrastructure    28.00                             28.00
ID-PE-3978     12972        1996     GOI           Industrial Technology Development                  47.00                             46.00        3643.45
ID-PE4021      12978        1996     GOI           Second Power Transmnission and Distribution       373.00                            373.00
ID-PE4003      12979       1996      GOI           Second Teacher Training                            60.40                             59.60           5.65
ID-PE-39643    L3981        1996      GOI           STD/AIDS                                          24.80                             24.30            1.50
ID-PE-4008     12984        1996     GOI           Nusa Tenggara Agriculture Development              27.00                             26.20           1.30
ID-PE4011      L4007        1996     GOI           Sulawesi Agriculture Area Development              26.80                             26.80           0.75
ID-PE4014      L4008        1996     GOI           KerinciSeblatlCDP                                  19.10                             19.10
ID-PE-39312    L4017        1996      GOI           Second E. Java Urban Development                 142.70                            142.70           14.00
ID-PE-41896    L4030        1996      GOI           Human Resource Capacity Building                  20.00                             20.00            0.51
ID-PE-37097    L4042        1996     GOI            E. Java Junior Secondaraya Education              99.00                             99.00
ID-PE4004      L4043       1996      GOI           Higher Education Support                           65.00                             65.00           1.50          -  un
Page 2 of 3



Difference
Original amount in USS millions              between expected
Project      Loan or      Fiscal                                                                                                                   and actual
ID        Credit No.    Year         Borrower                      Purpose                           IBRD    IDA    Cancellations  Undisbursed  disbursements'
ID-PE-4016     L4054         1996      GO            Strategic Urban Roads                              86.90                               86.90
ID-PE-3987     L4062         1997     GOI            C. Indonesia Secondary Education                   104.00                              104.00
ID-PE-41894     L4095        1996      GOI            Sumatra Secondary Education                         98.00                              98.00
ID-PE-40521     L4100        1997      GOI            Second Village lnfiastructure                      140.10                             140.10
TOTAL                                                                                                8,443.40      0.00      201.45     5.051.13        4.791.28
Active Loans                              Closed Loans                    Total
l'otal disbursed (IBRD and IDA)                 3,190.83                                  14,219.69                17,410.52
Of whici repaid                                  65.78                                   6,159.40                 6,225.18
Total now held by IBRD and IDA                  8,176.16                                   8,082.91                16,259.07
Amount sold                                         0.00                                     88.08                     88.08
Of which repiaid                                  0.00                                     82.35                     82.35
Total undisbursed                               5,051.12                                     22.63                  5,073.75
a. intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note:
Disbursement data are updated at the end ofthe first week of the month.
or-
Pg  3
Page 3 of 3



53                                             Schedule D
Page 4 of 6
Indonesia
STATEMENTOF IFC's
Committed and Dispursed Portfolio
As of 08/31/96
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                          Disbursed
-IFC                                  IOFC
FY            Company          Loan    Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan    Equity  Quasi  Partic
Approval
1971       Unitex                   0.00       .35    0.00     0.00     0.00       .35   0.00   0.00
1980       Semen Andalas           10.35    10.02    0.00    10.98    10.35    10.02   0.00   10.98
1982       Sasela Finance           0.00      .32    0.00      0.00     0.00       .32   0.00   0.00
1984       Saseka Finance           0.00       .06    0.00     0.00     0.00       .06   0.00   0.00
1986       PT Bali                   .44      0.00    0.00     0.00      .44     0.00   0.00   0.00
1987       Semen Andalas            0.00      0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00   0.00   0.00
1988       Manulife                 0.00       .32    0.00     0.00     0.00       .32   0.00   0.00
1989       PT Agro Muko             3.78      2.20    0.00     4.09     3.78     2.20   0.00   4.09
1989       PTAstra                  0.00     11.62    0.00     0.00     0.00    11.62   0.00   0.00
1990       PT Indo-Rama             1.84      0.00    0.00     4.91      1.84    0.00   0.00   4.91
1991       LYON-MLF-lbis            2.30      0.00    0.00     2.30     2.30     0.00   0.00   2.30
1991       PTArgoPantes            16.88    13.00    0.00    26.50    16.88    13.00   0.00  26.50
1991       PTAstra                  0.00      0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00   0.00   0.00
1991       PT ndaci                  .80     0.00     1.83     0.00      .80     0.00   1.44   0.00
1991       PTIndo-Rama             10.31     6.18     0.00     0.00    10.31     6.18   0.00   0.00
1991       PT RPMBA                 8.67       .60    0.00     5.00     8.67      .60   0.00    5.00
1991       SEAVI Indonesia          0.00      1.50    0.00     0.00     0.00      1.50   0.00   0.00
1992       PT Bakrie Kasei         21.56      0.00    9.63    85.73    21.56     0.00   9.63  85.73
1992       PTKIAKeramik              .94      1.70    0.00     6.18      .94      1.57   0.00   6.18
1992       PTMitracorp              0.00    15.87    0.00      0.00     0.00    15.87   0.00   0.00
1992       PT Swadharma            24.89      0.00    0.00    44.47    24.89     0.00   0.00  44.47
1992       PT Viscose               7.92      0.00    0.00    16.58     7.92     0.00   0.00   16.58
1993       PT BBL Dharmala           .79      0.00    0.00     1.27      .79     0.00   0.00    1.27
1993       PT Indo-Rama             0.00     0.00    0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00   0.00   0.00
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS)                                                           Page I



Schedule D
54                                                Page 5 of 6
Committed                          Disbursed
--IFC                                   FFC
FY            Company          Loan    Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan    Equity   Quasi  Partic
Approval
1993       PTNusantara              4.00      0.00    0.00    12.00     3.58     0.00   0.00   11.67
1993       PT Samudera              2.45      5.00    0.00     8.05     2.45     5.00   0.00    8.05
1993       Saseka Finance           0.00      0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00   0.00    0.00
1994       KDLC Bali               15.00      1.14    0.00     0.00    15.00      1.14   0.00    0.00
1994       Prudential Asia          0.00      6.75    0.00     0.00     0.00     4.19   0.00    0.00
1994       PAMA (Indonesia)         0.00      0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00   0.00    0.00
1994       PT Astra                 0.00    10.67    0.00      0.00     0.00    10.67   0.00    0.00
1994       PT KIA Keramik           0.00      1.40    0.00     0.00     0.00      1.40   0.00    0.00
1994       PT Mitracorp             2.54      4.12    0.00     0.00     2.54     4.12   0.00    0.00
1994       PT PAMA                  0.00      .71    0.00      0.00     0.00       .71   0.00    0.00
1994       PT Sanpuri               8.00      0.00    0.00    22.00     8.00     0.00   0.00   22.00
1995       PT Bakrie Kasei         30.00      3.00    0.00     0.00    30.00     3.00   0.00    0.00
1995       PT Bakrie Pet            12.00     2.00    0.00     0.00    12.00     2.00   0.00    0.00
1995       PT Bakrie Pipe          20.00      0.00    9.50     0.00    20.00     0.00    9.50    0.00
1995       PT Bunas Finance         10.00     0.00    0.00     6.00    10.00     0.00   0.00    6.00
1995       PT Citimas Captl         0.00      2.59    0.00     0.00     0.00      1.31   0.00    0.00
1995       PT Hotel Santika         9.00      0.00    5.00     0.00     0.00     0.00   0.00    0.00
1995       PT Indo-Rama            28.33      4.71    0.00    62.68    28.33     2.54    0.00   62.68
1995       PTKIASerpih             15.00      6.35    0.00    55.00    15.00     6.24   0.00   55.00
1995       PT Panin Finance         6.00      1.93    0.00     8.00     6.00      1.93   0.00    8.00
1995       PT Viscose              25.00      0.00    0.00    35.00    25.00     0.00   0.00   35.00
1996       PT BBL Dhannala          15.00     0.00    0.00    35.00    15.00     0.00   0.00   35.00
1996       PT Dharnala             20.00      0.00    0.00     0.00    20.00     0.00   0.00    0.00
1996       PT Gleneagles            8.30      0.00    3.60     0.00     0.00     0.00   0.00    0.00
1996       PTKIAKeramik            25.00      6.22    0.00    81.00     9.43      .65   0.00   30.57
1996       PT Pramindo Ikat        25.00      7.35   25.00   300.00     0.00     0.00   0.00    0.00
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS)                                                           Page 2



Schedule D
55                                                Page 6 of 6
Committed                           Disbursed
IFC                               IFC
FY            Company          Loan    Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan    Equity   Quasi  Partic
Approval
Pending Commitments
1997        * KSP                   20.00    15.00     0.00    15.00
1996        * PANIN FINANCE II       6.00     0.00     0.00     4.00
1996        * PANIN II - BLINC       0.00     0.00     0.00     4.00
1996        * PT ASIANAGRO          40.00     0.00     0.00    40.00
1995        * PT INDO-RAMA RI        0.00     2.50     0.00     0.00
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS)                                                             Page 3



56
ScheduleE
Page I of 2
Indonesia at a glance
Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           East middle-
Indonesia      Asia  income     Development diamoind
Population fd-1 995 (nIonsJ                       193.3    1,709    1.154                Lde excectancy
GNPpercapitalIgE(USS)                               980       840    1,700
GNP 1995 (bIon USS)                               190.5    1.436    1.962
Avege annual growth. 1990-95
PopuIUon( ()                                        1.6       1.3      1.4
L boX  )                                            2.5       14       17     GNP           .'                Gron
per'                           prumway
Most nrAnt aseta (ltt year abJe since 1989)                                   capta                          enroWnant
Povwflr hnadountlndex (  otfpopuaion)                14 4
Urban population (6 of Wpop&iebon)                   34        32      56
Lif eupsowcy at ba s (yam)                           63        68      67
Infant modalty (per 1,000 in 60)                     56        35      36
Child m_oion    of chIMdfun undr 5)                  39        17                      Arcces to de water
Acea  to asfe wow (X ofiopoulabon)                   42        67      73
llItracy (% of poputs"n age t5+)                     23        16                -  fndnehwa
Grs primly enroWliamt ( of sc5ooa0ge populalon)     114       116     104        -Lower'-nhdeforncom  group
male                                              116       119     105
Fem_e                                             112       115     101                                              I
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975    1eSS      19"   19St9.      Ecnomino    o
GDP 'bNm  USS)                            32.1    87.2    175.5   198.1
Gm" domIatic kwee tGOP                    23.7    26.2       30.1    31.5                O          of 
Eoo  of gooda an non4sclor ssrweaaGDP     23.2    22.6       25.8    25.5                 penneao economy
Graa domeatic amigaD P                     25.9    29.1      31.5    31.8
Gros natIonal aava'GDP                             24.2      27.6    28.2
Cwi- t ameunt baWD/P                       43.5    -2.1       1.9    -3.4      Swings         v?T nvtmnt
In  t pyR.ElP                               1.0     2.3       2.5      2.7
TodebtWGOP                                 35.8    42.1      55.3    53.6
Totd4debt 1t_vcalexports                   15.1    28.8      31.5    31.0
Pro" VAl of det/GOP                                          51.3             Ind.bedn
Preaentvad lafda  ,pouts                                    181.8
1976.54  108-S      1334   19Uled  131644 -,1indmons
(Van"ae aiw grwtl                                                                  -Lotwrnrddne-incom, group
GOP                                7.2      7.1     7.5       8.1      8.0
GNPp r capi                        4.5      5.5     5.4       6.4      6.2
Exports of good and nft           -0.6      7.8     7.7       7.2    11.1
STRUCTURE of Wte ECONOMY
1378    1336      193    199 a*
(% of GOfp                                     _t_
Ag u                                       30.2    23.2      17.4    17.2        ,  
I_day                                      33.5    35.9      40.7    41.5      "
Manuiaatmng                               9.S    16.0       23.5    24.3  '-
SttvIces                                  38.3    40.9       41.9    41.3       s
0*
Puivate onsumplon                         65.1    59.1       80.2    59.8         9    90   91   n2   93   04   t*
Gneal govenment conumption                  9.0    11.8      082       8.2 2
Impo  of goods aNd non-Iacor sams          21.0    19.8      23.8    24.8 
175.44  195 1"4  I"&ed
(Svea" aIUW i)                                                                 Gro rte of experm and kupaf to
Agr*adir                                    4.3     3.4       0.5      4.0    25
Indueey                                     7.1     9.4      11.2    10.3
MUnusacunng                              144      10.9      12.5    11.1     I
Services                                   9.5      8.1       7.1      7.4     ' -
10
Pivaeaconsumption                          9.1      6.5       7.7      9.9     c
GeneralgoVamM ntooe.epeon                  11.4     4.8       2.3      3.4      ni   90   ti   92 9n             .4   t4
Groaadomascent                             14.5     9.6      12.2    12.5
Impou at good   and non-actor aetc         9.9      7.8      12.7    15.3                 -e        -
Gns ntoa Plodt                              6.7     8.0       7.3      8.1
Note: 1995 dat we prelnltnary etsw_em
The diamonds etow lout key indicator In the counby (m bold) c ompad with its incomegroup aveage. It data are miasng. the diamond wiUl
be icortlpte.



57
Schedule E
Page 2 of 2
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975    1985       1994  1915ct o     nflaton s%)
Dom.sbc p
( change)                                                                        15
Consumerpntes                                191      44         96       9.0     ,.
ImplidtGDP deflator                          11 5     4 3        6.0      5.0     5=
Govrnmnt nnnce                                                                           90    9      92    93   94    N
(X ofGDP)                                                                             -GoPdot -_CP
Cunntwet enwe                                         19.2      1 5.9    15.5
Cun'm budoget btce                                    6.0        6.6      6.0
Over1 splusdeWt                                 .     -3.2       0.3      0.8
TRADE
1975    1985       19U4  1195 *I        EIxpot and lnpoutet 1s  milL USS)
(niWons UJSS)
Total exports (fob)                                18.823    42.050   46.019
Fuel                                              12.804    10.344    9.749      sc.occ
Rubber                                              714      1.316    1.554      0.0c-
Mauwfa9ck                                     .    2.287    20.272   23.638     30.000     - 
Totl import (cOf)                                   14.056    37,736   44.47      20. ON 
81odW2    782      942                W     I    52   9         95
Fuel and energy                      ~~~~2.870  3.988    3.845
Ca"Ia goods                                        5.394    15.062   18.i35 
Expotpnce indtx (1987-100)                            120       135      140                 Exqn  am
Impott pnt  index (1987.100)                           85        89       90
TwmrnsofVede(1987*100)                          .     141       153      155
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1175    1905       1994  1995 1
(nto  USS)
Expor Of goods and nonw or srvics          6,91   19.371    48.899   51,644        Ceft accound balsa:a to GOP ratlo I%)
indpt ofgoodsandnon-facor seres            6.775   17.840    43.392   51,052      
Rescugcebaevc                                206    1.531     3.507      592       *             I    2   i3.'S4' 501
Net Ibor icme                              -1.342   -3,542    4.994   -7,535
NelcTfentrUIsll                                0       B8         0        0        .                 - -
Cnt t Lnt batne:.
_ h ba     I ml' 1 rs                    -1.135   -1.923    -3.488   4.943      .a- 
F;naei  items alnt)                          284      982     2233   10.059
Changesmin nelreservnl-.nweaf)               851      961    -1.255    3.116
Meo
Reserves inludng gold (n& USS)               592    5.794    12290  13.869
Covsmo  rte (A,caSSJ                       415.0  1.110.6   2.160.8  2.248.6
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975    19U5        1133    119
(nvftso USS)
Ttam dett outstanding and disbursed       11,507   36.709    89,477  9s.500        Coipoe     of total de. 114 (ill USs)
IBRD                                        57    3,590    11.283   12.008
IDA                                        318      844       796      ne6                                A
Totts debt servi                            1.0     5.824    14.267   14.792              17109           127N   8
IBRD                                         2      384      1.620    2.156                    /7
IDA                                          2       12        24       28                                         0
Compobition of not resore flows
Ofbdlets                                    69      136       219      218
OMdld areddor                              515    1,003     2.339    1.487
Pr*dle tredltO                           1.749      154    -3.365    1.627
Foregn dir  ivestment                      478      310     2,004    2.109
Pa 0110  ecpsrty                             0        0      1.836    3.672          F
Word Bank program                                                                    2986
Comnvetmnts                                311    1.068       924    1.538
Disburseents                               164      777     1.195    1,184
Prlnnprepsyments                             0      133       782    1.259      A - I.R                       E._BUhi
NtM GM"                                    164      644       413      .78      8-IDA     D.Oowssis eum       F.Plfb_
Intaratp.ynents                              3      262      s81       922      C . IMF                       G0. 5iaflYl
Nat tanslntt                               160      382      *448    s998
Intw_onol E      rconomca Depatmen
Note:
1. Governnt fine end  doe fiscal year (April to Mach).
2. New Natonal Accaunts Senes has been used
3. a? indicates eshate for 1995






58
PART II: Technical Annexes






59
List of Annexes
I.1    MME Organizational Chart
1.2    BPPT Organizational Chart
1.3    Growth in Rural Electrification Coverage: Villages
2.1    Growth in Rural Electrification Coverage: Households
2.2    Technical Details of Solar Photovoltaic Systems
2.3    Power Subsector-Listof IDA Credits and Bank Loans
3.1    Performance Indicators
3.2    Dealers Interested in Participating in the Project
3.3    Bank Indonesia's Bank Rating System
3.4    Summary Technical Specification and Verification Procedures
3.5    SubborrowerQualification Criteria Dealer Obligations, Enforcement and Penalties
3.6   Incremental Costs and Global Environmental Benefits
3.7    Summary Information Sheet for Subborrower
3.8   Information Required in a Subborrower'sBusiness Plan
3.9    Disbursement of Grant and Loan Funds for Credit Component Only
3.10   Estimated Disbursement Schedule
3.11   Project Implementation Schedule
3.12   Terms of Reference for Mid-term Review Panel
3.13   SuperviF ion Activities and Schedule
4.1    Comparison of Solar PV and Conventional Rural ElectrificationCosts
4.2   Internal Economic Rate of Return
5.1    Selected Documents in Project File
MAP: IBRD 26570






INDONESIA
SOLAR HOME SYSTEMS PROJECT
Organization Chart of the Ministry of Mines and Energy
Gw_Fj
0cmndCuEn. C.n.o
|.&'(  O X4     D.o.lp.   0dtia 4  I 0  .I
I"k A~ ~    I A...L. 
C.j I



INDONESIA
SOLAR HOME SYSTEMS PROJECT
Organization Chart of the Bureau for the Assessment and Application of Technology (BPPT)
|   Chairman
|Vice Chairman
fl    Deputy for    |  | Basic ande Applied for         Deputy for    l       l    Deputy for    |D|pNatural Resources                      Deputy for
ystem A  |  Science  |  | Development              Industial A                   Development                Administration
Directorae for theDirectorae for theDirectorate for Human                  Directorate for theDretaefote
Directrate fr theDirectrate fr theSettlement and                        Asiessment of Defense.            ireaturale Reourcte              Bureau
Aisessment of Primary            Assessment of                  Environmental             Security and Strateg i          Nvtory Teshnolos                for Planning
Industry System             Engineering Science               Technology                    Industries    o                                      __|_D______ 
the Directorfte for                                                                        Directorate for               Directorate for
_ Afsconoenicsndmegionalt_    Directorate for the                                          Assessme Directorate ftAor Esne Mineral Resourcet            Buireau for
Assessmnt of  ndustral Proessing         Mechanical and Electro.            Developmnent                Personnel Affairs
Sevelopmendy I stry            L*1arife Science           Iniorm.locs Technology         technical Industries              Technology
System__                 _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ___       _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ___      _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Directorate for             Directorate for tie rDirectorate for the                                                  Directorate for the
the Assessment of            Dir ssentrte ofoth              Directorate for               Assessment of               Energy Resources                  Bureau for
Energy Technology                     Processing and                Development               Finance and Facilities
the Serviem Industry_Technical_Science                                            Engineering Industries             Technology
Directorate for the                                                              1ectoral                                           f     Lafro
Assessment of Socio-           Directorate for thec            Directorate for               Directorate for            DRetourate feeorpLand            ueufoea
L Economic and Regional   L]seseto                                 lcrnc  n            L     d       If sesmn o          and Disasters Mitigation      Affairs. Organization &
Development System               Marine Science            Informatics Techinology      Industrial Infrastructure           Techntology                 Public Relations
Directorate for                                                                            Bureau for
Manufacturing and                                                                           Controlling
Certification Techinology 
F-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
Tehia                           Cete ,1o1r
Oeaio                          Edcto   and



INDONESRA
SOLAR HOME SYSTEMS PROJECT
Historical Growth in Rural Electrirication Coverage: Villages
90%
Java-    87%
80%
76%
70%                                                                                           u awesi
o   0%-64%
60%-                                                                t                               ia
0         50%                                       r                   /         /                Smatera
50
'40%                                                                                                     35%
iU                     /,=                                               ,gEastern Indonesia 1/
0
> 30%                                                                                                   32%
20% > _ _ = w ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~alimantan
20%
10%
0%
_ ~ ~~ ~ _.. _                                     _        _    ~       _     _     
CD       CO       CD       CD        CD       (D       CD       CD        (D       cD        CD
co       co       00        O         D O               co      co        CD       co       co
01       0        -J        0         D       0 Q                Q - . 
0)      -4J                CD        0        -0 C))                                0
1/ Maluku 46% Irian Jaya 24% West Nusa Tenggara 89%                                          Note; For all years after 1989/90,
East Nusa Tenggara 26% East Timor 19%                                               number of villages is based on 1989/90 data



INDONESIA
SOLAR HOME SYSTEMS PROJECT
Historical Growth in Rural Electrification Coverage: Households
60%
50%                                                                                                                     Java-Bali 
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ /noneS 
40%
0                                                                                                                                         3
4.0
30%
20%
0
gS = ^ * _ _nes~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ia 1/
10%
C            co           co            CD          CO            cD           (D           co           co           CO            (D
co           co           OD            co           oD           cD           cD           co           co           co            CD
nJ           0)          -.            CD           CD                        _                          @v
cD            )C                        DC CD OD    co                                                   CD                         CA
co                                     co                                                   co           (  D   
0)       C4            00                        0             -L()                                                 i            0)
1/ Maluku 40 % Irian Jaya 14% West Nusa Tenggara 25%                                                                      Note: For all years 1989/90, number
East Nusa Tenggara 11% East rimor 3%                                                                                   of households is based on 1989/90 data



64
Annex 2.2
Page I of 4
INDONESIA
SOLAR HOME SYSTEMS PROJECT
Technical Details of Solar Photovoltaic Systems1
This annex presents a brief description of the technical details of solar PV systems; the
exact technical specificationsto be used under this Project are presented in Annex 3.4.
Solar photovoltaic (PV) systems directly convert sunlight into electricity using solid-
state physical principles similar to those of transistors and integrated circuits. The electricity
produced by PV systems is direct current (DC). The use of solar PV systems is being facilitated
by the increasing availability of common appliances, such as light bulbs, TVs, etc. that (i)
operate on DC, and (ii) are energy efficient. Thus, a 6 watt light used with a SHS can provide
the same amount of light as a conventional 40-Watt bulb. For this reason, the appliances often
used in rural areas, such as lights, TV, and radios, can be powered by PV systems.
PV systems used for rural electrification typically consist of the following five
components (see Figure 1):
(i)     Solar Photovoltaic Panels
(ii)    Storage Ba.teries
(iii)    Battery Controllers
(iv)    Wiring, Fuses, Switches
(v)     Appliances
Solar Photovoltaic Panels
The solar PV panels produce electricity, with the amount of electrical energy produced
being directly proportional to the amount of sunshine falling on the panel surface and upon the
area of the panel exposed to the sun.
A PV panel is made up of a number of cells. Individual silicon PV cells, no matter how
large, produce an output of about 0.5 Volts when exposed to sunlight. In order to generate an
output sufficient to charge a 12 Volt (V) battery, many cells (usually 33-36 in number) have to
be connected in series2 to formn a panel whose output is rated to exceed the voltage of the battery.
This annex is based, in part, on Liebenthal, A., S. Mathur, and H. Wade, Solar Energy: Lessons from the Pacific
Island Experience, World Bank Technical Paper Number 244, Energy Series, 1994.
2   Cells are said to be connected in series when the positive terminal of one cell is connected to the negative
terminal of another cell; the overall voltage is the sum of the voltages of each of the cells. Connection in series is
the usual method in which batteries are connected in household appliances, e.g., four batteries of 1.5 volts each
may be placed in a flashlight to produce 6 volts.



65
Annex 2.2
Page 2 of 4
PV panels usually are rated in Watt-peak (Wp) output, e.g., this Project will use solar PV
panels with a 50 Wp rating. This Watt-peak rating may be considered the maximum power that a
panel can produce under the prescribed conditions, e.g., a 50 Wp panel will produce a power
output of 50 watts.
Figure 1: Solar Home Systems Schematic
Photovoltaic
Module/Array
____________________  Fluorescent
lights
Supp      onnection wires                          =
_              ~~~~~and switchesA
ontro er                                     Television
Battery                          ~~~~~~~~~Radio/cassette
player
*                 ~~~~~~~or other small
appliance
Source: Cabraal, A., M. Cosgrove-Davies and L. Schaeffer, "Best Practices for Photovoltaic Household Electrification
Programs," World Bank Technical Paper Number 324, Asia Technical Department Series, September 1996.
It is important to realize that this Watt-peak rating is not directly comparable to the
wattage associated with conventional electrical appliances, e.g., a 50 Watt-peak rating cannot be
directly compared to the, say, 60-watt rating of a conventional electric light; if this type of
comparison is made, that would greatly underestimate the amount of service that a SHS with a
50 Wp would normally provide. For example, suppose at a particular location, 8 hours of full
sun are available; under ideal conditions, a 50 Wp panel would provide 400 (=50*8) watt-hours
of power to the storage battery. Later, at night, in theory, these 400 watt-hours stored in the
battery could be used to power, say, appliances to adding up to 100 watts for four hours, leaving
aside losses.3
At present, there are no solar PV manufacturing facilities in Indonesia, and it is expected
that the imported panels will used under the SHS Project.
3    In practice, this type of complete draining of the battery is not recommended as it greatly reduces the life of the
battery, and also fails to provide the consumer with any fall-back in case there is less sunshine the next day.



66                                    Annex 2.2
Page 3 of 4
Storage Batteries
Electrical storage is usually provided by lead-acid batteries similar to those used in
automobiles. Battery capacity is usually stated in Ampere-hours (Ah), which can be converted
into Watt-hours (the most common measure of electrical energy) by multiplying the Ah value by
the battery voltage. Thus, a 70-Ah 12 V battery stores 840 Watt-hours of electrical energy when
fully charged.
From a technical point of view, automobile batteries are not ideally suited for SHS units,
since these batteries are designed to produce a high current for a short period of time to start the
engine, while consumer appliances typically require a steady currert for a longer period of time.
Thus, strictly from a technical point of view, it is preferable to use so called "deep-discharge"
batteries, which are specifically designed for solar PV systems; in practice, field experience has
shown that high quality automotive batteries are capable of delivering good service. The wider
availability and lower price of automotive batteries also support the use of automotive batteries.
In Indonesia, while automotive batteries are locally manufactured and widely available,
at present, there is no production of deep-discharge batteries. However, the leading Indonesian
battery manufacturers have indicated that they would consider producing these batteries once the
SHS Project becomes operational, provided that there is sufficient demand.
Battery Charge/Discharge Controllers
Since batteries can be damaged by consistent overcharging, an automatic cut-off switch
called a charge controller is usually provided to sense battery charge and reduce or turn off
charging current to the batteries before damage can occur.  Further, batteries can also be
damaged by excessive discharging. To prevent this damage an automatic cut-off switch, called a
discharge controller, similar in operation to a charge controller, is usually installed. This
electronic device continually senses the state of the battery charge and disconnects the appliances
when battery charge falls below the set limit. Small systems in particular need the protection of
a discharge controller since it is easy to over discharge the battery through excessive use of
appliances. It is common practice to combine the functions of charge and discharge controllers
in a single device.
Charge/discharge controllers are manufactured in Indonesia, and it is expected that they
will be used in the SHS Project, though some imported controllers may also be used.
Wiring and Fuses
These components are interconnected with wiring of the same type as is used in grid
connected homes although a larger size of wire is generally needed due to the lower voltage and
higher currents being delivered to the appliances. Fuses or circuit breakers are used to protect
the equipment against short circuits.
Appliances and Service Provided
The reason for installing a solar PV system is to power appliances. In domestic systems,
these usually are limited to lights, radio, TV, VCR, and fans, although other small appliances
such as computers, pumps or radio-telephones may be connected as well. In general, it is



67
Annex 2.2
Page 4 of 4
preferable to use appliances specifically designed for use with solar PV systems, because they
are energy efficient and can be connected directly to the battery. These types of appliances are
locally manufactured in Indonesia.
A typical SHS will provide power for three fluorescent lights and a black and white 14-
inch TV or similar appliance for about five hours a day. The level of service provided is
comparable to that obtained by a rural household in Indonesia which consumes 15 kWh/month of
AC electricity, typically with conventional incandescent lights; the lights used in SHS are three
to five times more efficient than incandescent lights
The hours of service will vary by time of year and by location depending on the
available sunlight conditions; Figure 2 shows the average daily hours of service available when
three lights and one TV are used in three representative locations in the proposed SHS Project
area. The available hours of service range from nearly seven hours per day in September in
Ujung Pandang to a low of 4.5 hours of service per day in Palembang in December.
Figure 2: Representative Examples of Service Available from a 50 Wp SHS
Service from a 50 Wp Solar Home System when Using Three
6 W Fluorescent Lights and One 15 W Black & White TV
7 6.00
350 --
Lo  4.00  _ - - -  -  -  -  - .- j-- - - - - - -
3 -50   --------  -         ----                  .-   -
3.00
c atXCD                              a)        0OZ 
~&"'iia"ava)    Palembang (S. Surratra) +Ujung Pandang (S. SiiU wIS



68
ANNEX 2.3
INDONESIA
SOLAR HOME SYSTEMS PROJECT
Power Subsector - List of IDA Credits and Bank Loans
Bank    Credit or        Date                  Project                Amount       PPAR/PCR/ICR.
FY     Loan No.   Closed/Closing               Title                 S Million    Report No. Date
70   Credit 165         1975       Jakarta Power Distribution       15.81        2741    Nov 1979
72   Credit 334         1978       Jakarta Power Distribution II    40.00        2741    Nov 1979
73    Credit 399        1980       Thermal Power                    46.00         5104    May 1984
75    Loan 1127         1980       Power IV                         41.00         5104    May 1984
76    Loan 1259         1981       Power V                          90.00         5300   Oct 1984
77    Loan 1365         1984       PowerVI                         116.00        6238   Jun 1986
78    Loan 1513         1985       Power VII                        78.40        6762   Apr 1987
79   Loan 1708          1986       Power VIII                      158.10        7902   Jun 1989
80   Loan 1872          1987       PowerIX                         224.80        7902   Jun 1989
81    Loan 1950         1987       Power X                         250.00        7902   Jun 1989
82   Loan 2056          1988       Power Xl                        167.00         8701   Jun 1990
83   Loan 2214          1991       Power XII                       278.63        11014   Sep 1992
83   Loan 2300          1990       Power XIII (Cirata)             270.32        11014   Sep 1992
84   Loan 2443          1991       Power XIV                       205.11        11014   Sep 1992
85   Loan 1950-1        1990       Power X Supplemental             49.20         7902   Jun 1989
87   Loan 2778          1992       Power Transmission &
Distribution                   222.81        14725   Jun 1995
Loan 3097          1995      Power Sector Efficiency         337.00        15876   June 1996
89   Loan 3098          1995       Paiton Thermal Power            354.00        15762  June1996
89   Loan 3180          1995       Rural Electrification           329.00        15210   Dec 1995
90   Loan 3349          1996       Power Transmission              275.00
91    Loan 3501          1999/a    Suralaya Thermal Power          423.60
92   Loan 3602           1999/a    Cirata Hydroelectric Phase II   104.00
93   Loan 3761          2000/a     Sumatera-Kalimantan             260.50
94   Loan 3845           1998/a    Second Rural Electrification    398.00
96   Loan 3978           2000/a    Second Power Transmission &
Distribution                   373.00
Total                       5107.28
/a Ongoing project



69
Annex 3.1
Page 1 of 4
INDONESIA
SOLAR HOME SYSTEMS PROJECT
Performance Indicators
This annex consists of two tables. Table 1 provides the key performance indicators to be used to
monitor the progress of the project, while Table 2 provides additional information about inputs,
outcomes, risks and impact.
For the purposes of measuring the Project's performance, the national and global objectives (paras
3.4-3.5) are expressed more concisely as:
*     Objective A: Provide the modem energy form of electricity, in an environmentally
sustainable manner, to rural customers who cannot be served economically or in a timely
manner by conventional rural electrification.
*     Objective B: Establish private sector based efficient and sustainable delivery, financing
and loan collection mechanism for providing quality solar PV products to rural customers
*     Objective C: Capacity building of key sector institutions.
Approximate nature of targets The value of the indicators in Table 1 has been generally
derived on the basis of the best possible estimates of the outcomes , which are dependent upon the future
behavior of potential SHS customers as well as the actions of SHS dealers who have yet to become fully
established in this business. For this reason, the targets have been stated as approximate values rather
than as precise numbers.
Relative weights for evaluation purposes While the bulk of the resources under this Project
will be devoted to Objectives A and B (Table 2), Objective C is equally important as the other two
objectives, since capacity building is a key element of the long-term development of the solar PV
business.
For Objective A, a "satisfactory" rating would require that, as of the ICR year, the actual
sales be within 80% of the targets, and the timely repayment rates be within 200 basis points
of the target, and a "highly satisfactory" rating would require that the actual sales are within
90% of the targets and the timely repayment rates be above the target value.
The exceptions are: (i) the cumulative number of people served by the Project, which is derived by
multiplying the number of SHS units sold by the average family size (4.4), (ii) the environmental
benefits, which are the "project benefits" for the mid-term and ICR years, and the "programmatic
benefits" for the Full Impact Year (Annex 3.6), and (iii) cumulative fossil fuel conserved, which is
found by multiplying the number of SHS units sold by the average fossil fuel consumption of the
target households..



70
Annex 3.1
Page 2 of 4
*  For Objective B, the price indicator is relativley less important, in the sense that the
continued existence of SHS dealers without problem loans willing and able to serve rural
customers goes a long way towards meeting Objective B, regardless of the price decline
experienced as a result of the Project. A "satisfactory" rating would require that the actual
values of the indicators related to the dealers be within 80% of the targets, and a "highly
satisfactory" rating would require that the indicators be within 90% of the targets.
*  For Objective C, the assessment would be based on the timeliness of the completion of the
tasks. A "satisfactory" rating would require that the delays in completion not extend six
months beyond the target dates, and a "highly satisfactory" rating would require that the
completion dates be within three months of the targets dates
*  Given the pilot nature of this Project, the Overall rating should be based on the two best
objectives. For example, if a satisfactory number of dealers becomes established, and the
capacity building is also successfully implemented, then adequate progress has been made
towards the goal of decentralized rural electrification, so that an overall rating of
"satisfactory" would be justified, even if the sales performance was "unsatisfactory."
Similarly, a rating of "highly satisfactory" on at least two of the three objectives would
imply an overall rating of "highly satisfactory" for the Project.



INDONESIA
SOLAR HOME SYSTEMS PROJECT
Table 1: Key Performance Indicators
Project                                        PerformanceIndicators                            Baseline       Mid-term            ICR          Full Impact
Objective                                                                                        Year\U         Year\2             Year\3          Year\4
A. Provide modemenergy form ofelectricity,   Outcome Indicators
in an environmentallysustainablemanner, to  -Numberof units sold per yearon credit                              4,000       About 24,000      About 55,000      110,000
rural customers who cannot be served   - CumulativenumberofSHS units sold under Project                     Not applicable    About 34,000      200,000       Not applicable
economicallyor in a timely manner by   - Customertimely payment rates                                       Not applicable    About 95%        About 95%       About 95%
conventional rural electrification
Impact Indicators
- Cumulativenumberof people served by SHS Project                   Not applicable     150,000          880,000
- Cumulativeenvironmentat benefits( 000 tons C02 emissionsabated)   Not applicable      1 228             1,334          2,204
- Cumulative fossil fuel conserved(kilo-litcrs)                     Not applicable     , 92,940         546,720         903,277
B. Establishprivate sectorbased efficientand    Outcome Indicators
sustainabledelivcry,finaneingand loan  -lnstalledSiS Price Java (constant 1996 dollars)                      $550-S650       About $425       About $425      About $400
collectionmechanism for providingquality                  offJava (constant 1996 dollars)                    S700-S800       About $500       About $500      About $450
solar PV productsto rural customers                                                                                         with GEF grant  withoul GEF grant
- Dealers with "problem loans"                                      Not applicable     2 or less        2 or less
Impact Indicator
-Numberofdealersscilingto householdson creditbasis                        2           5 or more         5 or more       8 or more
C. Capacity building of key sector institutions  Outcome Indicators
- Decentralized rural electrification strategy study                Not applicable    Completed
- Procurement of equipment for BPPT's laboratory                    Not applicablc    Completed
- Attainment of ISO 25 status for BPPT's laboratory                 Not applicable   Action plan      Completed 5
adopted
Impact Indicator
-GOI adoption ofdecentralized rural electrilication strategy and action plan   Not applicable          Completed
U_j 1995-1996 U 1999 (assuming Iout effcctiveness May 1. 1997) U, 2001 \ 2005
Over 15 yea s   *Subject to revisioa, bacd on ownulat rport.
"a:
'ie



Table 2: PERFORMANCE MONITORING: Outcomes, Risks and Impacts
Objectives                          Inputs                           Output                     Outcomes                       Targets                        Risks                       Impacts
A. Provide modern energy                                            *  Sale, installation,           Increased rural           *  Electrification of 200,000    Low sales arising fron     * Improved quality of
fortn ofelectricity, man    *  IBRD loan (US$20.0 m)                 financing, and after-        conxsumer familiarity        houselholds                   factors such as poor          life for SIIS
environmentallysustainable                                          sales service of SHS          with and acceptaice of                                     dealer performance,           customers dirouglh
manner, to rural customers                                           units in three provinces     SlIS                         Hiighi on-time consumer       consumer income               increases in security,
who cannot be served           GEF grant ($23.1 m)                   by private sector                                         installment loan              reductions, unainticipated    lightling, education
raleoynoicayon a               Pivtimaly                            dealers.                   *  Enhanced private             repaymilent rates             PLN grid extension            and eutertaimnent.
ruanneecribyiconetiona      *Private sector ($72.8 m)                                             markets for supply of
solar PV systetns as part    Significant real           *  Low onl-time repayment        Reduction in
of least-cost rural          reductions in SHS price       rates arising from factors    prospects for global
IBRD and private sector                                           electrification              from pre-project prices        such as sales to no.1-       watnsing.
funds will be used to                                                                                                         credit-wonhy customers,
finance the                                                       Reductions in installed                                     poor after-sales service,
establishment of private                                          cost of SIIS units                                          coitsutner i.tcoine
dealers' service and                                              Reduced fossil fuel
delivery chains and the                                           consumption
procurement of SHS
components.                                                                                 _
B. Establish private sector      GEF funds will be                     Provision of term credit    *  Establishmeint of credit-   Establishmenit of a        *  Dealers fail to establish  *  Establislhuent of
based efficientand            used to finance a first               and other support for        worthy dealers who           significant nutnber of         themselves due to factos      service and delivery
sustaittabledelivery.                                               twelve dealers               offer quality solar PV        dealers sellittg and          such as poor                  chains that tnay be
financinandloancost buydown of the                                                                                                                                                                             -
financingand loan             eost buydown of the                                                products to rural             financing SIIS units in       management, or are            used in tlte future to
colleetionmechanisrnfor       SHS cost and paid as                                               households on                 rural ttiarkets               attracted to other            serve poorer
providingquality solar PV     a co-downpaymcnt on                                                installinent paymnents                                      activities.                  eistotners
productsto nrul cusomen       behalf of the                                                                                                                                                Development of
consumer                                                                                                                                                    competitive,
cotnmtercially viable
5115 itmarket
Establishment of
manufacturers of
solar PV product
coinponecnts
C. Capacity building of key       GEF grant ($1.2 m)                   Long-tenn solar PV            Delineation of potential  *  Comipietion of stidy         Contractiual delays could  *  hiproved prospects
sector institutions                                                 strategy study anid          future role of solar l'V     wtihli. two years              delay completion of          of realizing
GOlfunds(SI.0m)    ~        impletnentation plan        in meetiing modern                                          study, equipmnent             Indoinesia's solar PV
*  GOI funds ($ 1.0 m)               impi            plan        ienergy tmeeds of all rural   Equiptnent purchase for       purchase and training         potential
Equipment for BPPT,          households                   BPPT within two years
and training for {OI                                                                 *  Errors in selection of
officials                    D Development of plan to    *  Completion of training      consultants could lead to
realize the potential role   within three years            poor results
Inereased institutionial  *  ISO 25 ecrtification for   *  Lack of sustained effort
capacity to suppon solar     BPPT                          eould hinder ISO 25                                  SD  >
PV development                                             status                                         .         t
O X
ox.



INDONESIA
SOLAR HOME SYSTEMS PROJECT
Dealers Interested in Participating in the Project
I    Based               Plans to Operate in                                Comments
Dealer            in          Java      Lampun       Sulawesi
Bianglala Jala       W. Java         Y            -           -       Some experience in government solar PV procurement programs
Dharma Nuranti       W. Java         Y           Y            -      Woman owned /operated; engaged in government solar PV
procurement programs
Jermindo             W. Java          Y           Y                   Engaged in government solar PV procurement programs
Kyocindo             W. Java          Y           Y           Y      Engaged in government solar PV procurement programs
Lingsing             W. Java                      y                   Engaged in government solar PV procurement programs
Padi                 W. Java         Y            -           Y       Some experience in government solar PV procurement programs
Sudimara             W. Java          Y           Y           Y       Engaged in direct households SHS sales in Java
Walet                W. Java         y                               Engaged in government solar PV procurement programs
Daitron             Lampung           -          y                   Engaged in air-conditioning business
Mustika Sari        Lampung           -           y                  Engaged in government solar PV procurement programs; limited
number of direct SHS sales
Bina Pison         S. Sulawesi        -                       y      Engaged in government solar PV procurement programs
Nia's Data          S. Sulawesi       -                       y       Woman owned/operated; Engaged in computer business; some
experience in renewable energy
Tritunggal         S. Sulawesi        -                       y      Engaged in auto parts business; some experience in government
solar PV procurement programs
k



74
Annex 3.3
Page 1 of 2
INDONESIA
SOLAR HOME SYSTEMS PROJECT
Bank Indonesia's Bank Rating System
The criteria used by Bank Indonesia (BI) to assess the financial soundness of banks is based on
an evaluation of five factors -- capital adequacy, asset quality, earnings, liquidity and management --
considered crucial to the soundness of a financial institution. Ratios, calculated from data provided in
monthly reports submitted by banks, are compared to the norms see below established by BI for each of
the five areas of evaluation. An overall rating is then computed and banks informed of their rating by BI
as appropriate.
The soundness of a bank is determined on the basis of a reward system for each of the above five
areas of evaluation. In order to compute the total reward points, the following rule is applied:
Capital (25 percent): capital adequacy based on a risk-weighted assets as defined under
the BIS guidelines for the G-10 countries. All financial institutions are required to reach
a minimum 5 percent capital ratio by March 1992, increasing to 7 percent by March
1993 and 8 percent by December 1993. If a bank is below and/or up to the minimum
capital required, there are no (or zero) reward points. With every increase of 0.01
percent over the minimum capital requirement, a bank is awarded on reward point;
Asset quality (30 percent): classified assets as a proportion of total earnings assets of a
bank. If classified assets are 15.5 percent or above of total earnings assets, there are no
(or zero) reward points. With every decrease of 0.15 percent from the 15.5 percent
classified assets to total earning assets ratio, a bank is awarded one reward point;
Earnings (10 percent): consists of two factors: return on total assets and the ratio of
operational cost to operational income. If return on total assets is zero or negative, there
are no (or zero) reward points. With every increase of 0.015 percent in return on total
assets, a bank is awarded one reward point. If the ratio of operational cost to operational
income is one, there are no (or zero) reward points. With every decrease of 0.08 percent
in this ratio, a bank is awarded one reward point;
Liguiditv (10 percent): ratio of total current liabilities to total current assets. If this ratio
is one, there are no (or zero) reward points. With every decrease of I percent in this
ratio, a bank is awarded one reward point; and
Management (25 percent): a qualitative factor, is reviewed from many aspects, including
a bank's internal control systems, MIS, capital position, asset quality, liquidity, lending
policy, compliance with Bank Indonesia regulations, reporting requirements, etc. Every
positive aspect of a bank's management is awarded with four-tenths of a reward point.



75
Annex 3.3
Page 2 of 2
The soundness of a bank is rated on the basis of total reward points as follows:
a.     SEFHAT (Sound) - if its reward points range from 81 to 100
b.     CUKUP SEHAT (Fairly Sound) - if its reward points range from 66 to 80
c.     KURANG SEHAT (Unsatisfactory) - if its reward points range from 51 to 65
d.     TIDAK SEHAT (Poor) - if its reward points range from 0 to 50.



76
Annex 3.4
Page I of 2
INDONESIA
SOLAR HOME SYSTEMS PROJECT
Summary Solar Home Systems Technical Specifications and Verification Procedures
Background
A participatory process involving BPP Teknologi, Indonesian PV dealers, the Indonesian PV trade
association and international experts was used to develop the SHS specifications. Final SHS technical
specifications were issued in June 1995 to prospective suppliers in Indonesia and overseas, to give
adequate time to develop and produce products that can meet the performance requirements. This annex
describes the specifications and the verification procedures in general terms, while the detailed technical
specifications are available in the Project Implementation Plan (PIP).
Product Description
The SHS units sold under the Project would consist of: (i) one or more photovoltaic (PV) modules with
an output of 50 Wp or more, (ii) a 12 Vdc lead-acid battery with a minimum capacity of 70 Ah, (iii) a
battery charge/discharge controller, (iv) at least three fluorescent light fixtures, and (v) related
components, such as wires, switches and mounting hardware. Appliances such as televisions and radios
would have to be purchased separately by the customers.
Technical Specifications.
The PV module is required to meet internationally recognized standards. The PV module must have
peak power output of at least 50 Wp (with an allowable tolerance of 5 percent), under Standard Test
Conditions (STC) as defined in IEC (Intemational Electrotechnical Committee) Specification No. 904-
series.I The peak power output for thin film modules should be the value after light soaking. The single-
crystalline or poly-crystalline modules must meet the requirements of IEC Specification No. 1215 or
ESTI No. 503 issued by the Joint Research Committee of the European Commission.2  If thin-film
photovoltaic modules are used, they must be in accordance with ESTI Specification No. 701 issued by
the JRC, SERI/TR-213-3624 issued by the National Renewable Energy Laboratory, USA.3
The battery is sized to permit the loads to be served even during extended periods of inclement weather.
The battery has three days of autonomy, so that a fully charged battery can service the loads for three
days even with no sunlight. The use of automotive lead-acid batteries is allowed as experience in
Indonesia has shown that locally-made batteries have functioned reliably and their life has exceeded
three years. The battery is required to meet or exceed Indonesian Standard STI 0160-77. The batteries
are also required to have a specified minimum plate thickness.
International Electrotechnical Committee (IEC) No. 904-1 (1987), "Photovoltaic Devices - Measurements of
Photovoltaic Current-Voltage Characteristics," through 904-9 (1995), "Photovoltaic Devices - Solar Simulator
Performance Requirements."
2 IEC 1215 (1993), "Crystalline Silicon Terrestrial Photovoltaic Modules - Design Qualification and Type
Approval." European Solar Test Installation (ESTI), Specification No. 503 (1991), "Qualification Test
Procedures for Crystalline Silicon Photovoltaic Modules."
3 ESTI 701 (1990), "Recommended Qualification Test Procedures for Thin Film Photovoltaic Modules."
National Renewable Energy Laboratory SERI/TR-213-3624 (1993), "Interim Qualification Tests and
Procedures for Terrestrial Photovoltaic Thin Film Flat Plate Modules."



77
Annex 3.4
Page 2 of 2
There are no internationally accepted standards for charge regulators, load controllers and Direct
Current (dc) fluorescent lights.  Therefore, operating parameters for regulators/controllers were
specified to permit the SHS to operate reliably and safely and to ensure that the battery life is maximized.
The fluorescent light fixture specifications defined energy efficiency (more than 35 lumens/W, including
inverter losses) and minimum light output (200 lumens per lamp) standards. Two hundred lumens is
equivalent to the light output of five kerosene lanterns.
In addition, there are additional specifications to ensure that the SHS is protected against short and open
circuits, transient voltage surges and reverse polarity voltages. The entire system must be built to
withstand Indonesian environmental conditions - temperatures of +10 to +40 degrees Celsius and
humidity levels of 90 percent. The PV module and support structure must be corrosion resistant and able
to withstand wind gusts up to 100 km/hour without damage. All wiring, enclosures and fixtures that are
mounted indoors must be resistant to high humidity conditions and insect and dust intrusion.
Verification of SHS Standards
Participating suppliers must certify that their products meet or exceed these specifications. Certifications
must be issued by testing laboratories with ISO 25 accreditation, or other facilities acceptable to the
Bank. The documentation to be provided by the supplier must include the following: (I) Photovoltaic
module certification obtained from the module manufacturer; (2) Battery certification, battery
charge/discharge voltage and battery cycle life vs. state of charge curves obtained from the battery
manufacturer; and (3) Battery charge regulator and load controller and fluorescent light fixture
certifications, supplied by the manufacturer of the regulator and load controller and light fixture, as per
testing procedures developed by BPP Teknologi. This certification is provided by a certification
laboratory acceptable to the World Bank.
Post Installation Monitoin.
After the SHS are installed, the systems will be randomly audited. The purpose of the audits is to verify
that the components used are in accordance with the specifications. If any products are found to be in
non-compliance, procedures are in place that require the supplier to correct the deficiencies and/or face
penalties (Annex 3.5).



78
Annex 3.5
Page 1 of 4
INDONESIA
SOLAR HOME SYSTEMS PROJECT
SubborowerEligibilitv Criteria. Dealer Obligations, Enforcement and Penalties
Eligibility Criteria In order to qualify for participation in the SHS Project, an applicant must initially
meet, and continueto meet, the followingcriteria. The subborowermust:
(i)    have current operations that include sales of SHS or other products in the rural areas of
Indonesia;
(ii)   prepare a business plan acceptable to the Bank that demonstrates that:
(a)   there would be an increase in SHS sales through direct household sales under the
installment payment plan in the selected target areas beyond an estimated "baseline
level" that would be achieved without the Project's support;
(b)   the SHS systems sold would meet the Project's technical specifications;
(c)   the subborrower'soperations would be commerciallyviable;
(d)   the subborrower has made adequate arrangements for hire-purchase based SHS
purchases by households;
(e)    procurement practices would be based on good commercial practices;
(f)   the subborrower has developed adequate consumer protection plans, including a
returns policy, warranties, and after-sales service;
(g)   the subborrower agrees to establish escrow accounts that would be used in the
event of the subborrower's failure to comply with the Project rules; and
(h)   the subborrower has developed a system for collecting and providing to the PSG
the data required for project monitoring and evaluation. The subborrower would
agree to retain all supporting documentation for the period of the warranty of each
customer's solar panels. Each subborrowerwould also agree to allow access, upon
request, to representatives of the PSG or others designated by the Bank, to their
business premises and to disclose, upon request, their customer data base,
including records of sales, installations, collections, complaints, repairs and
warranties.
(iii)   prepare and submit a credit application that is acceptable to a commercial bank eligible to
participate in the SHS Project.
(iv)   agree to abide by competitive code of norms for dealing with customers, employees, and
other dealers, including:
(a)    providing customers with complete and correct information about products,
services and prices;



79
Annex 3.5
Page 2 of 4
(b)    competing openly, not engaging in actions that might prevent competitors from
entering particular market areas; and,
(c)    not engaging in collusive behavior that may harm the business of competitors.
Enforcement authority - The authority to enforce is the government of Indonesia and the World Bank. In
practice, the World Bank retains or has assigned to it the responsibility of monitoring conformance with the
rules and for taking appropriate actions.
Delegation of enforcement authority. For purposes of efficient, independent and professional execution,
there is a limited delegation of authority to the PSG under which it collects and reports data on compliance,
presents diagnostic data about compliance of individual dealers, provides formative evaluation reports on
compliance to dealers, advises dealers on actions and timetables to remedy deficiencies in compliance and
recommends actions to be taken by the Rural Electrification Steering Committee and World Bank. The
process of enforcement is an early warning system based on error detection, acknowledgment, correction
and flexibility.
Compliance monitoring approach. The PSG reviews the performance of dealers to verify conformance
with the rules. The compliance methods adopted are ones which are transparent and cost effective in
providing pertinent, accurate, reliable, user friendly and timely information to all involved. In each of the
rule areas (technical, financial, competition), the PSG develops specific requirements, measures and
monitoring methods. These methods, based on the principles established in this document, are made
available to all dealers and participating banks. Highly specific methods facilitate all the stakeholders
agreeing on the basic rules of evidence and help to minimize the potential risks of having too much scope
for discretion. Higher specificity can be achieved for the technical and financial rules than for the
competition rules. Multiple compliance monitoring methods are used to meet a range of stakeholders'
views on appropriate rules of evidence, which is especially useful in the area of the lower specificity
competition rules.
Compliance monitoring methods. The methods used for monitoring compliance on an on-going basis
include:
i)    end-user level audits of the first 50 installations of each dealer;
ii)    random sample based, blind (i.e., auditor is not informed of the correct infornation
such as the expected serial number of the panel), unannounced, independent end-
user level audits of all subsequent installations;
iii)   customer surveys using simple, short questionnaires linked with dummy tables,3
The initial audits are to be completed with satisfactory results prior to the initial grant
disbursement to a dealer.
2   These are ex-post verifications done on a routine basis. This permits disbursements to continue
without hindrance. The sampling methodology is determined by the PSG.
3   The customer surveys are included as part of the end-user audits. They are useful in assessing
customer satisfaction and, along with the complaint based audits, serve as a mechanism for incorporating
customer participation and feedback into continual improvements in dealer operations.



80
Annex 3.5
Page 3 of 4
iv)    complaint based end-user level audits and other data gathering in response to
customer complaints or other information received from customers or other
stakeholders;
v)    reviews of documentation and reports provided by dealers, international suppliers
and others;
vi)    direct observation and verification during regular field visits;
vii)   direct observations during unannounced site visits to check accuracy of data;
viii   regular performance reviews with individual dealers and commercial banks; and.
ix)    annual meetings with dealers to discuss ways to improve the compliance
monitoring system
Dealing with cases of non-compliance The process of dealing with non-compliance is based on fully and
immediately informing the dealers of adverse findings resulting from the compliance monitoring and,
secondly, providing a reasonable time for a dealer to respond, to correct deficiencies and to demonstrate that
they have come into compliance. In the most serious cases of non-compliance, the process includes
immediate PSG reports to the relevant participating commercial bank, the Rural Electrification Steering
Committee and the World Bank and a recommendation, if appropriate, for the suspension of grant
disbursements. A finding of non-compliance results in the following sequence of actions:
i)    PSG immediately notifies the dealer of the deficiencies found;
ii)    PSG discusses the findings with the dealer and others who may be involved;
iii)    PSG reviews information which the dealer or others may make available;
iv)    PSG advises the dealer of a program of actions and a timetable for the dealer to
correct the deficiencies;
v)    the dealer carries out the actions and demonstrates to the PSG that the deficiencies
have been corrected;
vi)   if the PSG determines that the deficiencies are not corrected within the established
timetable, it again advises the dealer of a program of actions and a new timetable
for the dealer to correct the deficiencies and, simultaneously, may inform the
dealer's participating commercial bank, the Rural Electrification Steering
Committee and the World Bank, recommending appropriate actions.
Remedies - Category One. There are two types of non-compliance. Category One cases are isolated
incidents of non-compliance, resulting, for example, from management, internal control or quality control
deficiencies. There is no penalty for these cases as long as the dealer came into compliance by taking
actions in accordance with the timetable advised by the PSG. If the PSG finds that the dealer does not meet
the timetable, or if there are repeated incidents of Category One type cases of non-compliance, the PSG
may consider the dealer as a case to be treated in the Category Two group of cases.



81
Annex 3.5
Page 4 of 4
Remedies- Category Two. The second category of non-compliancecomprises those in which the dealer is
in default of the rules. These include cases of possible fraud or of the extensive incidence of non-
compliance, resulting, for example, from systemic weaknesses in the management or other aspects of the
dealers operations. In these cases, after receiving the report and recommendations of the PSG, the World
Bank takes appropriate steps to exercise the remedies available to it for this loan and grant, including
suspending or terminating disbursements of grants and loans in respect of specific dealers. The status of
Category Two cases is reviewed by the regularly scheduled Bank supervision missions.
Reports. The PSG reports to the World Bank immediately on all cases of Category Two non-compliance
by a dealer. These reports include an opinion on the materiality and impact of the deficiencies on the
Project and recommended actions. In its quarterly reports to the Rural Electrification Steering Committee
and the World Bank, the PSG provides information on cases of Category One and Category Two non-
compliance and their resolution. The PSG provides information to the commercial banks immediately in
cases of Category Two non-compliance by dealers financed by them and quarterly in cases on Category
One non-compliance.The PSG immediately provides dealers reports of their non-compliance.
Escrow account Each dealer agrees to establish and maintain an interest earning escrow account in his
commercial bank. The escrow account is to be used solely to assist specifically those customers who have
been adversely affected by the dealer's non-compliance with the dealer obligations; the escrow funds may
be utilized for this purpose only after the Bank has declared that the concerned dealer is no longer eligible to
participate in the Project. Authority over this escrow account is delegated by the dealer to the RE Steering
Committee, which would authorize expenditures based on reports and recommendations produced by the
PSG. The escrow account would be funded by 5% of each grant disbursement to the dealer during 1997,
4% in 1998, 3% in 1999, 2% in 2000 and 1% in 2001. The escrow account would terminate at the loan
closing date. On this date, all funds in the escrow account of a dealer who has remained eligible to
participate in the Project, i.e., whose eligibility to participate has not been suspended or terminated by the
Bank, would automatically revert to the concerned dealer.



82
Annex 3.6
Page 1 of 3
INDONESIA
SOLAR HOME SYSTEMS PROJECT
Incremental Costs and Global Environmental Benefits
Broad Development Goals
1.    Indonesia's basic goals and policies for the development of the energy sector highlight the
importance of meeting Indonesia's rapidly growing energy needs in an efficient manner, including through
conservation and diversification of primary energy resources, and minimizing the adverse environmental
and social impacts of energy use. A key and continuing thrust of the Government's energy strategy is to
slow down Indonesia's transition to net oil importer status by diversifying energy supply for domestic
consumption towards alternative and economic indigenous resources that have a non-exportable surplus or
are non-tradable, such as renewable energy. Rural electrification (RE) is a key and integral part of the
Government's rural development strategy.
Baseline
2.     In Indonesiatoday, a significant number of isolated rural households use kerosene laps for lighting
and automobile batteries -- charged at diesel-based generating stations -- for other energy needs, such as
watching (black-and-white)TV sets. While these households have the potential resources to pay for grid-
based electricity supply, this supply is not available to them now, nor is it likely to be available to them in
the medium term. Further, most of these households are not able to buy Solar Home Systems, either
because SHS are simply not offered to them for sale, or because of other factors such as high prices, lack of
credit, and lack of familiarity. Thus, the baseline course of action is that these households will continue to
rely on fossil fuels for their energy needs.
Global Environmental Objective
3.     The baseline course of action will lead to significant emissions of greenhouse gases (CO2). Thus,
the global environmental objective of the SHS project is the mitigation of GHG emissions.
GEF Alternative
4.     Under the SHS project, the GEF alternative to the baseline scenario is the installation and sales of
200,000 SHS units in selected markets in Indonesia over a period of five years. The GEF Alternative would
also include program support (such as dissemination of technical, financial, and operational information to
customers and dealers) and capacity building activities that would contribute to the removal of market and
institutional barriers to the adoption of SHS. There are no CO2 emissions for the SHS units, so that there
will be a total replacement of the fossil fuel use that would have taken place under the baseline scenario. It
is estimated that the SHS project will lead to an abatement of about 2 million tons of CO2, at a GEF cost of
about $1 1/ton C02.



83
Annex 3.6
Page 2 of 3
Additional Domestic Benefits
5.     Apart from progress towards least-cost provision of electricity to rural consumers, the SHS will
reduce the exposure of household members to the smoke and pollution associated with kerosene lighting.
Costs
6.     At present, most of the target households for SHS units use a combination of kerosene for lighting
and diesel-based battery charging for other activities such as powering a black-and-white TV. Based on
survey data and secondary information about prices, the monthly economic expenditures of the target
households on kerosene and battery charging are $9.32 on Java and $9.99 off-Java. These expenditure
patterns reflect the fact that in Indonesia: (i) kerosene consumption levels in Indonesia are higher than in
many other countries, and (ii) off-Java, the kerosene and battery costs are higher, The costs of kerosene and
battery charging are lower on Java than off-Java. primarily due to transportation and logistical differences,
and their consumption level lower than on Java. Correspondingly, the present value of the target
household's baseline expenditures on kerosene and battery charging (for 15 years at a discount rate of 10%)
is $867 on Java and $930 off-Java.
7.     The GEF incremental costs arise from: (i) the additional costs, over the baseline expenditures, of
the SHS units in the market areas to be developed under the SHS project, including the need to increase
potential customer familiarity with SHS, to assist dealers, and to maintain links with actual customers under
the SHS project, (ii) institutional capacity strengthening, and (iii) monitoring and evaluation.
8.     For the parts of Java where SHS dealers are not yet established ("the new Java areas") the initial
cost of an SHS unit is estimated to be Rp 1.4 million ($636), based on the costs of Government procurement
programs. For off-Java, the SHS costs are estimated to be Rp 1.65 million ($750), based on the prices of
scattered cash sales in Lampung and Sulawesi. These estimates of costs compare favorably with the prices
of similar SHS in many other countries.
9.     Based on the prevailing prices, the monthly economic cost of a SHS unit in the new Java areas is
$10.10, which implies a present value of $940 for 15 years at a 10% discount rate. For off-Java, the SHS
monthly economic cost is $11.38, with a present value of $1,059.
10.    When the present value of the GEF alternative is compared with the baseline expenditures of the
typical target household, the incremental costs are estimated to be about $73 per SHS unit in the new Java
areas and about $129 per SHS unit off-Java.1 For total project sales of 200,000, split about equally between
the new Java areas and off-Java, the total incremental cost for the SHS units is about $20 million.
11.    A small Project Support Group (PSG) will be established to provide customers and dealers with the
technical, financial and operational information. It is expected that potential customers will use this
information, in part, to make informed decisions about the suitability of SHS. The total cost of these
activities are expected to be $4 million. In the baseline scenario, it is estimated that BPPT/GOI would have
undertaken some of these activities, at an estimated cost of $1.5 million. Hence, the GEF incremental cost is
$2.5 million.
I   The incremental costs are negative for the limited regions of Java where solar PV is already cheaper than the
costs of kerosene lighting and battery charging. Consequently, no GEF funds will be made available for sales and
installationsof SHS systems in these limited regions of Java.



84
Annex 3.6
Page 3 of 3
12.    The capacity building component includes institutional strengthening of BPPT, as well as a SHS
Strategy and Implementation Study. The total costs of these activities are estimated to be $2 million.
However, in the baseline scenario, it is expected that BPPT/GOI would have undertaken some similar
activities, whose cost is estimated to be $0.5 million. Hence, the GEF incremental cost is $1.5 million.
13.    The costs of the SHS project monitoring and evaluation activities by the national working group,
including the first phase review by the independent panel of experts, are estimated at $0.3 million. As these
activities would not have been undertaken in the baseline scenario, these expenditures are part of the GEF
incremental cost.
14.    Together, the overall GEF incremental cost is $24.3 million.
Global Environmental Benefits
15.    The overall avoided emissions are about 2.2 million tons of C02, with a total GEF grant of $24.3
million, leading to a GEF unit cost of about $11/ton CO2. The estimates of the emissions avoided include
both the emissions avoided as a result of the SHS units directly installed under the SHS project ("project
effect") -- about 1.3 million tons of CO2, -- as well as the acceleration of SHS market penetration in
Indonesia("programmaticeffect") as a result of the SHS project-- about 0.9 million tons of CO2. Thus, the
GEF unit cost is about $18/ ton CO2 when only the direct project benefits are considered.
16.    The estimation of total emissions avoided starts with an estimate of the unit emissions avoided
factor. The unit avoided emissions factors are multiplied by the estimated penetration of the technology to
arrive at the total emissions avoided. Specifically, the first step is to calculate the SHS output; it is assumed
that the output of a SHS unit (50 Watt-peak) is 170 watt-hours per day, which implies an output of 62,050
watt-hours per year, or an undiscounted lifetime output of 931 kWh over 15 years. The second step is to
calculate the emissions from the substitute technologies. It is assumed that kerosene lighting has associated
with it emissions of 10,000 tons of CO2 per GWh-equivalent and diesel-based battery charging has
associated with it emissions of 1,100 tons of CO2 per GWh-equivalent. In calculating the weighted average
of the substitute technologies, the for kerosene lighting is assumed to be 70%, and 20% for battery charging,
with the remaining 10% associated with zero emissions, so that weighted average is 7,220 tons of CO2 per
GWh-equivalent. Finally, on multiplying 931 kWh by 7,220 tons of CO2 per GWh-equivalent, the result is
that the lifetime undiscounted emissions directly abated by one SHS are 6.72 tons of CO2.
Incremental Cost Matrix (excluding Technical Assistance)
17.    The incremental cost matrix, excluding Technical Assistance, is presented below.
Costs                         Domestic Benefits        Global EnvironmentalBenefits
Baseline     $ 867! household on Java      lighting and other appliances  2.2 million tons of C02 emissions
$ 930/householdoff Java       with smoke and fumes
Alternative    $ 940/householdon Java      lighting and other appliances  0 million tons of C02 emissions
$ 1,059/householdoff Java     without smoke and fumes
Increment    $ 100/householdaverage                                 2.2 million tons C02 emissions
$20 million for 200.000 households



85
Annex 3.7
INDONESIA
SOLAR HOME SYSTEMS PROJECT
Summary Information Sheet For Subborrower
1.    Applicant
Name Borrower/Owner of Firm; address of Borrower/Firm: Location of project
(city/province); Products; Annual Sales/Production -- last fiscal year; New or old client
II.    Projected SHS Unit Sales
By Province by year
III.   Estimated Total Cost
Local, Foreign, Total
IV.   Projected Financing Plan
1. Borrower's contribution
2. Participating bank loan
3. GEF
4. Customers
V.    Proposed Ceiling for IBRD Loan Refinancing



86
Annex 3.8
Page 1 of 2
INDONESIA
SOLAR HOME SYSTEMS PROJECT
Information Required in a Subborower's Business Plan
The initial business plan should contain the financial, technical and operational information
indicated below.
1.     SUMMARY
II.    BACKGROUND OF THE COMPANY
III.   PROJECT PLAN
Description of Project
Production
Schedule of Project Implementation
The Product
Location
Building
Machinery and Equipment
Human Resources
Panel and Components
IV.   MARKETING
Introduction
Market Development of SHS
Present Supply
Demand Estimation
Competitions, Quality and Price
Planned Production and Market Share
V.    PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
Total Project Cost
Fixed Assets
Working Capital
Financing Plan
The Size of Loan from Bank
The Term of Loan
Disbursement of Loan & GEF



87
Annex 3.8
Page 2 of 2
VI.   OPERATING AND FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
Projected Sales, Prices and Revenues
Cost to Make and Sell
Profitability
Liquidity
Projected Internal Rate of Return
Annex I Technical
Components to be used
including details of source of components, accompanied by certification from acceptable
laboratories that the components meet the prescribed technical specifications.
Annex 1I Operational
Arrangements for Hire-Purchase Sales
including details of manner of collection of downpayment and monthly installment
payments, sample contract form between dealer and consumer.
Procurement Practices
including details of manner in which the main components (panel, battery, controller)
will be procured.
Consumer Protection Plans
including details of technical/financial information to be provided to customers, returns
policy, warranties, after-sales service.
Competitive Conduct Code
including details of code of conduct to be followed with respect to competitors.



88
Annex 3.9
INDONESIA
SOLAR HOME SYSTEMS PROJECT
Disbursement of Grant and Loan Funds
for Credit Component Only
Disb. to SA Grant
SDisb. to SA Loan  
AtWLforoananl  0Lan                ran
-  --  --  --    -    -    -MOF
Request for Grant              Request for Refinancing                Grant
- List of Grantee: X           - Record of Disbursements              Funds
(HPC+AOI) l               - Credit Agreements                    Transfer
*         Loan Funds Transfer
State Banks
Private Banks
(PBs)
Request for                      Request for
Grant Disbursement      I                Loan Disbursement
(determined by
number of installations)
SHS Dealers
j Hire Purchase Contract (HPC)
Acceptance of Installation (AOI)
Rural Customers
Note: HPC - Hire Purchase Contract between dealer and customer
AOI - Acceptance of Instailation of SHS by customer



89
Annex 3.1 0
INDONESIA
SOLAR HOME SYSTEMS PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
(US$ '000)
Bank FY-               IBRD Loan                           GEF Grant
Semester      Semester  Cumulative    %            Semester  Cumulative    %
1997-I1        0.3        0.3        2%              0.3        0.3       1%
1998-I         1.1        1.4       7%              1.4         1.7       7%
1998-I1         1.1       2.5       13%              2.1        3.9      16%
1999-I         1.5        4.0       20%             2.1         6.0      25%
1999-II        3.0        7.0       35%              3.1        9.1      37%
2000-I         3.5        10.5      53%             2.9         12.0     49%
2000-II         3.5       14.0      70%              3.3        15.2     63%
2001-I         3.0        17.0      85%              3.3        18.5     76%
2001-II         3.0       20.0      100%             4.0        22.5     93%
2002-I         0.0        20.0      100%             1.8       24.3      100%
/a Assumed Loan Effectiveness Date is May 1,1997
Project Closing Date is October 31, 2001
Loan Closing Date is April 30, 2002



INDONESIA
Solar Home Systems Pi oject
Project Implementation Schedule
|       1997       j       1998        1       1999       j       2000                2001               2
ID   Name                                 Start    Finish  Qtr4Qtr I lQtr 2IQtr 31Qtr 4!Qtr I lQtr 2]Qtr 3IQtr 4!atrl lQtr 2IQtr 3IQtr 4OQtr 1 OQtr 2]Qtr 3OQtr 4!Qtr 1 OQtr 2IOtr 3 Qtr 4!Qtr 1 lQtr 2
1   START UP PROJECT                    12/16196   6/26197   9
2       Achieve loan effectiveness       5/1/97    5/1/97
3       Make initial SA deposits         517/97    5/30/97
4       Sign initial SiHS dealer sub-loan  6/2/97    6/25/97
5       Comnplete procurement of PSG    12/16/96   6/116/97
1~  servke-es                                             -     I
17  CATALYZE SHS SALES AND               5 _20_97   10 131/1F01
17                     ___  6~~~~~~~/20/97   10/31/01                                _                                                             _
INSTALLATIONS
18      Disburse PB sub-loans to SHS     5/20/97   10/31/01
19      Conduct PB launch and periodic   6/2/97    5/1/01
review workshops                                     :..                                  ......
20      Operate 2-way consumer            6/4/97   10/31/01
information program                                                                                                                                                     C
21      Develop dealers capabilities     6/4/97    6/30/99
22      Audit each dealers first 50       6/2t97    9/15/99
installations for compliance
23      Disburse first cost buy-down grants   7/2/97   10/31/01
for rural customers
24      Audit SHS installations on regular  7/2/7   10/31/01
basis; verify compliance                                                                                                 ......_
25  BUILD CAPACITY OF SECTOR             1/17/97   11/12/99    '.
INSTITUTIONS
26      Prepare decentralized RE         1/17/97   11/12/99
strategy and plan
27          Complete procurement of      1/17/97   9/14/97
assistance services
39          Conduct study, discuss       8/15/97   11/12/99
findings, adopt plan
40      Strengthen BPPT                  1/17/97   11/12/99
41          Complete procurerment of     1/17/97    1/14/97
assistance services
53          Procure and install          8/15/97   11/12/99
equipment; train staff      _                          _        _                         __        _______| 
 >
CD C



INDONESIA
Solar Home Systems Project
Project Implementation Schedule
1997               1999        1       1999       1       2000                2001               20
ID   Namne                                Start_  Finish  Qtr 4Q0tr 1 lQtr 2IQtr 3[Qtr 4IQtr  tr 2Qtr 3IQtr 4Qtr  tr 2IQtr 3IQtr 4IQtr  Qtr 21tr 31 tr4tr Qtr 2tr3Qt4Qtr  tr2
64  MANAGE, MONITOR AND SUPERVISE   5/2197    4/30102
PROJECT
66      Conduct RE Steering Committee     5/2t97    4/30/02
oversignt.........                                                                                               .......... ....
66      Operate PSG services             5/16/97   10/31/01
57      Conduct IBRD supervision missions  10/16/97   6/30/01
58      Conduct Mid-term Review           1/1/99    6/30/99                                      1/1/99           6/30/9P
69      Complete the Project and issue   10/31/01  12/31/01
Project Completion Report                 ._.___
60      Close the Project                 4/1/02    4/30/02                                                                                                    4/U02-
o w
1'. _



92
Annex 3.12
Page I of 2
INDONESIA
SOLAR HOME SYSTEMS PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Mid-term Review Panel
1.    Scope of Work The independent panel's mandate is to use its professional experience and
judgment to consider the following question:
Is there any scenario that could be implemented successfully under which the SHS Project's
target of attaining total sales of 200, 00 SHS units over the life of the Project could be attained ?
While there may be one or more scenarios under which the target of 200,000 units would not be met, this
question relates on the existence of one or more successfully implementable scenarios under which the
target could be met, because the intent would be to focus implementation on the scenarios under which
the target would be met. Hence, a positive answer to the above question would be the basis for the
release of Phase 2 of the GEF grant. In the event that the panel concludes that there is no successfully
implementable scenario under which the target of 200,000 units could be met, the panel would provide
its judgment of the maximum unit sales that could occur over the life of the SHS Project.
In formulating its judgment, the panel would take account of:
*  Sales as measured by (a) the extent to which the Project's mid-term targets for sales of SHS
units have been met and (b) the short-term trend of SHS sales under the Project;
*  Customer satisfaction as measured by (a) customer timely loan repayment rates, which is
an indicator of the customers' satisfaction with their units, and (b) the extent to which
customer complaints about problems with their SHS have been received by the PSG, and the
manner in which these complaints have been resolved;
*  Dealers' progress as measured by (a) the extent to which the dealers have established their
creditworthiness, as measured by their timely loan repayment rates to the banks; and (b) the
future business plans of the participating dealers; and
*  Future changes or corrective actions that would facilitate the successful implementation of
the SHS Project.
2.    Panel composition The independent panel will consist of six members, as follows:
* Three experts to be nominated by BPPT, acceptable to the Bank, one of whom will be an
Indonesian, while the remaining two will be from other countries. One of these two
international experts will be designated as the Chair of the mid-term review panel, and will
be responsible for co-ordinating the activities of the panel. These experts will have a
minimum of five years, preferably ten, of experience on the use of solar PV systems in the
developing countries. The combined expertise of these experts would span areas such as
rural finance, market and enterprise development, solar PV economics, and solar PV
technology.



93
Annex 3.12
Page 2 of 2
* Three experts to be nominated by the GEF Implementing Agencies, one each by UNDP and
UNEP, and the World Bank. (Within the World Bank, ENVGC would nominate the expert to
participate in the mid-term review panel).
3.    Information sources available to the panel Prior to starting its work in Indonesia, the panel
would be provided with a progress report prepared by the PSG, which would focus on the central
question stated above. The panel will have full access to all the information available to the PSG. In
addition, the panel will be able to, at its option: (i) undertake field visits to the Project areas to inspect
SHS installations and meet with the customers, (ii) meet with the participating dealers and banks, (iii)
visit the dealers' head offices; and (iv) meet the concerned officials at BPPT and MME.
4.    Panel's Activities and Processing of Mid-Term Report The panel would visit Indonesia for
around ten days, about 24 months after loan effectiveness. The panel would discuss its major findings
with the Rural Electrification Steering Committee (RESC) prior to its departure from Indonesia, and later
submit its report to the RESC. Following this, the Government of Indonesia would submit its report to
the World Bank, with the panel's report included as an attachment. In turn, the World Bank would
submit its report to the GEF CEO, with GOI's report included as an attachment. Finally, the GEF CEO
would make a decision about the release of Phase 2 grant funds. The schedule of activities is shown
below.
Activity                                    Date
1. Identification of Panel Members and Chair              By end February, 1999
2. Preparation of PSG's Report on Project                  By end April, 1999
3. Panel visit to Indonesia                                  May-June 1999
4. Submission of Panel's Report to GOI                      By end June 1999
5. Submission of GOI Report to World Bank                   By end July 1999
6. Submission of World Bank Report to GEF CEO              By end August 1999
7. GEF CEO's Decision on Release of Phase 2 Funds        By end September 1999
Assumes a loan effectiveness date of May 1, 1997.
5.    Costs of the panel's activities The relevant costs -- compensation, international and local travel
and subsistence, and other incidental expenses -- of the three experts nominated by BPPT would be
borne by the PSG. For the other three experts, only the travel and subsistence costs would be borne by
the PSG, with all other costs to be borne by their nominating agencies. The total PSG expenditure on the
panel's activities is expected to be about $ 75,000.



94
Annex 3.13
INDONESIA
SOLAR HOME SYSTEMS PROJECT
Supervision Activities and Schedule
Approximate                                                                     Skills    Staff
Dates/                         Activity - Major Focus                       Needed  Weeks
Duration
10/97     Performance and allocation of grants to dealers. Arrangements for  EC, ED,    6
2 weeks    PSG, credit and grant disbursements, technology certification,     PV
consumer information, dealer support, audits, monitoring and
reporting. Bid documents for capacity building activities. Site visits
Lampung, W. Java.
2/98      Review PSG's annual report and Project's next year's plan.       EC, ED,    6
2 weeks    Disbursement procedures. Certification, consumer information, dealer  PV
support and audit activities. Site visits Sulawesi as well as another area
relevant for strategy study..
5/98      Performance of dealers. Site visits Sulawesi, Lampung.           EC, ED,    6
2 weeks                                                                        PV
10/98     Performance and allocations of grants to dealers. Site visits W. Java  EC, ED,    6
2 weeks    BPPT equipment purchases.                                           PV
2/99      Performance of dealers. Project's eligible market areas. Site visits  EC, ED,    6
2 weeks    Lampung, as well as another area relevant for strategy study.      PV
Equipment purchases and BPPT training. Review PSG's annual report
and Project's next year's plan and mid-term review arrangements.
5/99      Mid-term review. Site visits to all areas.. Decentralized rural  EC, ED,    6
3 weeks    electrification plan. BPPT training.                               PV
10/99     Performance and allocations of grants to dealers. Site visits W. Java.    EC, ED,    4
2 weeks    BPPT training and ISO certification.                               PV
5/00      Review PSG's annual report and Project's next year's plan. Review  EC, ED,    4
2 weeks    Project's eligible market areas. Performance of dealers. Site visits  PV
Lampung.
10/00     Performance and allocations of grants to the dealers. Site visits  EC, ED,    4
2 weeks    Sulawesi. BPPT ISO certification activities.                       PV
5/01      Review PSG's annual report and Project's plan Allocations of grants   EC, ED,    4
2 weeks    to dealers. Site visits Lampung. ISO certification for BPPT.       PV
10/01                                                                      EC, ED,    6
3 weeks    Implementation Completion Report (ICR)                             PV
Total                                                                                  58
In addition, it is anticipated that 13 SW of time for ongoing supervision from RSI (on disbursement and
audits) would be required as follows: FY 97 - 3 SW, FY 98 - 4 SW, FY 99 - 3 SW, FY 00 - I SW, and
FY 01 - 2 SW
EC - Economist; Enterprise and Market Development Specialist; PV - Solar PV Specialist
* Assumes loan effectiveness date of May 1, 1997, project completion date of October 31, 2001, and loan closing date of April
30, 2002.



95
Annex 4.1
Page 1 of 4
INDONESIA
SOLAR HOME SYSTEMS PROJECT
Comparison of Solar PV and Conventional Rural Electrification Costs
I1.   This annex compares the costs of Solar Home Systems (SHS) to the costs of provision of
conventional electricity supply, whether by grid extension or decentralized diesel generation. In general,
solar PV has an advantage over conventional electrification when:
(i)    There is no existing power grid. The cost savings of not having to build an expensive
grid, particularly for communities with widely separated houses, make solar PV
competitive with conventional electrification.
(ii)    Access to land is a problem. Solar PV does not require land for equipment or right-of-
way for transmission and/or distribution lines.
(iii)   Diesel fuel is costly and/or reliable transportation for fuel is unavailable or costly. Solar
PV requires no fuel.
(iv)   There is a high peak load for a short time. Individual solar PV systems, operating
from batteries, can provide very high power levels for a short period of time; for
example, an individual PV system with 100 Watt-peak (Wp) panel capacity can power a
movie projector drawing 1,500 Watts for a few hours per week since the battery has been
accumulating power for a week before power is withdrawn. In contrast, a conventional
system must be sized to generate and distribute the full 1,500 Watts even though it is
only used a few hours at a time.
(v)    The number of customers is likely to increase over time. Solar PV systems are
modular, and individual solar PV systems can be added as needed, while conventional
systems usually have to be sized larger than initially necessary in anticipation of future
load growth.
(vi)   Noise or air pollution is a concern. Solar PV does not create either, while conventional
systems generate both.
(vii)   Qualified maintenance workers are not readily available.  Training for solar
maintenance is less complex, lower in cost and is more likely to succeed than training for
diesel system maintenance when rural persons with limited formal education are
involved.
2.     The cost comparisons in this annex are based on lifetime economic costs. The assumptions
underlying the cost comparison are presented in Tables I and 2. Two characteristics of the assumptions
related to the SHS costs are worth noting: (i) the SHS costs are based on the relatively high costs
prevailing at present, and do not reflect the cost declines that are expected to take place in the future, and
(ii) the SHS costs includes the initial as well as replacement costs of the lights and light fixtures, though
such costs are excluded from the lifetime costs of conventional electrification.



96
Annex 4.1
Page 2 of 4
Table 1: SHS Cost Assumptions
Java     Outside Java
Initial System Costs                                               $636          $750
Present Value of Replacements (Batteries, Controllers, Lights, O&M, etc.)  $304   $309
Present Value Total                                                $940         $1,059
Equivalent Levelized Monthly Cost at 10% over 15 years            $10.10        $11.38
Table 2: Conventional Rural Electrification Cost and Need Assumptions
Java                   Outside Java
Grid           Grid           Decentralized
Extension      Extension           Diesel
GENERATION COST (0/kWh)                       10.8           12.7                  20
NETWORK COSTS AND NEEDS
MV Line
Cost ($/kmc)                                10,000          10,000               N.A.
Length Needed (km)                               3               3               N.A.
Life (years)                                    25             25                N.A.
LV Line
Cost ($/kmc)                                 5,000           5,000              5,000
Length needed (km/kM2)                           5               5                  5
Life (years)                                    25             25                 25
Distribution Transformer
Cost ($/kVA)                                    40             40                 40
Life (years)                                    15              15                 15
Need (kW/household)                           0.09            0.09               0.09
Power Factor                                  0.80            0.80               0.80
Minimum Size (kVA)                              10              10                 10
HOUSEHOLD USE (kWh/month)                         15                15            15
3.     The results of the cost comparisons are presented in the form of charts that show the combination
of (i) number of households to be served, and (ii) the population density under which SHS are cheaper
than conventional rural electrification options -- isolated diesel generator operations and grid extension;
Figures I and 2 show the cost comparisons for outside Java for isolated diesel systems and grid
extension, respectively, while Figure 3 shows the comparison for Java for grid extension.
4.     Two qualitative results arise from this comparison. First, the population density, measured in this
analysis as the number of households per sq. km., is a critical factor, as it represents the geographical
density of the load to be served. Essentially, if the load density is low, i.e., the load is dispersed, then the
costs of grid extension tend to be higher than that of SHS. Second, if the number of consumers to be
served is small, then even a 3 km MV extension makes grid supply more expensive than SHS.



97
Annex 4.1
Page 3 of 4
Figure 1: Cost Comparison Outside Java
Decentralized Diesel-based Electrification and Solar Home Systems
200
180
t    160
.Q  I140
120                                           Diesel-based supply is cheaper
0    80
O~  _00
00
E -  40
20
20
5       10       15       20       25       30       35       40       45       50
Population Density (Households/km2)
5.    In quantitative terms, SHS are less expensive than grid supplies when household density is less
than approximately 30 households/sq. km., which represents a population density of between 120-150
persons/sq. km in Indonesia, where household size is in the range of 4-5 persons. Further, if the number
of households to be served in a particular cluster is less than 50, then even a 3 km MV extension is more
expensive than SHS, regardless of population density.
6.     These conditions prevail both outside Java, where overall populations densities are in the range
of 30-60 persons/sq. km, as well as in the less dense parts of Java, where overall population density is
about 600 persons/sq. km. Further, in Indonesia, villages ("desas") are frequently large in geographic
terms, and consist of a number of "dusun", each of which in turn consists of a number of "kampungs,"
which are clusters of 20+ households. Thus, even within an electrified desa, there could remain still
remain a significant number of households for whom SHS would be less expensive than grid supply with
MV line extension.
7.     Sensitivity analysis For grid supply, it is assumed that the household's monthly energy
consumption is 15 kWh/month, given that the service provided by the SHS is roughly equivalent to this
level of service. However, it is recognized that the actual energy consumption of the typical remote
household connected to PLN's supply is about 35 kWh/month. In order to test the robustness of the least-
cost comparison, the analysis was repeated with monthly consumption set at 35 kWh/month in place of
15 kWh/month; correspondingly, the assumed monthly SHS cost was doubled from the values shown in
Table 1. As expected, the increase in the load density increased the relative attractiveness of grid supply
but did not change the fundamental nature of the result that SHS are cheaper than grid extension in
conditions of low load density and small number of households to be served.



98
Annex 4.1
Page 4 of 4
Figure 2: Outside Java Grid Extension and Solar Home Systems
200
180
160
140
120                                                          Grid extension is cheaper
100
80
40
z
20
0
5        10        15        20       25        30        35        40        45        50
Population Density (Households/km2)
Figure 3: Java-Bali Grid Extension and Solar Home Systems
200
180
160 -Grid extension is cheaper
, 140
1 20
. 100
80     Solar Home Systems
o 60           are cheaper
60
0 40
20
0
V)    O                                              '0 O-   t-A PO      0 i  D s  V)oV}ehols/kX2)
Population Density (Households/km2)



INDONESIA
SOLAR HOME SYSTEMS PROJECT
Economic Cost Benefit Analysis
COSTS                                                      BENEFITS                                       NET BENEFITS)
(USS mill)                                                   (US$ mill)                           =_         (USS mill)
TOTAL                        Consumer Expenditures                  GEF      TOTAL       Including Excluding
Investment Replacement  8&M    COSTS         Down    Monthly  Replacement O&M          Consumer Investment BENEFITS    GEF _     GEF
Year   Costs     Costs       Costs                  Payments Payments Expenditures Expenditures Subtotal  Grant           _ =  Grant    Grant
1      6.07        0.00     0.03     6.09           0.81     1.19        0.00        0.03     2.03      0.83      2.85        -3.24     -4.07
2     12.45        0.02     0.11    12.57           2.36     4.15-       0.02 --     0.11     6.64      2.45      9.09 _      -3 49     -5.94
3     23.25        0.07     0.26  23.58             4.38     9.70        0.07 -      0.26    14.40      5.00     19.40        -4 17     -9.17
4     27.18        0.51     0.44    28.13           5.35    16.29        051         0.44    22.59      6.13     28.71         058      -5.54
5     23.15        1.28     0.60    25.03           4.63    20.77        1.28        0.60    27.28      5.60-  32.88  _        7.85 _     2.25
6      0.00        2.84     0.60      3.44                  17.81        2.84        0.60    21.25      0.00 ___ 21.25  _    1 17.81    17.81
7 0.00      4.62-    0.60     5.22 __         _      12.26        4.62       0.60-174-           0.00 617.48 _         12.26     12.26
8      0.00        6.44     0.60      7.04                   5.67        6.44        0.60    12.71      0.00     12.71 _       5.67     -5.67
9      0.00        5.96     0.60     6.56                                5.96        0.60     6.56      0.00      6.56         0 00      0.00
10      0.00        6.30     0.60     6.90 W_6.30                                     0.60     6.90      0.00      6.90_        0.00      0.00
11      0.00        3.98     0.60     4.58  =                             3.98        0.60   4.58        0.00      4.58 =       0.00      0.00
12      0.00        3.86     0.60     4.46                                3.86        0.60     4.46      0.00      4.46 __      0.00      0.00
13      0.00        6.06     0.60     6.66 _                     _       -6.06        0.60     6.66      0.00      6.66         0.00      0.00
14      0.00        7.10     0.60     7.70                                7.10        0.60     7.70      0.00      7.70 _       0.00      0.00
15      0.00        5.54     0.60     6.14                                5.54        0.60     6.14      0.00      6.14 _       0.00      0.00
16      0.00        2.70     0.57      3.27                               2.70        0.57     3.27      0.00-   3.27 _         0.00      0.00
17      0.00        2.38     0.50      2.88                               2.38        0.50     2.88      0.00      2.88 _       0.00      0.00
18      0.00        0.23     0.35      0.58                               0.23        0.35     0.58      0.00      0.58 -0   00-0         0.00
19      0.00        0.11     0.16     0.27                                0.11        0.16     0.27      0.00      0.27,        0.00      0.00
PV at 10%    $66.21     $21.84    $3.57   $91.62         $12.50   $54.81      $21.84       $3.57   $92.73    $14.19   $106.92   _   $15.30     $1.10
IERR             I                    I         I_                          ___                                                    39%    12%
- rrs
N  >T
M:\SHS-SAR\BUFF\ANNEXES\ANX4-2BF.XLS Tab:Base-ecanal



INDONESIA
SOLAR HOME SYSTEMS PROJECT
I    I     I    I   ~~~~~~~~~~I TI              I                   I IL                                 I  I 1    11 
Sensitivity Analysis -- Actual Sales are 80%  of Target Sales
COSTS                                                     BENEFITS                                     NET BENEFITS)
(USS mill)                                                 (USS mill)                                     (US$ mill)
TOTAL                       Consumer Expenditures                 GEF      TOTAL      Including Excluding
Investment Replacement O&M    COSTS         Down    Monthly  Replacement O&M         Consumer Investment BENEFITS    GEF      GEF
Year   Costs    Costs        Costs                 Payments Payments Expenditures Expenditures Subtotal  Grant              Grant    Grant
1      4.85       0.00     0.02     4.87          0.67     0.98        0.00       0.02     1.67      0.66      2.33       -2.55     -3.21
2     10.59       0.01     0.08    10.69          1.95     3.42        0.01       0.08     5.47      1.96      7.43       -3.26      -5.22
3     19.97        0.06     0.20    20.23         3.61     8.00        0.06        0.20    11.86     4.00     15.86       -4.37      -8.37
4     23.56        0.42     0.35    24.33         4.41    13.43        0.42        0.35    18.60     4.90    -23.50       -0.83      -5.73
51   20.29         1.06     0.48    21.82 __      3.82    17.12        1.06        0.48    22.47     4.48     26.95        5.13      0.65
6      0.00        2.34     0.48    2.82                  14.68        2.34        0.48    17.50     0.00     17.50       14.68     14.68
7      0.00       3.81     0.48     4.29                  10.10        3.81        0.48    14.39     0.00     14.39       10.10     10.10
0.00         5.31     0.48     5.79                   4.67       5.31        0.48    10.46      0.00     10.46        4         4.67
9      0.00       4.91     0.48     5.39                               4.91       0.48     5.39      0.00      5.39        0.00      0.00
10      0.00       5.19     0.48     5.67                               5.19       0.48     5.67      0.00      5.67        0.00      0.00         _
11      0.00       3.28     0.48     3.76                               3.28       0.48     3.76      0.00      3.76        0.00      0.00
12      0.00       3.18     0.48     3.66                               3.18       0.48     3.66      0.00      3.66        0.00      0.00
13      0.00       4.99     0.48     5.47                               4.99       0.48     5.47      0.00      5.47        0.00      0.00
14      0.00       5.85     0.48     6.33                               5.85       0.48     6.33      0.00      6.33        0.00      0.00
15      0.00       4.57     0.48     5.05                               4.57       0.48     5.05      0.00      5.05        0.00      0.00
16      0.00       2.23     0.46     2.68                               2.23       0.46     2.68      0.00      2.68        0.00      0.00
17      0.00        1.96    0.40     2.36                               1.96       0.40     2.36      0.00      2.36      0.00        0.00
18      0.00       0.19     0.28     0.47                               0.19       0.28     0.47      0.00      0.47        0.00      0.00
19      0.00       0.09     0.13     0.22                               0.09       0.13     0.22      0.00      0.22 _      0.00     0.00
PV at 10%    $56.85    $18.00    $2.86   $77.71        $10.30   $45.18      $18.00      $2.86   $76.34    $11.35    $87.70       $9.98    ($1.37)
IERR                                                                                                                           32%   8%
Key Assumptions                                   =                                                                         =__
First,    It is assumed that under this scenario (Scenario A) the cost reductions achieved are only 85% of the cost reductions achieved in the base case.
_ Thus, the Scenario A SHS unit costs are higher than the base case SHS unit costs. 
The assumed value of the Scenario A cost reductons reflects the noton that the a significant portion of the cost reductons along a learning curv
take place at lower quantities, where the learning curve is relabvely steep, so that an achievement of 80% of the sales target would lead to
cost reductions of proportionately more than 80%. |  l       l           l          l                  1 -       I l  l
Second,  It is assumed that under Scenario A, the dealers would increase the customers' down payments and installment payments to reflect the higher costs.
Thus, the Scenario A prices would be higher than the base case prices.                                            _
It is assumed that the dealers would absorb the bulk of the higher costs in the form of lower profit margins; specifically, it is assumed that
I_______ the dealers would absorb 60% of the higher costs under Scenario A. 
CD~
oMIx
M:\SHS-SAR\BUFF\ANNEXES\ANX4-2BF.XLS Tab:Sensitivity-sales80%                                                                                                ui



INDONESIA
SOLAR HOME SYSTEMS PROJECT
Switching Value Analysis
l          J         |Switching Value Failure Rate of SHS Units                     19%                                   _             __
COSTS                                                                                                                   NET BENEFITS
(USS mill)                 =                                                                                     _  _      (UsS mill)
_TOTAL                                                                 GEF            TOTAL                Including
Investment Replacement O&M     COSTS    _   Down    Monthly  Replacement O&M              Consumer Global           BENEFITS                 GEF
Year   Costs     Costs       Costs                    Payments Payments Expenditures Expenditures Subtotal  Benefits   AFTER REDUCTION /a           Grant
1      6.07        0.00      0.02     6.09           0.66      0.97        0.00        0.02      1.64      0.67          2.32                  -3.77
2     12.45        0.01      0.09    12.55       -   1.92      3.37        0.01         0.09     5.39      1.99          7.38                  -5.17
3     23.25        0.06      0.21    23.51           3.55      7.88        0.06         0.21    11.70      4.06         15.76                  -7.75
4     27.18        0.42      0.36    27.95           4.34     13.23        0.42         0.36    18.35      4.98         23.32                  -4.62
5     23.15        1.04      0.49    24.68           3.76     16.87        1.04         0.49    22.16      4.55         26.71                  2.03
6      0.00        2.31      0.49      2.79                   14.47        2.31         0.49    17.26      0.00         17.26                  14.47
7      0.00        3.75      0.49      4.24                    9.96        3.75         0.49    14.20      0.00          14.20                 9.96
8      0.00        5.23      0.49      5.72                    4.61        5.23         0.49    10.32      0.00          10.32                 4.61
9      0.00        4.84      0.49     5.33                                 4.84         0.49     5.33      0.00          5.33                  0.00                _
10      0.00        5.12      0.49     5.61                                 5.12         0.49     5.61      0.00          5.61                  0.00                o
11      0.00        3.23      0.49     3.72                                 3.23         0.49     3.72      0.00          3.72                  0.00
12      0.00        3.14      0.49     3.62                                 3.14         0.49     3.62      0.00          3.62                  0.00
13      0.00        4.92      0.49     5.41                                 4.92         0.49     5.41      0.00          5.41                  0.00
14      0.00        5.77      0.49     6.26                       _         5.77         0.49     6.26      0.00          6.26                  0.00
15      0.00        4.50      0.49     4.99                                 4.50         0.49     4.99      0.00          4.99                  0.00
16      0.00        2.19      0.47     2.66                                 2.19         0.47     2.66      0.00          2.66                  0.00
17      0.00        1.93      0.40     2.34  =                              1.93         0.40     2.34      0.00          2.34                  0.00
18      0.00        0.19      0.28     0.47                                 0.19         0.28     0.47      0.00          0.47                  0.00
19      0.00        0.09      0.13     0.22                                 0.09         0.13     0.22      0.00          0.22                  0.00
PV at 10%    $66.21      $17.74    $2.90    $86.85         $10.15    $44.53      $17.74       $2.90   $75.33    $11.53         $86.85          _      5$0.00
IERR                                                                                                                                        _   10%
/a It is assumed that failed units provide no benefits at al                                                                            _
CD
ox
M:%SHS-SARkBUFFXANNEXES\ANX4-2BF.XLS Tab:failures



102
Annex 5.1
INDONESIA
SOLAR HOME SYSTEMS PROJECT
Selected Documents in the Project File
1.    Project Implementation Plan (PIP)
2.    Market Survey Study






BSRD 26570
5>   ND                                           It                                                                                                                                                                      in ' V6  V,     
-: ( 9 SouthCh,,,oSeo                           /                                  <> .PHILIPPINES                                          INDONESIA
MALAYSIA                                                             % BRUNE                          (L 
7'        |    1 \n                                       kMALAYSIA   f                                                                            19)    P|OSANCe HEADQUARTE5S
d..            LA, \ %  <    tk    ,/                   \                   <              j                                  Celebei                             .                           NA1ON&AL CAPITAL
.. -    ~~~~PROVINCE BOUNOARES
5                                                      .2                                                                      7 ,9\   \_s   ' '  ,J    MA     INTERNATIONAL 8OUNDARES
%   -  ><SINGAPORE                                Z                           7                                                                                                                  T t/           J-
/ \ _~~~~. konbor  < .    t,/!fr||;      
U M   A    T                         P---'M                                                                                 19HALMAHEE4 .-                                                          - 
K A L I A.-A N T A h             P'                                                                                                                       NORTH PACIFIC OCEAN
3  IAWAI TENV; G                              e        C       ) AH                               \_           0              i  20               X       i                                                                                         N 5  ==?  I    A
t  0.1. YCGYAKARTA                      -'U ''.                                                                                                                         0R
i JAWA TIMUE                              -       .        bElJTLJt4G                       Bo                 /6                              21 EETdoA        'A
7  BENGKUW                                      6                                                                                                                                                                                                     26
8  SUMATERA SELAA                               odtboSo(
0  JAMBI                                        29)-m
II SUMAkTERA ABART
12  SUJMATEEA UTABA0
I I  D.I. ACEH                                              .
2  KXAUMAANTAN BARAT                                                                                                                                 F6 r   Eno
- KAUMANTAN TENGAH6                    d                              - Fl.
16  KALMANTAN SELATAN                                                                                                                                  - A  W  A
I7  KALlhLANTANTIMUR                                     -j           2                                                                                                                                                        . \-
lb  SULAWESITENGAH                                                         k                              Bol, M..-
1)  SULAWESI LITARAA                                            ~/BOoOC>.?                                                                               ~
20  SULAWESI SELATAN                                                                                   2>        3noon.)^V=%1
21I  SULAWESI TENGGARA       Th   odo..                                                              .ta        '0.L2 2r
2'2  MAU                     d-oj0Oi--   -od o~
3.  NUSA TENGGARA EARAT     ottt.t        do ntteI DIANtOCEAN                                                            23          '          24                  V T.MoB
2 NUSA TENCGGEA TIMUR                                                                                                                                                 27~
25  MALUKO                  Th. Odook OA       op.            INDIAN OCEAN                                                                                             27
.6  IRLAN JAYA               tOidg-.t  ,t. .o
27  TIMOR TIMUR                 oLIA                                                                                                                                                                                                      *tdno,,.o.So
S                        t                                                         I                                                          l  <\r         ) ~~~~~~~~_   _    /? z2 2roo Se
DECEMBER 1994









IMAGING
Report No.: 162U33    5 6232 1 qiND
-,                      T~t              ~Iype:      PD



