Report No. PIC4688
Project Name         Indonesia-Renewable Energy Development Project
Region                              East Asia and Pacific
Sector                              Energy / Power
Project ID                          IDPA35544
Borrower                            Republic of Indonesia
Implementing Agencies               State Electricity Corporation (PLN)
Jl. Trunojoyo Blok Ml/135
Government of Indonesia
Jakarta, Indonesia.
Private Sector
Date PID Prepared                   October 1994
Projected Appraisal Date            April 1996
Projected Board Date                December 1996
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
1.   The specific objectives of the RED project are: (i) catalyze the
rapid penetration of grid and off-grid based renewable energy projects
in the private sector -- including cooperatives and NGOs -- and by
PLN, within the framework of a least cost rural electrification
strategy; (ii) facilitate participation by the private sector in
advancing renewable energy commercialization through the creation of a
sustainable "market conforming" framework; (iii) promote
environmentally sound energy resource development in Indonesia and to
reduce the energy sector's dependence on fossil fuels; (iv) strengthen
Indonesia's institutional capacity to sustain renewable energy
development.
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
2.   The project consists of three components: (i) financial
intermediation; (ii) investment; and (iii) technical assistance. The
financial intermediation component consists of: (i) solar PV systems,
including about 150,000+ (7.5+ MWp) solar home systems (SHS) in areas
where PLN grid service is not expected for at least three years or it
will be uneconomic for PLN to provide such service; and (ii) private
renewable energy based small electricity generation projects -- e.g.,
sugar mill and pa oil biomass cogeneration, mini-hydro, mini-
geothermal, municipal solid waste -- selling to a regional PLN grid
under a published power purchase tariff and standardized power
purchase contract. The investment component consists of renewable
based small electricity generation projects to be implemented by PLN.
Subject to further studies, the project would consider financing: (a)
construction of a geothermal power plant rated at about 3 MW at
Ulumbu, Flores; (b) about three to five micro-geothermal power plants
in the 0.2 MW to 1 MW range, (c) and about 10 to 15 mini-hydro plants
in Eastern Indonesia, each in the 0.75 to 5 MW range. The technical



assistance component will facilitate: (a) creation of technical
assistance unit(s) (TAU)/project implementation unit (PIU), that will
help, as appropriate, in the identification, promotion, preparation
and appraisal -- technical and financial -- of project proposals and
pre-investment studies, and assistance in follow on supervision,
monitoring and trouble shooting; (b) strengthening PLN's institutional
capacity for a small power program based on renewable energy; and (c)
preparation and related studies of renewable energy projects for
future implementation.
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
3.   Financial intermediation component The proposed credit would
provide funds through financial intermediaries, for two types of
renewable energy projects: small private projects selling power to
PLN, and solar PV systems. Under the small power component, the funds
would be available to potential developers in the private sector.
Under the solar PV component, the funds would be available to: (i)
private suppliers to enable dealer financing of purchases of solar PV
systems; and possibly, (ii) consumer credit directly to individual
households. PLN will be responsible for implementing the investment
component.
FINANCING
4.   On a preliminary basis, it is estimated that the total financing
requirement for the project will be approximately US$ 295 million, of
which about US$ 50 million is to be potentially sourced from a GEF
grant, US$ 170 million from IBRD funds, and the balance to be financed
by the private sector.
ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS
5.   The renewable energy technologies most likely to be utilized in
the project are mini-hydro, solar PV and mini-geothermal. These are,
mostly, "environmentally clean" and are not expected to pose
significant environmental or resettlement problems. They will be,
however, carefully examined during project preparation and
implementation, to avoid adverse environmental impacts. Renewable
energy is classified by the Bank's OD as a"B" project.    It would also
be classified as "B" considering that financing is processed through
financial intermediaries. To identify local environmental impacts, a
screening process applying predetermined criteria, for environment and
resettlement, will be used. Existing industries, or any other
developer, that will seek financing through this project, will have to
prove compliance of on-going operations with existing national
regulations, to quality as a potential borrower.
Contact Point:       Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
-2-



Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
-3 -



