Page  1
May 28, 2001
His Excellency
Ir. Prijadi Praptosuhardjo
Minister of Finance
Department of Finance
c/o Directorate General of Budget
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
Jakarta 10710
Dear Mr. Minister:
Re:
GEF Grant Number TF 028488-IND (Solar Home Systems Project)
Further Amendments to Grant Agreement and Extension of Closing 
Date
Pursuant to your Ministry’s letter dated May 2, 2001 (No. S-1075/A.8/2001), 
requesting the Bank to extend the closing date of the Grant and to amend the Grant 
Agreement, I am pleased to inform you that the Bank has established April 30, 2004 as 
the later date for purposes of Section 2.03 of the Grant Agreement between Republic of 
Indonesia and the Bank, dated March 11, 1997.  
Also pursuant to your letter of May 2, 2001, and pursuant to Section 6.03 of the 
General Conditions (as set out in Section 1.01 (b) (ix) of the Grant Agreement), the 
Bank hereby cancels, as of May 2, 2001, the amount of SDR 8,100,000 from the Grant.  
Accordingly, the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Grant Agreement is amended 
to read as follows:
Amount of the                               
  GEF Trust Fund Grant
   % of
  Allocated (Expressed
Expenditures
Category             in SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)  Subgrants
  4,500,000
100%
(2)  Consultants Services
  4,200,000
100%
Cancelled as of May 2, 2001
8,100,000
TOTAL
 16,800,000
I am also pleased to advise you that, after due consideration, the Bank has 
agreed to your request to amend the Grant Agreement. Accordingly, the Grant Agreement 
is amended as follows:
1.
Sections 1.02 (b), (g),(h) and (o) are amended to read, respectively, as 
follows:
"(b)
"BI" means Bank Indonesia, the central bank of the Recipient."
"(g)
"DGEEU" means the Directorate General of Electricity and Energy 
Utilization in the Recipient’s Ministry of Mines and Energy."
"(h)
"Fiscal Year" means the twelve (12) month period corresponding to any of 
the Recipient’s  fiscal years, which period commences on January 1 and ends on 
December 31 in each calendar year."
"(o)
"Project Area" means the Recipient’s provinces of Lampung, South Sulawesi 
and West Java, together with any kabupaten which is immediately contiguous to any of 
such provinces, and any other rural areas within the territory of the Borrower as may 
be agreed by the Recipient and the Bank."
2.
Paragraph 2 of Schedule 1 is amended by deleting sub-paragraph (b) 
thereof and re-lettering sub-paragraph (c) as sub-paragraph (b).
3.
Paragraph 3 of Schedule 1 is deleted and paragraphs 4 and 5 of said 
Schedule are re-numbered as paragraphs 3 and 4 respectively.
Page  2
4.
Schedule 2, Part A, is amended to read as follows:
"Part A:
Provision of Subgrants to finance Subprojects consisting of the 
sale and installation in the Project Area of an aggregate of about 70,000 Solar Home 
Systems by Dealers."
Schedule 2, Part B.2 is amended to read as follows:
"2.
Strengthening the Recipient’s capacity to design and implement a 
long-term strategy for the utilization of renewable energy for rural electricity 
services, through:
(a)
the conduct of a study for utilizing renewable energy for rural 
electricity services consistent with the Recipient’s power sector reform [program];
(b)
the development of the renewable Energy for Rural Transformation Action 
Plan; and
(c)
provision of training and study tours in photovoltaic utilization to 
selected officials of the Recipient, including, without limitation, relevant officials 
of BPPT, DGEEU and BAPPENAS, and for selected officials of private sector 
organizations involved in implementation of decentralized rural electrification by 
Solar Home Systems."
5.
The final sentence of Schedule 2 is amended to read as follows:
"The Project is expected to be completed by October 31, 2003."*
6.
Sub-paragraph 2.c of Schedule 4, Part B.2.c. is deleted and 
sub-paragraphs 2.d. and e. thereof are re-lettered as 2.c. and 2.d. respectively.
7.
Schedule 4, Parts B.3.a. and 3.c. are amended to read, respectively, as 
follows:
"a.
Subject to subparagraphs b., c., and d. below, the amount of the Subgrant 
to a Dealer shall be equivalent to:  (i) $2.50 per Wp for each Solar Home System 
installed under a Subproject by such dealer in the Project Area up to April 30, 2002; 
(ii) $2.00 per Wp for each Solar Home System installed under a Subproject by such 
Dealer in the Project Area from May 1, 2002; (iii) $1.25 per Wp for each 
Solar Home System installed under a Subproject by such Dealer in the Project 
Area [after 40,000 units have been sold under the Project];" and
"c.
Subsequent Subgrant payments to each Dealer will be made upon receipt by 
the relevant Participating Bank of satisfactory evidence of installation under the 
respective Subproject of at least 50 Solar Home Systems, including a PSG report on 
satisfactory compliance with [requirementsto that effect], together with duly executed 
hire purchase, sale lease fee for service or other commercial contracts in respect of 
each such system installed, following which the Participating Bank will forward to the 
Recipient a request for payment to be made to the Dealer."
8.
Schedule 4, Part C. 1. is amended to read as follows:
"1.
Renewable Home System Action PlanRenewable Energy for Rural 
Transformation. The Recipient shall, through DGEEU:
a.
undertake and furnish to the Bank for its review and comment no later 
than December 15April 30, 2002, a draft final version of the renewable energy for 
rural transformation study implementation plan under Part B.2.(a) of the Project, in 
accordance with terms of reference and in a manner satisfactory to the Bank;
b.
promptly thereafter, exchange views with the Bank on the study referred 
to in sub-paragraph a. above; and 
c.
prepare and furnish to the Bank for review and comment no later than June 
30, 2003 a draft final version of the renewable energy for rural transformation action 
plan under Part B.2.(b) of the Project and based on the study and review thereof 
referred to in sub-paragraphs a. and b. above, and, thereafter, finalize said action 
plan no later than September 30, 2003, taking into account the Bank’s comments 
thereon."
9.
Schedule 4, Part D.1. is amended by deleting sub-paragraphs d. and e. in 
Page  3
their entirety.
10.
Schedule 6 is amended to read as stated in the Annex to this letteris 
amended to read as stated in the Annex to this letter. 
.
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing by signing and dating the 
enclosed duplicate of this letter in the space provided, and by returning it to us. 
The above amendments will become effective as of the date of confirmation.
Sincerely,
By /s/ Mark Baird
Country Director, Indonesia
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By /s/ A. Anshari Ritonga
Authorized Representative
Date:
June 12, 2001
Annex
cc: 
Drs. A. Anshari Ritonga, Director General of Budget, Ministry of Finance
Mr. Rachmat Mulyadi, Vice Chairman, BPPT
Mr. Endro Utomo Notodisuryo, Director General, DGEED
Mr. Bambang Bintoro, Deputy for Production, Trade & Infrastructure, BAPPENAS
Mr. Freddy Tulung, Head of Bureau for Foreign Multilateral Cooperation, 
BAPPENAS
Mr. Adjat Sudrajat, Director, Energy Conversion and Conservation Technology, 
BPPT
Mr. Yusak Lubis, Project Director, SHS Project, BPPT
Mr. Jim Finucane, Director SHS Project Support Group
cw. & bcc. Messrs. Cabraal (EASEG)-5/25/01, Bruneau (LOAG3)-5/26/01; A. Toft 
(LEGEA/EACIF)
bcc. Messrs. Agarwal, Prasta (EACIF), de Bruyn Kops (EACIQ), Sumi, Farhandi (EASEG) 
