Page  1
                                                          CONFORMED COPY
                                             GEF GRANT NUMBER TF 028488
         GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement related to Loan Number 4132 IND
                        Global Environment Facility
                        Trust Fund Grant Agreement
                       (Solar Home Systems Project)
                                 between
                         REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
                                  and
                INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                            AND DEVELOPMENT
           acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global
                         Environment Facility
                         Dated March 11, 1997
                                            GEF GRANT NUMBER TF 028488
                     GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY
                     TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated March 11, 1997, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
(the Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) acting as an implementing agency of the
Global Environment Facility (GEF) in respect of grant funds provided
to the GEF Trust Fund by certain members of the Bank as participants
of the GEF.
     WHEREAS: (A) the Bank, pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March
14, 1991 of the Executive Directors of the Bank, established the GEF
to assist in the protection of the global environment and promote
thereby environmentally sound and sustainable economic development;
     (B)  following the restructuring of the GEF, such arrangements
are continued in place on the basis set forth in Resolution No. 94-2
of May 24, 1994, of the Executive Directors of the Bank establishing
the GEF Trust Fund;
     (C)  the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility
and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
has requested assistance from the resources of the GEF Trust Fund in
the financing of the Project, and the Bank has determined that such
assistance would be in accordance with the provisions of Resolution
No. 94-2 referred to above;
     (D)  the Recipient has also requested the Bank to provide
additional assistance towards the financing of the Project and by
an agreement of even date herewith between the Recipient and the
Bank, the Bank has agreed to provide such assistance in an aggre-
gate principal amount equivalent to twenty million Dollars
Page  2
($20,000,000) (the Loan); and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the GEF Trust Fund Grant to the Recipient
upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01 (a) The following provisions of the General
Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the
Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth
in paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) con-
stitute an integral part of this Agreement:
          (i)  Article I;
         (ii)  Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9),
               (10), (11), (15), (18) and (20), 2.02 and 2.03;
        (iii)  Section 3.01;
         (iv)  Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09;
          (v)  Article V;
         (vi)  Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (c), (d), (e), (f), (i) and
               (k), 6.03, 6.04 and 6.06;
        (vii)  Section 8.01 (b);
       (viii)  Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07,
               9.08 and 9.09;
         (ix)  Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04;
          (x)  Article XI; and
         (xi)  Section 12.04.
     (b)  The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
          (i)  a new paragraph shall be added to the end of Section
               2.01 to read as follows: "the term "Special Drawing
               Rights" and the symbol "SDR" mean special drawing
               rights as valued by the International Monetary Fund
               in accordance with its Articles of Agreement";
         (ii)  the term "Bank", wherever used in the General
               Conditions, other than in Sections 2.01 (8) and
               6.02 (f) thereof and the last use of such term in
               Section 5.01 thereof, means the Bank acting as an
               implementing agency of the GEF, except that in
               Section 6.02, the term "Bank" shall also include
               the Bank acting in its own capacity;
        (iii)  the term "Borrower", wherever used in the General
               Conditions, means the Recipient;
         (iv)  the term "Loan Agreement", wherever used in the
               General Conditions, means this Agreement;
          (v)  the term "Loan" and "loan", wherever used in the
               General Conditions, means the GEF Trust Fund Grant;
         (vi) the term "Loan Account", wherever used in the
              General Conditions, means the GEF Trust Fund Grant
              Account;
Page  3
        (vii) The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to
              read: "Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall
              otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a)
              on account of expenditures in the territories of
              any country which is not a member of the Bank or
              for goods produced in, or services supplied from,
              such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any
              payment to persons or entities, or for any import
              of goods, if such payment or import, to the know-
              ledge of the Bank, is prohibited by a decision of
              the United Nations Security Council taken under
              Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.";
      (viii)  a new subparagraph is added after subparagraph (j)
              in Section 6.02 of the General Conditions, as
              follows: "an extraordinary situation shall have
              arisen in which any further disbursement under the
              GEF Trust Fund Grant would exceed the resources
              available for disbursement from the GEF."; and
        (ix)  Section 6.03 is modified to read:
              "Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a)
              the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals
              from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account shall have
              been suspended with respect to any amount of the
              GEF Trust Fund Grant for a continuous period of
              thirty days, or (b) at any time, the Bank deter-
              mines, after consultation with the Recipient, that
              an amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant will not be
              required to finance the Project's costs to be
              financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust
              Fund Grant, or (c) at any time, the Bank deter-
              mines, with respect to any contract to be financed
              out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant,
              that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged
              in by representatives of the Recipient or of a
              beneficiary of the GEF Trust Fund Grant during
              the procurement or the execution of such contract,
              without the Recipient having taken timely and
              appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to
              remedy the situation, and establishes the amount
              of expenditures in respect of such contract which
              would otherwise have been eligible for financing
              out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant,
              or (d) at any time, the Bank determines that the
              procurement of any contract to be financed out of
              the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant is
              inconsistent with the procedures set forth or
              referred to in the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement
              and establishes the amount of expenditures in
              respect of such contract which would otherwise
              have been eligible for financing out of the
              proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, or (e)
              after the Closing Date, an amount of the GEF
              Trust Fund Grant shall remain unwithdrawn from
              the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account, or (f) the
              Bank shall have received notice from the
              Guarantor pursuant to Section 6.07 with respect
              to an amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, the
              Bank may, by notice to the Recipient and the
              Guarantor, terminate the right of the Recipient
              to make withdrawals with respect to such amount.
              Upon the giving of such notice, such amount of
              the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall be canceled."
     Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Recitals to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
Page  4
     (a)  "BAPPENAS" means Recipient's National Development
Planning Agency, and includes any successor or successors
thereto.
     (b)  "BI" means Bank Indonesia, the central bank of the
Recipient, established and operating under Law No. 13 of 1968
of the Recipient.
     (c)  "BI Subgrant Agreement" means the agreement entered
into between the Recipient and BI pursuant to Section 3.02(a)
of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes all schedules to the BI Subgrant
Agreement, and the term "BI Subgrant" means the grant provided
under the BI Subgrant Agreement.
     (d)  "BPPT" means Recipient's Agency for the Assessment and
Application of Technology, and includes any successor or
successors thereto.
     (e)  "Dealer" means an individual resident in Indonesia and
cooperatives and private enterprises established and operating
under the laws of the Recipient, which is engaged in the sale of
Solar Home Systems or other products in rural areas of Indonesia
and to which a Participating Bank proposes to make or has made a
Subgrant.
     (f)  "Dealer Obligations" means the standards for Dealer
conduct referred to in paragraph B.2.c. of Schedule 4 to the
Loan Agreement.
     (g)  "DGEED" means the Directorate General of Electricity
and Energy Development in the Recipient's Ministry of Mines and
Energy.
     (h)  "Fiscal Year" means the twelve (12) month period cor-
responding to any of the Recipient's fiscal years, which period
commences on April 1 and ends on March 31 in each calendar year.
     (i)  "ISO 25" means the General Requirements for the Com-
petence of Calibration and Testing Laboratory Accreditation,
standard number 25 of the International Standards Organization.
     (j)  "ISO 25 Action Plan" means the plan prepared by the
Recipient in accordance with paragraph C. 2. b. of Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
     (k)  "Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date here-
with between the Recipient and the Bank for the Project, as such
agreement may be amended from time to time; and such term includes
the "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, as applied to such
agreement, and all schedules and agreements supplemental to the
Loan Agreement.
     (l)  "Participating Banks" means, collectively, the Private
Commercial Banks and the State-owned Commercial Banks, and
"Participating Bank" means any one of them.
     (m)  "Participating Bank Agreement" means, with respect to a
Participating Bank, the State Bank Subsidiary Loan Agreement or
the Private Bank On-lending Agreement to which such Participating
Bank is a party pursuant to Section 3.02 of the Loan Agreement.
     (n)  "Private Commercial Banks" means the commercial banks
other than commercial banks owned by the Recipient which propose
to make or have made a Subgrant to a Dealer and which have
entered into a Participating Bank Agreement with BI, and "Private
Commercial Bank" means any one of them.
     (o)  "Project Area" means the Recipient's provinces of Lampung,
South Sulawesi and West Java (excluding the kecamatan of Surade,
Agrabinta, Ciemas and Sagarantan) together with any kabupaten which
Page  5
is immediately contiguous to any of such provinces, and any other
rural areas within the territory of the Borrower as may be agreed
by the Recipient and the Bank.
     (p)  "PSG" means the Project Support Group established by the
Recipient and maintained in accordance with paragraph A.1.a. of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     (q)  "PT PLN" means Perseroan Terbatas Perusahaan Perseroan
(PERSERO) P.T. Perusahaan Listrik Negara, a limited liability
company established and existing under the laws of the Recipient,
and includes any successor or successors thereto.
     (r)  "RESC" means the Rural Electrification Steering Committee
established by the Recipient and maintained in accordance with
paragraph A.2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     (s)   "Solar Home System" and the acronym "SHS" mean a system
of one or more solar photovoltaic panels, battery storage and
battery charge and discharge controllers, suitable for powering
energy-efficient home appliances, and at least three lighting
fixtures with bulbs.
     (t)  "Solar Home System Action Plan" means the plan developed
and adopted by the Recipient in accordance with paragraph C.1.c. of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     (u)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
     (v)  "State-owned Commercial Banks" means the commercial banks
owned by the Recipient which propose to make or have made a Subgrant
to a Dealer and which have entered into a Participating Bank Agree-
ment with the Recipient, and "State-owned Commercial Bank" means any
one of them.
     (w)  "Subgrant" means the portion of the proceeds of the GEF
Trust Fund Grant provided through a Participating Bank to a Dealer
in accordance with paragraph B.3. of Schedule 4 to this Agreement
and the terms of the Participating Bank Grant Agreement entered
into between the Participating Bank and BI or the Recipient, as
the case may be.
     (x)  "Subgrant Ceiling" means, with respect to a Dealer, the
annual aggregate maximum of Subgrants to be made to such Dealer,
determined in accordance with paragraph B.3.e. of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
     (y)  "Subloan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by a
Participating Bank to a Dealer to finance a Subproject, funded in
part out of the equivalent of the proceeds of the Loan relent to
such Participating Bank pursuant to the terms of the Loan
Agreement.
     (z)  "Subproject" means a specific investment project for the
sale to customers and installation of Solar Home Systems in the
Project Area, to be carried out by a Dealer utilizing the proceeds
of a Subgrant.
                                ARTICLE II
                         The GEF Trust Fund Grant
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to make available to the Recipient,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agree-
ment, the GEF Trust Fund Grant in an amount in various currencies
equivalent to sixteen million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 16,800,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant may be
withdrawn from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account in accordance with
the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures
Page  6
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of (i)
Subgrants under Part A of the Project and (ii) the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for carrying out Part B of the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust
Fund Grant.
     (b)  The Recipient may, for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in Bank Indonesia
or a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank, including, in the case of a commercial bank, appropriate
protection against set off, seizure or attachment.  Deposits into,
and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be April 30, 2002 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly
notify the Recipient of such later date.
                                ARTICLE III
                           Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agree-
ment and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial and engineering practices and with due regard to ecological
and environmental factors, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and except as the Recipient and the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance with
the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.02. (a) The Recipient shall make available to BI an
amount out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant corresponding
to the aggregate amount of Subgrants approved to be made from time
to time by the Private Commercial Banks, under a subsidiary grant
agreement entered into between the Recipient and BI, under terms and
conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank which shall
include the terms and conditions set forth in paragraph B.1 of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     (b)  The Recipient shall cause BI to make available to each
Private Commercial Bank the amount out of the proceeds of the BI
Subgrant corresponding to the aggregate amount of Subgrants
approved to be made by such Private Commercial Bank from time to
time, under an agreement entered into between BI and such Private
Commercial Bank, under terms and conditions which shall have been
approved by the Bank which shall include the terms and conditions
set forth in paragraph B.2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     (c)  The Recipient shall make available to each State-owned
Commercial Bank the amount out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust
Fund Grant corresponding to the aggregate amount of Subgrants
approved to be made by such State-owned Commercial Bank from time
to time, under an agreement entered into between the Recipient and
such State-owned Commercial Bank, under terms and conditions which
shall have been approved by the Bank which shall include the terms
and conditions set forth in paragraph B.2 of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
     Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the consultants' services required for the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall:
Page  7
     (a)  prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose
between the Recipient and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure the
continued achievement of the objectives of the Project; and
     (b)  afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views
with the Recipient on said plan.
     Section 3.05. (a)  The Recipient undertakes that, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, Subgrants will be made in accordance
with the procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in paragraph B.3 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     (b)  The Recipient shall ensure that each Participating Bank
shall exercise its rights in relation to each Subgrant in such
manner as to:
          (i)  protect the interests of the Recipient and the Bank;
         (ii)  comply with its obligations under this Agreement;
               and
        (iii)  accomplish the purposes of the Project.
                                 ARTICLE IV
                             Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments, agencies
or entities of the Recipient responsible for carrying out the
Project or any part thereof, and of BI and the Participating Banks.
     (b)  The Recipient shall, and shall cause BI and the Partici-
pating Banks to:
          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a) of this Section including those for the
               Special Account for each Fiscal Year audited, in
               accordance with appropriate auditing principles
               consistently applied, by independent auditors
               acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
               any case not later than six (6) months after the
               end of each such year, the report of such audit
               by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
               as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
               said records and accounts and the audit thereof as
               the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account were made on the basis of statements
of expenditure, the Recipient shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
               paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
               reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank has
               received the audit report for the Fiscal Year in
               which the last withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund
               Grant Account was made, all records (contracts,
               orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other docu-
               ments) evidencing such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
Page  8
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b)
               of this Section and that the report of such audit
               contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
               whether the statements of expenditure submitted
               during such Fiscal Year, together with the pro-
               cedures and internal controls involved in their
               preparation, can be relied upon to support the
               related withdrawals.
     Section 4.02.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Recipient shall not provide to any Dealer, whether directly or
indirectly, in cash or in kind, any loan, subsidy, grant, credit
enhancement or financing of any kind other than out of the proceeds
of the Loan pursuant to the Loan Agreement and the proceeds of the
GEF Trust Fund Grant pursuant to this Grant Agreement.
                                 ARTICLE V
                         Effectiveness; Termination
     Section 5.01. The following event is specified as a condition to
the effectiveness of this Agreement, namely that the Loan Agreement
has been executed and delivered and all conditions precedent to its
effectiveness, except only the effectiveness of this Agreement, have
been fulfilled.
     Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
     Section 5.03. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the
GEF Trust Fund Grant has been fully disbursed and the parties to
this Agreement have fulfilled their obligations hereunder.
                               ARTICLE VI
               Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
     Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Recipient is
designated as representative of the Recipient for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.02 The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Recipient:
          Ministry of Finance
          c/o Directorate General of Budget
          Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
          P. O. Box 2458
          Jakarta 10710, Indonesia
          Cable address:           Telex:
               FINMINISTRY         45799 DJMLN - IA
               Jakarta             44319 DEPKEU - IA
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:           Telex:
               INTBAFRAD           248423 (MCI) or
Page  9
               Washington, D.C.     64145 (MCI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in Washington, D.C.,  as of the day and year
first above written.
                     REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
                     By /s/ Arifin M. Siregar
                                             Authorized Representative
                     INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                         RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                         as an implementing agency of the Global
                         Environment Facility
                     By /s/ Marianne Haug
                                        Acting Regional Vice President
                                                 East Asia and Pacific
                                 SCHEDULE 1
           Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, the allocation of the
amounts of the GEF Trust Fund Grant to each Category and the percentage
of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                                Amount of the
                             GEF Trust Fund Grant           % of
                           Allocated (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category                  SDR Equivalent)          to be Financed
(1)  Subgrants                   13,810,000             100%
(2)  Consultants' services        2,990,000             100%
                                 __________
     TOTAL                       16,800,000
                                 ==========
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made:
     (a)  in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the
date of this Agreement;
     (b)  in respect of Category (1) in excess of an aggregate amount
of SDR 8,290,000  and in respect of Category (2) in excess of an
aggregate amount of SDR 2,590,000, unless the independent review of
the Project conducted pursuant to paragraph D.1.d. of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement has been completed and, following the submission of
the reports of the Recipient and the independent panel convened in
connection with such review on the outlook for the future imple-
mentation of the Project, the disbursement of the funds in such
Categories in excess of such respective amounts has been duly
authorized by the chief executive officer of the GEF; and
     (c)  in respect of Subgrants to a Dealer unless such Dealer has
been approved by the Bank.
Page  10
3.   If the authorization to disburse funds referred to in paragraph
2(b) above has not been made within thirty (30) days of submission of
the report of the independent panel convened pursuant to paragraph
D.1.d. of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, or if the disbursement of
less than all of the unwithdrawn funds has been authorized, then
the Bank may, by notice to the Recipient, cancel the unwithdrawn
amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant in excess of the amount so
authorized to be disbursed, or any part thereof.
4.   The Bank may require withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for
expenditures for: (i) Subgrants and (ii) contracts for the employ-
ment of consulting firms costing less than $100,000 equivalent each
and contracts for the employment of individuals costing less than
$50,000 equivalent each, in each case under such terms and condi-
tions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient.
5.   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment
made from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account was used for any expen-
diture not consistent with the provisions of this Agreement, the
Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the
Bank for deposit into the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account, an amount
equal to the amount so used or the portion thereof as specified by
the Bank.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                         Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are to assist the Recipient to:
(a) expand availability of electricity to rural customers in
Indonesia who cannot be served economically or in a timely manner
by conventional rural electrification; (b) facilitate participation
by the private sector in advancing renewable energy commercializa-
tion; (c) promote environmentally sound energy resource development
and reduce the dependence of Recipient's energy sector on fossil
fuels; (d) bring about cost effective mitigation of carbon dioxide
(CO2) emissions; and (e) strengthen the Recipient's institutional
capacity to support and sustain decentralized rural electrification.
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Recipient and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives.
Part A:
     Provision of Subloans and Subgrants to finance Subprojects
consisting of the sale and installation in the Project Area of an
aggregate of about 200,000 Solar Home Systems by Dealers.
Part B:   Technical Assistance
1.   Strengthening the Recipient's capacity for Project implementation
through provision of consultants' services in connection with:
     (a)  the evaluation and monitoring of Dealer compliance with the
terms and conditions of Subloans and the GEF Grant;
     (b)  assessment of business plans and Subproject applications
submitted by Dealers;
     (c)  establishment of contacts with and assessing the capacity
of prospective Dealers; and
     (d)  maintenance of contacts with actual and prospective Solar
Home System customers.
2.   Strengthening the Recipient's capacity to design and implement
a long-term strategy for the utilization of appropriate solar
photovoltaic technology, through:
Page  11
     (a)  the conduct of a decentralized rural electrification study
to complement Recipient's existing least-cost grid-based rural
electrification plan;
     (b)  the development of the Solar Home Systems Action Plan; and
     (c)  provision of training and study tours in photovoltaic
utilization to selected officials of the Recipient, including,
without limitation, relevant officials of BPPT, DGEED and BAPPENAS,
and for selected officials of private sector organizations involved
in implementation of decentralized rural electrification by Solar
Home Systems.
3.   Strengthening BPPT's capability to technically certify Solar
Home Systems and to monitor systems in the field, through the
provision of training to selected BPPT staff in the use of appro-
priate testing equipment and techniques.
          *          *          *          *          *
     The Project is expected to be completed by October 31, 2001.
                                 SCHEDULE 3
                           Consultants' Services
Employment of Consultants
1.   Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded
in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the
Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such
contracts shall be based on the standard form of contract for
consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications
thereto as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant
standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other
standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts,
shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting
firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b)
contracts for the employment of individual consultants estimated to
cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to
prior Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for
such contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting firms; (c)
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the
Bank; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting
firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above; or
(e) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual con-
sultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
                                SCHEDULE 4
                          Implementation Program
A.   Project Management.
1.   The Recipient shall establish:
     a.   no later than May 15, 1997, a project support group, to be
responsible for, inter alia, monitoring compliance by Dealers with
the Dealer Obligations and the development of contacts with pro-
spective and actual Solar Home System customers; and
     b.   no later than November 30, 1997, a working group to be
headed by the Director of Electric Power Planning of DGEED and with
representation from BAPPENAS, BPPT, the Ministry of Finance and the
Ministry of Cooperatives and Small Enterprise Development of the
Page  12
Recipient, and PT PLN, to be responsible for coordinating and
assisting consultants engaged in connection with the implementation
of subparagraphs (a) and (b) of Part B.2 of the Project; and shall
maintain both groups throughout the period of implementation of the
Project, with terms of reference, membership, staffing and other
resources acceptable to the Bank.
2.   The Recipient shall maintain throughout the period of imple-
mentation of the Project the Rural Electrification Steering
Committee, to be responsible for, inter alia, coordinating the
activities of the PSG and the Working Group.
B.   Terms and Conditions of Subgrants
1.   BI Subsidiary Grant Agreement.  The terms and conditions of the
BI Subsidiary Grant Agreement shall include:
     a.   the obligation of BI to make available funds provided under
the BI Subsidiary Grant Agreement to the Private Commercial Banks, on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, which shall include,
without limitation, the terms and conditions set forth in paragraph
B.2 of this Schedule; and
     b.   the obligation of BI to require that Participating Banks
party to Participating Bank Agreements agree to make Subgrants to
Dealers only on the terms and conditions set forth in paragraph B.3
of this Schedule.
2.   Participating Bank Agreements.  For the purpose of making Sub-
grants to Dealers, the Recipient or BI, as the case may be, shall
make available a portion of the GEF Trust Fund Grant to Participat-
ing Banks under Participating Bank Agreements to be entered into
between the Recipient or BI and each of the Participating Banks
upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including the
following:
     a.   the obligation of each Participating Bank to make available
funds provided under the Participating Bank Agreement to the Dealers,
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank which shall include
the terms and conditions set forth in paragraph B.3 of this Schedule;
     b.   the agreement of the Participating Bank that the aggregate
amount of Subgrants made or proposed to be made by the Participating
Bank to a particular Dealer will not exceed the Subgrant Ceiling
applicable to such Dealer;
     c.   the obligation of each Participating Bank to establish an
escrow account for each Dealer to whom it proposes to make Subgrants,
for the purpose of financing certain costs incurred in providing
after sales service to Solar Home System customers, on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank;
     d.   no obligation to pay any administration or banking fee to
the Recipient or BI, as the case may be, on the proceeds of the
Subsidiary Grant disbursed to such Participating Bank; and
     e.   an undertaking by each Participating Bank to charge no
fees with respect to the Subgrants made or to be made to Dealers.
3.   Subgrants.
     a.   Subject to subparagraphs b., c., and d. below, the amount
of the Subgrant to a Dealer shall be equivalent to:  (i) $75 for
each Solar Home System sold and installed under a Subproject by
such Dealer within that portion of the Project Area lying on the
island of Java; and (ii) $125 for each Solar Home System sold and
installed under a Subproject by such Dealer within that portion
of the Project Area not lying on the island of Java;
     b.   Initial Subgrant payments to each Dealer will be made only
after the PSG has conducted an audit and found satisfactory the
installation of at least 50 Solar Home Systems by such Dealer under
Page  13
an approved Subproject.
     c.   Subsequent Subgrant payments to each Dealer will be made
upon receipt by the relevant Participating Bank of satisfactory
evidence of installation under the respective Subproject of at
least 50 Solar Home Systems, together with duly executed hire
purchase contracts in respect of each such system installed,
following which the Participating Bank will forward to the
Recipient a request for payment to be made to the Dealer.
     d.   Subgrant payments to each Dealer shall not exceed the
Subgrant Ceiling for such Dealer.
     e.   The Recipient shall cause the PSG to establish and, no
later than October 1 in each year, furnish to the Bank for
approval, maximum Subgrant amounts with respect to each Dealer,
to be paid during the succeeding calendar year (the Subgrant
Ceiling).
     f.   Subgrants shall be made on terms whereby the Participating
Bank shall obtain, by written contract with the Dealer or by other
appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests
of the Bank, the Recipient and the Participating Bank, including
the right to:
          (i)  require the Dealer to carry out the Subproject with
               due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with
               sound technical, financial, managerial and environ-
               mental records;
         (ii)  require that: (a) the goods to be financed out of
               the proceeds of the Subgrant shall be procured at
               a reasonable price, account being taken also of
               other relevant factors such as time of delivery
               and efficiency and reliability of the goods and
               availability of maintenance facilities and spare
               parts therefor, and (b) such goods shall be used
               exclusively in the carrying out of the Subproject;
        (iii)  inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives
               of the Bank if the Bank shall so request, such
               goods and the operation thereof and any relevant
               records and documents;
         (iv)  require that: (a) the Dealer shall take out and
               maintain with responsible insurers such insurance,
               against such risks and in such amounts, as shall
               be consistent with sound business practice; and
               (b) without any limitation upon the foregoing,
               such insurance shall cover hazards incident to
               the acquisition, transportation and delivery of
               goods financed out of the proceeds of the Subgrant
               to the place of use or installation, any indemnity
               thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely
               usable by the Dealer to replace or repair such
               goods;
          (v)  obtain all such information as the Bank or the
               Recipient shall reasonably request relating to
               the foregoing and to the administration,
               operations and financial condition of the Dealer
               and to the benefits to be derived from the Sub-
               project; and
         (vi)  suspend or terminate the right of the Dealer to
               the use of the proceeds of the GEF Grant upon
               failure by such Dealer to perform its obligations
               under its contract with the Participating Bank.
4.   Payment Procedures.  Disbursement of the proceeds of the GEF
Grant by the Recipient and BI shall be made pursuant to procedures
and subject to documentation acceptable to the Bank.
Page  14
C.   Implementation of Technical Assistance
1.   Solar Home System Action Plan.  The Recipient shall, through
DGEED:
     a.   undertake and furnish to the Bank for review and comment
no later than September 30, 1998, a draft final version of the
decentralized rural electrification study under Part B.2.(a) of the
Project, in accordance with terms of reference and in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank;
     b.   promptly thereafter, exchange views with the Bank on the
study referred to in sub-paragraph a. above; and
     c.   prepare and furnish to the Bank for review and comment no
later than March 31, 1999 a draft decentralized rural electrifica-
tion plan with a focus on solar photovoltaic technology under part
B.2.(b) of the Project and based on the study and review thereof
referred to in sub-paragraphs a. and b. above, and, thereafter,
finalize and adopt said plan no later than November 30, 1999, taking
into account the Bank's comments thereon.
2.   ISO 25 Action Plan.  The Recipient shall, through BPPT:
     a.   no later than October 31, 1997, pursuant to terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank and in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 3 of this Agreement, engage and mobilize
consultants to assist in the implementation of Part B.3. of the
Project;
     b.   prepare and furnish to the Bank for review and comment
no later than February 28, 1998, a time-bound action plan for the
achievement of ISO 25 status for BPPT's Energy Technology
Laboratory; and
     c.   complete the implementation of the technical assistance
to be provided under Part B.3. of the Project no later than
October 31, 1999.
D.   Monitoring and Reporting
1.   The Recipient shall:
     a.   maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the
indicators set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement, the carrying
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
     b.   prepare, or cause the PSG to prepare, under terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank, on or
about December 31 in each year, commencing December 31, 1997, a
report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluationactivities performed 
pursuant to sub-paragraph a. above, on the
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the
period preceding the date of said report and setting out the
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the
period following such date;
     c.   review with the Bank, by February 28 in each year,
commencing February 28, 1998, or such later date as the Bank
shall request, the report referred to in sub-paragraph b. above,
and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the effi-
cient completion of the Project and the achievement of the
objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations
of the said report and the Bank's views on the matter;
     d.   prepare, or cause the PSG to prepare, and furnish,
through the RESC, to the Bank and the independent panel referred
to in subparagraph e. below, no later than April 30, 1999, a
report under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, inte-
Page  15
grating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities
performed pursuant to sub-paragraph a. above as limited by said
terms of reference, on the progress achieved in the carrying out
of the Project during the period preceding the date of said
report;
     e.   convene an independent technical panel comprised of
experts acceptable to the Bank, which panel shall prepare, and
furnish to the Bank through the RESC, no later than July 31,
1999, an independent report on the outlook for future implemen-
tation of the Project, under terms of reference satisfactory to
the Bank.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                              Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories means Categories (1) and (2)
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust
Fund Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent
to $1,600,000 to be withdrawn from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an
amount equivalent to $800,000 until the aggregate amount of with-
drawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account plus the total amount
of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions for the Project
shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 2,200,000.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the
Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such
request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient,
withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposit into the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have
requested.
     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient
               shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into
               the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank
               shall specify.
         (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
               Recipient shall furnish to the Bank the documents
               and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph
               4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments
               in respect of which replenishment is requested. On
               the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on
               behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the GEF
               Trust Fund Grant Account and deposit into the
Page  16
               Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall
               have requested and as shall have been shown by said
               documents and other evidence to have been paid out
               of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
               All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank
               from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account under the
               respective eligible Categories, and in the respective
               equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
               said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special
Account, the Recipient shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the
Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account in accordance with the provisions
of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section
2.02 of this Agreement;
     (b)  if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank,
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records
and accounts for the Special Account;
     (c)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient
of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the
Recipient to make withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account
pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions;
or
     (d)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund
Grant allocated to the eligible Categories, minus the total amount
of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the GEF Trust
Fund Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the GEF
Trust Fund Grant allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow
such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of
the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for
eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account:
          (i)  was made for an expenditure or in an amount not
               eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule;
               or
         (ii)  was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
               Bank, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice
               from the Bank:
               (A)  provide such additional evidence as the Bank
                    may request; or
               (B)  deposit into the Special Account (or, if the
                    Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an
                    amount equal to the amount of such payment or
                    the portion thereof not so eligible or
                    justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise
Page  17
                    agree, no further deposit by the Bank into
                    the Special Account shall be made until the
                    Recipient has provided such evidence or made
                    such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Recipient
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank
such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Recipient may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the GEF Trust
Fund Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation
in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
                                SCHEDULE 6
                           Performance Indicators
                             PLEASE SEE ORIGINAL
