Page  1
February 24, 1999
His Excellency
Bambang Subianto
Minister of Finance
Department of Finance
Gedung Utama, 3rd Floor
Jl. Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
Jakarta
Republic of Indonesia
Re:
Solar Home Systems Project  (Loan No. 4132-IND; GEF Grant No. 
TF028488) Amendment to Loan and Grant Agreements
Dear Mr. Minister:
We refer to the Loan Agreement (Solar Home Systems Project) between the Republic 
of Indonesia (the Borrower) and the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the Bank), dated March 11, 1997 (the Grant Agreement) and to the Global 
Environment Facility Trust Fund Grant Agreement (Solar Home Systems Project) between 
the Borrower and the Bank, as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment 
Facility, of even date with the Loan Agreement (the Grant Agreement).  We also refer 
to the letter dated January 15, 1999 from the Director of External Funds, Ministry of 
Finance, requesting an amendment to the Loan Agreement and Grant Agreement to change 
the size of the solar home systems eligible for financing under the Grant.
We are pleased to inform you that, after due consideration, the Bank has agreed 
to the above-mentioned request.  Accordingly, the Loan and Grant Agreements are hereby 
amended as follows:
1.
Section 1.02(u) of the Loan Agreement is hereby amended to read as follows:
"(u)
‘Solar Home System’ and the acronym ‘SHS’ mean a system of one or more 
solar photovoltaic panels suitable to supply power for energy–efficient home 
appliances, such as fluorescent light fixtures."
2.
Section 1.02(s) of the Grant Agreement is hereby amended to read as follows:
"(s)
‘Solar Home System’ and the acronym ‘SHS’ mean a system of one or more 
solar photovoltaic panels suitable to supply power for energy–efficient home 
appliances, such as fluorescent light fixtures."
3.
Paragraph 3.a of Part B of Schedule 4 to the Grant Agreement is amended to read 
as follows:
"a.  Subject to subparagraphs b., c., and d. below, the amount of the Subgrant 
to a Dealer shall be equivalent to: (i) $75 for each Solar Home System with a 
photovoltaic panel rated 50 Watt peak or higher sold and installed by such Dealer 
within that portion of the Project Area lying on the island of Java; and (ii) $125 for 
each Solar Home System with a photovoltaic panel rated 50 Watt peak or higher sold and 
installed within that portion of the Project Area not lying on the island of Java; 
(iii) $60 for each Solar Home System with a photovoltaic panel rated 30 Watt peak or 
higher, but lower than 50 Watt peak, sold and installed within that portion of the 
Project Area lying on the island of Java; and (iv) $100 for each Solar Home System 
with a photovoltaic panel rated 30 Watt peak or higher, but lower than 50 Watt peak, 
sold and installed within that portion of the Project Area not lying on the island of 
Java."
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing amendments by signing and 
dating the enclosed form of confirmation, and by returning it to us.  Upon receipt of 
the copy of this letter countersigned on behalf of the Borrower, this amendment will 
become effective as of the date of the countersignature.
Yours sincerely,
Page  2
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Dennis de Tray
Country Director, Indonesia
East Asia and Pacific Region
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By /s/ Darjah
Director General of Budget, MOF
Date:
March 11, 1999
