Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C/--- ) (CC- n
6-/I
Report No. 12222-GH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTM    PROJECT
NOVEMBER 10, 1993
MI CROGRAPHICS
Report No:         12222 GH
Type: SAR
Agricultural Operations Division
Western Africa Department IV
This document has a redricted distibudion and may be used by redpients only in the performance of
their official duties It contents may tol otherwise be disclosed wthout World Bank authorzaton.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit         =        Cedi
US$1.00               =        Cedi 630
Cedi 1.00             =        US$ 0.00159
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 metric ton (m ton)    =          2,205 pounds (ib)
I hectare (ha)            =        2,47 acres (ac)
1 kilometer (km)          =        0.62 miles (ml)
I meter (m)               =        3.28 feet (ft)
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADRA              Adventist Development and Relief Agency
AGSAC             Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit
ASRP              Agricultural Services Rehabilitation Project
CEDEP             Center for the Development of People
CIDA              Canadian International Development Agency
WCOBOD            Ghana Cocoa Board
CUSO              Canadian University Students Overseas
DA                District Assemibly
DCA               Development Credit Agreement
DFR               Department of Feeder Roads
DP8U              District Planning and Budgeting Unit
DWM               December 31st Women's Movement
EAP               Environmental Action Plan
EIRR              Economic Internal Rate of Return
EPC               Environmental Protection Council
ERP               Economic Recovery Program
FY                Financial or Fiscal Year
GAPYOD            Ghana Association of Private Voluntary Organizations in Development
GDP               Gross Domestic Product
GEPC              Ghana Export promotion Council
GFDC              Ghana Food Distribution Corporation
GIDA              Ghana Irrigation Development Authority
GOG               Government of Ghana
GTZ               German TechnicaL Cooperation Agency
IAPSO             Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office
ICOUR             Irrigation Company of the Upper Region
ICR               Implementation Completion Review
MLG               Ministry of Local Government and Rural Development
MOFA              Ministry of Food and Agriculture
MRH               Ministry of Roads and Highways
MTADS             Medium-Term Agricultural Devetopment Strategy
NTR               Mid-Term  Review
NORRIP            Northern Region Rural Integrated Project
NPV               Net Present Value
ODA               Overseas Development Administration of UK
PANSCAD           Program of Actions to Mitigate the Social Costs of Adjustment and Development
PCC               Project Coordination Committee
PCW               ProJect Coordinating Unit
PNDC              Provisional National Defence Council
PPMED             Policy Planning, Monitoring, and Evaluation Department
PU                Project Unit
SOE               Statement of Expenditures
SAC               Structural Adjustment Credit
SPAC              Subproject Approval Committee
TSA               Technical Support Agency
URADEP            Upper Region Agricultural Development Project
VORADEP           Volta River Agricultural Development Project
FISCAL YEAR
JANUARY 1 - DECEMBER 31



FOR OMCIL4 USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
CREDff AND PROJECT SUMMARY
I.      INTRODUCTION  ........................................    I
H.      BACKGROUND  .........................................   2
A. The Economic Setting ..................................... 2
B. The Rural Sector . ......................................   ?
C. IDA Assistance Strategy ................................... 9
D. Bank Group Operations .          ..................................   10
E. Rationale for IDA Involvement .........                 ....................   11
F. Environmental Issues .1...................................  1
G. Lessons Learned from  Previous IDA Involvement  .....                  ............  12
IM.    THE PROJECT   ........................................ 13
A. Project Objectives and Scope ............................... 13
B. Summary Description  .................................                                  13
C. Detailed Features .................................. 14
IV.  PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING .......................... 16
A. Cost Estimates .................................. 16
B. Proposed Financing Plan  .................................   17
C. Financial Implications for Government .........                ...............   18
D. Procurement .................................                                          19
E. Disbursement .................................                                         22
F.  Auditing and Reporing .................................    24
This repoat is based on the fndings of a pre.appruisa1 mission that visited Ghna in November 1992 wnd Febmaiy
1993, and an appaisal mission that took place in May/June 1993. 'he pr-appmisal minssion was comprised of Mmes.
and Mess. P. Werbrouck (Mission Leader - Sr. Agicultuml Economist), L. Campbell (Sr. Rural Infastucturc
Engineer), C. Ranade (Sr. Agriultunrl Economist), H. Weindler (Disbursement Officer), 0. Vela (Procurement
Analyst), J. Silverman (Public Sector Managent Specialist) of IDA, and Dr. S. K. Dapuah (Economist),
A. Mensa-Bonsu (Irrigation Engineer), J. Cofr-Agnam (Planner), S. Asuming-Bmpong (Agricultural Economis),
and S.A. Gumah. Kofi Ahaliga, B. Lugu-Zuri, and Ben Wu-eku (Farmers). Dudng thc appraisal mission Mesms
R. Polson and K. Atta-Kmh joined the tm. Mr. Hans Binswanger was the lead advisor. Mr. Owusu-Ansah and
R. Poison worked on the economic and inancal analysis and the cost tables. Messrs. J. Joyce and E. Lim are the
mantaging Division Chief and Department Director, respectively, for this operation.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performat -e~
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without W#orld Bank authorization.|



- ii -
Page No.-
V.    PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION  ....... ....,                      25
A. Management .25
B. Eligibility Criteria .28
C. Beneficiary Contributions .30
D. The Subproject Processing Cycle .32
E. Training .34
F. Project Implementation Rate .......    ................. ......  34
G. Monitoring, Evaluation and Project Impact Studies .35
H. Project Supervision .36
VI.  PROJECT JUSTIFICATION, BENEFITS AND RISKS .37
A. Project Justification .37
B. Determination of Benefits and Costs .38
C. Risks .41
D. Environmental Effects .42
E. Impact on Women .42
F. Poverty Alleviation .42
VW.  ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATION  ..................... 43
ANNEXES
Annex 1: Investment Component Description ......     ................ 44
Annex 2: Project Costs and Benefits ........   .................... 51
Annex 3: Project Implementation Schedule ......  ..................   62
Annex 4: Schedule of Disbursements ........     ................... 64
Annex 5: Project Supervision ...........    .....................  65
Annex 6: Key Monitoring Actions .........     .................... 69
Annex 7: Technical Assistance and Training .......   ................ 73
Annex 8: Enviromnental Problems and Mitigation Measures .... ......... 74
Annex 9: Local Communities, Government Service Structures
and Non-Government Organizations ......     ................ 76
Annex 10: Documents Available in Project File ......... ............ 81
MAP: IBRD No. 25215



- iii -
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
AGRICULTURAL SECrOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PRO.IECT SUMMARY
Borrower:       The Republic of Ghana
Beneficiaries:   The Ministry of Food and Agriculture (MOFA), District Authorities, and Rural
Community Organizations
Amount:          SDR 15.3 million (US$21.5 million equivalent)
Terms:           Standard, with 40 years maturity
Project
Description:    The project would increase the flow of technical and financial resources for rural
development in response to needs expressed at the village and district levels, and
consequently increase agricultural productivity and access to markets, and
strengthen the communities' capacity to develop, manage and maintain their
investments using the resources of NGOs and local consulting agencies. The
project would finance the following investments for the benefit of rural
communities: (i) construction and rehabilitation of small-scale uater schemes
operated by farmer associations (11 percent of project costs); (ii) construction and
rehabilitation of rural markets for district authorities and communities which have
a cost-sharing and maintenance agreement with traders and market users (44
percent); (iii) roads to Improve access to markets (17 percent); and (iv) small-scale
storage and village food-processing units for rural associations (2 percent). The
project would also finance project-related technical assistance, monitoring and
training in irrigation, marketing and food-processing management, as well as
monitoring, evaluation, beneficiary assessment and impact studies (26 percent).
Eligible subproject costs would not exceed US$150,000. Eligible beneficiaries
would be community associations and district authorities. Beneficiaries would
contribute between 10 and 25 percent of the capital costs in cash or kind (e.g.,
labor) and would be responsible for all operation, maintenance, and equipment
renewal costs. Costs of assets, which have to be replaced in a relatively short
period, would be fully recovered for income-generating projects benefitting
selective groups of people. Beneficiaries would receive technical assistance from
eligible technical support agencies such as NGOs and consulting agencies under
technical assistance agreements with the communities. These agencies would also
carry out project-related training, extension and follow-up, depending on the need.
The financing of the activities of the technical support agencies would be related
to the investment costs and the nature of the investment. The Ministry of Food
and Agriculture (1MOFA) would be responsible for overall project management
and inter-ministerial coordination, and implementation would be the responsibility
of a Project Unit (PU) staffed with fixed-term employees experienced in private
sector and project management. Initially, PU would establish regional offices in
Accra, in the South, and Tamale, in the North. Regional Subproject Approval



- iv -
Committees (SPAC) would assist PU with the review of subproject applications.
IDA would appoint a full-time supervisor at the Resident Mission to ensure
operational liaison with PU. Decentralization of procurement is an important
feature of project design. Beneficiaries would manage the procurement process
with assistance from technical support agencies and in accordance with rules
established in an Implementation Manual and agreed with IDA. MOFA would
recruit auditors and MOFA's Policy Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation
Department (PPMED) would carry out beneficiary assessment and development
impact monitoring.
Project
BenBefits:      The main project benefits would be: (i) improved links between production and
markets leading to more efficient agricultural marketing and reduced post-harvest
losses; (ii) strengthened rural associations and local authorities; (iii) increased
irrigated land and agricultural production; and (iv) more equitable regional income
distribution. Most beneficiaries would be rural people with lower-than-average
incomes; and women, market traders, vegetable producers, transporters by head-
load, and food processors. The project would also provide the framework for
further donor and government assistance to irrigation, marketing and rural
infrastructure.
Risks:          The four main risks and mitigation measures are: (i) poor capacity of government
and PU to cope with so many small subprojects-PU would be responsible for day-
to-day operations, have experienced private and public sector management staff,
receive support from qualified NGOs and consultants, and would be equipped with
computer technology; (ii) the subproject approval process may become overly
complex through donor and government procedures-the project implementation
manual would have simple but detailed procedures, PU would hire influential
farmers as part-time project facilitators, and IDA would appoint a project
supervisor at the Resident Mission to ensure liaison with PU; (iii) funds might be
misused-adherence to eligibility criteria, strict and regular control by independent
auditors, and public sanctions against misuse of funds, including loss of eligibility
for further project support, would limit such risk; and (iv) the lack of capacity to
prepare subprojects-PU would establish and yearly update a list of capable
technical support agencies to assist the communities. Sensitivity on project costs
and benefits show switching values for project costs +36.2 percent and benefits -
26.6 percent for an opportunity cost of capital of 12 percent.
Economic Rate
of Return:       23.3 percent
Alleviation:     The project would have a 25 percent poverty alleviation component. The intended
project beneficiaries have a significantly larger proportion of poor people than the
country's population as a whole. Poverty in Ghana is predominantly a rural
phenomenon and 43 percent of the rural inhabitants live below the poverty line.
Categorv:        B



PrOlect COSt Summary
% Of
FOregin   LQoC     Total  FE     Base
........ (US$ million) .........  (%)  Ws
1. INVESTMENT CATEGORY
A. Civil Works                        0.2        11.4    11.6      2    54
B. Goods/Supplies/Equipment           1.7        2.7      4.4     36    20
C. Studies and Technical Assistance   0.5        3.2      3.7     14    17
D. Refinancing PPF                    _          0.8      16      51     7
Total Investment Costs    3.2       18.1    21.3      15    98
II. RECURRENT COSTS                    0.1        0.3     0.4      10     2
III. TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                        18.4    21.7     15   100
Physical Contingencies          0.3         1.8     2.1     15    10
Price Contingencies             0.2         1.47
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS1j/                 3.8       21.6    25.4     15   117
I/ Including duties and taxes of US$1.62 million.
Proposed Flnancin! Plan by Project Component
IDA         Local        Govt        Ii
Communities
............... .(US$ million).
Investment Component
A. Water Schemes              2.5           0.2           -       2.7
B. Markets                    8.4           2.7           -      11.1
C. Access Roads               4.0           0.4           -       4.4
D. Storage/Processing         0.3           0.1           -       0.4
Studies and Technical Assistance     2.7          0.1            -      2.8
Project Unit                         2.1            -          0.3      2.4
Refinancing PPF                      I 5                       OA
TOTAL 1/                     21.5           3.6         0.3      2S.4
I/ Includes duties and taxes of US$1.62 million.



- vi -
Prose n Finacing Plan by Foreign Exchange and Local Costs
Foreign      Local        Total
.         (US$ million).
IDA                                 3.8        17.7         21.5
Local Government and Communities    0.0         3.6          3.6
Central Government                  0           u           03
TOTAL 1                             3.8        21.6         25.4
1/ Includes duties and taxes of US$1.62 million.
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
...................  US$ million).
IDA Fiscal Ye           1994  199S  1996  1997  1998  1999
Annual                   2.3   2.3   3.5   5.5  5.5  2.4
Cumulative               2.3   4.6   8.1  13.6  19.1  21.5



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.i   In 1990, the Government of Ghana prepared a Medium-Term Agricultural
Development Strategy (MTADS), with assistance from IDA. The strategy focused on the
institutional and infrastructure needs for more rapid growth in agriculture, and highlighted the
main policy changes necessary to support such growth. Since publication of the MTADS,
IDA assistance has been given for several parts of the program, covering agricultural
research, extension, livestock development, environmental protection and, througi. a 1992
Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit, the creation of a more liberal trading and marketing
system. The Government has now requested IDA to continue its support for rural
development by financing investments in irrigation, rural access roads, market structures and
small-scale agro-processing.
1.2   In recent years, the Ministry of Food and Agriculture (MOFA) has prepared several
studies and organized workshops on irrigation development and agricultural marketing. All
these studies have indicated the Importance of small-scale rural infrastructure and post-harvest
processing in increasing rural productivity, incomes and employment. They have also
highlighted the difficulty of planning such smail-scale investments and budgeting for their
implementation, and have recommended that the most effective approach is to work through
District Assemblies, farmer groups and rural communities in elaborating and implementing
them. Such an approach is consistent with PNDC Law 207 (1988), which allows for
increasing administrative decentralization and delegation of authority to local governmen. and
assigns to District Assemblies development functions in a variety of crucial areas, including
road, market and water infrastructure, education, health, town and country planning and
agriculture.
1.3   Experience with the IDA-financed Ghana Community Secondary Schools Project and
the PAMSCAD 1/ initiative indicates that rural communities and local governments are
quite capable of planning, impiementing and maintaining rural infrastructure projects as long
as they have a significant voice in the decision-making, planning and implementation process.
Moreover, local communities have the capacity to contribute financially and in kind towards
the construction of such infrastructure. Consequently, following a Government request, IDA
organized in August 1992 a joint mission with a project preparation task force composed of
staff of the Ministries of Agriculture and Local Government, local consultants and
farmer/community leaders to design a project which would finance small-scale rural
investments and would strengthen the capacity of local communities to identify, appraise and
manage such investments. The project was appraised by IDA in June 1993.
I/ PAMSCAD: Progra of Actions to Mitigate the Social CoStS of Adjustment in Development.



- 2 -
II. BACKGROUND
A. The Economic Setting
2.1    Between 1980 and 1983, Ghana's GDP declined at an average annual rate of
S percent, following a period of negligible growth during the 1970s. During that period, the
currency was significantly overvalued, agricultural producer prices were low and Government
controls and participation in the economy excessive. Agriculture, representing the bulk of
GDP, was virtually neglected resulting in a steady decline in the production of food. Cocoa,
the leading export crop, was subject to high net taxat.on and poor producer incentives, leading
to a dramatic and steady decline in both production and export. The decline in food
production and exports (made worse by drought and bush fires in 1982-83) contributed to
food shortages, galloping inflation and a severe balance of payments crisis.
2.2   Starting in 1983, the Government introduced a series of far-reaching policy reforms
under the Economic Recovery Program (ERP). These included devaluation of the Cedi,
liberalization of internal and external trade and reduction of subsidies and price controls. As
a result, the performance of the economy improved steadily up till 1991. Real GDP grew at
an annual average rate of 5.4 percent between 1983 and 1991, and the rate of inflation
dropped from 40 percent in 1987 to 18 percent in 1991. A sizeable overall balance of
payments surplus was maintained between 1987 and 1991.
2.3    In 1992 and 1993, the pace of reform and the growth of the economy slowed
somewhat. A succession of adverse developments in 1992, some of which were related to the
political transition to civilian rule, caused a drop in the real growth rate to 3.9 percent. Low
world market prices of cocoa, gold and timber affected export earnings, and the Government
substantially increased civil servant wages, creating an unsustainable budget deficit. In the
1993 budget, however, significant corrective measures were introduced, aimed at restoring
macroeconomic stability. The Government has increased petroleum taxes, accelerated the
divestiture program and intersfile tax collkction measures. Public sector wages and salaries
are expected to be kept at current levels, and the improved fiscal position will permit the
Government to make repayments to the banking system, thereby improving the availability of
credit for private investment. During the first quarter of 1993, consumer prices rose by 13
percent and the cedi depreciated by 15 percent. But, reflecting the impact of budgetary
measures, the exchange rate and inflation have stabilized since then. GDP growth is expected
to recover to 4.4 percent in 1993 and to reach 5.1 percent in 1994.
B. The Rural Sector
Performance of the Agricultural Sector
2.4    Agriculture remains the dominant sector of the Ghanaian economy, contributing
nearly half of the GDP and about three quarters of export earnings. It provides a livelihood
for about 70 percent of the population. The nascent industr.al sector depends on agriculture
as a source of raw materials. Agriculture is an important source of public revenues and has
an important impact on both public and private savings. Food prices account for a significant



- 3 -
component of household expenditures. Hence, agriculture also has substantial influence on
real wages and is a key determinant of overall macro-economic performance.
2.5    Agriculture was severely hampered by the adverse economic conditions of the 1970s
and early 1980s. As a result, the per capita food production index declined from 100 in
1974-76 to 62 in 1983. Following the introduction of the ERP, there was some improvement
in agricultural performance. Agricultural output as measured by sectoral GDP grew in real
terms for five successive years from 1983, and in 1988 achieved its highest level since 1974.
Nevertheless, sectoral growth, at around 2 percent per year since 1983, has still lagged
significantly behind that of the economy as a whole, and the share of agriculture in total GDP
has fallen from 55 percent in 1982 to around 47 percent at present.
Characteristies of Ghanaian Agriculture
2.6    The total land area of Ghana is about 22.4 million ha, of which 1 percent is
cultivated and 7 percent is under perennial tree crops (cocoa, oil palm, and rubber). Ghana's
agriculture is predominantly sma1lholder, traditional and rain-fed. The mean farm size is less
than 1.6 ha (4 acres). Small- and medium-sized farms of up to 10 ha account for 95 percent
of all cultivated land. Of the total 2.37 million farms operated in Ghana by smallholders,
about one quarter produce mainly for subsistence, about 55 percent sell up to half of their
produce and less than a quarter market more than half of their produce. This signifies the
importance of smallholders for family, regional and national food security and for achieving
sustained growth in agricultural production.
2.7    Common factors in Ghanaian agriculture are the use of bush fallow to restore soil
fertility, mixed cropping to minimize risks and, in the north of the country, the widespread
integration of livestock into farming systems. Women head 30 percent of rural households
and are responsible for about 70 percent of the total food production. They often make
decisions about the type and area of crop to be planted and have a key role in weeding,
harvesting and processing. Even in male-headed households, women take care of small
livestock. There is little use of purchased inputs and land preparation is manual in most
areas, though ox-traction is important in the North. Mechanization is used only by a few
large enterprises, and irrigated agriculture is poorly developed, covering only 9,000 ha
throughout the country.
2.8    Traditiornal farming systems have developed over time as adaptations to the six major
agro-ecological zones in W3hana. These zones are:
Rainfall         Area        Percent of
Zone                     (mM g.a.)        ('000 ha)     Total Area
Rain Forest                    2,200              750         3
Deciduous Forest                1,500             740         3
Transition                      1,300           6,630         28
Guinea Savawna                  1,100           14,790        63
Sudan Savanna                  1,000              190          1
Coastal Savanna                  800              580         2
Total                                       Z2360        100
Source: MOPAIFAO Ptoject GHA/84/003



- 4-
2.9   In the two forest zones, tree crops are predominant with cocoa, oil palm, coffee and
rubber being of particular importance. Food crops in this area are mainly inter-cropped
mixtures of maize, plantain, cocoyam and cassava. The transition zone is characterized by
mixed or sole cropping of maize, legumes, cocoyam or yam, with tobacco and cotton being
the predominant cash crops. Cotton and tobacco are also important in the savanna zones,
where food crops are mainly sorghum, maize, cowpeas and yam in the wetter areas, whilst
sorghum, millet and cowpeas predominate in the drier North. Rice is locally important in all
zones, being grown in seasonally-flooded valley bottoms. In the 1970s, cocoa contributed
almost 30 percent of agricultural GDP, but this has declined significantly in recent years.
The gap has been filled by roots and tubers, plantain and to some extent cereals. At present,
the breakdown of agricultural GDP is approximately 60 percent roots, tubers and plantain;
13 percent cocoa; 9 percent livestock and fisheries; 7 percent cereals; and 11 percent forestry
and miscellaneous products.
Growth Potential
2.10  In general, crop yields in Ghana are very low, and large increases could be achieved
through simple changes in crop husbandry such as contour plowing, timely planting and
weeding, plant spacing, composting, manuring and fertilizer application. In Ghana, as
elsewhere in Africa, however, traditional methods of production are slow to change. Such
resistance to change is the result of physical isolation, aversion to risk and a history of
government intervention which has effectively taxed away the potential for capital
accumulation in the farming sector. But it is also the result of poorly organized government-
run technical support services and neglected rural infrastructure, constrained by over-
centralized decision-making. The lack of rural infrastructure is a particularly critical
constraint to growth, because it isolates rural communities from the marketing system and
imposes very high costs on rural labor. With only 3,300 km of Ghana's 21,300 km of feeder
roads currently usable in the wet season, farmers spend much of their time head-loading
commodities from field to home and from village to market.
2.11   The need for such change was the underlying theme of the MTADS, which set out a
number of strategic priorities for achieving higher growth in the sector. A target growth rate
of 4 percent per annum was established as a benchmark, but to achieve this a far nmore
rigorous definition than in the past was needed of the role and responsibilities of the public
sector. This was long overdue. Agriculture had lagged behind other sectors in being
liberalized from government interference under the ERP. By the late 1980s, for example, the
Government still controlled trade in many basic commodities, it distributed agricultural inputs,
produced seed, set minimum prices and ran large strategic storage and agro-processing
facilities. Recent policy decisions have mandated the withdrawal of the public sector from
most of these activities, leaving it to concentrate its limited financial and administrative
resources on activities where public intervention is more clearly needed, that is in providing
better infrastructure and services and in monitoring and regulating the use of natural
resources. Given these changes, the prospects for more rapid growth in agricultural output
are better than they have been at any time in the last 20 years, provided an adequate flow and
effective allocation of resources can be maintained for investment in rural areas.



-5-
The Irrlgation Sub-Sector Za
2.12   Poor hydrology and relatively flat topography hamper the development of irrigation in
Ghana. The bulk of surface water cannot be used for irrigation in a cost-effective way, while
average water yields of shallow tubewells in pilot projects have been found to be low and only
useable for drinking water and micro-scale irrigation. The physical potential for irrigation in
the whole country has been estimated to be about 120,000 ha, but the economic potential is
significantly less than that. The prospects for cost-effective development are in low-lying
valley bottoms and river flood plains and on levels commanded by existing dams.
2.13   The Ghana Irrigation Development Authority (GIDA) is the main irrigation
develepment institution and operates under MOFA as a semi-autonomous body with four
regional representatives. Since 1977, GIDA has built, and continues to manage most
irrigation schemes, although autonomous operating authorities have been set up for some
larger schemes. Local authorities operate small water projects. In the North, the Small
Irrigation Division of the Upper Region Agricultural Development Project (URADEP), the
Irrigation Company of the Upper Region (ICOUR) and some NGOs assist local communities
to develop irrigation. Regional MOFA offices are responsible for extension services. Where
crop husbandry practices for rainfed and irrigated crops differ, GIDA assists farmers and
MOFA staff with technical advice on irrig..ted crops.
2.14   Most of the irrigation in Ghana, totalling about 7000 ha, has been developed and is
managed by GIDA. GIDA's schemes vary in size from 100 to 2,500 ha and most of them are
beset with problems. Poor site selection, inappropriate design and unsuitable contracting
arrangements have led to unacceptably high costs. Poor extension services have resulted in
low yields, while land tenure problems, high maintenance costs and a dependence on GIDA
for land preparation have resulted in a lack of farmer interest. This has been exacerbated by
a lack of farmer participation in irrigation design and management.
2.15 Private irrigation is very limited in scope. Small dams and dugouts for drinking water
have been constructed in the northern regions, and these sometimes allow small-scale
irrigation for traditional vegetable production on small plots. Some private irrigation schemes
for commercial crops have also been constructed along river banks, using low-lift pumps, and
a number of community-owned valley bottoms in the South have shown potential for rice
under increased water control. Additional studies to identify valley-bottom schemes need to
be carried out, however.
2.16   The main lessons which stand out from Ghana's past experience in irrigation relate to
participation and management. Most of the problems arise from a lack of farmer involvement
in design and implementation and from a lack of group cohesion to ensure cost-effective water
distribution. Irrigation in Ghana has been shown to be costly under any circumstances, and
even the most cost-effective schemes are likely to be justified only where rainfed farming is
difficult and valuable dry-season crops can be grown. For its future development strategy,
therefore, the Govermnent has chosen, first, to exploit existing investments by reducing
operating costs and completing irrigation schemes wherever economically justified and,
second, to focus on developing micro- and small-scale irrigation schemes, which can show
ai    Details on inigation issues are in Worling Paper No 3.



-6 -
good economic returns and can be managed by the farmers themselves through rural farmers'
groups. The best prospects lie in developing fadama schemes with shallow tubewells and in
areas subject to seasonal flooding, where construction of simple hinds and structures would
enable some degree of water control. High priority is also needed for training in irrigation
techniques.
Agricultural Marketing, Storagie and Processing a/
2.17   Marketing Intitutions, The two principal public sector institutions involved in
agricultural marketing are the Ghana Food Distribution Corporation (GFDC) and the
COCOBOD. The GFDC has in the past been engaged in buying and storing cereals and has
also attempted to assist the private sector by testing and developing technology for on- and
off-farm storage. COCOBOD has traditionally held a monopoly of cocoa marketing. The
Ghana Export Promotion Council (GEPC) is also involved in agriculture in a small way by
promoting export marketing of non-traditional commodities through interaction with chambers
of commerce, exporters' associations and the business community at large. Recent decisions
by government, supported by IDA under the AGSAC (1992), have been directed at
eliminating the involvement of GFDC in commodity storage and marketing and at introducing
licensed private traders into domestic cocoa buying. With the exception of the export of
cocoa, the role of the state in agricultural marketing (both inputs and outputs) is now being
reduced to negligible proportions.
2.18   Several institutions and NGOs are involved in promoting small-scale processing. The
Food Research Institute organizes training programs for artisanal fish and cassava processing.
The Ghana Regional Appropriate Technology Service (GRATIS) of the Ministry of Industry,
Science and Technology have set up operational centers in Tamale, Tema, Kumasi and
Bolgatanga. They aim at transferring technology to the informal industrial sectors, training
technicians from local technical institutes and providing manufacturing, repair and service
facilities for small-scale industry in the rural areas. The Science Import Substitution (SIS)
enterprise is manufacturing food processing equipment such as corn mills, gari graters, and
oil presses. The National Council on Women in Development and the 31st December
Women's Movement undertake projects to demonstrate to women various opportunities for
income generation in small-scale agro-processing.
2.19   There are few livestock marketing institutions. The Meat Marketing Board has been
abolished, and no significant cattle owners' association exists, though there is a Poultry
Council and Feed Manufacturers' Association which promotes its members' interests. Within
MOFA, the Animal Health and Production Department is responsible for animal disease
control, meat inspection, drug control, breeding farms and nutrition and range management,
all of which have some bearing on the marketing of livestock. Three main fishermen's
organizations promote the interests of fishermen: (i) the National Fisheries Association;
(ii) the National Council of Inland Fishermen; and (iii) the Ghana National Canoe
Fishermen's Council. The Department of Fisheries (MOFA) is promoting sustainable marine
fisheries and aquaculture through research and extension, which covers aspects related to the
processing and marketing of fish.
3/ Details on markets, storage and processing are in Working Papers No 4 and 6.



-7 -
2.20   Small-scale Marketing. Storage and Processing. Most agricultural marketing in Ghana
is conducted by small-scale operators. The principal agents are women who bring the farm
output and food products by headload to rural markets. A dense network of private
wholesalers further distributes the merchandise. Cotton, tobacco, oil palm and rubber
marketing is organized by the processors in an effort to vertically integrate marketing and
processing. Smallholders also sell oil palm and rubber to traditional processors or small
traders. Sugarcane farmers market cane to small-scale sugar syrup processors.
2.21   Rural food markets lack basic infrastructure such as paved floors, cover protection,
water supply, refuse collection, storage, etc. Poor market conditions increase produce
spoilage, transport and marketing costs, and health hazards, and they adversely affect prices.
Poor market access roads and marketing information diminish market integration and increase
marketing costs. Livestock markets are in open areas without watering, kraaling or animal
loading infrastructure. Insufficient landings on the Volta Lake are a major fish marketing
constraint.
2.22   Storage is a major constraint to effective marketing, both in the urban centers and on
the farm. A long tradition of public purchasing of grains and a lack of capital for
municipalities and private traders have resulted in a completely inadequate storage
infrastructure. Few commercial farmers have installed grain stores, and urban wholesalers
usually store produce only for short periods. Lack of suitable storage for the various tiers of
the marketing chain (on-farm, local and regional wholesale markets) is a crucial impediment
to efficient marketing, creates strong seasonal price fluctuations, discourages commercial
production, increases post-harvest losses and wastage, and generates multiple small
transactions inflating handling, transport and marketing costs.
2.23   Women are responsible for most food processing, using simple methods to make
locally-consumed products. Small-scale food processing includes processing of palm kernel
seeds and shea nuts into oil and butter; cassava into gari, starch, dough, pellets; maize into
maize meal and fermented dough; and fish into smoked and dried products. The traditional
processing sector is severely undercapitalized, resulting in low labor productivity and poor
product quality. Most slaughterhouses lack hygienic slaughtering facilities: animals are
slaughtered on the floor in overcrowded spaces without adequate water supply. Fish
processing (drying, smoking) is very labor intensive. Modernization of equipment is needed
to increase productivity levels, but access by women to credit for this purpose is very limited.
Rural Roads 41
2.24   The severely deteriorated condition of the feeder and market access road network is a
major obstacle to increasing farm production. Two thirds of the feeder road network remains
in bad condition due to past neglect. This has led to frequent disruptions of goods and
passenger transport in most rural areas of Ghana, with scores of farm areas losing access to
markets. Feeder and market access road rehabilitation and maintenance using labor-based small-
and medium-sized private contractors is critically needed. Rural Ghana resembles a
'footpath economy' with women spending substantial amounts of time transporting
4/     Details on Rural Road Infstmueture are in Working Paper No 5.



- 8 -
merchandise, fuel wood and water on their heads. At the present rate of funding (about
US$5 million per annum) Ghana's feeder roads rehabilitation would take more than 30 years.
2.25   The responsibility for planning, construction and maintenance of feeder roads lies with
the Department of Feeder Roads (DFR) under the Ministry of Roads and Highways (MRH).
Under the Government's decentralization policy, DFR has proposed to create 110 District
Offices. DFR is considerably under-staffed, especially in middle-management grades. It
urgendy needs to recruit and train qualified staff or consultants including planners, engineers,
designers, economists and supervisors. Strengthening the management capacities of the
Department of Feeder Roads (DFR) to plan and supervise rehabilitation and maintenance
works in the future is the highest priority. Particular emphasis is being placed on the "rural
access and mobility approach", targeting poverty alleviation in rural areas by combining low-
cost non-motorized transport technology (bicycles, bicycle trailers, hand-propelled farm carts)
and low-cost rural road construction ("one-blade roads"). This will help to raise rural
productivity and incomes and involve NGOs and women's organizations in design and
implementation. The IDA-funded feeder road program for 1990-2000 comprises 18,000 km
of rehabilitation, construction of new roads, repair of 1,200 water crossings and development
of a sustainable maintenance system.
local Government Decentralization 5/
2.26   Ghana is decentralizing its government and entrusting development activities to the
1 10 newly-created District Assemblies, which are becoming increasingly responsible for
planning, budgeting and revenue collection. Key constraints to improving local government
management are: (i) lack of financial resources and qualified staff; (ii) centralized control by
ministries over their district staff; and (iii) inadequate logistical support to the districts. A
basic feature of the 1988 decentralization law (Law 207) is to integrate all agencies of line
ministries at the local level under the authority of the district administration. All District
Assemblies were elected in early 1989 and can now take decisions on a wide range of issues.
While management problems at the planning, budgeting, fiscal and project implementation
stages are being solved, MOFA is also implementing its own internal decentralization
program.
2.27   District Assemblies. A key element in decentralization is that districts are planning
and managing their own budgets and staff. District Assemblies have established sub-
committees responsible for: social services, infrastructure, finance and administration,
education, justice and security, economic development (including agriculture), environmental
management, and women's affairs. They have also created District Development Planning
and Budgeting Units (DPBUs) and Regional Coordination Councils. To prepare their budget,
District Assemblies receive support from: (i) technical officers assigned by the line
ministries; (ii) budget officers to assist DPBUs; and (iii) Regional Mobile Planning Teams.
2.28   Reform of revenue collection and control is a second key element of decentralization.
Fiscal decentralization means: (i) revenue sharing between central and local government;
(ii) delegating some taxing capacity to the districts; (iii) delegating procurement to local tender
boards; (iv) introducing less cumbersome spending controls and procedures; and (v) allowing
5/     Details on the organization of local govenment are in Workdng Paper No 2.



-9 -
districts to attract external aid through direct channels. One important element of fiscal
decentralization has been the development of a composite budget: a compilation of the
district's 22 decentralized central government department budgets, together with a separate
listing of the recurrent and development budgets to be funded from the District Assemblies'
own general revenues. This composite budget is to give each District Assembly a broad view
of the total resources likely to be available for development activities in the district. Local
authorities procure goods and services within the district using their own resources. All
procurement has to be channeled through the District Tender Boards. Where central
government's financial resources are involved, payment procedures through the Ministry of
Finance and Economic Planning become overly complex.
2.29   Decentralization is not without implementation problems. In reality, few districts
have development plans or budgets, and those few mostly lack funds for implementation.
Revenue sharing between central and local governments is still at the initial stages and
districts have very few resources which can be taxed to provide District Assemblies with
revenue. Previous constraints are still valid: (i) the increased number of districts has created
needs for additional qualified staff; (ii) the roles and responsibilities of the ministries,
departments and agencies with regard to decentralization have not yet been clearly defined;
and (iii) weaknesses at the center in designing and implementing effective planning and
budgeting systems persist and cause difficulties at local level. Local and central authorities,
however, are designing simpler management methods, which will improve coordination,
provide greater autonomy for the districts and increase accountability.
2.30   Minist of Food and Agriculture. MOFA has been a leader among various ministries
in decentralizing its operations to the regional and district levels. The Ministry's main
concern is to shift functional responsibility for formulating district and regional agricultural
development plans and for making budget allocations to the district level. Furthernore,
MOFA has taken five specific actions to adapt its operations to the decentralization program.
First, the Government's decentralization program calls for planning departments to be
developed in each ministry. MOFA's Policy Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation
Department (PPMED) has made substantial progress in strengthening its planning, technical
support, monitoring, evaluation, and reporting functions. Secondly, MOFA has appointed
district coordinators for the agricultural sector in each district to liaise on all agricultural
policies and programs with the Economic Sub-committee of the District Assemblies and with
the DPBU's. Thirdly, it has established District Agricultural Advisory Committees consisting
of members of the agricultural departments and select district farmers. And fourthly, the
regional agricultural management team has prepared a regionally-oordinated set of district
development plans, and MOFA has set up a training program for regional planners.
C. IDA Assistance Stratel
2.31   Over the past decade, Ghana has implemented one of the most successful adjustment
programs in Sub-Saharan Africa. During that time, under the Economic Recovery Program
(ERP), the Government has dismantled price, distribution and import licensing controls,
liberalized interest rates and foreign exchange, eliminated subsidies and improved the tax
structure and collection. It has also reformed the banking system, improved the allocation of
public expenditures and launched a program of public service retrenchment and divestiture of



- 10-
state-owned enterprises. The ERP has been supported by a series of IDA Structural and
Sectoral Adjustment Credits and by co-financing from bilateral and multilateral sources. In
addition, an extensive program of support has been mounted in all major sectors concentrating
on investment and institution-building. Looking to the future, it is now possible to foresee an
end to adjustment lending and a shift towards sector investment lending in support of an
accelerated growth strategy. The outline of this strategy has been set out in the recent report
'Ghana: 2000 and Beyond".
2.32   IDA support for agriculture in recent years has been fully consistent with this general
strategy and with the priorities set out in the MTADS. These were: (i) privatizing
commodity buying, trading, processing, seed production, input supply and some technical
(e.g., veterinary) services; (ii) setting clear objectives in research, extension, animal and plant
disease control; (iii) strengthening institutions to provide these services and to regulate natural
resource use (forests, soils); and (iv) concentrating on low-level infrastructure investment
(small-scale irrigation, feeder roads, rural markets) and decentralizing investment decisions to
respond more rapidly to the needs of rural communities. All of these priorities except the
final one have been supported by adjustment and investment operations in the last two years.
Since 1990, there have been five new IDA operations in agriculture, one Sector Adjustment
Credit concerned with the withdrawal of the State from marketing and input supply; three
credits supporting agricultural services in the public sector (Research, Extension and
Livestock); and one credit (Environment) supporting public institutions charged with
regulating and managing natural resources. The credit now proposed (Agriculture Sector
Investment Project) is designed to provide resources for low-level investment in rural
infrastructure.
D. Bank Group Operations
2.33   From 1962 to June 30, 1993, IBRD and IDA lent to Ghana a total amount of US$2.7
billion, of which US$1.7 billion was for investment lending. Of the total lending, agriculture
took up 10.8 percent or US$296.5 million; transport 13.8 percent; energy 11.9 percent; urban
infrastructure 6.5 percent; industry 5.3 percent; education 5.2 percent; environment 2.1
percent, technical assistance 1.9 percent; water supply and sanitation 1.9 percent; health 1.7
percent; and telecommunications 1.5 percent. Policy-based lending amounted to 37.6 percent.
During thb 'ast ten years, US$1 billion has been lent for policy-related adjustments, including
the AGSAC of US$80 million in FY92.
2.34   During the last five years IDA has lent in the agricultural sector (net of cancellations)
a total amount of US$151.4 million, including the National Livestock Services Project (FY93
- US$22.5 million); the National Agricultural Extension Project (FY92-30.4 million); the
National Agricultural Research Project (FY91-US$22 million); the Agricultural Diversification
Project (FY91-US$16.5 million); the Rural Finance Project (FY89-US$20 million); and the
Cocoa Rehabilitation Project (FY88-US$40 million).



- I1 -
E. Rationale for IDA Involvement
2.35   There is an urgent need to increase the flow of resources for infrastructure
development at village and district level and to change the process by which they are
allocated. This is a particularly good time for IDA to take such an initiative, since the
Government has embarked upon an administrative decentralization program aimed at
allocating planning, budgetary and implementation responsibilities to local authorities. The
1988 "Local Government Law" referred to earlier established 110 District Assemblies and
devolved the responsibilities of 22 Central Government Departmnents. Ghana's policy
objectives with respect to this decentralization are essentially three-fold: (i) to increase direct
popular participation in development decision-making; (ii) to increase the revenue base and
efficiency of revenue collection at local levels in support of development activities; and (iii) to
improve managerial and admninistrative efficiency. IDA's involvement, as envisaged in this
project, would promote such decentralization, develop a coherent strategy for farmer
participation in investment and lead the way towards locally-managed agricultural marketing
and rural infrastructure improvement.
F. Environmental Issues
2.36   A growing concern for environmental issues led the Ghana Government to prepare a
national Environmental Action Plan (EAP) in 1990. The Environmental Protection Council
(EPC) is generating widespread awareness of the importance of environmental issues and a
consensus on the need for effective action. The IDA-financed Environmental Resource
Management Project is carrying out studies and actions to prevent soil degradation and
erosion, deforestation and forest degradation, and degradation of the coastal zone
environment.
2.37   The project now proposed supports EAP goals. Small-scale irrigation would increase
agricultural intensification and thereby relieve pressure to exploit fragile marginal soils, and
the impact of investment in rural market facilities would be highly positive in terms of health
and waste reduction. There are, however, some possible environmental problems for which
mitigation measures will be needed. They include soil erosion during construction, water
quality degradation through agricultural intensification and water-borne diseases. The
significance of the possible environmental impact of each proposed community project will
have to be evaluated during its design and mitigation measures taken. To meet this need:
(i) consultants preparing subprojects would include an envirommental assessment in the project
preparation studies; (ii) the local health services would thoroughly inform local communities
of the health hazards involved in constructing water reservoirs and markets and, if necessary,
carry out health hazard eradication campaigns; (iii) project staff would help the beneficiary
communities to take preventive measures such as introducing biological defense mechanisms,
perimeter fencing, farmer training in the use of chemicals, imposing strict limits on land
excavation; and (iv) EPC would carry out regional studies and actions to increase community
environmental awareness.



- 12 -
G. Lessons from Previous IDA Involvement
2.38   The lessons learned from IDA's activities in Ghana are country, sector and project
specific.
2.39 Country-specific Lessons. The 1991 and 1993 Country Implementation and Strategy
Reviews recommend the following measures to improve project implementation and increase
impact: (i) to encourage infrastructure investments that support private sector activity and
alleviate poverty; (ii) to address project implementation capacity constraints from the outset of
the project; (iii) to design projects with ease of implementation in mind, i.e., few project
components, one implementing agency, few conditions and a timetable taking into account
local conditions; (iv) to strengthen project implementing agencies to improve accounting and
procurement; (v) to use local instead of foreign consulting services; and (vi) to increase aid
coordination.
2.40   Secor-specific Lessons. The 1991 Agricultural Portfolio Implementation Review
indicated the following main shortcomings in project implementation and solutions:
(i) Inadequate Implementation capacity-solutions would be to improve staff training and
recruitment, and to merge agencies with overlapping responsibilities; to decentralize
management, introduce a participatory approach to project management; and to increase
accountability for performance; (ii) project complexity-project design should be simplified to
fit implementation capacity and to minimize risk of failure; (iii) procurement delays-delays
can be reduced by promoting the use of sample bid documents and contracts; preparing
procurement plans and schedules; assigning procurement officers; and promoting consistency
amongst projects and sectors in procurement procedures; (iv) training-the demand for
external training is high, training is expensive and absence of staff during training adds to
project implementation problems. The solution is to bring trainers to Ghana instead of
sending staff abroad; and (v) inadequate counterpart funding-project design should be more
realistic about the availability of counterpart funds, and counterpart fund deposits in project
accounts should be released in advance, or kept in a central pooled account.
2.41 Project Specific Lessons. Two projects, similar to the one now proposed, have been
implemented in Ghana. The Program of Actions to Mitigate the Social Costs of Adjustment
in Development (PAMSCAD), supported by 14 donors under the social dimension of
adjustment initiative, has financed, among other things, local initiatives and small-scale
poverty-related projects in rural areas. The IDA-financed Ghana Community Secondary
Schools Construction project finances two-thirds of the local communities' school
construction. The lessons learned from experience with those two projects are summarized
below and are incorporated into design and implementation of the project.
2.42 The 1990 PAMSCAD mid-term review mission clearly identifies management
priorities and implementation bottlenecks. Its recommendations include: (i) to simplify the
project's operational scope which covers nine sectors involving 13 different national
implementation agencies/departments; (ii) to devolve responsibility for initiating subprojects to
the district level, with responsibility for approval at the regional level and responsibility for
supervision and monitoring at the national level; (iii) to reinforce efforts to upgrade district-
level planning, implementation and management capacity; (iv) to place responsibility for
leadership and policy oversight for PAMSCAD under one PNDC Secretary; (v) to focus on a



- 13 -
limited number of subprojects with a high payoff, to target community-initiative projects to
the poorest areas, and to permit a lower level of contribution from the poorest communities;
(vi) to reduce the number of donors for each project; (vii) to avoid creation of new
institutions, which absorb considerable human and financial resources; (viii) to disseminate
information on project activities to the rural areas; and (ix) to introduce an extensive
monitoring and evaluation system of beneficiaries, costs and resource mobilization by
communities.
2.43   The IDA-financed education project funds secondary schools through matching grants.
Lessons learned from this project are the following: (i) simple design of schools and uniform
cost standards and contributions have made project implementation easier to administer;
(ii) the total community effort should be kept low in absolute terms; (iii) independent audits
and strict cost control by IDA staff are crucial in keeping costs in line with the private sector;
and (iv) where District Assemblies have participated financially in school construction,
implementation has been slower than where community groups have taken full financial
responsibility for their contribution.
2.44   The above lessons would be addressed under the proposed project as follows:
(i) implementation capacity would be built up through preparation and pilot activities and
recruitment of professional private sector managers. Project Unit (PU) managers would be
empowered with sufficient authority to react flexibly to rural needs. PU would establish
regional offices and employ farmers as facilitators to respond more rapidly to local needs;
(ii) project components would be limited to investments, feasibility studies and capacity
building closely related to implementation; (iii) the project would be subject to an annual
review; (iv) no large procurement contracts are anticipated; and (v) the project would only
support investments with significant local participation, which would decrease dependance on
central funding and administration.
111. THEPROJET
A.  PBroect Objectives and Scope
3.1    The main project objective is to increase the flow of technical and financial resources
for rural development in response to perceived needs at the village and district levels. Related
objectives are: to increase agricultural productivity and access to markets; and to strengthen
the communities' capacity to develop, manage and maintain their investments using the
resources of NGOs, local consultants, and public institutions.
B.  Summary Description
Investment Component
3.2    The project would finance civil works and equipment to upgrade small-scale water
schemes, rural markets, market access roads and small-scale agro-processing. Local



- 14-
communities would identify subprojects, participate in their design and development and
contribute in cash or kind towards their implementation and maintenance. Total costs of this
component are estimated at US$18.6 million.
Sudies and T_chnical Assistance
3.3    The project would finance the services of technical support agencies (TSA) to help
local communities to formulate and implement local investments. NGOs and local consulting
agencies would assist the beneficiaries with feasibility studies, management services and
training in irrigation, rural business and local government management. MOFA's Policy
Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation Department would monitor project impact and
performance. Total costs of this component are estimated at US$2.8 million.
Project Implementation
3.4    A Project Unit (PU) within the Ministry of Food and Agriculture (MOFA) would
manage the project. MOFA would recruit key PU staff with private sector experience and
delegate project implementation responsibility to PU, which would manage the project
according to a detailed project implementation manual prepared in consultation with IDA.
Initially, PU would establish offices in Accra and Tamale. It would have a limited number of
administrative and technical staff, recruit part-time local consultants to carry out technical
studies and supervision, and employ farmer facilitators to ensure promotion and liaison with
the rural communities. Total costs of this component are estimated at US$2.4 million.
C. Detailed Features
Investment Component 6/
3.5   Small-scale wat.-r schemes (water schemes) would support irrigated agriculture as well
as potable water supply for livestock and humans. They include water conservation structures
such as small dams and dug-out reservoirs, stream diversions, valley bottom schemes, pump
schemes, shallow ground-water development, and other water supply and harvesting systems.
This type of small-scale community investment would increase yields and dry season output of
high value vegetables. Local communities have difficulty obtaining finance for these small
schemes because the public sector has emphasized large-scale irrigation and the banking
system does not yet provide financing for small schemes. NGOs and other technical support
agencies would assist farmers to design, construct and manage their schemes and to
accumulate funds to operate and renew the equipment or to expand the association's activities.
The beneficiaries' initial contribution for infrastructure works would be at least 10 percent of
the investment cost in labor or cash. Other contributions would depend on the type of
investment. The project would finance approximately 500 ha of irrigation (20-30 subprojects)
for an estimated amount of US$2.7 million.
O/     A morm detailed desription of the investmet component is in Annex I and in the corrsponding working
paperi.



- 15 -
3.6    Marketing infrastructure includes construction and rehabilitation of markets with
storage facilities, accommodation, commercial vehicle access, sanitary facilities and
management services. Improved marketing infrastructure will encourage trade and generate
revenues for district authorities. Traders' associations and district authorities would be
required to have an agreement on market design, financing, management, and cost recovery
methods. Project funds would be used mainly for construction and rehabilitation of basic
market infrastructure such as pavement, drainage, coverage, warehouses, sanitary facilities,
and water supply. Traders and District Assemblies would contribute at least 25 percent of
subproject costs by financing, among other things, market stores, stalls and parking. The
project would support about 110 markets for an estimated total cost of US$11.1 million.
3.7    Roads to improve access to markets would be "one blade" roads carrying less than 10
vehicles per day, except on market days. Subprojects would include rehabilitation of existing
roads, spot improvements, construction of culverts or small bridges, and the opening of new
roads. All construction would use labor-intensive methods. The communities' minimum
contribution would be 10 percent of investment costs plus full maintenance costs. The project
would finance 375 km of access roads and other road works for an estimated US$4.4 million.
3.8   Storage and food processing includes village-and on-farm storage and processing such
as village abattoirs, gari processors, palm oil crushers, shea-butter processors and similar
community investments. Farmers in remote areas have great difficulty in obtaining formal
bank credit for setting up storage and processing activities. On-farm storage would increase
incentives for traders to buy from the villages, while post-harvest processing would free
female labor from head-loading and manual processing to make time for more productive
activities in health, education and agriculture. NGOs and technical support agencies would
assist communities to realize subprojects. The costs of processing equipment would be fully
recovered from the beneficiaries over a period of three years. The project would finance, on
a pilot basis, about 20 initiatives for a total estimated cost of US$0.4 million.
tudies and Technical Assistance Coinonen
3.9    The project would also finance feasibility studies, management services, training in
irrigation, rural business and market management and food processing, as well as monitoring,
evaluation, social, economic and environmental impact studies. Total costs of this component
are estimated at US$2.8 million.
3.10   Feasibility Studies. Management Services and Training. NGOs and consulting
agencies would carry out feasibility studies and provide management services and training.
To be eligible for project support, the technical support agencies would need to be pre-
qualified by PU and have an agreement with beneficiaries stipulating their terms of reference,
expected output, as well as financial implications.
3.11 Monitoring, Evaluation, and Proiect Impact Studies. The project would use the
services of the Policy Monitoring and Evaluation Department (PPMED) and participant
observers to obtain feedback on the project's impact on local communities and efficiency to
reach its objectives.
3.12 Environmental Studies. Some subprojects may require environmental assessments.
As environmental assessment capacity in Ghana is yet to be developed, PU and the



- 16 -
Environmental Protection Council (EPC) would finance consultants to carry out assessments
for particular projects. To reduce the costs of the individual environmental studies, EPC
would carry out a general watershed master plan study in the northern regions.
IV. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Cost Estimates
4.1   Total project costs are estimated at US$25.4 million (Cedis 22.2 billion) inclusive of
duties and taxes in the amount of US$1.62 million (Cedis 1.3 billion). Of this 15 percent or
US$3.8 million are foreign exchange costs. Investment costs (including technical assistance)
amount to 98 percent and incremental recurrent costs to 2 percent of base costs. Total
contingencies are 17 percent of base costs, with physical contingencies accounting for 10
percent and price contingencies for 7 percent, calculated on base costs plus physical
contingencies. The appraisal exchange rate of Cedis 630 to the US Dollar, declining to Cedis
810 in 1998, and the following assumptions on the domestic and international annual rates of
inflation, were used to derive the total project cost estimate.
Annual Inflation Rates and Exchange Rate Assumptions
International     Domestic Exchange Rate
(%)              (%)     Cedis/US$
1994             1.2             15.0        717
1995            2.4              10.0        771
1996            3.2               5.0        784
1997            3.3               5.0        796
1998            3.3               5.0        810
4.2   The following table gives a summary of project costs by component. Additional
summary tables on project costs by year, by component and summary accounts are presented
in Annex 2.



- 17 -
Project Cost SummarY
Foreign   Loal    Toaw   FE       % of
........  (US$ million) (.......   B ase
1. INVESTMENT CAT1EGORY
A. Civil Works                         0.2        11.4    11.6      2    54
B. Goods/Supplies/Equipment            1.7        2.7      4.4     36    20
C. Studies and Technical Assistance    0.5        3.2      3.7     14    17
D. Refinancing PPF                                                         j 0  Lk  51  7
Total Investment Costs    3.2        18.1    21.3      15    98
II. RECURRENT COSTS                     0.1        0.3      0.4     10      2
MII. TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                         184    21.        15   IQQ
Physical Contingencies           0.3         1.8     2.1     15    10
Price Contingencies              0.2        LI       17      12      7
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS I/                  3.8       21.6    25.4      15   117
1/ Including duties and taxes of US$1.62 million.
B. Proposed Financing Plan
4.3   The proposed financing plan would involve the provision of funds by IDA, the Ghana
Government and the local communities. Of the total project cost of US$25.4 million, the
IDA credit would finance US$21.5 million (85%), the Government US$0.3 million (l%), and
the local communities US$3.6 million (14%). Net of taxes and duties IDA's financing would
be 90% of project costs.
4.4   The IDA Credit would cover 100 percent of foreign exchange costs and 82 percent of
local costs. The local community and government contribution would cover 12 percent of
local costs, plus duties and taxes (6%). Recurrent costs are PU's operational costs and
amount to two percent of total costs, including contingencies. IDA would fund about 79
percent of PU's recurrent costs, which amount to about US$0.32 million over the four-year
project period. The fnancing plan is set out below.



- 18-
Propgsed Financing Plan by Project Component
JLcA                      Govt,    Total
Communities
.......... .(US$ million).
Investment Component
A. WaterSchemes               2.5           0.2            -       2.7
B. Markets                     8.4          2.7            -      11.1
C. Access Roads               4.0           0.4            -       4.4
D. Storage/Processing         0.3           0.1            -       0.4
Studies and Technical Assistance     2.7           0.1            -      2.8
Project Unit                         2.1             -          0.3      2.4
Refinandng PPF                       l.S          0Q1           0        1.6
TOTAL 1/                     21.5           3.6          0.3      25.4
1/ Includes duties and taxes of US$1.62 million.
Proposd Fninacing Plan byl ForeigLf Exchange and LoA"! Costs
Foreign      Local         Total
................ (US$ million).
IDA                                  3.8         17.7         21.5
Local Government and Communities     0.0          3.6          3.6
Central Government                   u            0.3         0
TOTAL 1                              3.8         21.6         25.4
1/ Includes duties and taxes of US$1.62 million.
C. Financial Implications for Government
4.5   Incremental recurrent expenditure resulting from the project would amount to about
US$ 0.4 million. The central government's contribution is limited to the financing of PU
operating costs, as local communities, including local government, would provide all other
counterpart funds. The central government contributions to the project would average 85
million cedis per year, which represents 1.2 percent of the annual budget of the Ministry of
Food and Agriculture.



- 19-
D. Procurement
4.6    The table below summarizes the project elements and their estimated costs and
proposed methods of procurement.
Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Project Element                         Procurement Method
LCB            Local         Other           Total
Shopping
1. Civil Works
a) Water schemes                    0.8             1.2                           2.0
(0.7)          (1.1)                        (1.8)
b) Rural markets                    3.3             5.0                           8.3
(2.5)          (3.81                         (6.3J
c) Access roads                     2.0             1.3                           3.3
(1.9)          (1.1)                         (3.0)
d) Storage/Processing               0.1                                           0.1
(0.1)                                        (0.1)
2. Equlpment/SuppileslMatefials
a) Rural Investments                0.3             4.7                           6.0
(0.3)          (3.8)                         (4.1)
b) PU                                               0.3                           0.3
(0.3)                        (0.3)
3. Consulting Services                                                 4.4            4.4
(4.1)          (4.1)
4. PU Operatng Costs                                                   0.4            0.4
(0.3)          (0.3)
5. PPF                                                                 1.6            1.6
(1.5)         71.5)
TOTAL                            6.5            12.5            6.4          25.4
(5.5)         (10. 1J        (5.9)          (21.5)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Credit
LCB covers stndard end sinmlified LCB procedures, as well as the Distrct Tender Boad procedures
4.7    There would be no ICB procurement, since all works are scattered and in remote
places and overseas contractors are unlikely to be interested in bidding. Contract amounts
would, on average, not exceed US$40,000. Procurement of standardized goods or materials
would not be possible, as all goods and equipment would be tailored to beneficiaries' needs.
Moreover, some works would be pre-financed end e^ .ic d out uY 'l -b muom4wimau ius uLemseives,
and reimbursed by PU. Procurement would follow the District Tender Boards procedures,
amended to enable foreign firms to participate and to ensure that contracts are awarded to the



- 20 -
lowest responsive bidder. A distinction is to be made between the procurement processes
applicable to the PU and those applicable to subprojects.
Procurement for PU
4.8   Procurement of Goods. Vehicles and Equipment. PU would need to procure vehicles,
fuel, furniture and office equipment. Total expenditure would not exceed $300,000 for the
whole project period. PU would procure these items through local or international shopping
with price quotations from a least three suppliers, or through the Inter-Agency Procurement
Services Office (JAPSO). Procurement above $40,000 per contract, if any, would be through
Local Competitive Bidding (LCB).
4.9    ODerating Costs. About US$400,000 worth of supplies and services would be
procured through local shopping procedures except for vehicle operating costs and
government contracted supplies and services.
4.10   Recruitment of Consultants. To recruit consultants and local technical assistance, PU
will follow IDA guidelines. Detailed procedures are explained in the Implementation Manual.
Procurement for Subprojects
4.11   Procurement of Works. Beneficiaries would carry out procurement for subprojects,
and PU would assist and monitor the process. Works may be carried out by the beneficiaries
themselves or by contractors.
(a)    Where the beneficiaries carry out the works themselves, the project would
only disburse for physical works completed and certified for quality by a PU-
appointed supervising engineer, as set out in the detailed design and bill of
quantities.
(b)   Where contractors are involved, the following rules would apply:
(i)    District Authorities would engage contractors according to local
government procurement rules. These rules require that, whenever
local government finances a project from its own resources,
procurement is to be done in accordance with procedures of the
District Tender Board. These include: (a) advertisement of tenders in
newspapers, on radio and public notice boards; (b) detailed procedures
on bid opening, evaluation and award; (c) composition of the technical
evaluation team; and (d) award to the lowest evaluated responsive
bidder. The procedures, which are consistent with IDA guidelines,
are set out in detail in the Implementation Manual.
(ii)   Local Community Groups would engage contractors according to the
rules in para 4.12 below. The government tender procedures would
not apply in this case.



- 21 -
4.12   There are three thresholds in the procurement process for works:
(a)   contracts of ug to $40.000 up to an aggregate amount of US$7.5 million
would constitute the bulk of the contracts. PU would approve financing
according to cost estimates and bills of quantity in a detailed engineering
study, certified by a PU-appointed engineer. The beneficiaries would then
engage contractors through local shopping or district tender procurement
procedures;
(b)   contracts of more than $40,Q00 but less than $150.000 up to an aggregate
amount of US$6.5 million. The beneficiaries would launch a tender and
advertise in local newspapers to ensure wide participation and select the lowest
responsive bidder. The technical support agencies (TSAs) would assist
beneficiaries in evaluation and selection of contractors. PU would verify the
award process before disbursing. The threshold for IDA prior review is
US$75,000. Where contracts exceed this amount, the resident project
supervisor would review contract award procedures and contracts. PU has
prepared simplified procurement documents and contracts for use by village
community organizations, associations, local goverament and TSAs on
subprojects below $150,000 and are contained in the Implemetation Manual;
and
(e)   contracts $150.000 or more. If such contracts occur, the beneficiaries would
follow the IDA standard sample bidding documents. Selection and contracts
would be approved by the resident project supervisor before disbursement.
4.13   Procurement of Goods and Equipment. Procurement of goods and equipment such as
building materials, pumps, fuel, rental for earth moving equipment, etc., would follow the
procedures below.
(a)    Purchases of building materials and supplies. rental equipment and operational
expenditures of less than $5.000 up to an aggregate amount of US$1.2 million
would be made by the beneficiary community after local consultation of
district or village suppliers (ocal shopping). If only one supplier is available,
the beneficiaries may purchase from that supplier or choose to consult
suppliers in other villages/districts.
(b)    Purchases of $5.000 or more and less than $40.000 up to an aggregate amount
of US$3.5 million would be made by the beneficiaries on the basis of price
quotations of at least three suppliers. PU would audit such purchases ex-post
and compare prices with prevailing market prices. PU may declare mis-
procurement and decline reimbursement of expenditures if the agreed
procedures have not been followed or may waive the procedure in exceptional
cases, such as lack of interested suppliers.
(c)    Purchases of $40.000 or more up to an aggregate amount of US$0.8 million
would be made by the beneficiaries through contracts awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding. Beneficiaries would request approval from PU before
the purchase. PU would verify the proposed prices and quality with



- 22 -
prevailing market prices before approval. The threshold for IDA prior review
would be US$40,000. The award procedure of contracts exceeding
US$40,000 would be reviewed by the resident project supervisor.
4.14   Contracting of ConsultantslTSAs. As not many consultants live in rural areas,
beneficiaries may find it difficult to attract engineers to enter into a bidding process. Direct
contracting may be the simplest way to get a consultant to work on a low-cost subproject, but
it may also lower quality and increase fees. For this reason, PU would make a list of
acceptable TSAs and their fees available to the local communities. To generate this list, PU
would launch a yearly bidding process, by which interested consulting firms would inform PU
of their services, which regions they cover, their fees and their professional references. PU
would retain firms acceptable to IDA on the basis of their technical and financial proposals
and their work experience. Beneficiaries would be able to chose a firm on the list and would
share in the costs of the studies. PU has already pre-qualified NGOs and consulting agencies,
acceptable to IDA, as technical support agencies for the first year of the project.
4.15   The PU would apply the following consultant recruitment procedures:
(a)    Contracts of less than $10.000: the beneficiaries would select three
consultants from the list of pre-qualified firms, PU would invite the firms to
quote a lump sum price and award the contract to the lowest bidder.
(b)    Contracts of $10,000 or more: PU would invite technical and financial
proposals from at least three consultants, selected by the beneficiaries, and
award the contract to the highest ranked bidder, in accordance with the
ranking system presented in the Implementation Manual. The resident project
supervisor would review contract awards beyond US$15,000.
4.16   Procurement Assistance and Supervision. Technical support agencies and PU would
assist beneficiaries to comply with the established procurement rules. Project procurement
supervision would consist of PU procurement reporting and supervision, verification by the
IDA resident project supervisor, and procurement audits. PU would verify whether
beneficiaries follow competitive procedures and report on procurement matters in the semi-
annual reports. The resident project supervisor would carry out a detailed review of the first
ten subprojects as well as 10 percent of the procurement on a selective basis. MOFA would
appoint a consultant to verify whether beneficiaries follow district and project procurement
procedures in each of the first two subprojects entered into in respect of each category and
thereafter, on a sample basis, throughout the implementation of the project, in agreement with
IDA. It was agreed during negotiations that MOFA would appoint a procurement auditing
consultant by August 31, 1994 (para 7.1).
E. Disbursement
4.17   The IDA credit of US$21.5 million would be disbursed over a period of 5 years,
beginning in FY94. The disbursement schedule is presented in Annex 4. The disbursement
pace is more rapid than the historical disbursement profile for Ghana's agricultural projects,
because local demand for this project is estimated to be significantly larger than the project



*23 -
amount. Disbursements, however, would also depend on the management capacity of PU and
the capacity of the local communities to prepare subprojects. Disbursements would be slow
during the first year, but would build up rapidly afterwards.
Summary Disbursement Schedule
Category                          Amount Allocated    IDA Financed
('000 US$)           (%)
Foreign LQol
Civil works                              10,000          100    90
Equipment, supplies for communities      3,800           100    90
Consulting services                      4,000           100   100
Project preparation facility              1,500
PU:
(a) operating costs 7/                                300    85 until 31/12/96 and
75 thereafter
(b) Vehicles, goods and equipment        250          100    90
Unallocated                               1,650
T-OTAL                            21,500
4.18   PU would disburse as much as possible for works carried out by the beneficiaries
after verification by a PU-appointed engineer and through direct payments to contractors,
consultants and suppliers. Where this is not practical, the following procedures would apply:
(a)    District Authorities would pre-finance up to US$5,000 of all subproject costs.
PU would reimburse District Authorities for expenditures up to the agreed
amount, on the basis of fully-documented statements of expenditure (SOE).
(b)    Disbursement for village community or association subprojects would be
determined in the subproject financing agreement and implementation
schedule. The following guidelines would apply:
(i)    As much as possible, PU would disburse on the basis of statements of
expenditure after the counterpart contribution in kind (abor, materials)
has been provided;
;/    OpenUing cost am PU's expcndibtrue for vehicle operaion and raintenae, travel, ofrice supplies and
matercs, and salaries for temporaiy contractWal saff.



- 24 -
(ii)    where this is not possible, but a technical support agency is involved,
project fundsl/ would be advanced to the beneficiary associations'
bank account where withdrawals would be sanctioned by at least two
community leaders (double signature account). Advances would not
exceed US$5,000 in cedi equivalent, and would only be provided after
the beneficiaries have carried out a number of preparatory activities.
(c)    To avoid misuse of advances, PU would use severe sanctions such as loss of
eligibility for further project support, publicity and legal action.
4.19   A US$1.5 million Special Account covering four months of eligible expenditures and
two cedi Project Accounts (one in Accra and one in Tamale) would constitute the main project
revolving funds. The initial deposit of the Special Account would be US$500,000, increased
to US$1 million at the opening of the Tamale office, and increased further in accordance with
need. The accounts would be opened at a commercial bank in Ghana on terms and conditions
acceptable to IDA. It was agreed during negotiations that MOFA would establish and
maintain a Proiect Account and that the deposit by the Government of a US$50.000 equivalent
into the account would be a condition for credit effectiveness (paras 7.2 and 7.11). The
Tamale project account would be opened when the Tamale office is about to be established.
PU would disburse through the Project Accounts, which would be replenished with funds
from the Special Account against documentation of actual expenditures.
4.20   Disbursements for expenditures under contracts valued below US$75,000 equivalent
would be made against SOEs. IDA would replenish the Special Account upon review and
approval of SOEs and documentation by IDA's resident project supervisor. PU would retain
all documentation and IDA would replenish strictly against summary sheets approved by the
resident project supervisor. Wherever possible, withdrawal applications would be aggregated
in amounts of not less than US$100,000. PU would be responsible for preparing withdrawal
applications and have sole responsibility for submitting withdrawal applications to IDA. PU
would not transfer funds from the Special Account to the Project Accounts to provide
subproject advances. This would limit PU's capacity to advance funds, but decrease risks.
F. Auditing and Reporting
4.21   In addition to the procurement and disbursement supervision mentioned in paras 4.16
and 4.20 above, all project accounts, including the Special Account and SOEs would be
audited annually by independent auditors, acceptable to IDA. Auditors would prepare, in
addition to the auditors reports and statements of accounts, a long report including financial
statements and a management letter. PU would submit the auditors reports within six months
of the end of the Government fiscal year.
4.22   PU would also prepare semi-annual reports covering details on subproject and TSA
activities, procurement, disbursements, key monitoring and management efficiency indicators,
financial projections, and the results of project impact studies. PU would submit the reports
81    Project funds originate from the project accounts, not from the IDA Special Accounts.



- 25 -
financial projections, and the results of project impact studies. PU would submit the reports
to IDA by April 30 and October 31 of each year. The detailed format of the reports is
described in the Implementation Manual.
4.23   The Government would also prepare a Mid-Term Review report by April 30, 1996
and a Implementation Completion Review report and provide it to IDA within six months of
the closing date. Procurement and disbursement supervision, financial auditing, and semi-
annual reorting requirements were agreed on during negotiations (para 7.3).
V. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTAT10N
5.1   This chapter describes the management arrangements for the project, subproject
eligibility criteria, beneficiary contributions, subproject processing, training, monitoring and
supervision. The Project Implementation Manual provides more detailed informnation on
implementation issues.
A.  Management
Prjct Management
5.2   The Ministry of Food and Agriculture (MOFA) would be responsible for oveiall
project implementation. MOFA would delegate full project authority to a Project Unit (PU)
established within MOFA. A Project Coordinating Committee (PCC) composed of delegates
of MOFA, MLG, MFEP, Technical Support Agencies, Farner Organizations, and other
representative institutions would supervise implementation. Regional Subproject Approval
Comnmittees (SPAC) would assist regional PU offices to review and decide on subprojects. A
resident IDA project supervisor would ensure operational liaison with PU. A detailed project
organization and management chart is presented below.
Project Coordinating Committee (PCC)
5.3    MOFA would establish a PCC composed of representatives of MOFA, Ministry of
Local Government, Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning, NGOs, National Farmer
Association, and other representative institutions. PCC would be an advisory body under
MOFA's leadership. The Committee would meet twice a year to: (i) discuss the semi-annual
progress report and the workplans for the next 12 months; (ii) solve coordination problems
which may arise; and (iii) advise PU on general implementation issues. The maintenance of
PCC has been agreed upon during negotiations (para 7.4).



AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECr
PROJECr MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION CHART
MIISTY OF F[OOD AND AGRICULTURE
PROJECT UNff
~~~~~~~~4  Ch
PU ACCRA             |             PUTSI AM
DISTRICT AUTHORITIES      ASSOCIATIONS    VILLAGE GROUPS    l



- 27 -
rject Unit
5.4   PU is part of MOFA and would be responsible for implementing the project. PU was
established in November 1992 as a unit within MOFA, building upon the experience of the
existing Project Coordinating Unit (PCU), which has received intensive training and gained
significant experience in project management and IDA procedures. PU's activities would be
monitored by PPMED.
5.5   PU Tasks. PU's tasks would be to: (i) or ganize and control project operations;
(ii) elaborate work plans and cash flow projections; (iii) manage project funds; (iv) organize
project accounting in cooperation with MOFA's PCU; (v) elaborate and review standard
project documents and procedures; (vi) manage project information and promotion campaigns
to local communities; (vii) review subproject proposals; (viii) organize and report on
Subproject Approval Committee meetings (para 5.9); (ix) review qualifications and evaluate
supporting agencies and consultants; (x) introduce a subproject cost data monitoring system;
and (xi) report regularly to MOFA, and semi-annually to PCC and IDA.
5.6   PU Staffing and Management. The Project Director would staff the PU wi local
consultants under fixed-term employment contracts. Some staff would have experience with
World Bank project management procedures. PU's full-time staff would be limited to ten
professionals experienced in providing services to the rural sector and ten support staff. PU
would hire other skills whenever needed, including short-term irrigation and rural road
engineers, and market development and management specialists. PU would also employ
influential farmers as part-time project facilitators in each region to assist the local
communities with subproject identification, application procedures, and to solve
implementation problems. In every district, the farmer facilitators would explain the project
objectives, eligibility criteria, and application procedures to the District Assembly,
associations, and community leaders. PU accounting and IDA disbursement management
would be done by MOFA's PCU accountant, until PU's workload justifies the recruitment of
a full-time PU accountant. The maintenance of PU during the proiect period has been areed
during negotiations (para 7.4).
5.7   Logistics and Overheads. PU would establish offices in Accra and Tamale. The head
of the Tamale office would report to Accra, but would have the same regional subproject
approval powers as the head of the Accra office. PU would control its overheads, which
should not exceed 10 percent of project disbursements after the first project year. This
percentage sbould decrease to 5 percent after three years.
5.8   Relationship with the Ministry of Food and Agriculture. MOFA would delegate
responsibility for project implementation and management to PU, including authority to
approve and implement subprojects, to recruit auditors and to monitor and assess project
implementation and impact through PPMED. The Minister would appoint the Project
Director and preside over the PCC meetings. PU would carry out the project in accordance
with its terms of reference and the Implementation Manual. It would report regularly to the
Ministry. To preserve PU's management flexibility, the Director would be responsible for
selecting and managing all PU fixed-term staff and consultants. Employment conditions, staff
numbers, qualifications and terms of reference of key staff would be agreed on a yearly basis
with the Minister and IDA. The respective roles of the Ministry and PU are contained in a
Memorandum of Understanding signed by both parties and acceptable to IDA.



- 28 -
Subgroject Approval Committee (SPAC)
5.9   SPAC's main task would be to help PU in the evaluation of subproject proposals
estimated to cost more than US$75,000. SPAC would decide upon eligibility subprojects and
their beneficiaries. SPAC would provide a second and decisive opinion on the acceptability
of subprojects in case PU has reservations concerning subproject feasibility. The committees
would be composed of, at maximum, nine experts appointed by MOFA, MLG, MFEP, DFR,
Ministry of Works and Housing, representatives of the technical support agencies, and
representatives of farmer and traders' organizations (National Farmers Association, women's
associations). At least two committee members would be women. PU would propose the
composition of each SPAC to the Minister and the regional Deputy Ministers of Food and
Agriculture. PU would convene the committee meetings. Each subproject approval would
require a simple majority of the committee members present at the meeting to be in favor of
the project. The maintenance of Subproiect Approval Committees was agreed during
negiotiations (para 7.4).
B. Eligibilitv Criteria
5.10   The eligibility criteria define the type of subprojects the credit would finance, the
local communities which would benefit from project funds, and the eligibility of technical
support agencies. The eligibility criteria for subprojects. beneficiaries and technical support
agencies were agred during negotiations (para 7.5).
Subprjed  Eligibility
5.11   Eligible subprojects would be: (i) small-scale water schemes; (ii) construction and
rehabilitation of market infrastructure; (iii) construction and rehabilitation of roads to improve
access to markets; and (iv) small-scale storage and food processing infrastructure. Projects
involving resettlement would not be eligible for financing. The environmental impact of
subprojects would be studied, and environmental safeguards built into subproject design.
5.12   Small-Scale Water Schemes. The project would finance small-scale water schemes if:
(i) schemes are managed and maintained by village community groups or associations;
(ii) beneficiaries provide evidence of usufruct rights on the land; (iii) the subproject is
technically feasible and construction costs and equipment purchases do not exceed
US$150,000; (iv) costs per irrigable hectare do not exceed US$5,000; (v) fuiancial rates of
return to subprojects exceed 10 percent; (vi) the subproject does not create environmental
hazards or water shortages elsewhere; and (vii) beneficiaries have an assistance agreement
with a technical support agency.
5.13 Markets. The project would finance market infrastructure if: (i) district authorities,
trader associations and local communities reach agreement on market design, layout, cost
sharing, responsibilities for maintenance, cost recovery methods, and user fees; (ii) market
design includes sufficient toilets, water supply and refuse collection; and (iii) except for
regional wholesale markets, subproject costs do not exceed US$150,000.



- 29 -
5.14   Road. The project would finance roads to improve access to markets if: (i) district
authorities and beneficiary communities propose an acceptable maintenance plan; (ii) the
investments are technically feasible at pre-established construction standards and a maximum
cost of US$10,000 per kcm; (iii) subproject costs do not exceed US$150,000; and (iv) the
roads complement the feeder roads system targeted for development by the Department of
Feeder Roads (DFR) and are situated in high and medium priority areas designated by DFR,
or PU is satisfied as to the economic viability of the proposed road.
5.15 Storage and Agro-Prgcessing Units. The project would finance storage and agro-
processing infrastructure and equipment if: (i) there is sufficient primary produce and market
opportunity; (ii) storage units are technically feasible at a capacity below 25 percent of
storable community production; (iii) there is agreement amongst beneficiaries on procedures
for access by members and on user fees for cost recovery; (iv) the cost per unit does not
exceed US$50,000; (v) financial rates of return to investment exceed 10 percent; and
(vi) associations have an assistance agreement with a technical support agency which has
agreed to assist the beneficiaries with cost recovery.
EgBdilt ofBeneSlcdares
5.16   The project beneficiaries would be local communities, not individuals. Provision of
project funds to associations would follow stricter eligibility criteria than provision of project
funds to village community organizations or District Assemblies.
(a)    District Assemblies would be eligible if their budget includes provision for
the proposed subproject and if they provide sufficient evidence that adequate
financial provision has been made for the beneficiary contribution;
(b)    Village Community Organizations would be eligible if they demonstrate:
(i) common activities; (ii) documentation on the way the community is
organized (eaders, membership records, etc.); and (iii) the capacity to provide
their matching contribution and to manage and maintain the proposed
subproject;
(c)    Associations would be eligible if: (i) the District Executive Committee
confims that members form a group with a common agricultural purpose and
provides facts supporting this confimation; (ii) the association shows that it
has had business activities for more than one year and could deliver the
promised contribution; (iii) it has a minimum of 10 members with a clearly
identified leader subject to membership control and of which the chairperson,
the secretary and the treasurer and at least two other members would enter
into an agreement with PU; and (iv) it intends to enter into a technical
assistance agreement with an acceptable technical support agency.
E1ligibility of Technical Support Agencies
5.17   Support agencies such as NO0s, private consulting firms and institutions would help
the communities to implement and manage the projects. The agencies would be eligible for
project support if they have the required experience and managerial capacity to assist the



- 30 -
communities and enter into a technical assistance agreement 2/ with the beneficiaries. The
agencies' eligibility for project support would be reviewed on an annual basis. Every year,
PU would review the pre-qualified agencies and invite technical and financial proposals from
other potential technical support agencies and pre-qualify them for eligibility in agreement
with IDA. PU intends to limit project support for eligible supporting agencies to a maximum
15 percent of the total subproject investment costs, and to 20 percent of the yearly subproject
operating costs. The project would also introduce specific contract terms for technical
assistance agreements with supporting agencies covering several initiatives.
C. Beneficiary Contributions and Financing Percentages
5.18   The beneficiaries would match the project grants in cash, kind, or labor. The local
communities' contribution would depend on the type of investment. For market-related
infrastructure, both District Assemblies and trader organizations would contribute. Moveable
pumps for water schemes and equipment for agro-processing subprojects would require full
cost recovery from the beneficiaries through the technical support agencies. Tbe beneficiary
contribuin-n  cotL_                                                      _taon (para
conriutonsan  cst ecvey=  methods have been agreed upon during negotain(pa
7.6).
5.19   Subproject Identification. Beneficiaries would identify the subproject and complete
the project identification forms in a manner acceptable to PU. To stimulate correct
completion of the subproject identification forms, PU would pay a nominal fee for every
acceptable subproject identification form submitted by the local communities. This would
enable communities to remunerate skilled people to assist them with completion of the
form.10/ The fee would only be paid upon signature of the financing agreement with the
beneficiaries.
5.20   Feasibililt Stdej. When the subproject cost estimate exceeds US$25,000, a
feasibility study would need to be done. The beneficiaries would contribute 5 percent of the
feasibility study costs.
5.21   Investments. Several contribution percentages would apply:
(a)    Water Schemes. Beneficiary contributions towards small-scale water schemes
would be at least 10 percent of the subproject cost, plus full operation and
maintenance costs. For moveable pumps, the association would provide PU
with an initial outlay of 25 percent of the pumping equipment costs.
Subsequently, the association would contribute 25 percent per year (including
interest) during the next three years.
2/     More detailed eligibility criteria and a sample technical assistance agreement are in the Implementation
Manual.
10/    The completion of the idenification fonn is very important for subprojects below US$25,000, as no
feasibility study is requited for such small subprojects. The identification forn is the basic information PU
will use to evaluate and eventually approve the subproject.



- 31 -
(b)    Market Infrastructure. Beneficiary contributions (District Assembly and
traders) for market infrastructure would be 25 percent.
(c)    Access PR,oa. Beneficiaries would contribute at least 10 percent.
(d)    Agro-processing and Storage Units. Beneficiaries would contribute 10 percent
towards the infrastructure costs, and initially 25 percent plus 25 percent per
year (including interest) during the three following years for the equipment.
5.22   Technical Assistance. The beneficiaries would pay 15 percent of the technical
assistance and training costs of the technical support agencies.
Beneficiary Contributions
Investmnt Categories        Beneficiary Contribution    Comments
Small-scale water schemes    10%                     For moveable pumps: 25%
l _______________________   ______________________    plus  75%   over  3   years
Markets                     25%
Access roads                10%
Storage and processing      10% for infrastructure   For equipment: 25% plus 75%
over three years
Feasibility studies         5%
Technical assistance from   15%
technical support agencies   I_                     I
5.23   Cost Recovery. A distinction has to be made between investments which would benefit
the whole community such as markets, roads, village storage, etc. and investments which would
benefit selected groups in the community (some types of irrigation and agro-processing). Cost
recovery from projects benefitting whole communities would be done indireely by the District
Assembly through user fees, taxes, market tolls, and other forms of taxation. For small water
schemes and agro-processing projects which generate income and benefit selective groups of
people, costs of assets which have to replaced in a relatively short period and which have an
income-generating purpose, such as moveable pumps and processing equipment, would be
recovered directly from the beneficiaries. Such cost recovery would enhance the credit-
worthiness of the beneficiaries.
5.24    Costs from income-generating subprojects would be recovered as follows: the
beneficiaries would pay 25 percent of the equipment costs up-front to PU. Seventy-five percent
plus interest woutd be paid by die beneficiaries over three years. Beneficiaries would be charged
an interest rate equal to at least the interest rate for term deposits at the Agricultural Development
Bank plus 5 percent. Fifty percent of the amount recovered would be paid to PU, to expand PU's



- 32 -
financing base. Ten percent would go to the District Assembly and 40 percent would be used to
finance social, economic, and infrastructure operations beneficial to the local community, and
agreed upon with the community. The technical support agencies would be contractually obliged
to ensure that such yearly (or monthly) contributions take place and, to this end, would train
associations in cost recovery through user fees.
D.  The SubproJeet Processing Cycle
5.25   The normal subproject processing cycle would consist of five steps. The potential
beneficiaries would: (i) identify subprojects; (ii) present the subprojects to the District
Executive Committee for evaluation; (iii) present the subproject to PU (or Subproject
Approval Committee) for approval; (iv) carry out the feasibility studies; and (v) implement
the subproject. Technical support agencies could assist the beneficiaries during the process.
In general, PU would approve financing for all projects below US$75,000. Projects above
US$75,000 would be approved by the Subproject Approval Committee. To control and
monitor subproject implementation PU would recruit technical supervisors, MOFA would
engage a procurement review consultant and monitor the project through PPMED, and IDA
would appoint a resident project supervisor at the Bank's Resident Mission. Tbe subprQiect
processing cyl was ard during negotiations (para 7.7).
5.26   Step 1: Subproject Identification. Beneficiaries would need to call on qualified
community members to write the initial subproject identification description. Consultants,
local engineers and NGOs could help complete the specially-designed subproject identification
forms. The forms would contain information on the promoters, the land tenure status,
estimated subproject costs and the proposed contribution of the beneficiaries. The
Implementation Manual contains sample subproject identification forms.
5.27   Step 2: Evaluation by the District Executive Committee (DEC). Associations and
village community organizations would present the subproject to DEC, which would, within
30 days, determine whether or not: (i) the subproject appears technically feasible and belongs
to an eligible category; (ii) the beneficiaries are an eligible group and are capable of providing
the promised contribution; and (iii) the subproject identification forms reflect the truth. DEC
would not bear any financial or civil responsibility in vetting the rroposals, but it would
establish a track record with project management. Potential beneficiaries would be able to
appeal a negative DEC-decision with PU.
5.28 Step 3: Approval by PU or SPAC. Recommended subprojects of less than
US$25,000 would be presented to PU without a detailed feasibility study. PU would approve
(or reject) the subprojects after (on-site) verification of data in the project identification form.
Subprojects of more than US$25,000 would need a feasibility study. Subprojects of more
than US$75,000 would need to be submitted for approval to the Subproject Approval
Committee. SPAC would examine project and beneficiary eligibility and agree on the
subproject implementation schedule and financing method. For subprojects exceeding
US$150,000, approval from the Ministry of Food and Agriculture and IDA would be
required.



- 33 -
5.29 Step 4: Feasibility Studies. Projects of more than US$25,000 would require
feasibility studies in accordance with project standards. Specialized professionals, consulting
firms or NMOs in association with the promoters would carry out these feasibility studies.
For each subproject category, PU has designed acceptable feasibility study requirements and
guidelines which are contained in the Implementation Manual. The requirements include a list
of environmental impact mitigation measures. PU would review the feasibility studies for
their accuracy, feasibility and subproject eligibility.
Subgriect Processing Cysle
Stp I--SUBPROJECT IDENTWICATION
Beneficiaries idendfy subproject with help, of consultants, NGOs
Output. identification form to District Executive Committee
,-tep2  EVA QUATION.BY DISTRJCT EXECUTIVE COMM0 1EE
Output: a    fetter rom DEC to PU copied to the Regional Deputy
.Ministe of Agriculture'
Step 3 APP>OVAL BY'PU or SPAC
Itf subproect < $75,000: PU approves
If subproject > $75,000: SPAC approves
JutpUt: letter of approval from PU to beneficiaries recommending the
feasiblity studies, or including a proposal for a financing agreement
' "S, tep 4  f FEASILflY S  (for projects > $25,0W)
Reruiitmeot of consultant, firm or NGO
Co-ntrac approval by PU
Output: feasibility/detailed engineering study to PU
Step 5 SUPROJECT FINANCING AGREEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
PU and beneficiaries draw up agreement on contributions, financing
and implenientation schedules, procurement, disbursement, cost
-recovery, and supervision.



- 34 -
5.30 Step 5: Subproject Implenentation. Having obtained PU's approval, the
beneficiaries would start implementation in accordance with a financial assistance agreement.
The agreement would describe the rights and obligations of all partners involved, cost
recovery requirements, procurement methods, and include a subproject implementation
schedule.llJ PU would help the beneficiaries with project implementation by financing
the services of technical support agencies. Terms and conditions of financial assistanc
agreements were agreed during negotiations (para 7.8).
E. Training
5.31   The project would finance training in subproject management provided by technical
support agencies. The training objectives, methods, and costs would be described in the
technical assistance agreement between TSAs and beneficiaries. PU would not carry out any
other training. PPMED would monitor training by TSAs.
F.  Project Implementation
5.32   PU's plan of action for the first year of the project has been drawn up and is attached
to the implementation schedule in Annex 3.
5.33   Project preparation, financed by a Project Preparation Facility of US$1.5 million,
focussed on: (i) staffing and equipping PU; (ii) launching pilot operations;
(iii) refining eligibility criteria; (iv) pre-qualifying technical support agencies and consultants;
(v) carrying out feasibility studies of some important subprojects; (vi) identifying members for
the SPACs; (vii) preparing implementation documents; and (viii) preparing information
campaigns.
5.34   Following appraisal, the project was launched by PU through: (i) workshops with
NGOs, consultants, potential beneficiaries and District Authorities; (ii) pilot projects in nine
regions; and (iii) identification and recruitment of suitable staff.
5.35   After project effectiveness, full implementation would require PU to:
(i) organize regional launching workshops; (ii) establish a second regional office (Tamale);
(iii) set up both SPACs; and (iv) launch project information campaigns in selected regions.
In the meantime, subproject implementation would gain momentum. Although the project
would operate in the whole country, PU would try to concentrate activities in the districts and
regions which are better prepared. Progress would depend on the efficiency of the project
facilitators, the relationships between PU and the technical support agencies and the capacity
of the district authorities to prepare and approve subprojects.
5.36   Before effectiveness, the Government and IDA would organize a review to fine-tune
the main implementation policies and to draw up an action plan to improve implementation.
Annual project implementation review meetings would take place between the PCC, PU and
IDA. These meetings would discuss past achievements and targets for the next twelve
Il/    A sample fuuc agreemet is presented in the Implementation Manual.



- 35 -
months. If any project components or regions are not performing, funds would be reallocated
to components with demonstrated implementation and disbursement capabilities. During the
annual reviews, agreement would be reached on the work program for the following year, and
changes in implementation would be introduced on the basis of experience. A Mid-Term
Review would take place not later than two years from credit effectiveness, and an
Implementation Completion Review report would be prepared at the end of the project.
G. Monltoring. Evaluation and Project Impact Studies
5.37   PU, PPMED and IDA would monitor project implementation through reports,
monitoring studies, audits, supervision missions, and beneficiary assessments. PU would
monitor progress of project activities including: (i) feasibility studies; (ii) infrastructure
works; (iii) training and extension by technical support agencies; and (iv) subproject costs.
PPMED would monitor PU performance and project impact on beneficiaries. IDA would
monitor PU performance, compliance with procurement and disbursement procedures, and
credit agreement legal covenants. Annex 6 describes the details of the project monitoring
scheme. Proiect monitoring actions have been agreed unon during negotiations (para 7.9).
5.38   Monitoring of Project Activities and Costs. PU would be responsible for providing
data on subproject implementation. Key monitoring indicators include: (i) information
campaigns launched; (ii) subproject requests received; (iii) feasibility studies carried out; (iv)
subprojects processed, financed and completed; (v) number of beneficiaries; and (vi)
performance of technical support agencies. PU would prepare semi-annual reports covering
the key indicators. The objective would be to focus strongly on subproject field
implementation. PU would also set up a subproject cost monitoring system to develop
standard costing of markets and engineering services. The objectives would be to keep
subproject costs in line with private sector investment and engineering costs and to reduce
project preparation time and costs.
5.39   Monitoring of Compliance with Procurement Procedures. To monitor the
beneficiaries' compliance with procurement procedures, MOFA would engage a consultant
who would review the first two subprojects of each category in detail and other subprojects on
a sampling basis, in agreement with IDA. The IDA resident project supervisor would
monitor compliance with procurement procedures for the first ten subprojects and 10 percent
of the procurement later on. Financial auditors would also verify PU's compliance with
procurement procedures.
5.40  Financial Monitoring. Annually, financial auditors would produce a full audit report
on the project's financial management, including an audit of the Special Account, SOEs, and
cost recovery. The IDA resident project supervisor would review SOEs on a continuous
basis.
5.41 Monitoring of PU Performance. PPMED and IDA would monitor PU performance
through key monitoring indicators and management efficiency indicators. These would aim to
control PU's management and consulting costs and to avoid subproject preparation and
administrative costs reaching unacceptable levels. Since the project objective would be to



- 36 -
assist local communities, PU and subproject preparation costs should be no more than 25
percent of total investments (including preparation costs).
5.42   Monitoring of Project Impact on Beneficiaries. PPMED would monitor project
impact through data collection and beneficiary assessment.
(a)    Data Collection. In order to evaluate whether the project reaches its
objectives, PPMED would introduce a systematic data collection system on
project impact. PPMED's regional units would collect baseline data on all
subprojects. Before the investment takes place PPMED would make a report
on agricultural practices, yields, income, market access, transport, community
organization, processing and other relevant information such as the degree of
poverty of the beneficiaries. During the project implementation period,
PPMED would carry out several visits per year to the subproject a-,as to
study changes in key variables and to evaluate impact on project enjectives, in
particular the flow of financial and technical resources for infrastructure into
rural areas, agricultural productivity, access to markets, the community's
management capacities, and poverty reduction.
(b)    Beneficiary Assessment. PPMED would also consult the intended
beneficiaries and incorporate their views in every aspect of project
implementation. Beneficiary assessment uses qualitative research tools such as
open-ended interviewing of a representative sanple of beneficiaries (focus
group or one-on-one) as well as participant-observation techniques involving
residence in a community of intended beneficiaries for a few weeks. PPMED
would also try to obtain information on: (i) the quality of the investments/
works and the technical assistance to local communities; (ii) the maintenance
carried out by the communities; and (iii) the operational problems which may
arise during implementation.
Costs of PPMED monitoring would not exceed 1.5 percent of investment costs.
H.  Project Supervision
5.43   IDA supervision would be closely linked to the project implementation schedule. IDA
supervision would include: (i) continuous supervision and implementation assistance through
the resident project supervisor at the Bank's Resident Mission; (ii) regular supervision and
monitoring of key events through supervision missions; and (iii) yearly reviews of the work
program, the project launching workshop, mid-term review and project completion review.
The Government would participate in supervision through semi-annual progress reports and
participation in supervision and review missions. Details are described in Annex 5 and in the
Implementation Manual.
5.44 Regular Supervision. IDA would appoint a resident project supervisor at the Bank's
Resident Mission in Ghana to supervise and assist with project implementation. Regular
supervision would include review of progress reports, procurement, disbursement, and
implemer.tation assistance. Project supervision missions would focus on physical



-37 -
implementation, management performance and compliance with legal covenants. The key
areas to supervise would be: (i) physical implementation: the physical project targets such as
number and type of projects; number and type of beneficiaries; involvement of local
communities; implementation rate; regional investment spread; (ii) management performance:
project response to local demands; subproject lead times; procurement, disbursement and
accounting practices; subproject cost control; and (iii) compliance with legal covenants.
5.45 The Project Launching Workshop would take place as soon as the conditions for
effectiveness are about to be met. The workshop would focus on procurement guidelines,
disbursement methods, management of the Special Account, audit requirements, project
supervision and reviews, communications with IDA, project implementation, and other
subjects of particular interest to the Borrower and PU. The First Year Implementation
Reviw and subsequent yearly reviews would examine the overall and detailed performance of
the project and, if necessary, make joint recommendations and take steps to improve project
performance. The Mid-Term Review (MTR) would evaluate in-depth the physical and
financial project implementation, and in particular its development impact. To this extent, the
Government, and in particular PPMED, would prepare a mid-term report on the project to
facilitate this review. If necessary, the MTR may introduce major design changes into the
project. Terms of Reference for the MTR would be drawn up during project implementation
at least three months before the time of the review and would be agreed upon with MOFA.
The preMaration and organization of the Mid-Term Review not later than April 30. 1996 was
agreed during negotiations (para 7.10).
5.46 An Implementation Completion Review (ICR) report summarizing the achievements of
the project and its impact vis-a-vis its objectives would be submitted by the Government to
IDA not later than six months after the completion of the project. The ICR would be carried
out by the Government and IDA and would cover a full ex-post evaluation of the project.
5.47 The Government would: (i) participate in supervision through PU's half-yearly
progress reports; (ii) assist all supervision missions by providing information on the project
and organizing wrap-up meetings; and (iii) participate in all reviews: Project Launching
Workshop, First Year Implementation Review, Mid-Term Review and Implementation
Completion Review.
VI. PRO.ECT JUSTIFICATION, BENEFlTS AND RISKS
A. Project Justification
6.1    Growth in agricultural output over the last decade has been constrained by a low level
of investment in the country's rural infrastructure system. Small-scale irrigation, necessary
for increasing productivity of small producers, is underdeveloped. Over 80 percent of the
rural market infrastructure is poorly constructed and lacks basic sanitation and health
facilities. Access roads, which provide the critical linkages between rural markets in major
production zones, remain inadequate. These constraints result in inefficient distribution and
marketing of between 50 - 80 percent of the rural agricultural output, and losses to producers



- 38 -
due to high post-harvest deterioration. They also directly affect the reliability of market
information, leading to distortions in market prices and uncertainty in supply.
6.2    The proposed project would directly address these constraints and would have an
impact on the rural economy through: (i) higher productivity growth in food crops through
increased cropping intensity and more efficient use of available resources; (ii) reduction in
post-harvest crop losses through improved storage and processing; (iii) increase in both
product quality and shelf life; and (iv) a more efficient rural product distribution and
marketing system. The project would increase rural income and employment through
expanded rural investments and the direct participation and empowerment of local
communities.
B.  Deteridination of Benefits and Costs
]Phv-sical Outpu
6.3   Small-Scale Irrigation. The project would finance the construction or rehabilitation of
a total of 500 ha of small-scale irrigation schemes with direct impact on more than 2,000 farm
households. Small-scale irrigation represents the most cost-effective way to increase
production of mixed cropping, high-valued vegetables, and rice, and raise the incomes of
subsistence producers. Small-scale irrigation schemes would contribute an additional 1,350
tons of rice (paddy), 920 tons of high-valued vegetables (tomatoes, peppers, leafy vegetables),
and 180 tons of cereals and groundnuts annually at full project implementation.
6.4    Markets. The project would support rehabilitation of 110 medium-size markets
comprising covered sheds, market stalls, locked storage, warehouses, and additional facilities
for private sector investment in restaurants, day care and clinics. The rehabilitation of rural
markets would improve sanitary conditions and reduce environmental hazards through better
drainage and improved water supply and sanitation. The development of rural markets would
directly impact over 5.7 million buyers/sellers in the rural economy each year, and would
generate an estimated 4 billion cedis (US$6.6 million equivalent) in annual revenues for
participating local communities.
6.5    Access Roads. The project would finance construction and rehabilitation of 375 km
of access roads linking the high agricultural production zones to major marketing centers and
the existing feeder road network. Access roads would complement the existing feeder roads
targeted for improvement under the National Feeder Roads Rehabilitation and Maintenance
Project. About 11,000 tons of incremental output per year would be produced from within
the zone of influence of the roads by an estimated 21,000 households. Direct benefits to
farmers are estimated at 1.3 billion cedis (US$2 million equivalent) per annum from the
fourth year. Benefits to transporters (reduced cost of vehicle operations and maintenance, and
increased volume of marketed surplus in accessible areas) is estimated at 148 million cedis
(US$0.25 million equivalent) by the fourth year.
6.6    Agro-Processing. The project would finance investment in 20 community-based food
processing activities (shea-nut, cassava and fish) on a pilot basis. The use of motorized
processors would reduce cassava processing time by 99 percent, and increase recovery rates
to 28 percent (compared to a recovery rate of 15 percent using traditional methods).



- 39 -
Incremental processing capacity from investment in small-scale agro-processing is estimated at
965 tons of cassava, 1,210 tons of shea nut, and 250 tons of fish, annually.
Benefits
6.7    Direct project benefits would be: (i) incremental output from farm production;
(ii) direct revenue generation for communities; (iii) increase volume of marketed surplus and
reduction in rural transportation costs; and (iv) higher product quality, and higher prices for
processed agricultural commodities. Incremental output from small-scale irrigation is
estimated at over 2,400 tons per annum, with an estimated gross value of 260 million cedis
(US$0.4 million equivalent) at 1993 prices. Rental fees from the rehabilitation and
management of a prototype rural market is used as a measure of traders' willingness to pay
for improved markets and trading conditions and therefore represent the economic benefits
accruing to local communities. Incremental revenue from a prototype rural market is
estimated at 13 million cedis (US$ 21,000 equivalent) for the first year, and increasing to 19
million cedis (US$ 30,000 equivalent) by the fifth year of project implementation. Total
annual incremental revenues from markets are estimated at 1.4 billion cedis (US$2.5 million
equivalent) at full implementation. Marketed surplus from the zones of influence of 375 km
of access roads is estimated at 4,000 tons, increasing to 11,000 tons by the fourth year. The
incremental benefits at village level from agro-processing are estimated at over 3.3 million
cedis per year by the third year of the investment and would reach as high as 11 million cedis
per year.
6.8    All costs are estimated using post-1993 budget prices for goods, equipment, labor and
other inputs obtained during appraisal. Costs for small-scale irrigation are based on GIDA
estimates for reservoir rehabilitation, low-lift pumps and construction of tube-wells. The
costs of markets are based on the average cost of upgrading/improving a prototype market
serving a rural community of approximately 5,000 inhabitants and capable of accommodating
1,000 sellers and buyers during the peak weekly market day. Market costs do not include
major canalization or construction. Cost data for access roads are from the Department of
Feeder Roads, updated during appraisal for a 4-meter wide road. The cost of processing
equipment for shea nut, cassava and fish drying are estimates from field data. The rural wage
rate is estimated at 1,000 cedis per person-day. All agricultural outputs are conservatively
priced at the farm gate, exclusive of transport and handling costs; prices of processed
products are ex-processing units.
Profitability
6.9   Financial Rate of Return. The financial rate of return is estimated at 19.1 percent and
is presented in Annex 2, Table 6. Financial rates of return for individual project components
are: small-scale irrigation, 19 percent; rural markets, 19.3 percent; and agro-processing, 21.8
percent (Annex 2, Tables 6,9 and 10).
6.10   Economic Analysis. The economic rate of return is estimated at 23.3 percent.
Financial prices were converted to economic values by removing distortions in market prices
of tradables and non-tradables, and adjusting for transfer payments, i.e., net of taxes and
duties. Conversion factors used for major inputs and outputs are in Annex 2, Table 11. All



-40 -
border prices are appropriately adjusted for domestic transport and handling costs to the
project area. The opportunity cost of rural labor is estimated at 750 cedis per day, equivalent
to 75 percent of the rural wage rate, which reflects the inclusion of family labor. The
resulting economic evaluation reflects potential economy-wide gains from the project.
Economic rates of return for individual project components are: small-scale irrigation, 21
percent; rural markets, 22 percent; access roads, 49 percent; and agro-processing, 23 percent.
6.11   Sensitivity Analysis. Sensitivity of the project to changes in costs and benefits was
estimated using switching values (Annex 2, Table 8). Small-scale irrigation, rural markets
and access roads can accommodate wide fluctuations in benefits and costs. Overall, the
project would remain viable at an opportunity cost of capital of 12 percent even with a 27
percent reduction in benefits or a 36 percent increase in costs. Agro-processing is sensitive to
a less than 10 percent change in either costs or benefits. Non-quantifiable benefits accruing to
beneficiaries are not included in the above analysis.
Summary of Flnancial and Economic Analysis
Water      R  al       Access     Agro-       Total
Schemes   1- arkets    Roads      Processing
Financial Rate of     19.0        19.3       not         21.8        19.1
Return (%)                                   applicable
Economic Rate of      21.5       22.0        48.8        26.0        23.3
Return (%)                                                                       I
NPV Economic          327,746    57,821      84,326      11,036     480,131
(@12% -'000 cedis)
Sensitivity: EIRR
decreases to 12% if
Costs increase by     36.9%      28.0%       94.0%       7.7%       36.2
or
Benefits decrease by    26.9%    21.9%       48.5        7.1         26.6
Developmental Impact
6.12   The developmental impact of the project would include: (i) strengthening capacity at
the community level to implement projects; (ii) reduction of rural poverty through increased
rural investment, growth and employment; (iii) transmission of better market information
through improved rural markets and marketing systems; (iv) reduced food price fluctuations;
and (v) improved rural hygiene. Because the project is demand-driven, it would respond
directly to the needs of rural communities and would enhance their capacity to identify,
prepare and implement development projects.



- 41-
F1scal Impact
6.13   The project would complement direct budgetary support from the central government
to local communities. Additionally, revenue from market rental would provide operational
support to local governments as well as resources for investment in development-related
activities. The ability to mobilize community-based res&.rces for local development would
lead to a greater sense of local ownership ond the sustainability of the project.
C. Risk
6.14   There are four main risks: institutional capacity, complexity of subproject approval
process, misuse of funds, and lack of capacity to prepare subprojects. The first and main risk
lies with the capacity of Government and PU to cope with so many small subprojects.
Although the Government is already implementing two similar projects in the Education and
Social Dimension of Adjustment (PAMSCAD) sectors, this project would be the first that
would decentralize authority to disburse funds. A second risk is that the subproject approval
process may become overly complex. Experience with the PAMSCAD project shows that
bureaucracies (including donors) tend to introduce additional procedures into the approval,
procurement and disbursement process, making these processes cumbersome and overly
complex. A third risk is that funds might be misused in several ways: (i) as most subprojects
would be highly visible, subprojects may be approved on the basis of political considerations
other than on merit; (ii) feasibility studies and supervision of certain projects may be of lower
quality than is required; and (iii) advances may be used for other purposes. The fourth risk is
the lack of capacity to prepare subprojects. In normal circumstances, qualified consultants do
not reside in the rural areas, and it may be difficult for the communities to recruit such
consultants at a fair price.
6.15   Project design contains ' ieasures to mitigate these risks. Institutional capacity: PU
would consist of experienced private and public sector staff including Agricultural Services
Rehabilitation Project staff. The Credit Agreement would clearly stipulate the managerial
independence of PU from the Ministry. PU would also be equipped with efficient and proven
computer technology. Procedural complexity: to avoid excessive project complexity and
paperwork, PU would hire influential farmers as part-time project facilitators and a participant
observer. IDA would appoint a resident project supervisor. Project implementation problems
would be solved through human contact instead of excessive document circulation, and a
detailed Implementation Manual would be applied. Use of funds: misuse of funds would be
limited through the adherence to eligibility criteria, and strict and regular control by
independent auditors and the resident project supervisor. Moreover, sanctions against misuse
of funds would be announced publicly and communities would, at least, lose eligibility for
project support. Project studies. PU would provide a list of capable consultants to
communities, as well as a list of reliable sources of technical support. A second-best
alternative solution could be PU hiring a local consulting firm on a medium-term basis to
assist communities.



- 42 -
D. Environmental Effects
6.16   Construction of rural infrastructure such as small-scale irrigation works, access roads,
markets, storage facilities, etc. could create localized environmental problems (erosion,
contamination, water depletion, waste disposal, etc.). For example, small-scale water
reservoirs (500 ha maximum under the project) would increase livestock drinking water
supply but may create health and downstream water shortage problems. Construction of
access roads in environmentally sensitive areas may cause lasting environmental damage.
6.17   Environmental aspects of all project activities would be carefully reviewed during
subproject feasibility studies and appropriate mitigation measures designed for implementation
under the project (see Annex 8: Environmental Problems and Mitigation Measures). Possible
measures could include construction standards for access roads, local health authorities review
of water reservoirs, sanitation standards for markets, etc. In addition, a water management
study is to be undertaken within the Ghana Environmental Resource Management project to
address the broader environmental aspects of water usage and disposal in the country.
E.  Impact on Women
6.18   This project could have a significant positive impact on women. First, market
improvements mainly concern women's activities and income. Market modernization would
supply market women with water, toilets and shelter, improving their health and the sanitary
conditions of their children. Second, project support to food processing would mainly
increase their income and self-reliance. Third, irrigation would benefit women's income
considerably, as dry-season agriculture concerns vegetables, mainly produced and sold by
women. Fourth, women transport most of the production by headload. Through market
access roads, trucks would gain access to the production areas and women would be able to
spend their time on more productive activities such as education, child care and agriculture
than on transporting produce by headload.
F.   Poverty Alleviation
6.19   The recent Bank report "Ghana: 2000 and Beyond" describes how poverty in Ghana is
predominantly a rural phenomenon. Over 43 percent of rural inhabitants live below the
poverty line. The urban poor, much less numerous, are in general less poor than their rural
counterparts. The proposed project would address rural poverty. The beneficiaries of small
water schemes and agro-processing activities would be mainly farmers in isolated and poor
rural areas of the savanna region, which accounts for 35 percent of the extreme poor
compared with a population share of 12 percent. The project would also increase food
security through irrigation and agro-processing among vulnerable groups, especially women
and children, in the drought-stricken rural areas.



- 43 -
VII. ASSURANCES ANI) RECQMMENDATION
During negotiations, agreements were reached on the following .
7.1    Appointment of a procurement auditing consultant by August 31, 1994 (para 4.16 and
Section 3.09 of the DCA);
7.2   Establishment and maintenance of a Project Account by MOPA (para 4.19 and
Section 3.02 of the DCA);
7.3   Project procurement, disbursement, and financial auditing and reporting requirements,
in particular the provision of semi-annual reports (para 4.22 and Sections 3.06, 3.09,
4.01 of the DCA);
7.4    Maintenance of the i   sect 1Piit, the Subproject Approval Committee and the Project
Coordinating CommitL    -as 5.3, 5.6, 5.9 and Section 3.07 of the DCA);
7.5   Eligibility criteria for subprojects, beneficiaries, and technical support agencies (para
5.10 and Schedule 5, Parts A, B and C of the Development Credit Agreement -
DCA);
7.6   Beneficiary contributions and cost recovery methods (para 5.18 and Schedule 5, Parts
G and H of the DCA);
7.7   The subproject processing cycle (para 5.25 and Schedule 5, Part F of the DCA ); and
7.8   Terms and conditions of financial assistance agreements (para 5.30 and Section 3.04
and Schedule 5, Part I of the DCA);
7.9    Monitoring of project activities, costs, PU performance, and project impact on
beneficiaries (para 5.37 and Section 3.07 of the DCA); and
7.10  Preparation and organization of a Mid-Term Review (para 5.45 and Section 3.08 of
the DCA).
Condition for Effectlveness
7.11   The deposit by the Government of US$50,000 equivalent into a project account (para
4.19 and Sectior. 5.01 of the DCA).
Recommendation:
7.12   Based on the above, the proposed project is suitable for an IDA Credit of SDR 15.3
million (US$21.5 million equivalent) to the Government of the Republic of Ghana.



-44 -
Annex I
Page 1 of 7
GHANA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
TYPICAL INVESTMENTS
1.    This annex provides: (t) a description of typical subprojects; (ii) project costs and
benefits; and ffii) calculation of the financial and economic rate of returns.
A. Small-Scale Water Schemes
Decrp-on
2.    In principle the project would finance four types of small-scale water schemes:
(i) small reservoir rehabilitation; (ii) small pump irrigation (including tubewells);
(iii) rehabilitation of weirs/dams; and (iv) valley bottoms. Only associations and village
communities would be eligible for such investments and the assistance of a technical support
agency would be required. The project would also finance the cost of the technical assistance
and training, to be carried out by eligible NGOs and consulting agencies.
3.    Reservoir Rehabilitation. In northern Ghana, the Government has constructed dug out
reservoirs and dams to provide drinking and irrigation water for communities and livestock.
Some reservoirs are silted and need rehabilitation or enlargement to provide sufficient
irrigation water during the dry season. Major crops are rice during the rainy season and
vegetables during the dry season. On condition that eligibility criteria are met, the project
would finance such rehabilitation. Rehabilitation costs have been estimated between
US$37,000 and US$250,000, although US$150,000 per subproject and/or US$5,000 per ha is
a maximum the project would finance. Farmers would do most land levelling and tertiary
canal construction. Main crops would be cereals and vegetables on approximately 25 ha per
subproject.
4.    Punm Irrigation. Pump irrigation can be applied alongside river banks or from
aquifers to complement rainfed agriculture and would be more prominent in southern Ghana.
A typical pump irrigation scheme would cover from 10 to 50 ha. Main crops would be rice
and vegetables. The cost of such schemes would amount to US$3,000 per ha. Although the
project would finance infrastructure at 90%, the beneficiaries would have to pay for the
pumping equipment (25% of the pumping equipment up-front and 75% plus interest over
three years).
5.    Valley Bottoms. Rice and vegetable caltivation in valley bottoms has become an
important activity in recent years. Development of valley bottoms is relatively inexpensive
(US$1,000 to 2,000 per ha), depending on the site and the degree of water control required.
As the technology is not yet very widespread, farmers need technical assistance to be trained
in construction, management and maintenance. A few agencies are specializing in this type of
technical assistance.



-45 -
Annex I
Page 2 of 7
Costs and Benefits
6.    Project preparation studies (Working Paper No 3) have made detailed cost and benefit
calculations. Studies carried out in 1991/92 by GIDA on larger irrigation schemes (more than
100 ha) demonstrate low financial and economic profitability, because of excessive investment
costs. The schemes under this project show higher rates of return: investment costs are
lower, construction methods are low-cost and labor-intensive, and owners would select more
suitable sites.
7.    C_t. Investment costs are phased over a two or three year period. Where
applicable, they are broken down into feasibility study costs, head works, irrigation and
drainage system, and equipment (pumps, sprinkler). Annual irrigation operation and
maintenance costs for each type of investment are based on experience and field data with
larger scale projects. Agricultural production costs are based on a labor wage of 1,000 cedis
per person-day (750 cedis for the economic evaluation) and a work input of 140 person-days
per ha on average, except where initial plowing is done by ox-traction or tractor equipment.
Inputs are valued at both market and border prices for financial and economic analysis,
respectively.
8.    Benefits. Benefits have been calculated based on the following average yield
assumptions (tons/ha): paddy rice-2.S tons; maize-2.5 tons; tomatoes-10 tons; pepper-1.2
tons; and onions-8 tons. Output prices are farm-gate prices. Total area to be irrigated under
the project would be 500 ha, benefitting 2,000 households at an average of 0.25 ha per
household. Annual incremental output is estimated at 1,350 tons of rice (paddy), 920 tons of
high valued vegetables, and 180 tons of cereals at full project implementation. Incremental
output has been calculated on the basis of one rainy season of rice production and half the
area of vegetables and other cereals in the dry season (cropping intensity = 1.5), except for
northern Ghana where the cropping intensity would be equal to two as supplementary
irrigation would be required for rainy and dry season crops.
RateL ofReur
9.    The financial rate of return of different investmnents varies between 18 and 20%.
Economic rates of return vary between 20 and 24%.
B. Markets
Pnesription
10.   Ghana has approximately 900 agricultural markets of which 80% have less than 1,000
sellers per market day and cover an area less than 2 ha. Most markets have neither paved
floors, nor covered buildings. Produce therefore deteriorates rapidly and the contamination
level is high. Over 70% of the markets don't have parking spaces, chop bars (restaurants),
storage facilities, day care centers, clinics, toilets, water supply, or drainage. This lack of
basic facilities hampers agricultural marketing.



- 46 -
Annex 1
Page 3 of 7
11.   The project would focus on bringing basic facilities (pavement, coverage, toilets,
water supply, etc.) to rural markets. The financial responsibility for construction and
rehabilitation of market stalls, chop bars, and other more commercial investments to the
private sector and the District Assemblies. Investments in markets could be financed in
several ways. Parallel financing with district authorities and traders: the project could finance
basic infrastructure (drainage, toilets, pavements, building foundations, warehouses, and water
supply); the district could finance fencing, offices, parking lots; and the traders could finance
the market stalls. Co-financing with the partners: up-front payment of 25% by district
authorities and traders to pre-finance the operation and 75% by the project.
12.   A prototype market would have the capacity to accommodate 1,000 sellers and 5,000
buyers on a weekly market day. It would include: two open sheds (190 mi); 60 market stalls
(240 mi; 40 lockable stores; one warehouse (100 mn); one food processing room (100 m2n;
six chop bars; concrete paving of the sales floor (1,000 in); drains (450 m); link fencing; car
park surfacing (850 ni); 12 toilets with washing basin; water supply; and waste disposal
containers. The project could also finance parts of larger markets.
13.   District Assembles are operating markets through their revenue collecting service, and
market management and maintenance would need considerable upgrading. The project would
finance technical assistance and training by specialized consultants to upgrade market
management and organization.
Costs and Benefits
14.   Co. The total investment per market prototype would cost approximately 90
million cedis (US$ 150,000). Detailed cost figures are in Working Paper No 4. The most
expensive standard investments are the lockable stores, warehouses, water supply, and
concrete paving. Most markets however do not need the full package. Annual operating and
maintenance, and administrative costs are estimated at 15% and 4% of the total investment
cost, respectively.
15.   Revenues. Income from markets was estimated on the basis of existing rents and a
survey on traders' willingness to pay rent commensurate with the new facilities to be
provided. Typical rents (cedis per day) are: open sheds and stalls-200; lockables-750;
warehouses-5 per tuber; clinic-1,500; day care center-1S0; chop bars-800; and toilets-S
per visit. Market tolls at 100 cedis per trader, however, represent the bulk of the revenue.
Rates of Return
16.   Taking into account the above cost and rent levels, commercial market investment
would be recovered in three to four years. Pinancial rates of return are estimated at 19.3%
and the economic rate of return at 22%. These returns are based on the assumption that the
public's willingness-to-pay-market-rents reflects the financial and economic benefits of the
proposed investments. Benefits do not include intangibles such as increased productivity and
improved hygienic conditions.



-47 -
Annx 1
Page 4 of 7
C. AMccs Roads
Description
17.   The project would finance 375 km of access roads linking remote villages in high
production agricultural zones to major rural markets and feeder roads. Access roads would
be one blade roads of approximately 4 meters wide, and complement the existing system of
feeder roads targeted for development under the National Feeder Road Rehabilitation and
Maintenance Project (NFRRMP). The project would finance up to a maximum of
US$150,000 representing about 10.65 km of access roads. Average road length is estimated
at 6 km and the whole program would serve 60 communities. Feeder roads eligible for
NFRRMP financing would not be considered under this project. To be eligible for project
financing, the access road construction should be included as a priority investment in the
district's budget. To ensure a sufficient economic return, the access roads should be situated
in the high and medium priority areas designated by the Department of Feeder Roads.
1valt i on
18.   Evaluation of access roads would be based on methodology developed by the DFR,
with local authorities involved in both the pre-selection and evaluation stages. Roads
proposed for development by each local community would be prioritized based on the
following criteria and weights jointly established by DFR and MOFA: (i) agricultural
production (40%); (ii) average transport cost (30%); (ii) population density (20%); and
(iii) accessibility (10%). Roads within 3 km of environmentally-protected areas would be
excluded from rehabilitation. Agricultural pr Ouction is defined as the total crop output
within the zone of influence of a stretch of access road. Average transport cost represents the
average cost for hauling agricultural freight over a unit distance of road. Estimates of
population density within a road area and accessibility are based on DFR estimates collected
for all 32 road areas in all 110 administrative districts.
Qrganization and Maintenance
19.   The capacity of District Assemblies to undertake road construction is limited at the
technical and financial level. Whenever local authorities are planning to undertake such
investment local representatives of DFR would be involved, although the project would also
finance local consultants and contractors to carry out design and construction work. The
Resident Engineer in each DFR area office would advise both the District Chief Executive and
the District Assembly on access roads maintenance activities. Routine maintenance of
rehabilitated access roads would be the responsibility of local communities whose contribution
would include voluntary labor, diesel for graders and trucks, and food and accommodations
for equipment operators.
Costs and Benefits
20.   Costs. Three hundred seventy-five (375) km of access roads (approximately 4-meters
wide) would be constructed or rehabilitated at an estimated cost of 5.4 million cedis



- 48 -
Annex I
Page 5 of 7
(US$8,300) per/km. A maximum of 90 million cedis (US$ 150,000) for an access road
would be funded in each community. The total base cost for all 375 km of roads would be
2.0 billion cedis (US$ 3.3 million).
21.   Benefits. Estimation of benefit streams utilized the producer surplus approach of
Beenhakker for two of the distinctly quantifiable benefits under the scheme: (i) increased
agricultural production; and (ii) reductior in transport costs (vehicles and head loading).
Benefits from a 3 km zone of influence for a typical tract of access road was estimated using
data on population (including number of agricultural households), marketed surplus produced,
and the value of production.
22.   Quantifiable benefits (B) were estimated using the following function (Beenhakker and
Lago, 1989):
(1) Pm( - Q,) (C27CI) - (K2Q2 - K1QI); or
(2)    B     =           B, + B2, where
(3)    B,    =         P2Q2 -P1QI-(C2-Ci)
(4)    B2    =     F2Q2-F1Q1-(K2Q2-K,Ql)
where:
Pm    =      market price of crop (cedis/ton);
PI,PA    =   farm-gate price of product with and without project situation;
QIAQ2 =      exports of products from roads zone of influence with and without
project (tons);
CIAC2  =     economic cost of producing the entire agricultural product with and
without project (cedis);
F1 F2  =     fare paid for transporting one ton of exportable surplus over the access
roads with and without project(cedis/ton); and
KI,K2  =     economic cost of transporting one ton of exportable surplus over the
access road with and without the project.
Based on this formulation, incremental agricultural output for a total of 375 km of access
road was estimated as 4,048; 6,265; 8,624; and 11,000 tons annually during the first four
years of the investment.



- 49 -
Annex 1
Page 6 of 7
D. Agprocessing
I)escrption
23.   Village agro-processing to be financed under the project on a pilot basis would
comprise: (i) cassava; (ii) shea nut; and (iii) fish. The pilot operations would demonstrate
the financial and economic viability to beneficiaries so that subsequent investments would be
modelled on the basis of the experiences gained.
24.   Depending on more detailed viability studies, other activities would include: village
abattoirs; pineapple processing; maize meal preparation; groundnuts and other vegetable
processing; as well as village-level and on-farm storage facilities. Investments in oil palm
fruits processing, however, would not be contsiddred as it is already being funded under the
Agricultural Diversification Project.
25.   Considering the complexity of the management and maintenance of such investments,
the project would only finance associations which have a technical assistance agreement with
Technical Support Agencies. User fees would pay for the maintenance costs of the equipment
and cost recovery.
Casava Processing
26.   Farmers produce cassava virtually everywhere. It contributes 22% to the agricultural
GDP, while cocoa contributes only 14%. Marketing and transport costs are high and the
produce does not store easily. Possibilities for increasing value added are promising if raw
cassava could be processed into gari (meal), pellets, and/or industrial starch. This would
reduce marketing costs, and significantly extend the products' shelf life. In recent years, gari
exports to Europe have gained prominence while export orders for cassava chips are yet to be
fulfilled due to lack of well-established village-level cassava processing units.
27.   Improved cassava processing reduces traditional grating and pressing times by 99%
and 95% respectively. In addition, output recovery is between 20 and 28% compared to 15%
under traditional processing methods. Traditional methods also cause hand lacerations and
diseases.
28.   Investment costs per unit are about US$15,000, plus eventually another US$10,000
for the construction of a bore-hole, which would serve drinking water needs for the
community. Benefits are mainly processing fees for grating and pressing services. About
965 tons of cassava would be processed annually per unit. This would represent about 40
million cedis (US$60,000) per year.
29.   The financial rate of return for cassava processing is 18.3%, the economic rate of
return is 23.7%.



- so -
Annex I
Page 7 of 7
Shea Nut Processing
30.   Shea nut processing is a major income generating activity for women in northern
Ghana. Under traditional processing methods, women take between three and five days to
process about 100 kg of shea nut. Improved techniques under the project would enable
women to process the same quantity within five hours. The labor time saved could be used
for more productive activities.
31.   The investment cost for a complete shea nut processing unit (crusher, mill, and
building construction) is estimated at about US$12,500 plus water supply system. Benefits
are derived mainly from the crushing and milling fees. Ten units would have a gross capacity
of processing 1,210 tons of shea nuts annually. Communities owning such units would realize
about 11 million cedis in fees per year.
32.   The financial intemal rate of return is about 22%, the economic rate of return is about
29%.
Fish Processisg
33.   The main economic activity of women in the coastal areas is fish smoking and drying.
Due to lack of cold storage in coastal and inland communities, smoking and drying is the only
way to conserve fish and supply inland markets.
34.   The 'Chorkor Smoker' equipment smokes 4.5 times the amount of fish that could be
processed by traditional methods, reduces labor used in traditional methods by about 20 times,
and uses 60% less firewood. Women's associations could pool resources to obtain the
necessary capital for buying fish, processing, storage and marketing.
35.   The average investment cost for ten ovens is about US$15,000. The community
storage facility would cost about US$7,500. Benefits include an annual incremental fish
processing capacity of 250 tons to women and a yearly sales revenue of about 80 million cedis
(US$120,000).
36.   The financial rate of return is 28%, the economic rate of return is 52%.



Annex 7
Page I of II
G}RANA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESrMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COSTS AND BENEFITS
This Annex contains I1 tables:
Table 1:     Project Cost Sununary
Table 2:     Project Accounts per Disbursement Category and per Year
Table 3:     Project Components per Year
Table 4:     Project Accounts per Financier
Table 5:     Project Accounts per Currency
Table 6:     Financial Analysis Summary
Table 7:     Economic Analysis Summary
Table 8:     Sensitivity Analysis
Table 9:     Small-Scale Water Scheme Financial Analysis
Table 10:    Agro-processing Financial Analysis
Table II:    Conversion Factors



- 52 -
Annex 2
Page 2 of 11
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
Table 1: PROJECT COST SUMMARY
Ghana
Aqricultural Sector Investment Project
pro3ect Cost sWuF ry
(Cedi Million)                                    (Us$ '0003
4     * Total                                  *      S Total
Foreign    ease                                Foreign    8ase
Jiocal   Foretan   Total   Exchana   Costs    Local   Foreign   Total   Exchange  Costs
A. Civil Works
Water Schemes               1,191.3    336.3  1,527.6          22       10  1,747.6    493.3  2,240.9          22       10
Markets                      6,293.5    120.8  6,414.3          2       44  9,232.1    177.3  9,409.3           2       43
Access Roads                 1,988.0    S54.9  2,542.8         22       17  2,916.2    814.0  3,730.2          22       17
Storage
Processing                    89.5    137.0    226.5         60        2    131.4    201.0    332.3          60        2
Subtetal Civil Works            9,562.4  1,149.0 10,711.4         11       73 14,027.2  1,685.S 15,712.7          11       72
B. Cenmo1ttnq Seowices
Studies                        762.1    238.4  1,000.5         24        7  1,118.0    349.7  1,467.7          24        7
Technical Assistance           469.9    147.0    616.9         24        4    689.4    215.6    905.0          24        4
Subtotal Cmsulting Sevitces  1,232.1    385.3  1,617.4            24       11  1,807.4    565.3  2,372.6          24       11
C. Project Unit                 1,240.5    147.7  1,388.1         11        9  1,819.6    216.6  2,036.3          11         9
0. Refinancinq PPF                470.2    486.0    956.2         51        7    783.7    810.0  1,593.7          51        7
total sBSIUBnf cOSTS            12,505.t  2,168.0 14,673.1         15       O00 18,438.0  3,217.4 21,115.4         15       100
Physical Contingencies        1,215.5    216.7  1,432.2          15       10  1,783.0    317.9  2,100.9          15       10
Price Contingencies           5,375.1    763.4  6,t138.5         12       42  1,350.1    187.6  1 537.7          12        7
Total PR3JCS COmSS              1905.7  3,148.1 22,243.8           14      152 21,571.1  3,782.9 25I354.0          15       117
Ghana
Agricultural sector Investment Project
Pzoeat Cost Bu=nzy
(Cedi Million)                                   IUS$  000)
S     S Total                                  S      S Total
Foreign    Base                                Foreign    Base
-         Local   Foreian   Total   Exchange  Costs    Local   Foreign   Total   Exchange  Costs
S. *amvestmt Costs
A. Civil Woerks
Water Schemes                     1,123.9      21.6  1,145.5         2         8  1,648.7      31.7  1,680.4         2        S
Market                            4,720.0      90.6  4,810.6         2       33  6,923.8    132.9  7,056.8           2       32
Access Roads                      1,854.5      35.6  1,890.1         2       13  2,720.4       52.2  2,772.7         2       13
Storage
Processing                         50.7       1.0     51.8                         74.4       1.5     75.9         2 ____
Subtotal Civil wortk                 7,749.1    148.8  7,898.0                        ,367.4   t21.  11,55.7            2       53
S. Goods/Supplies/Equipment          1,813.2  1,000.1  2,813.4         36        19  2,659.8  1,467.1  4,127.0         36       19
C. Studies                             762.1    238.4  1,000.5         24         7  1,118.0    349.7  1,467.7         24        7
D. Technical Assistance                755.5    147.0    902.5         16         6  1,108.2    215.6  1,323.8         16         6
E. Vehicles and Equipment for PSU       56.4    122.8    179.2         69         1     82.7    180.1    262.8         69         1
P. T. A. to fto3eot untt
Consultants                         644.4         -    644.4         -        4    945.3          -    945.3         -        4
Facilitators                         38.3         -     38.3         -        -      56.1         -     56.1                  -
subtotal T. A. to Pro3ect  Uit         682.7         -    682.7         -         5  1,001.4         -  1,001.4         -
G. Refinancing PPF                     470.2    486.0    9S6.2         51         7    783.7    810.0  1,593.7         51         7
total investment Costs                  12,289.3  2,143.1 14,432.4          15       98 18,121.4  3,240.8 21,362.2         1         98
11. PARurrant Costs
A. Vehicles Operations/Maint           128.7         -    128.7         ^         1    188.8         -    188.8         -         I
S. Travel Expenses                      82.5      23.6    106.1        22         1    121.0      34.6    155.7        22         1
C. Supplies                              4.6       1.3       6.0       22         -      6.8       1.9      8.7        22         -
Total Recurrent Costs                       215 8     24.9    240.8         10        2    316.6      36.6    353.2         10        2
Total BASSLINS COSTS                     12,505.1  2,168.0 14,673.1          1S      100 18,438.0  3,277.4 21,715.4          15      100
Physical Contingencies                  1,215.5    216.7  1,432.2         15        10  1,783.0    317.9  2,100.9         15        10
Price Contingencies                     5,375.1    763.4  6,138.5         12        42  1,350.1    187.6  1,3.            12         1
total ,JSCr COStS                         19,095.7  3,148.1 22,243.8         14      152 21,571.1  3,782.9 25,354.0          15      117
Tue Sep 14 16:56:10 1993



- 53 -
Annex2
Page 3 of 11
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
Table 2: PROJECT ACCOUNTS PER YEAR
Bxpenditure Acocunts by Yeas
(USS '000)
Totals lncludina Contingencies
1994        5      1996      1997    Total
*. Znvestnt costs
A. CLvIl WtcXS
Water Schemes                         188.4    383.7    591.6    814.4  1,978.2
Market                                753.7  1,534.9  2,366.6  3,663.9  8,319.1
Access Roads                          207.3    422.1    867.7  1,791.8  3,288.9
Storage
Processing                           9.5      19.3      29.7      30.7      89.1
Subtotal Civil Works                   1,158.8  2,360.1  3,855.6  6,300.8 13,675.3
S. Goods/Supplies/Equipment              425.0    865.6  1,412.9  2,260.1  4,963.6
C. Studies                               244.4    493.2    959.4           -  1,697.0
D. Technical Assistance                  137.5    259.3    430.6    732.5  1,559.9
E. Vehicles and Equipment for PSU    155.3          85.8     28.7      29.6    299.5
1. T. A. to ftooet unit
Consultants                           232.6    268.2    286.7    307.3  1,094.8
Facilitators                          15.7      47.9         -         -      63.6
Subtotal T. A. to Pzolet  Unit           248.3    316.1    286.1    307.3  1,158.4
G. Refinancing PPF                     1,S93.7         -         -         -  1,593.7
Total znvestsnt Cost                       3,963.1  4,380.1  6,973.9  9,630.4 24,947.5
II. Reeuzr4Mt otsu
A. Vehicles Operations/Maint              45.3      52.5      56.8      61.6    216.2
B. Travel Expenses                        S1.9      41.6      42.8     44.2    180.4
C. Supplies                                9.8         -    _              -       9.8
Total Rscurret costs                         107.0      94.1      99.6    105.7    406.5
Total PROJECT COSTS                         4,070.1  4,474.1  7,073.6  9,736.2 25,354.0
Wed Sep 15 14:43:39 1993



- 54 -
Annex2
Page 4 of 11
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
Table 3: PROJECT COMPONENTS PER YEAR
Ghana
Agricultural Sector Investment Project
Project Components by Year
(US$ '000)
Totals Including Contingencies
1994      1995      1996      1997    Total
A. Civil Works
Water Schemes                   254.1    517.4    797.8  1,098.3  2,667.6
Markets                       1,004.9  2,046.6  3,155.4  4,885.6 11,092.5
Access Roads                    282.0    574.4  1,180.8  2,438.2  4,475.4
Storage
Processing                     42.8      87.2    134.5    138.9    403.4
Subtotal Civil Works             1,583.9  3,225.6  5,268.5  8,560.9 18,638.9
S. Consulting  8yies
Studies                         244.4    493.2    959.4           -  1,697.0
Technical Assistance             70.1    152.7    295.3    553.7  1,071.7
Subtotal Consulting Services    314.5    645.9  1,254.7    553.7  2,768.7
C. Project Unit                    578.0    602.6    550.4    621.6  2,352.6
D. Refinancing PPF               1,593.7          -         -         -  1,593.7
Total PROJSCT COSTS               4,070.1  4,414.1  7,073.6  9,736.2 25,354.0
Tue Sep 14 16:57:54 1993



_ 5S -
Annex 2
Page 5 of 11
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
Table 4: PROJECT ACCOUNTS PER FINANCIER
G-- a&
Agricultural Sector lnvestment Prolect
Ccsponent- by 1inanciers
VSs$ '000)
Local
Government   IDA    Communities  Total
Amount    Amount    Amount        Amount
A. Civil Works
Water Schemes                          -  2,433.0         234.7  2,667.6
Markets                                -  8,371.6       2,720.9 11,092.5
Access Roads                           -  4,044.9         430.6  4,415.4
Storage
Processing                           -    346.6          56.7    403.4
&ibtctal CLvii Works                      -  S,196.0       3,442.9 18,638.9
. Conaultkg S.eLvlme
Studies                                -  1,616.2          80.8  1,697.0
Technical Assistance                   -  1,020.7          51.0  1,071.7
8ubtotai COonsltlaq SZVl-JS               -  2,636.9         131.8  2,768.7
C. Project Unit                       251.8  2,100.8              -  2,352.6
0. Refinancing PPF                     93.7  1,500.0              -  1,593.7
Total DIebursemt                       345.5 21,433.7       3,574.7 25,354.0
Tue Sep 14 16:54:18 1993
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECr
Table 5: FINANCING PLAN BY FOREIGN EXCHANGE AND LOCAL COSTS
Local
Government   IDA    Communities  Total
Amount    Amount    Amount        Amount
I.   Foreiqn                          -  3,782.9             -  3,782.9
II.  Local (Excl. Taxes)              - 17,650.8      2,297.2 19,948.0
III. Taxes                       345.5          -     I1,277.5  1,623.1
Total Vzo*S@t                        345.5 21,433.7       3,574.7 25,354.0
Tue Sep 14 16:54:56 1993



- 556 -
AMne 2
Page 6 of 11
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVFSTMET PROJECT
Table 6: FINANCIAL ANALYSIS SUMMARY
,ooo media)
Small-Scale          Rural   Agro-Pfoceslnag        Total Xncremntal
Year      Water Scheme.       markets   (Pilot Scheme)        Cash Flows
1               (550,286)      (86,663)   (1,573)             (638,742)
2                (50,204)       13,296         60              (36,646)
3                 44,181        15,974    (2,104)              S5,051
4                163,429        18,653       (696)             181,306
5                176,384        18,653      1,010              196,047
6                176,364        18,653      2,762              197,799
7                176,384        18,653      3,692              198,729
6                176,384        16,653      1,419              196,456
9                176,384        18,653        159              195,196
10                176,364       18,6S3      1,660               196,697
11                176,364       186653                          195,037
12                176,384       18,653                          195,037
13                176,384       16,653                          195,037
14                176,384       16,653                          195.037
1s                176,384       18,653                          195,037
16                              18,653                           18,653
17                              18,653                           186S63
1s                              16,653                           18,6S3
19                              16,653                           16,653
20                              18,653                           16,653
FTX                        19.2%         19.3%      21.6%                19.2%
NPV Q 12% OCC            269,S48         4,988      1,575              310,045



- 57 -
Annex 2
Page 7 of 11
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESImEN PROJECT
Table 7: ECONOMIC ANALYSIS SUMMARY
(_000 Cedls)
Project Componenta
Small-Scale         Rural       Accsax   Agro-proc asing         Total Incremental
Year   Water Scheaee    markets          Roado    (Pilot Schem)         Cash Flows
1           (572,117)    (93,006)       (45361)   (9,286)               (720,790)
2            (48,648)       17,001       13,606    (9,097)               (26,936)
3             55,553        19,679       21,634      3,295               100,361
4            184,661        22,358       30,260      S,946               243,225
S            208,119        22,358       30,260      4,669               267,406
6            208,119        22,358       30,260      9,142               2S9,879
7            208,119        22,3S8       30,260    11,979                272,716
*            208,119        22,358       30,260      7,026               267,763
9            206,119        22,35       30,260      4,045               264,782
10           206,119        22,356        30,260      7,219              267,956
11           208,119        22,358                                       230,477
12           208,119        22,358                                       230,477
13           206,119        22,35                                        230,477
14           208,119        22,35                                        230,477
iS           208,119        22,358                                       230,477
16                          22,356                                         22,358
17                          22,35                                         22,358
le                          22,35S                                         22,358
19                          22,3S8                                         22,358
20                          22,3S8                                         22,358
ISMR                21.6%         22.0%        46.8%      26.0%                 23.1%
liV 6 12%         391,744        57,621       64,326    11,036                544,927



58-
Annex 2
Page 8 of 11
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
Table 8: SENSIrTITY ANALYSIS
Project ComPionents
Small-Scale    Rural       Access  Agro-              Total
irrigation    Markets       Roads   Processing    investment
Benefits (S)     25.2         21.9        48.5         7.1          25.3
Costs (%)        33.7         28.0        94.0         7.7          33.9
FIRR             19.0         19.3        n.a.        21.8          19.1
EIRR             21.5         22.0        48.8        26.0          23.3
NPV 0 12% s
('000 Cedis)     391,744       57,821      84,326      11,036         544,927



pAGO!CtITftRAL m?o0D INVRS9lNNNV PRo33eS 
eMAIL-seaL  UA*      0C1143wet
ogo RSteryL  RIeabjlltation           Wier (Nixed ctoppLnqJ Sch.               Akedkn Narkot Garden                   Sll-Scal  Irrigation
lavc t                  noat Incr.  In"t                         not       Invest                      Not        Total    Total    Matl  Total Not5
Teat   ent  Outflow Inflow Cash Flow    aent  Outflow  Intlow  Cah ftw            went  Outflow  Inflow Cash Flow   Invotmt Outlow   Intlow  Cashb Flow
1   1849S0    20s3   10600   -17G323   155025       5562    7440   -15314?    121741       2965    2340   -122366    461716   10580       20460   -451636
2    36t90    6S74   3S035      -852s    3100S    135S8   28400    -15903        2434      79n43  13510    -16102      92143   2011S      i1iiS    -4'1211
3    24660    9304   44065      10021    20670    10330   40960        99ss      162)2    11462   32220       4506     61562   39203    126045      25200    t 0)
4             11102   60450     S7260              21910   66400      44490               14562  44200       29638             47654    179050    131396    D
s             19SS2   72250     S2690              22310   74500      52190               15792   50700      42900             51654    205O4    141196
6             19ss2   722s0     S2690              22310   14500      s219t               15792  50100       42906             57654    205450    147196
7             19552   722SO     52690              22310   74SOO      52190               15792  58700       42900             576s    205450    147196            
a             19S52   72250     s2690              22310   74500      52190               1S579   S700      42SOS             S7654    20s450    M47796 M
9             195S2   72250      52690             22310   74500      52190               15792  5100       42900            S6        15O4O5   141196
to            19S52   722So      52696              22310   74Soo      52190               15792   56700     42906              57654    205450    147196
11            19SS2   72250      S2690              22310   74500      52190              1S592  50700       42900              57654    205450    147796
12            19552   72250      S2696              22310   74S00      52190               15792  5s700      42906              576S4    2OS4S0    147796
13            19552   72250      52696              22310   74500      52190               15792  S5700      42906              57654    20450    147796   L'2
14            195S2   722S0      52698              22310   74500      S2190               1S792  S5700      42900              576S4    20S450    147796 
IS            19SS2   72250      52690              22310   74500      sli10               15792   50700     42900              S7654    205450    147796
pIA                                10.0%                                 19.6%                                 18H6A                                   19.09
VW     126 OCIR                  7.1724                                02.002                                S9,727                                 221g333
(B
C 



- 60 -
Page 10 of 11
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESSEN  PROJECT
Tab}e 10: AGOPRCSSN  FINANC:IAL ANALYS1
:   : , *^.3  
40 
Ia ar ---- a 
a0    w     ; S.



-61.
Annex2
Page 11 of 11
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
Table 11: CONVERSION FACTORS
(cedis/ton)
Conversion
Commodity           Financial           Economic             Factor
OutPut:
Rice                110,055              125,341               1.139
Maize                39,585               45,022               1.137
Groundnut           143,640              165,802               1.154
Sheanut             120,000              131,111               1.093
Cassava              20,000               20,800               1.040
InDuts:
Fertilizers
Phosphate          18,200               20,992               1.153
Urea               59,220               68,306               1.153
Agro-Chemicals       22,750               26,221               1.153



- 62 -
Annx_ 3
Page I of 2
GHANA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHIEDULE
V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
_     q4                                                      0
04
0
0  L0W  L L
W    1   0  __Wl]}Xt10  li13:1Ft:{  llE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



ACTION PLAN 1993194
OQuarter     3/93     4193      1194  |294        3194     4/94
Proiect Unit
Prequalification TSA/Consultants                   _ g
Prequalification Contractors                                                                                                   >
RecrementZ
Facilitators                           Number         2        8
Accountant
Staff Tamale   Drt
DrgineersN be:71?
Secretaries             Number             t  
EqdpnentQ 
Equipment Accra                                                                                                                   >
Purchase Vehicle        Number                  I
Purchase Computers      Number         3
Search Office Tamaue
Equipment Tamale
Vehicles                Number                           3
Computers               Number                           2
0
Markets        Studies                 Number           3        3         4        4        4        4
Implementation          Number                              3        3        4        4
irrigation     Studies                 Number            1        1        1        I        I        I
Implementation          Number                              I        I        I        I
Access Roads  Studies                  Number                     I        1        2        2        2                              o
IMplomentation          Number                              I        1        2        2
Processing     Studies                 Number                                       1
Implementation          Number                      I       1 I               1        I



- 64 -
Annex 4
GHANA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
(in millon US dollars)
IDA fY and      Disbursement   Cumulative    Cumulative     Standard        Cumulative
Semester        by Semester    Disbursement   Disbursement   Disbursement    Standard
as % of Cr.dIt  ProfI%        Disbursement
1994 11         2.30           2.30             11              6            1.29
1995 I          1.00           3.30            15              10            2.15
11         1.25          4.55             21              14           3.01
1996 I          1.50           6.05            28               18           3.87
1i        2.00           8.05             37              26           5.59
1997 1          2.50          10.55            49              30            6.45
It        3.00          13.55             63              38           8.17
1998 1          3.50          17.05        _   79              46           9.89
If        2.00          19.05             89              54          11.61
1999 I          1.50          20.55            96              66           14.19
it        0.96          21.50            100              74          15.91
2000 1                                                         86           18.49
it                                                        94          20.21
2001 1                                                         98           21.07
11                                                       100          21.50
Total            21.50
Credit effectiveness, complietin and closing dates assumed to be Match 31, 1994: March 31, 1998:
and June 30. 1999 respectively.
Standard disbursement profile is derived from OPO, August. 1993 and refers to Ghana agdcultural projects onty.
24
22-
20 -
1 6
12
10
a
0
194          I 1996     I      1998       1       2000 
1995              1997               1999              2001
IOA Financial Year
a  Project Profle    +  Standard Profile



-65 -
Annex 5
Page 1 of 4
GHANA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
PROJECT SUPERVISION
1.    IDA supervision would be closely linked to the project implementation schedule. IDA
supervision would include: (i) continuous supervision and implementation assistance through
the resident project supervisor; (ii) regular supervision and monitoring of key events through
supervision missions; and (iii) yearly reviews of the work program, the project launching
workshop and the mid-term review. The Borrower would participate in supervision through
progress reports and participation in supervision and review missions.
Continuous Supervislon
2.    IDA would appoint a resident project supervisor at RMG to supervise and assist
MOFA with project implementation. The supervisor would follow-up on procurement and
disbursement and would carry out field missions to assist PU with project implementation.
Continuous local supervision would take up 80 staff weeks of a local consultant.
Refular Supervision
3.    Regular supervision would include review of progress reports, procurement,
correspondence and implementation assistance to the Borrower. Regular supervision
(excluding supervision missions) would take up 40 staff weeks: 12 staff weeks during the first
year, 10 staff weeks during the second and third year, and 8 staff weeks during the fourth
year. Apart from 20 staff weeks by the task manager, regular supervision would include: 6
staff weeks by a rural infrastructure specialist, 3 staff weeks by a sociologist, one staff week
by a procurement analyst, one staff weeks by a disbursement analyst, 7 staff weeks by a
financial analyst (economist), and two staff weeks by a beneficiary assessment specialist.
The infrastructure specialist would focus on the technical quality of the investments and would
recommend standard formulas in contracts with small contractors. The rural sociologist
would review participation issues with local communities and design ways to improve project
impact and rural participation. The procurement and disbursement specialists would assist the
Borrower with the implementation of IDA's procedures and requirements. The financial
analyst (economist) would review the financial management (including Special Accounts) and
recommend ways to improve financial management. The beneficiary assessment specialist
would guide the participant observers in the field.
Supervision and Review Missions
4.    The schedule of supervision missions presented below excludes one visit to Ghana to
monitor satisfactory progress towards the conditions of effectiveness and disbursement dealing
with the up-front actions such as the establishment of guidelines for feasibility studies and
consultant fee scales, preparation of simple standard procurement documents and contracts for
use by village groups, etc. During the first year, three project supervision missions would
take place. These missions include the project launching workshop and the first year
implementation review. Starting from the second year onwards, there would be only two



- 66 -
Annex
Page 2 of 4
supervision missions per year, including one to discuss the yearly work program. The
supervision missions and reviews would take a total 57 staff weeks: 22 staff weeks of the
task manager, 11 staff weeks of a rural infrastructure specialist, 4 staff weeks of a sociologist,
2 staff weeks of a procurement specialist, 2 staff weeks of a disbursement specialist, 12 staff
weeks of a financial analyst (economist), and 4 staff weeks of a beneficiary assessment
specialist. The missions are detailed in the tentative project supervision schedule below.
5.    The prolect supervision missions would focus on the physical implementation, the
management performance and the compliance with legal covenants. The key areas to
supervise are:
(a)    physical implementation: the physical project targets such as number and type
of projects; number and type of beneficiaries; involvement of local
communities; implementation rate; regional investment spread; etc.
(b)    management performance: project response to local demands; subproject lead
times; procurement, disbursement and accounting practices; subproject cost
control; and
(c)    compliance with legal covenants.
6.    The Project Launching Workshon would take place as soon as the conditions for
effectiveness are about to be met. It would be organized by the AF4AG Division and be
attended by the key staff of the project. The workshop would focus on: (i) general and
specific procurement guidelines such as: local shopping, price quotation, direct contracting,
guidelines for recruitment of local consultants; (ii) disbursement methods for project funds
such as direct payments to suppliers, Statements of Expenditure and documentation to be kept
and to be forwarded to IDA; (iii) management of the Special Account and the control of the
revolving fund; (iv) audit requirements; (v) project supervision and reviews;
(vi) communications with IDA; (vii) implementation of the project; and (viii) other subjects of
particular interest to the Borrower and PU.
7.    The First Year Implementation Review would be carried out jointly by the
government and IDA in order to examine the overall and detailed performance of the project
and, if necessary, make joint recommendations and take steps to improve the project
performance. It would cover the same subjects as the supervision missions, but would enter
into much more detail on the physical project implementation aspects.
8.    The Mid-Term Review (MTR) would evaluate in-depth the physical and financial
project implementation, and in particular its development impact. To this extent the
government, and in particular PPMED, would prepare a mid-term report on the project to
facilitate this review. If necessary, the MTR may introduce major design changes into the
project. Terms of Reference for the MTR would be drawn up during project implementation
at least three months before the time of the review and would be agreed upon with the
government.



- 67 -
Annex 5
Page 3 of 4
9.    A Implementation Completion Review (ICR) report summarizing the achievements of
the project and its impact vis-a-vis its objectives would be submitted by the government to
IDA not later than six months after the completion of the project. The ICR would be carried
out by the government and IDA and would cover a full ex-post evaluation of the project. In
particular it would assess the impact of the project on: (i) the transfer of financial resources
Into rural areas; (ii) the beneficiaries' capacity to implement development projects;
(iii) production, marketing, and rural revenues; (iv) poverty alleviation; and (v) women's
concerns.
Partldpaton by Borrower
10.   Borrower would participate in the supervision through half-yearly progress reports by
the Project Unit to be sent to IDA. The Borrower would assist all supervision missions by
providing information on the project and organizing wrap-up meetings. The Borrower would
participate in all reviews: Project Launching Workshop, First Year Implementation Review,
Mid-Term Review and Implementation Completion Review.



- 68 -
Annex 5
Page 4 of 4
Tentative Project Feld Supervision Schedule
l Dates         Activities          Skill Requirements                   Staff
weeks
March 1994      Project Launching    Task Manager                        2
Workshop           Procurement Analyst                  2
Disbursement Analyst                2
August 1994     Supervision         Task Manager                         2
Rural Infrastructure Specialist     2
Financial Analyst/Economist         2
January 1995    First-Year          Task Manager                         2
Implementation     Rural Infrastructure Specialist      2
Review             Sociologist                          2
July 1995       Supervision         Task Manager                         2
Monitoring/ Beneficiary Assessment  2
Specialist
Financial Analyst/Economist         2
February 1996   Mid-Term Review    Task Manager                          3
Rural Infrastructure Specialist     2
Sociologist                         2
September 1996  Supervision         Task Manager                         2
February 1997   Supervision         Task Manager                         2
Financial Analyst/Economist         2
September 1997  Supervision         Task Manager                        2
Rural Infrastructure Specialist     2
l _____________    __________________   Beneficiary  Assessment Specialist  2
March 1998      Supervision         Task Manager                         2
l____________                       Financial Analyst/Economist          3
March 1999      Implementation      Task Manager                         3
Completion Review   Rural Infrastructure Specialist     3
Financial Analyst/Economist         3



- 69 -
Annex 6
Page 1 of 4
GHANA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
KEY MONITORING ACTIONS
1.    The Project Unit together with the Policy Planning, Monitoring, and Evaluation
Department (PPMED) of the Ministry of Food and Agriculture and IDA would monitor
project implementation through reports, monitoring studies, audits, supervision missions, and
beneficiary assessment. PU would monitor progress of project activities including:
(a) feasibility studies; (b) infrastructure works; (c) training and extension by support agencies;
and (d) subproject costs. PPMED would monitor PU performance and project impact on
beneficiaries. IDA would monitor PU performance, compliance with procurement and
disbursement procedures, and credit agreement legal covenants. Monitoring, evaluation and
impact studies are described in paras 5.37 to 5.41 above. The terms of reference of PPMED
and key monitoring actions are described below.
2.    Terms of Reference of PPMED Proect Imact Monitoring. The Policy Planning,
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit of the Ministry of Food and Agriculture would monitor the
impact of the Agricultural Sector Investment project. To achieve this objective it would carry
out this task as follows.
Baseline Survey
PU promptly inform PPMED of every approved subproject. PPMED's regional
agricultural economist and his/her team would visit the subproject site to study and
measure key variables and collect baseline information necessary to measure project
impact. PPMED would carry out measurements and interviews and provide PU with
a short report in a format which would enable it to carry out impact studies at a later
stage. Examples are:
(a)    Water Schemes: Cultivated area, crop production, yields, income of the
beneficiaries and on the site to be irrigated; capacity of the community to
manage subprojects; expectations of the beneficiaries; environmental aspects;
etc.
(b)    Markets: Number of sellers and quantities being marketed; marketing
problems; quality of the produce; transport difficulties; hygiene and sanitary
aspects; market fees; etc.
(c)    Access Roads: Existing transport problems; production in the area; traffic
and produce transported; etc.
(d)    Agro-processina: Storage, produce quality, and transport problems; income
of the association members; etc.



- 70 -
Annex 6
Page 2 of 4
Beneficiary Assessment
PPMED would regularly interview the communities carrying out the subprojects in
order to determine how far they remain involved in the decision-making process, the
extent to which they contribute to the works, the activities of the Technical Support
Agencies, and other implementation aspects such as delays, community management
capacity, etc. PPMED would promptly inform PU of any problems which may have
arisen.
Ex-post Evaluation
After completion of works, PPMED would (through regular visits) compare the initial
baseline data with the new realities. PPMED would provide answers to question such
as, but not limited to: (i) Has production and income increased through the
subproject? (ii) Has business on the markets increased? (iii) Are beneficiaries
recovering costs? (iv) Are the communities maintaining the subprojects? (v) Whom
are the main and real beneficiaries: traders, District Assemblies, women, chiefs and
leaders? (vi) How do beneficiaries feel about the subproject? (vii) Have
environmental problems arisen? (viii) What were the causes of success and/or failure?
(ix) Has the management capacity of the community improved and why? And,
(x) what is project impact on poverty?
Reports
PPMED would provide a six-monthly activity and progress report and flag the most
important and urgent problems for which PU should take action. PPMED should also
provide summary reports on project costing more than US$75,000 and participate in
yearly and Mid-Term Reviews. Costs of PPMED monitoring would not exceed 1.5%
of investment costs.



Table 1          KEY MONITORING INDICATORS
ANNUAL INVESTMENT PROGRAM
1993      1993       1994     1995       1996      1997      TOTAL
Description           Units             Planned    Achieved  Planned  Planned    Planned   Planned      .    -
Investment Requests   Number                  22                   92        140       203        274        731
Irrigation            Number                   4                   18         28        41         55         146
Markets               Number                   I 1                 46         70       102        137        365
Roads                 Number                   4                   18         28        41         55         146
Storage/Processing    Number                    2                   9         14        20         27         73
Feasibility Studies   Number                   9                   28         35        61         68        191
Grant Agreements Signed  Number               t1                   46         70       102        137        365
Subprojects started   Number                   10                  42         63        92        124        332
Subprojects completed    Number                 0                  25         46        66         99        236
Irrigation            HA                                           60        100       150        200        500
Amount ('000 Cedis)                     149,000    334,700   539,200    764,800  1,777,700
Beneficiaries                              200        400       600         800      2.000
Markets                Number                                      10         20        30         50        110
Amount (O000 Cedis)                    596,000  1,338,900 2,156,600  3.395,700  7,487,200
Roads                 Km                                           s0         75       100        150        375
Amount 1'000 Cedis)                    357,600    602.500   862,700  1,358,700  3,181,500
Sto'agweProcesslng    Number                                        2          4         6          6         18
Amount ('000 Cedis)                      7,500      16.800    27,100     28,400     79,800
Beneficiaries                              160        300       450        450       1,350
Conmnunities assisted by TSs>
Number                                       6         11        16         19         61
Amount (000 Cedis)                      138,600    223,600   350,500    368,000  1,078,700
Benefciaries                               350        700      1.050      1,250      3.350



Table 2           PROJECT SUPPORT UNIT PERFORMANCE
1993      1993        1994     1995       1996       1997
Description            Units             Planned    Achieved    Planned   Planned   Planned    Planned
PU Cost Indicators
Operating costs PU     '000 cedis          167,524              310,900    297,200   242,800    251,600
Study Costs           '000 cedis            94,500              208,666    260,038   378,483    510,217
Technical Assistance Costs                                      136,600    223,600   350,500    368,000
Project Cost Indicators
Operating Costs / Investment Costs (%I                               12          8          4          4
Consulting fees I Investment costs (%)                                9          7          7          8
TA costs I '000 cedis invested M%)                                    6          6          6          6
Construction Cost Indicators
Irrigation per Ha
Markets per m2
Roads per km
Non-Investment cosl investment costs 1%)    n.a                      29         22         18         19
r Operating costs do not Include costs of auditing and monitoring
4 i
24 o



-73 -
Annex 7
GHANA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
TECHMCAL ASSISTANCE AND TRAINING
1.    Technical Support Agencies would provide technical and management assistance and
training to local communities benefitting from project financing. This would especially be
important for irrigation and food processing subprojects, where a technical assistance
agreement with a support agency is an eligibility requirement for project financing.
2.    'Te technical assistance would be tailored to the needs of the local community. A
support agency could assist the community by:
(a)    writing-up the initial project proposals and helping to process the proposal;
(b)    preparing the feasibility studies;
(c)    supervising the works;
(d)    organizing the communities at the management level;
(e)   technical and management training, as well as management assistance during
implementation.
3.    The project would finance part of the support agencies' costs to provide this technical
assistance within certain limitations, as follows:
(a)    PU would only pay a nominal fee for acceptable subproject proposal write-
ups. The subproject identification forms can easily be completed by literate
community members, or by agencies supporting the subproject proposals;
(b)    Although the beneficiaries would decide what type of assistance it wants from
the Support Agency, some feasibility studies, work supervision, etc. would
have to be carried out by PU-appointed consultants to ensure quality of
output; and
(c)    PU would finance specific technical assistance and training sessions, not the
general operating costs of the supporting agencies. The project's contribution
would be limited to 15% of the investment costs or 20% of the operating
costs. The technical assistance conditions have to be embedded into an
agreement or contract with the local community.
4.    The Support Agencies' assistance could have positive and negative impacts on the
project. Support Agencies may consider PU financial support as a lucrative business, and
actively promote subprojects in rural communities, hereby converting the project from a
demand-driven into a supply-driven operation. To avoid overexposure of communities by
overzealous agencies, communities would also have to contribute 15% of the technical
assistance and training costs. TMe terms of reference of the technical assistance agreement
with the communities would be very specific. PPMED would closely monitor the Support
Agencies' operations.



- 74 -
Annex 8
Page I of 2
GHANA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL PROBLEMS AND MITIGATION MEASURES
1.      Irrigation, market access road construction, and, to a lesser extent, market
construction may create environmental problems or cause environmental damage if the
necessary mitigation measures are not taken. The following matrix presents a list of
problems, their likelihood of occurrence, and the mitigation measures to be taken.
2.       Irrigation. As only small-scale irrigation would be introduced, the project would not
have a significant environmental impact. However, at the local level, water reservoirs and
dug-outs might create water borne diseases. Some disease prevention methods exists, but
subproject beneficiaries, MOFA and local health authorities would need to launch concerted
programs to increase public awareness and include mitigation measures into project design.
No resettlement would take place.
PROBLES                                   LIKELINIXD OF OCCCRRENCE             WITIGATIOM NEASURES
Disruption of river hydrology             None: operations are small-
. scale
Reduction of downstream flood flows    Very Likely and the effect can    Conserving water in rainy
and consequent reduction in flooding   be positive for envirormental           season would improve
and waterlogging of low lying areas       conservation purposes                downstream flows in dry season
Involuntary settlement/                   None
resettlement/ land compensation
Encroachment into forest or swamp         None: irrigable areas have been
lands                                     long under cultivation
Impediments to                            Nore: local access roads do not
movement/transportation                   pass trough irrigable areas
Encroachment on historical/culturat       None
buildings and areas
Conflicts with existing water users    None to small.  Schemes are too   Water catchment management to
small to have significant           be studied under Enviromental
impact                              Resource Management Project
Traditional migratory or free-            Very likely                          Perimeter fencing included in
ranging livestock causing damage to                                            subproject design, allowances
dikes, canals and crops                                                        made for seasonal grazing
Soil erosion                              Localized erosion during             Proper construction procedures
construction likely                 to ensure bank stability and
minimum erosion
Water quality degradation through         Minimum degradation likely in        EPC to monitor water quality.
chemicals                                 some particular areas                Extension services to train
farmers in application and
storage of chemicals



- 75 -
Guiner-worne d_es
Guinea worm                             Likely                            Construction of water wells;
water filtration techniques to
be taught;
Sitharzla                               Possible if humans with lesions   Extension messages how to
enter water                       avoid infection
Elephantlasis and malaria               Not likely as irrigation water    New and rehabilitated
flows                             reservoirs would be stocked
_ _ _ _ _ __ _   with fish fingerlings
Change in wildlife and bio-diversity   Not likely; wildlife limited to
reptiles, rats and mice
Change in vetatai'on                    Project would likely improve
vegetation
3.      Market Access Roads. To prevent soil erosion, water logging and earth excavation
damage, construction engineers would need to include environmental caveats in the market
access road de-sign. There are also some indirect environmental consequences of access roads
construction through increases in agricultural production. These consequences are inherent to
agricultural growth and intensification. Access roads would not be constructed in forest
reserves and other environmental sensitive areas or where they would cause resettlement.
PROBSWI                             LIKELIHOOD OF OCCURRENCE          MITIGATION MEASURES
Borrow-pits in the vicinity of      Likely, however with labor-        Include in bitl of quantities
roads                               based construction methods the    necessity to stockpile topsoil and
pits are shallow and small        re-vegetate gravel pits and
require compliance by contractors
before final payment.
Minimize number of excavated pits
and practice soil stabilization in
_______ _________________________                         areas  with  steep  slopes
Soil erosion through water run-    Likely if appropriate              Provide adequate side drainage and
off                                 construction procedures are not   dispersion of side drains by means
followed                          of culverts in appropriate areas
Correct camber placement to
imvrove local run-off
Inrdequate awareness of soil        Likely                            DFR and EPC to increase awareness
erosion problems related to road                                      and training of engineers,
construction                                                          contractors and communities
Opening of environmental            Not likely                         No financing of such roads
sensitive production areas
Excessive application of            Not likely                         Extension messages to convey
chemicals in the Intensification                                      optimal use of chemicals and
of crop and livestock production                                  _   fertilizers
3.      Markets. Environmental problems related to market construction are mainly health
and sanitation-related. Market improvement also includes public latrine construction, water
supply, refuse collection, and clean-up facilities. Poor hygiene and lack of water supply often
turn town markets into environmental and health hazards. The project would irr.pose the
construction and organization of sanitation-related facilities and services. Market management
would include public awareness campaigns to make people more sensitive to food
contamination risks.



- 76 -
Annex 9
Page i of 5
GHANA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
LOCAL COMMUNITIES, GOVERNMENT SERVICE STRUCTURES
and NON-GOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS
1.    This annex provides insights in social organization, local community organizations,
government service delivery structures and non-governmental organizations, analyzes their
financial and management capacity, and describes the support these organizations could
provide to the project.
Social Organization
2.    Northern and southern Ghana have distinct lineal, ecological, economic, and
agricuitural systems. The three northern regions (Upper East, Upper West and Northern) are
patrilineal, have a savanna climate with one single rainy season and a resource-poor
environment, and produce mainly food crops. Southern Ghana is predominantly matrilineal
(except the Ewe and Ga tribes), has a bimodal rain pattern, holds important mineral and
timn;r resources, and provides the bulk of Ghana's agricultural export commodities.
Matrilinear systems in the south have afforded women greater access to economic resources
(and) than in the north, and there is a higher incidence of female headed households. Within
this broad distinction, there are vast local differences in traditional social organization in north
and south. Both have area, where political organization has been largely hierarchical and
areas where traditionally political authority did not extend above the village or clan level. It
is also difficult to generalize on the nature and structure of kinship.
LAxal Community OManzations
3.    Local community organizations can be divided into two categories: (i) membership
organizations for production and income generation; and (ii) village-level organizations,
usually associated with the provision of items of general benefit within a defined community.
The degree of formal organization is of little importance for project implementation. The
range of informal structures is vast and shades in with fundamental institutions of kinship and
clanship in some areas. Therefore, formal groups status should not be a criteria for eligibility
for project support.
Membership Organizations in Agricultural Production. Trade and Processing
4.    Three types of membership organizations are of concern to the project. Informal
organizations are farmer associations coming together for a mutual purpose and assuming
mutual obligations to fellow members. Such associations have recognized leaders, but have
no legal identity, and can only operate bank accounts jointly in the names of trusted leaders.
Typical exp .1ples of informal associations are: rotating savings and credit (susu) groups, labor
groups, and production credit groups. Semi-formal organizations have elected officials and



- 77 -
Annex 9
Page 2 of 5
some form of by-laws. They include pre-cooperatives, mobisquads, and welfare associations
of natives of a particular town. Formal organizations are groups registered as companies or
as cooperatives. The cooperative has been the main form of organization of smallholders for
a long iime. However, the official cooperative movement has been nearly moribund for more
than five years. As a result of a 1988 report on cooperatives the legal code governing
cooperatives has been simplified to make room for more informal organizations.
5.    Market traders' organizations are also very widespread. In large markets these
operate as trade unions, representing traders' interests to market managers and District
Assemblies. Typically market traders split into a large number of separate associations,
representing common interests, associated with particular commodities or trade routes.
Trader associations are involved in many market improvement schemes and in financing
market stalls.
6.    Women's groups in rural areas often operate food processing units. They include
palm nut crushing, cereals milling, shea and peanut butter processing, gari making, fish
smoking, and food processing (baking, frying).
Village Communitv Groups
7.    The Government has been involved in creating a number of village community
organizations mobilizing human and financial resources to improve social infrastructure such
as schools, clinics and wells. The Village/Town Development Committees (ITDC) were
established shortly after independence. The TDC has a few officials and many village
members. They mobilize the communities for contributions in cash, kind or labor towards
social infrastructure projects.
8.    The Committees for the Defence of the Revolution (CDR) were an innovation of the
PNDC Government as a "revolutionary organ" promoting the revolution at the grassroots
level. The December 31st Women's Movemnent (DWM) has an extensive network of
women's groups country-wide. It claims the status of an NGO, but it is perceived as a party
mechanism.
Capact! of Lcal Ormanizations
9.    Local organizations have demonstrated their capacity to mobilize resources, including
cash and labor, in order to cater for common needs. The record of associations involved in
processing, trade and other income-generating activities is less even. The formation of
cooperatives, producer groups, and even women's groups has also been tied in with some
form of access to external funding. Trader associations are an exception. Where NGOs have
actively promoted associations, networks of farmer groups may be found. Overall, the degree
of farmer associations development varies considerably according to region and district.



- 78 -
Annex 9
Page 3 of 5
10.   The project responds to this diversity through: (i) eligibility criteria that are sensitive
to the capacity of target populations; and (ii) management structures that allow local
communities to choose the service institutions assisting in groups formation and development.
11.   Village groups have few financial resources. The project requirement of a minimum
group contribution level to ensure a real commitnment towards the subproject may exclude the
poorer groups. The project may have difficulty to su.nport projects at any level of funding
above the ten thousand dollar limit. With labor valued at two dollar per day, communities
would have to contribute five thousand working days to construct a modest scale ($100,000)
irrigation dam. For this reason, the project has introduced the clause that the contribution
should bear a relation to the resource capacity of the community or farmers' group itself. A
contribution of one hundred days of work per family might also be taken as an adequate
commitment of the subproject beneficiafies.
Government Service Delivery Structures
12.   The Govermnent service delivery structures include the Regional Development
Organizations (VORADEP, URADEP, NORRIP), the Community Development Department
and the Department of Cooperatives.
13.   Volta Region Agricultural Development Project (VORADEP) and Upper Region
Agricultural Development Project (URADEP) have been created by the Government to
implement the IDA-funded integrated rural development projects during the eighties in the
Volta and Upper Regions. They are now merged with the regional ministries of agriculture.
The Northern Region Rural Infrastructure Project (NORRIP) has been implementing CIDA-
and GTZ-funded integrated rural development activities in the Northern Region. NORRIP is
an autonomous organization with the regional Deputy Secretary of Agriculture as chairman of
the board of directors.
14.   The Community Development Department of the Ministry of Local Government is
promoting self-reliant efforts at the rural community level. Activities include: training in
nutrition, sanitation, basic health, assisting community organizations to supply social
infrastructure, and promoting income-generating activities for women. The Department has
1700 staff members at the district level. Staff members lack transportation and their impact is
modest. Community development staff has played a major role in small-scale cassava
processing activities. Community Development was more significant in the 1960s and formed
most of the Town/Village Development Committees. The pattern of activity supported by the
project is familiar to Ghana largely through this tradition.
15.   The Cooperative Department is within the Ministry of Mobilization and Social
Welfare. It has four statutory functions: cooperative registration, audit, enquiry/arbitration,
and liquidation, as well as some non-statutory functions: organization of cooperatives,
education and training, counseling and advice to Govermnent. The credit union movement is
part of the cooperative structure. The Department's capacity to fulfill its functions is
hampered by transportation and logistical problems.



- 79 -
Annex 9
Page 4 of 5
Non-Governmental Organizations
16.   NGOs include local membership organizations of rural people, church and other
religious organizations, newly established "service" NGOs in urban areas, and a wide range
of international NGOs such as Oxfam, Save the Children, ActionAid, World Vision, ADRA,
CUSO, Technoserve, Africare, etc.
17.   A large number of non-governmental organizations (NGOs) ar( carrying out a variety
of development activities in Ghana. Their coverage is however not geographically even.
Some have strong management capacities, while others, without strong fonnal structures, have
strengths in village work.
18.   NGO rural development activities appear to be stronger in the north than in the south.
One of the most significant networks of NGO service organizations in agriculture are the 33
church agricultural stations in northern Ghana. Catholic Church activity is strong in the
Upper regions. The Presbyterian churches are running agricultural stations in the Northern
and Upper East regions. In southern Ghana, churches tend to work through "Church
Development Offices" which have little capacity to work with farmer groups.
19.   Technoserve, an NGO with extensive experience working with World Bank projects,
provides business skills development services for farmer service stores and palm oil
processing cooperatives.
20.   Few NGOs could be characterized as membership organizations of the rural poor. In
northern Ghana, the only example is the Amasachina Self-Help Group, very strong in
animation skills but limited by administrative capacity. For a considerable period,
Amasachina operated without any outside support. For major projects, each member
household would be levied -an the money used along with village labor for social
infrastructure construction. In recent years, Amasachina has become involved in a number of
initiatives with IFAD, UNDP (Network 2000) and the World Bank (Rural Transport
Initiative).
21.   Urban based service NGOs have developed in recent years in southern Ghana. Most
do not have activities in rural areas except the Kumasi based Center for the Development of
People (CEDEP) which is aiming at provision of skills, information and training to rural
groups to allow access to resources.
22.   The Ghana Association of Private Voluntary Organizations in Development
(GAPVOD) is representing one group of NGOs. Church-based structures also have their own
coordinating bodies such as the Committee on Churches Participation in Development, the
Association of Church Development projects, and the Catholic Secretariat.



- 80 -
Annex 9
Page 5 of 5
Areas for NGO Involvement
23.   NGOs could assist the project in three ways: (i) enabling-animation; (ii) technical
support to beneficiaries; (iii) monitoring and evaluation. For these reasons, involvement of
NGOs should be assured at all levels of project decision-making and in the SPACs.
24.   NGOs may play a role in developing the kinds of local groups and organizational
structures that would apply for project support. If information about the project would be
widely available, NGOs would seek to stimulate local groups organizing themselves to obtain
project support. NGOs could be of great benefit in assisting groups who do not normally get
access to project resources.
25.   Groups may call upon the technical support of NGOs for help to process and
implement their subproject. NGOs could also train the groups and provide technical
assistance during implementation. NGOs would therefore not be "appointing themselves" as
subproject holders, but would be invited to carry out functions. In instances where the NGO
is a channel for resources, the financial arrangements would have to be transparent and
commissioned by the subproject beneficiaries.
26.   NGOs may also assist the project by providing monitoring and evaluation functions.
The project could use their independence from the governmental system to evaluate
accessibility of groups to project resources and assess public perceptions of the project
operations.
Eligibility Criteria of Non-Governmental Organizations as Support Agncies
27.   To guarantee excellent assistance to local communities, the project would apply
objective criteria to make NGO's eligible for financial support. These criteria are presented
in detail in the Implementation Manual.



- 81 -
Annex 10
GHANA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
DOCUMENTS ON PROJECT FILE
1.    Working Paper 1:    Project Implementation Manual
2.    Working Paper 2:    Local Government
3.    Working Paper 3:    Small-Scale Water Schemes
4.    Working Paper 4:    Rural Markets
5.    Working Paper 5:    Rural and Market Access Roads
6.    Working Paper 6:    Agro-processing
7.    Working ?aper 7:      Non-Governmental Organizations



IBRO 25215
3'                t                         1-                       t                         1' 22' 
BURKINA FASO,
GHANA
TPE                                          AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
WEweST ...                        0              - \  \    INVESTMENT PROJECT
SECONDARY ROADS
...... TERTIARY R%OA
VAILWAYS
Zob.4?          0    ff01004 01IONI ODARTARS
NA'NAL CAPITALO
a                                                                          R E G <) V C 4 . ^  -   IO N   B O U N L A I ES
-  4 t   2g >P INrERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
C6TE     
D'IllOIRE A                                                 <F
|  3  S    .  J    .BRONG-AHO                              
[~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A.b                                                      L                      'O      20  30  so  '  'D. 
, * o r  >~  >/4gJ VOITA  '>
o .  '0  2 s 0 40  ko2d 
o".1-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7
.0. 'bo 'eadno
fiegonr Om o1of Teod S
.                                        e''oosawet -  "'    '  ",    '  .
SEPTEMER1993



