Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20686-GH
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR PERFORMANCE REVIEW
AND
ACCOUNTABILITY IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORTS
(Credit Nos. 2180-GH, 2247-GH, 2346-GH, 2441-GH, 2555-GH)
FOR THE
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
June 30, 2000
Rural Development m
Country Department 10
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Cedi
Cedis Per US$
1990   -       326.28
1991    -      367.73
1992    -      437.09
1993    -      648.98
1994   -       956.71
1995    -    1,200.40
1996    -    1,637.24
1997   -    2,050.29
1998   -    2,314.15
1999   -    2,647.32
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGSSIP         Agricultural Services Support Program
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
DRC            Domestic Resource Cost
ERP            Economic Recovery Program
FOB            Free on Board
GEPC           Ghana Export Promotion Council
GOPDC          Ghana Oil Palm Development Corporation
GOG            Government of Ghana
IDA            International Development Association
MOFA           Ministry of Food and Agriculture
MTADS          Medium Term Agricultural Development Strategy
MTADP          Medium Term Agricultural Development Programme
Vice-President:                    Callisto Madavo, AFRVP
Country Director:                  Peter Harrold, AFC 10
Sector Manager:                    Jean-Paul Chausse, AFTR3
Task Team Leader:                  Eustacius Betubiza, AFTR3



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR PERFORMANCE REVIEW
AND
ACCOUNTABILITY IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORTS
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
Preface .............................................................i
Executive Summary .............................................................                                ii
PART I:  RECENT AGRICULTURAL PERFORMANCE AND FUTURE GROWTH
PROSPECTS ........................................................                                 1
1.  Macro economic and Agricultural Sector Policy Setting .............................................................1I
1.1   Macroeconomic Framework ..............................................................1
1.2   Agricultural Sector Strategy ..............................................................1
2.  Implementation of Government's Strategy and Investment Program ............................................. 3
2.1 Overview of Government's Strategy Implementation                                  .3
2.2  World Bank's Support to Government's Investment Program                              .4
2.3  Sector Issues Addressed by Bank-Supported Operations                               .4
2.4 Achievement of planned objectives                                       .5
2.5 Cross-cutting design and implementation issues                                 .7
3.  Recent Agricultural Performance .................................................................8
3.1   Recent Agricultural Growth .................................................................8
3.2   Recent Poverty Trends .................................................................9
4.  Growth Prospects ................................................................ 10
4.1   Current incentive framework and diversification prospects ................................................. 10
4.2   Unfinished Reform/Institutional Framework Agenda .......................................................... 12
4.3   Policy Implications ................................................................                14
PART II: ACCOUNTABILITY IMPLEMETATION COMPLETION REPORTS  ... 15
1. Implementation Completion Reports for the Projects Closed in 199 .15
National Agricultural Research Project .15
National Agricultural Extension Project .19
National Livestock Services Project .22
Agricultural Diversification Project .25
Agricultural Sector Investment Project .29
2. Related IDA Credits ..........................                                                             32
3. Agricultural Production, 1980-1998 .......................... 33
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






REPUBLIC OF GHANA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR PERFORMANCE REVIEW
AND
ACCOUNTABILITY IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORTS
Preface
This is a combined Implementation Completion Report for a set of projects in the Agricultural Sector that
closed during 1999, namely, the: 1) National Agricultural Research Project; 2) National Agricultural
Extension Project; 3) National Livestock Services Project; 4) Agricultural Diversification Project; and
5) Agricultural Sector Investment Project.
The fact that a wide range of projects in the same sector were closing at the same time provided a unique
opportunity for not only assessing each project's implementation performance and impact, but also
examining the overall performance of the agricultural sector over the implementation period, and the role
played by IDA in the process, as well as identifying needs for further support.
The report has two parts. Part I traces Government's policies and strategies relating to the agricultural
sector starting from 1983, the year in which Government undertook major reforms in the context of the
Economic Recovery Program, following many years of economic decay, and the World Bank extended a
series of investment credits to the Government of Ghana in support of the Program. In order to
consolidate the gains resulting from this Program's implementation, the Government elaborated the
Medium Term Agricultural Development Strategy and Program in 1990, which was supported by another
series of Bank credits, including the five projects cited above. The report assesses these credits'
implementation performance and preliminary impact, and draws key lessons. It also examines the
agricultural sector's overall performnance in response to these policies, strategies and accompanying
investments, and looks at the way forward, including the sector's major sources of growth and the
resulting policy implications.
In keeping with the Comprehensive Development Framework for Ghana, the borrower prepared detailed
Implementation Completion Reports for each of the projects, which, together with other materials in
Project Files and Bank staffs own assessments, served as the basis for the Summary Implementation
Completion Assessments presented in Part II of this report. The original, borrower-prepared detailed
Implementation Completion Reports are available in Project Files.
This report was prepared by a team led by Eustacius Betubiza, AFTR31, of the Africa Region, and
reviewed by Jean-Paul Chausse, Sector Manager, AFTR3, and Peter Harrold, Country Director, AFC 10.
' Other team members included: Patience Mensah, Solomon Bekure, Charles Annor-Phrempong, Gregoria Dawson,
Wendy Wiltshire, Joan Grigsby (Bank Staff), Abdoul Barry, Seth Vodjogbe, Alima Mahama, Anka Kitunzi, and
Prabuddha Sanyal (Consultants). Valuable comments were provided by Theresa Jones, Rocio Castro, and Malathi
Jayawickrama (Bank Staff).






REPUBLIC OF GHANA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR PERFORMANCE REVIEW
AND
ACCOUNTABILITY IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORTS
Executive Summary
Introduction
1.    Prior to 1983, Ghana's macro-economic framework was characterized by, among other things: i)
pervasive controls of internal and external trade, including fixed prices for food non-food agricultural
commodities; ii) government ownership of loss making enterprises, including agricultural inputs supply
and output marketing; iii) poor revenue collection; iv) huge budget deficits; v) large civil service; and vi)
an overvalued exchange rate which helped to maintain the prices of both imported food and other items
artificially low, at the expense of local production and local industry. The resulting economic declined
was reversed when Government embarked on an Economic Recovery Program in 1983 that restored
competitivity and growth to the Ghanaian economy, including agriculture. However, lingering pervasive
controls still stifled full-fledged recovery, and the need for a comprehensive for accelerated agricultural
growth led to the elaboration of the Medium Term Agricultural Investment Program (MTADP)in 1990.
2.    MTADP aimed to creating market signals through further trade liberalization, catalyze the
expected supply response through investments in extension and research, capacity building, rural
infrastructure development, environmental management, and increased private sector participation in
agricultural development. Several programs were prepared for financing the various aspects of the
finance.
Overview of Government's Strategy Implementation
3.    The government's sector strategy was relevant and consistent with Government's overall policy
direction: concentrating its limited resources on key public sector functions, including the formulation of
policy, research and extension, and sector monitoring, and creating a favorable environment for the
private sector to provide services to the productive sector, including input supply, output marketing and
processing.
4.    Overall, Government's succeeded in implementing its strategy, although the private sector's
response to the new opportunities was less than expected, in due to the prevailing high interest rates and
limited medium/long term credit opportunities that made it difficult for would-be entrepreneurs to
generate sufficient resources for capital purchases and operating funds. Although Government reoriented
its expenditures in line with the new strategy (e.g. more research and extension resources were reallocated
to non-cocoa crops in line with its diversification policy), delayed release of budgeted resources remained
a major cause of implementation delays. In addition, arrangements for but budgetary coordination
through an inter-agency Agricultural Policy Coordination Committee was not as effective as hoped.
However, several reform measures were indeed undertaken and investment programs carried out.
World Bank's Support to Government's Investment Program



iii
5.    Through a series of investment projects totaling some US$ 468 million, the World Bank
supported Government efforts in capacity building of the Ministry in charge of agriculture as well as
farmers' associations; policy reforms, mainly focussing on trade liberalization and private sector
promotion;  improving the quality of, and increasing access to basic services, especially rural
transportation, credit, agricultural technology through research and extension; promoting diversification
and environmental protection.
6.    Although the project's objectives were indeed in tune with Government's strategy (the projects
having evolved from the Government's own program), there were some problems regarding design
complexity, limited donor integration, less than ideal linkage with poverty reduction, weak project
monitoring by the client, poor contract performance in some cases, unfamiliarity with Bank procedures in
others, and chronic counterpart funding delays.  Nevertheless, the projects largely attained their
objectives, particularly with regard to physical goals. The institutional framework was strengthened, and
growth was restored. However, the high real interest rates remained an impediment to significant private
expansion into the export market, particularly that of non-traditional crops.
Overall agricultural performance
7.    There was general growth in agricultural output, with the per capita food production increasing
by 37 percent over the past decade, implying significant food production in excess of population growth.
Moreover, in several cases, incremental output emanated from improved agricultural productivity
compared to area expansion. Agricultural cliversification occurred, but not sufficiently large to diminish
cocoa dominance is the principal foreign exchange earner. Although significant improvement were
registered in coffee and cotton production, total production for these two crops remains constrained by
poor prices, largely due to market inefficiencies, poor product quality, and high cost of credit impeding
increased use of modern farm inputs.
Recent Poverty Trends
8.    There has been a significant reduction in overall poverty nationwide during the past decade, with
the proportion of the absolute poor decreasing from 36 percent to around 29 percent. However, rural
poverty remains high, at 36 percent compared to half that in the urban areas. Moreover, the Savannah
zone seems to have not experienced any reduction in poverty, which calls into question the efficacy of the
targeting mechanisms in the nation's investment program.
9.    Indeed, the Savannah has tremendous potential in cotton production, and according to preliminary
comparative advantage analysis, Ghana coald potentially profitably export lint on the World Market.
However, Ghana's cotton sector remains constrained by market inefficiencies resulting in low producer
prices (37 percent lower than in neighboring countries), poor selection and distribution, lack of better
suited credit delivery mechanisms, and high cost of capital, among other things.
Potential Sources of Growth
10.   Apart from cotton production, which remains at a miniscule 45,000 tons, Ghana could expand on
cocoa production, again with better prices incentives and improved extension and research services, and
fruit and vegetable exports to neighboring and overseas market. This will require investment in suitable
transport, and storage facilities, improvements in product quality, and a reduction in real cost of capital.
Policy Implications



iv
11.   It comes out clearly from this review that although Government has made great strides in
liberalizing the economy and setting the stage for growth, one of the remaining stumbling blocks is the
high real cost of capital. Government's excessive dependence on domestic borrowing to finance its
budget has resulted in interest rates and is crowding out the private sector. The absence of medium to
long credit is also impeding private investment in storage and other infrastructure needed to promote
export development, particularly for highly perishable products. Other issues to address include better
targeting for poverty alleviation, and sustained investment in agricultural services and rural infrastructure,
particularly rural roads for increased productivity, and market access.






REPUBLIC OF GHANA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR PERFORMANCE REVIEW
AND
ACCOUNTABILITY IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORTS
PART l: RECENT AGRICULTURAL PERFORMANCE AND FUTURE GROWTH
PROSPECTS
1.    Macro economic and Agricultural Sector Policy Setting
1.1   Macroeconomic Framework
1.    Prior to 1983, Ghana's macro-economic framework was characterized by, among other things: i)
pervasive controls of internal and external trade; ii) government ownership of loss making enterprises; iii)
poor revenue collection; iv) huge budget deficits; v) large civil service; and vi) an overvalued exchange
rate which helped to maintain the prices of both imported food and other items artificially low, at the
expense of local production and local industry.
2.    It is against this backdrop of years of failed interventionist policies, which had distorted
incentives and led to economic ruin, that the Government of Ghana (GOG), with donor support,
introduced remedial actions, culminating in the adoption of the Economic Reform Program (ERP) in
1983. With the ERP, GOG embarked on, among other things: i) internal and external trade liberalization;
ii) privatization of public entities; iii) improved revenue collection; iv) civil service reform; v) tighter
budgetary control; and vi) currency devaluation.
3.    This reversed the economy's decline, and the Gross National Product increased by over 50% over
the period 1983-90, in contrast to its contraction of nearly 15% between 1973 and 1983. However, this
economic renewal suffered a setback in 1992 when public expenditure, financed by borrowing from the
banking sector, increased markedly in the wake of substantial hikes in civil service salaries2  This
increase resulted in a 50% expansion in the money supply and high inflation, causing an appreciation of
the real exchange rate and adversely affecting the export sector and the balance of payments. Although
some degree of stability was macro economic stability was restored, high real interest rates, which had a
negative impact on private investment, persevered throughout most of the 1990s.
1.2   Agricultural Sector Strategy
4.    In the agricultural sector, pre-1983 sector-specific constraints to growth included: (i) restrictions
in grain purchasing and storage, with food prices fixed by Government, thus keeping them low for urban
2 This coincided with the general elections held that year.



2
consumers; (ii) undue government involvement in the marketing of cocoa, cotton, coffee and palm oil,
where the low, government-determined producer prices acted as disincentives for improved farm
productivity and better household income; (iii) government involvement in input supply with the
attendant ineffectiveness; and (iv) public agencies designed to distribute inputs and outputs that very often
created market inefficiencies.
5.    These adverse macro and sector policies severely hampered agricultural growth, resulting in food
and cash crop output decline, which, coupled with a rising population, resulted in a decline in the per
capita food production index from 100 in 1974-76 to 62 by 1983. In the years following the adoption of
the ERP, farm-gate prices for State-administered prices, e.g. cocoa price, were increased; agricultural
support services were rationalized and strengthened; and input subsidies were removed. As a result of the
improved incentive framework, real Agricultural Gross National Product growth averaged 1.9 percent
between 1984 and 1989, with about 4.2 percenit real growth in 1989 alone. However, although free trade
existed for basic foods, e.g. roots, tubers, and vegetables, significant government interference remained in
grain purchasing and storage, and most importantly in the marketing of cocoa, cotton, coffee and oil palm,
the main sources of cash for the rural economy.
6.    In order to consolidate the gains made under the ERP, GOG, in collaboration with its
development partners, most notably the World Bank, elaborated in 1990 the Medium Term Agricultural
Development Strategy (MTADS) and the accompanying program (MTADP). MTADP was to establish
and support market-led growth in agriculture with the private sector as the engine of growth. The
principal objectives of this policy reorientation were to reduce the drain on the Government budget
resulting from unprofitable production and marketing activities where public sector involvement was a
potential hindrance to private sector development, and to concentrate the Ministry of Agriculture's limited
resources on policy planning and guidance. A number of steps were to be taken towards the realization of
these policy goals:
* fertilizer imports and domestic marketing were to be liberalized, as would be the supply of seed and
other inputs: the freeing of trade would reduce marketing costs, raise producer prices and stimulate
investment in processing, and the privati2ation of input supply (already under way at the time) would
improve the reliability of supply and, through competition, reduce costs;
* most state-owned enterprises were to be phased out and prices for outputs, except for a few
commodities such as cocoa, were to be de termined by market forces; non-market-determined prices
would be increased to reflect a significant share of the import parity price;
* measures were to be taken to enhance public expenditure coordination in the sector in order to
improve the setting of sectoral priorities, and thus help to channel domestic and external resources to
areas of greatest impact;
*  there would be a strong focus on the rural poor and especially women farmers by:
- shifting from the traditional approach of responding to gender concerns in agriculture through
a parallel extension program comprising mainly of women extension staff to a strategy that
enables all male and female staff to target women farmers;
- promoting women group formation and development and providing training in food
processing, utilization and nutrition.;
- promoting agro-processing through women organizations;



3
- strengthening women's groups involved in grain marketing and processing through training in
book keeping, financial management and marketing; providing extension services through
women groups; and
- providing credit to women's groups as an alternative to physical collateral;
•  rural financial intermediation would be promoted;
*  legal and institutional mechanisms for the standardization of weights would be established and
measures and guarantees of free entry into markets put in place;
*  forest protection and soil conservation was to be promoted;
*  these reforms were to be accompanied by public sector investments in transport infrastructure,
especially feeder roads, in communications for the dissemination of market information, in small-
scale irrigation for improved food security, and in research and extension for greater productivity.
7.    The rest of Part I will be devoted to analyzing the degree to which these reforms and the
accompanying investment program were implemented, IDA's involvement, the program's impact and
implications for the future.
2.    Implementation of Government's Strategy and Investment Program
2.1   Overview of Government's Strategy Implementation
8.    Government's decision to withdraw from the productive sector and transfer these responsibilities
to private operators was timely and consistent with its broader strategy of concentrating its limited
resources on key public sector functions, including policy formulation, research and extension, and sector
monitoring. The accompanying program was consistent with the stated policy.
9.    Most state-owned enterprises in the sector were indeed sold off or liquidated, except for the
Ghana Grain Marketing Corporation, whose role was reduced to handling emergency food aid.
10.   However, private response to liberalization measures generally fell short of expectations thanks to
high start up fixed costs (trucks, warehouses, etc..) and operating costs. Bank interest rates remained high
(upwards of 30 percent) making it difficult to profitably operate with borrowed funds.
11.   Although Government reoriented its expenditures in line with the new strategy (e.g. more
research and extension resources were reallocated to non-cocoa crops in line with its diversification
policy), delayed release of budgeted resources remained a major cause of implementation delays.
12.   An Agricultural Policy Coordinating Committee (APCC) was set up and empowered to
coordinate sector-wide policies and to review and approve the budgets of all agricultural sector agencies.
Budget allocations for all major public sector agencies operating in the agriculture sector (Ministry of
Food and Agriculture, Ministry of Lands and Forestry, Cocoa Marketing Board, Department of Feeder
Roads, and the Agricultural Research Institutes) were to be reviewed together, so as to rationalize sector-
wide allocations of public financial resources and, in particular, to ensure appropriate balances in the
allocation of resources across sub-sectors and agencies and between staff emoluments and other
expenditures within the agencies. However, this mechanism seems to be currently ineffective and the
need for overall coordination still exists.



4
13.   More results from different policy initiatives and investment activities are discussed below under
the World Bank financed activities, and agricultural performance in Chapter 3.
2.2 World Bank's Support to Government's Investment Program
14.   The Agricultural Services Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1801-GH, FY87) was the first integrated
intervention following the initiation of the Economic Recovery Program in 1983 (one crop-specific
project - the Oil Palm Development Project Phase II, Cr. 1498-GH, FY84 - was already under
implementation) and was designed to strengthen institutional capacity and services in the Ministry of
Food and Agriculture and to support policy reforms involving the privatization of certain services
(fertilizer marketing, tractor hire and veterinary drugs). In addition to the two projects, three other
projects were initiated in the 1980s, for a total of five projects, in order to reinforce GOG's economic
recovery program, namely, the:
(US$ Mill.)
*  Oil Palm Development Project Phase II    (Cr. 1498-GH, FY84)  25.0
*  Agricultural Services Rehabilitation P'roject   (Cr. 1801-GH, FY87)  17.0
*  Cocoa Rehabilitation Project             (Cr. 1854-GH, FY88)  40.0
*  Forestry Resources Management Project    (Cr. 1976-GH, FY89)  39.4
*  Rural Finance Project                    (Cr. 2040-GH, FY89) 20.0
15.   However, the need for a comprehensive framework for the agricultural sector's recovery and
accelerated growth was becoming imperative Through the Agricultural Services Rehabilitation Project's
pilot programs, studies, and preparatory activities, the Medium Term Agricultural Development Strategy
(MTADS) was born. A new set of projects was prepared to complement the above projects in support of
Government's new strategy, namely, the:
(US$ Mill.)
*  Agricultural Diversification Project     (Cr. 2180-GH, FY91)  16.5
*  National Agricultural Research Project*  (Cr. 2247-GH, FY91)  22.0
*  National Agricultural Extension Project*  (Cr. 2346-GH, FY92)  21.8
i  National Feeder Roads Project            (Cr. 2319-GH, FY92)  55.0
e  Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit*   (Cr. 2345-GH, FY92)  80.0
*  National Livestock Services Project*     (Cr. 2442-GH, FY93)  22.5
*  Coastal Wetlands Management Project (GEF)  (Cr. 10690-GH, FY93)  7.2
*  Environmental Resource Managemenit Project (Cr. 2426-GH, FY93)  18.1
*  Agricultural Sector Investment Project   (Cr. 2555-GH, FY94)  21.5
*  Fisheries Capacity Building Project (ongoing)  (Cr. 2713-GH, FY95)   6.2
2.3   Sector Issues Addressed by Bank-Supported Operations
Strengthening the Institutional Capa,ity of the Ministry of Food and Agriculture (MOFA)-for
improved policy formulation, planning, monitoring and evaluation, and sector coordination and
management, including better focus on poverty reduction and gender treatment in its investment
programs and more efficient delivery of agricultural services;
The accountability implementation completion reports for these projects are presented in Part II of this report. Full
Implementation Completion Reports for other projects are already available, except for the Fisheries Capacity
Building Project which is still ongoing.



5
* Strengthening of Grass Roots Capacity - through support for producer associations, resource
user groups and service provider associations;
* Policy Reforms - focusing on liberalization of agricultural pricing, produce marketing and
input supply, and on increased private sector participation;
* Strengthening the Agricultural Research and Extension Services - in order, to generate
improved and locally adapted crop and livestock technologies for increased and sustainable
agricultural production, improved nutrition and incomes of small holder households;
* Strengthening the Rural the Banking System - in order to expand the rural productive capacity
and employment;
* Supporting the Development of Basic Rural Infrastructure- by increasing the flow of technical
and financial resources to the village and district levels to (i) increase agricultural productivity
and access to markets, and, (ii) strengthen communities' capacities to develop and manage their
investments using the resources of Non-Governmental Organizations, local consultants and
public institutions;
•  Increasing Cocoa Yields and Total Output-with a targeted annual production of 300,000 MT,
through farm rehabilitation and replanting, facilitated by improved technical support services
and road infrastructure, and privatized input distribution, including removal of input subsidies,
and liberalization of the internal marketing of cocoa;
* Agricultural Diversification - aimed at reducing the reliance on cocoa by promoting the
increased production of palm oil, coffee, rubber, and pineapple to be achieved through: (i)
supporting small scale production, especially by applying improved technology on small scale
farms under the nucleus/out-grower concept; (ii) the establishment of small scale enterprises,
selling farm produce at market prices, and expanding oil milling capacity both at the industrial
and cottage level.
* Environmental Management - aimed at promoting efficient and sustainable utilization of
natural resources by strengthening the capacity to manage environmental resources: land and
water, and coastal wetlands.
2.4   Achievement of planned objectives
*  Strengthening of MOFA's Institutional Capacity. The capacity of the technical agencies of
MOFA has improved. In addition, MOFA has decentralized its service delivery system, thus
facilitating the planning, and implementation of agricultural development programs and the
delivery of agricultural services closer to the clients (district levels). However, the agricultural
policy analysis capacity of MOFA remains weak, and its ability to execute investment programs
is hampered by inadequate financial resources and, until recently, the lack of an integrated and
cohesive sector-wide investment framework such as the recently prepared Agricultural Sector
Support Investment Program (AgSSIP).3
3 The program has been appraised, and is scheduled for Board presentation in August, 2000.



6
Policy Reform.  Bank supported policy reforms resulted in increased competitiveness on
domestic and external markets. However, there still exist instances ofmonopsonistic behavior
(case Cocoa marketing still controlled by the State), and some programs could have been
implemented faster (e.g. the privatization of veterinary services). In addition, some structures
turned out to be ineffective (such as the virtually non-existent role of the Agricultural Policy
Coordinating Committee). Nonetheless, the Bank's overall interventions considerably improved
the policy environment for agricultural growth and development.
*  Research and Extension Services. The Bank's support has positively impacted technology
development and dissemination. Despite the short term timeframe of the investments under
review, it is evident that a strong institutional base has been created, which will be consolidated
in planned activities under the AgSSIP.
*  Institutional Base of Agricultural Agents. The Bank's investments have had relatively little
impact on agricultural cooperatives (despite the impact on oil palm development associations)
and user groups (such as stock water users associations), although there was some success in
promoting farmers associations in milk production and community task forces for protecting
biodiversity in certain areas.  The low impact of past investments was recognized for
rectification under AgSSIP.
*  Rural Finance. Although the financing needs of the agricultural and rural sectors remain largely
unmet, the Bank's intervention through the Rural Finance Project, and other complementary
financial sector reforms, had a positive impact on the rural banking sector, and has laid the basis
for continued efforts by the Bank and other donors. For example, only 2 rural banks out of some
100 rural banks were rated satisfactory at the inception of the project compared to 55 at the end;
deposit mobilization nearly tripled while lending doubled and was more than three times
external project funds channeled through the rural banks.
Infrastructure Base. World Bank support for the development of the national road network,
particularly feeder roads, has had a positive impact on the infrastructure support base of
agriculture. However, although physical targets were achieved under the Agricultural Sector
Investment Project, the development of the communities' management capacity was not as
effective. Overall, the infrastructure requirement of agriculture is so great that several needs
remain unmet, especially for feeder roads, irrigation and storage.
Cocoa Yields and Total Output. The overall aim of achieving and stabilizing production under
the Cocoa Rehabilitation Project were largely achieved. The momentum generated through
policy reforms, institutional base strengthening, and research and extension in the Bank's
program, is being maintained through a progressive increase in farmers' share in the f.o.b. price,
privatization of external marketing and selected operations of the Cocoa Marketing Board. The
combined effect of policy reforms regarding increasing producer prices and liberalizing internal
cocoa marketing, and the investments made to rehabilitate the cocoa sector resulted in increasing
cocoa exports from less than 200,000 tons in 1987 to over 400,000 tons in 1999 and a significant
increase in the real income of cocoa producers.
Agricultural diversification. Significant progress was achieved by way of increased production
of oil palm, oil palm, rubber and pineapple. For instance, pineapple exports increased from less
than 10,000 tons in 1990 to over 22,000 tons in 1999.
Environmental management. The Bank's efforts have been largely successful in developing a
national environmental resource management system, including an environmental policy and



7
legal framework, and a strengthened institutional base. This is beginning to have a discernible
effect of inculcating the concept of sustainable natural resource use among economic agents and
the general populace.
Gender. Women significantly benefited from training under the Environmental Resource
Management Project and the Coastal Wetlands Management Project. Women groups obtained
palm oil mills under the Agricultural Diversification Project, and women also benefited from
food technology research carried out by the Food Research Institute with support from the
National Agricultural Research Project. Women in Agricultural Development staff promoted
soy bean utilization with support from the National Agricultural Extension Project. Overall, the
gender themes were adequately supported by the projects, although there is still need for further
mainstreaming gender in investment programs.
16.   On the whole, World Bank financed projects attained their stated objectives, and went a long way
in implementing GOG's Medium Term Agricultural Development Program.
2.5   Cross-cutting design and implementation issues
Complexity of Designs. First, there was a trend towards enhancing local participation through
decentralization and devolution of implementation, such as in the Agricultural Sector Investment
Project and the Coastal Wetlands Management Project. However, there were problems with the
weak operational capacity of local government structures and community institutions which
negatively affected the Agricultural Sector Investment Project. Second, projects tended to have
too many components, attempting to do too many things in a single operation. For example, the
Cocoa Rehabilitation project had 9 components, which makes implementation difficult and
risky.
* Donor Individualism. It appeared that donors were content to address issues of interest to them
on an individual basis without supporting a comprehensive sector program. For example, the
MTADP may have been viewed by other donors as a World Bank program, which might have
accounted for the relatively low level of co-financing for the projects that emanated from it.
There is the need for a sector-wide integrating framework, not only for expenditure
programming, but also for policy and development programming. Such an approach has been
adopted in the recently appraised, sector-wide, multi-donor, Agricultural Services Support
Project.
* Relevance of Project Objectives. The objectives of the projects were generally relevant to
Ghana's development needs and priorities and had indeed been prepared to implement the
Medium-Term Agricultural Development Strategy developed in 1990-91 with World Bank
assistance.
* Linkage Between Agriculture and Poverty Reduction. This linkage was not made explicit in the
objective statements of most of the projects.  For example, only the Coastal Wetlands
Management Project explicitly mentioned poverty alleviation as an objective, although the
Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit requested GOG to identify and fund poverty reduction
programs in its 1992 and 1993 budgets. The current tendency to make a direct linkage with
poverty is a welcome development. There didn't appear to be any explicit targeting of the poor,
although some of the poor obviously benefited from some of the project activities.
* Weak Monitoring of Projects. Inadequate integration of arrangements for the monitoring and
evaluation project outcomes in project design was a significant weakness in several of the



8
projects. This related to: (a) inappropriate choice of indicators; (b) focus on output measures
and not people-level impacts; (c) general lack of quantification of performance criteria for
assessing outcomes; and (d) inadequate support for developing Monitoring and Evaluation
capability in implementing agencies.
*  Shortermism in Projectized Interventions. Most of the projects were of much shorter duration
that adequate to show meaningful irnpact over the life of the project. For example, the 6 year
duration for the livestock project was inadequate. Indeed, interventions can be made in phases
of long-term programs, as it is essential to have a long-term view for activities that require
sustained support over an extended period.
*  Contractor Performance. The performance of construction contractors on most of the projects
was below standard: they characterized by completion delays and poor quality of works. This
was often due to inadequate works monitoring by the implementing agency, procurement
difficulties or poor performance management by the contractors. Attention to these issues
becomes more essential in infrastructure projects, as was the case for the Agricultural Sector
Investment Project.
.  Bank Procedures.  Several projects experienced initial implementation delays or large
undisbursed balances due to unfamiliarity of implementing agencies with the Bank's
procurement and financial management procedures.
*  Borrower Financial Performance. All the projects experienced extreme difficulties receiving
counterpart funding due to tardy release. This significantly affected those components that
required significant outlays of counterpart funds.
3.    Recent Agricultural Performance
3.1   Recent Agricultural Growth
17.   The analysis did not attempt to establish an exclusive cause and effect relationship between the
sector policies and investments discussed above on the one hand, and the agricultural performance
prevailing during the period on the other, but rather to analyze the sector's performance over the review
period to deterrnine the extent to which GOG objectives for the sector were attained.
18.   There was a significant increase in agricultural production across the board, with the overall food
production index (base period of 1989-91) increasing by almost 70 percent between 1990 and 1997, and
the per capita food production index by 37 percent, implying that food production grew significantly
faster than population growth. The performance of some of the agricultural commodities is as follows
(also see Table 3 in Part II of this report):
Cereals.  Cereal production has generally grown steadily during recent years, averaging over
6.5% during the period 1985-98, and mostly coming from improved productivity. Paddy
production increased by over 10 percent per annum while the annual growth rates of maize and
sorghum production were well over 6 percent. However, there are significant regional
disparities in cereal production and productivity, perhaps reflecting differential access to input
and output markets across the regions.4
4 Productivity improvement was generally well above 7% per annum in Upper East, Volta, Eastern Western and
Ashanti Regions, whereas production in other regions came from land expansion.. Regarding maize, the Eastern,



9
Root and Tuber Crops. The supply of cassava, cocoyam and yam has increased markedly over
the years, increasing from less than 4 million metric tons in 1985 to over 8.7 million tons in
1998, an increase of more than 50 percent over the period. Again, a significant portion of this
increase appears to have resulted from productivity improvement (for example, during 1990-98,
the area under yam grew by 1.8 percent annually, whereas yield grew by 4.8 percent annually).
Cocoa. Cocoa, which contributes over 7 percent to the Gross Domestic Product, is Ghana's
most important crop export, accounting for an average of 29 percent of exchange earnings
during the 1990s. Cocoa production increased at a rate of nearly 5 percent per annum over the
period 1985-98, thanks to higher real prices (which more than tripled between 1983/84 and
1997/98), thus making the rehabilitation of the existing plantations and the planting of new trees
profitable. On-farm yields doubled from less than 300 kg/ha in 1985 to about 650 kg/ha in 1998.
Coffee. Coffee production data are very unreliable, thus making a meaningful assessment next
to impossible. Anecdotal evidence seems to indicate that coffee supply has grown from its 1983
record low of 1,300 tons to some 8,300 tons in 1998, i.e. a rate 23 percent per annum during the
period, resulting chiefly from yield increases: 400 kg/ha in 1998 compared to 100 kg/ha in
1983. It is important to note that at 8,300 tons, coffee production is still miniscule compared to
cocoa (400,000 tons in 1998).
Cotton. Although, the performance of the cotton sub-sector has been encouraging, with supply
growing by over 10% annually during the period 1986-98, this starts from a low base, and total
production still stands at a mere 45,000 tons. Moreover, this production largely comes from area
expansion, with Ghana's seed cotton yield of 900 kg/ha falling below that observed in the
neighboring Sahelian countries where productivity is in the excess of 1000 kg/ha, although
Ghana's cotton zone receives more rainfall and has better agronomic conditions that the
corresponding cotton zones in the Sahelian countries.
.  Fruits and Vegetables. The almost total lack of information on production parameters
notwithstanding, Ghana should have a great potential for expanding its production/export of
banana, pineapples, mangoes, avocados, okra, etc. Yet, Ghana exports a tiny fraction of its total
production of fruits and vegetables compared to Cote d'Ivoire where agronomic conditions are
comparable. For instance, Ghana's banana exports represented less than 2 percent of those of
Cote d'Ivoire in 1996, and its pineapple exports only about 15 percent of Cote d'Ivoire's.
3.2   Recent Poverty Trends
19.   National and Geographical Poverty Trends. At the national level, the incidence of extreme
poverty, measured in terms of the ability to cater for one's basic consumption needs, fell from about 36
percent in 1991-92 to about 29 percent in 1998-99. However, extreme poverty remains high in rural
localities, where it averages 36.2 percent, against 14.5 percent in urban areas. In both time periods, more
than half of the rural Savannah residents were classified as extremely poor. The incidence of extreme
poverty in this locality actually increased slightly between 1991/92 and 1998/99. The reduction in
extreme poverty has occurred most sharply in Accra and the rural Forest Zone. In terms of access to basic
Ashanti and Upper West Regions have performed better than other regions and this performance appears to result
chiefly from area expansion in the first two regions. Sorghum supply in Upper West seems to have been driven by
productivity improvement while that of Northem and Upper East originates mainly from area expansion. In the case
of millet, a minor crop in Ghana, Upper West has performed better than Upper East, yet the production in the latter
region is exclusively driven by productivity improvement.



10
services, there has been a modest increase in primary school enrolment (9 percent) as well as a general
increase in access to clean drinking water, although there was a marked reduction in the use of medical
services, partly explained by greater cost recovery and the drop in disposable income in some segments of
society.
20.   Poverty by Main Economic Activities. Whereas agriculture is the mainstay of the Ghanaian
economy, the highest poverty incidence is arnong food crop farmers, and has been on the decline among
export farmers (as one would expect), attesting to the need for increased investments in export
diversification.
21.   Indeed this phenomenon explains the lingering poverty in the northern Savannah areas, where
millet and sorghum are a main staple. These two crops provide a return to family laborlower than the
market wage rate owing to the high labor requirements relative to the output price. These crops are
important in this zone as they persevere under harsh climatic conditions and contribute significantly to
household food security.
22.   On the other hand, this zone is suitable for cotton production, which provides a return to family
labor higher than the market wage rate.5 This return would even be higher if farmers were receiving a
remunerative price. Ghanaian farmers receive lower prices than their Francophone neighbors (e.g. in
1999, Ghanaian farmers received prices 34 percent lower that in Benin). Seed cotton yields of 900 kg/ha
remain lower than the regional average, although Ghana has more favorable pluviometric and soil
conditions, and factory yields of 40.5% lag behind the regional average as well. Although the
international price passthrough has improved recently (56 percent in 1999), it's been erratic in the past,
falling as far down as 15 percent in 1995, an industry record! At present, the price received by farmers
accounts for about one half of the import parity price only.
23.   In conclusion, therefore, there has been poverty reduction overall during the time period, but
there as still pockets of poverty whose reduction will require better targeting, both geographically and by
identifying and promoting remunerative activities in the affected areas.
4.    Growth Prospects
4.1    Current incentive framework and diversification prospects
Cotton. Despite the declining cotton prices in the international market, the long term world
demand for lint cotton remains very strong, and preliminary analyses appear to indicate that
Ghana enjoys a strong comparative advantage in producing and marketing cotton to the
international market (Domestic Resource Cost in the neighborhood of 0.5). But Ghana will need
to: (i) improve productivity through better seed selection and distribution mechanisms; (ii)
improve its lint quality right from the farm to the ginneries, to be achieved through significant
differential pricing of different quality levels, better farmer training (on proper picking and
storage), better industry organization for setting industry standards and quality control, and
better ginning processes; (iii) put in place a credit mechanism for financing agricultural inputs
5 The market wage was estimated at 3,000 cedis/day in this region.



11
that is more adapted to the new multiple-buyer industry structure;6 (iv) strive to attain fiscal
stability which will facilitate the reduction of the currently high real interest rates, which are
particularly detrimental to an input-intensive industry like cotton production; and (v) strengthen
support services such as extension and research which are crucial for technology generation and
adoption.
Coffee. Coffee currently fetches a very low return due to the low domestic price which is less
than half of the export parity price, and due to the relatively high labor input compared to the
competing crops (over 100 labor days to maintain a hectare of coffee, but only 62 labor days for
a comparable cocoa field). There is also poor quality control (hulling outturn of only 50% of
clean coffee compared to 54% in competing countries)7, and increased use of inputs for greater
productivity is severely constrained by Ghana's high cost of credit. However, preliminary
comparative advantage results point to a great potential for this crop, although tapping it will
require greater marketing efficiency and quality improvement.
*  Cocoa. Since the introduction of the cocoa reform programs in 1983, significant progress was
made in increasing the real producer prices, as well as the participation of the private sector in
domestic marketing. However, there is still plenty of room for increasing cocoa's return to
labor, which is currently held down by several factors including the low on-farm yields and the
low farmers' share of the FOB price. Cocoa farmers receive about 50% of the FOB price only,
the rest being taken up by the cocoa external marketing monopoly (the Cocoa Marketing Board)
and the Government. Although Government's share of the proceeds in form of duties, estimated
at 25.6% of the FOB price, has declined from previous high levels, numerous studies have
shown that the optimal level of cocoa taxation by Government in the long run should be between
10% and 15%. Consequently, continued liberalization and reduced taxation of the sector will be
needed in order to stimulate further production.
*  Maize. In contrast to most cereals, maize appears to be very competitive in domestic markets,
particularly maize production in the northern region where the opportunity cost of labor is
relatively low. Maize production is a promising source of growth because of: (i) its good
response to modern fertilizers with a high "marginal value product", (ii) the growing demand for
domestic consumption; and (iii) the potential for its use in the livestock industry, especially
poultry, and exporting it on the regional market.8  Like other agricultural commodities, it
remains constrained by the high cost of capital and large transportation costs (discussed below).
*  Other Cereals. With the exception of maize, the competitiveness of other cereals appears to
diminish significantly once they are shipped from the production zones to Accra, which is the
most important market in Ghana. For the most part, this loss in competitiveness seems to arise
from high transport costs between the production zones and Accra. Transport costs in Ghana,
like in most West African countries, account for between 40% and 70% of cereal marketing
costs, due to the poor state of the infrastructure, high costs of trucks, spare parts and fuel (thanks
6 Since there are multiple buyers in the industry, any one them will not extend credit or supply input against the right
of purchasing the resulting output, since client loyalty in not guaranteed.
7 Ghanaian coffee faces a 20 percent discount on the world market.
8 With the expanding population and increasing disposable income, the demand for meat is likely to grow in the near
future creating an opportunity for cheap local animal feed. Experience has shown that white meat (e.g. chicken) is
the first mean sub-sector to respond to increasing demand for meat, which will be fueled less costly feed.



12
to very high Government import duties), and the quasi-monopoly pricing of transport services by
the dominant Transport Union.
Groundnuts.  Ghana appears to hold a strong comparative advantage in the confectionery
groundnut market which commands a higher price than oilseed groundnut market. The latter
faces stiff competition from other vegetable oils (sunflower, cottonseed, corn, etc.) and as such,
groundnut oil prices are likely to remain low in the coming years.
Cassava  Ghana exports a modest amount of cassava chips. The Savannah with its low
opportunity cost of labor and soil aptitude has the potential to profitably supply this market. The
challenges facing the industry include: (i) lack of higher yielding varieties (high farn
productivity, and greater dry matter content, yet still of acceptable quality in the industry); (ii)
guarding against soil nutrient depletion after extensive and repeated cassava production, by
using low cost soil restoration technliques; (iii) competition with cereals on the international
feed market, particularly in face of the increasing decline in cereal prices brought about by
changes in the Common Agricultural Policy in the European Union; and (iv) quotas limiting the
importation of chips into the European Union (to be negotiated in bilateral and multilateral fora,
e.g. the World Trade Organization).
*  Yam. Yam too appears to have a good potential for export, and the prospects for yam exports
would be much brighter if steps could be taken to improve the quality of exports. Under current
production and marketing conditions, Ghanaian exporters receive only half of the price offered
to their Brazilian competitors in the international market. The discount facing Ghanaian yam
stems from a host of factors including: (i) bruises resulting from both yam friction and its
mishandling during domestic transportation, and (ii) pathogen attacks which help to accelerate
spoilage and weight losses. The industry also needs greater organization to facilitate the
establishment of grading and quality standards. Due to yam's highly perishable nature, there is
need to support post-harvest technolDgies, including better storage techniques, and education in
handling yam before, during and after transportation.
*  Horticultural commodities. Though the competitiveness of Ghanaian horticultural commodities
including fruits, vegetables and floricultural products was not assessed in this review for lack of
reliable data, it is not unreasonable to assume that Ghana enjoys a strong comparative advantage
in these commodities, much as its sub-regional neighbors. Horticulture is generally labor-
intensive and Ghana's abundant labor pool, and suitable agronomic conditions make it
particularly suitable.
4.2   Unfinished Reform/institutional Framework Agenda
Macro-Economic Framework
24.   High Cost of Credit. Although major macro-economic reforms were undertaken, which indeed
improved the environment for economic growth, the current fiscal and monetary policies have resulted in
significantly high real interest rates, making domestic investment difficult in agricultural production,
agro-processing, storage, exports, and other sectors.
25.   Lack of Long Term Credit. There in virtually no credit for tree crop development, and other
major capital investments needed for the sector's accelerated growth.
Sector Policy Framework



13
26.   Government Continued Involvement in Marketing. Although there have been some liberalization
of domestic cocoa marketing, cocoa exports continue to be in Government hands, something that could
gradually be transferred to the private sector.
27.   Sector Monitoring. Substantial progress was made in decentralizing to district assemblies sector
investment activities that fall under the Ministry of Food and Agriculture. However, there are still major
weaknesses in monitoring these activities (expenditure, impact, etc.), clearly an area to be addressed.
Sector Investment Financing
28.   Adequacy. The sector is clearly under financed, both in absolute and in relative terms. Most
government resources go for meeting recurrent expenditures, with minimal contribution to capital
investment, which are almost entirely funded by outside donors. This raises a question of sustainability,
that needs to be critically examined in future sector investments.
29.   Relationship with Poverty Reduction. The allocation of resources doesn't seem to match with
Government's poverty objectives, with poor communities receiving disproportionately fewer resources,
which could have contributed to the observed worsening of their level of poverty. There is clearly need
for better targeting.
Poverty Reduction
30.   Regional Dimension of Poverty. Poverty in the north of the country seems to have worsened in
recent years, although there appear to be opportunities for growth in several areas, including cotton,
cassava, and several other agricultural commodities. As indicated in the preceding paragraph, sector
investment priorities need to be much more closely correlated with poverty reduction strategies.
31.    Vocational Dimension of Poverty. Not surprisingly, "food crop farmers" were found to be poorer
than other rural households. However, profitability and incentive framework analysis clearly indicate a
potential for "marketization" of current food crops, which would further increase the incomes of such
rural households.
32.   Gender Dimension of Poverty. It is well known that female household members tend to be worse
off than their male counter parts. GOG have come a long way instituting a framework aimed at better
integrating the gender dimension in its investment programs. However, this has not been adequately dealt
with in past sector investment, clearly an area for improvement.
Implementation Performance of Investment Programs
33.   Past projects have been characterized by complexity of design, poor coordination among the
donors, short term commitment to long term issues, poor integration of gender issues, and poor
integration with poverty reduction objectives. Some of these weakness are being addressed in upcoming
projects, including the use of multi-donor sector investment programs and long term  adjustable
investment programs. However, the issue of design complexity seems to remain pervasive in new
programs, despite clear indication of their past problematic implementation. Government counterpart
funding problems of the past, are likely to continue in the future. There is need for a realist assessment of
what Government is able to contribute to investment programs. There is need for Government to re-
examine its contribution to the sector's investment programs, as this is clearly not commensurate with its
publicly stated policy of agriculture being a priority sector.



14
4.3   Policy Implications
34.    Results clearly indicate the potential for diversification as a viable alternative to raising income
and reducing poverty, especially in rural areas. However, this diversification calls for specific actions to
maintain and improve Ghana's competitiveness in domestic, regional and international markets. These
actions entail maintaining a conducive macro-economic environment, enhancing access to sustainable on-
farm and post-harvest technologies, improving access to external markets, enhancing marketing
efficiency and price transmission through improved communication infrastructure, improving the
efficiency of the financial markets, improving the monitoring system of the agricultural sector and
improving human capital.
35.    Conducive macro-economic environment.  The need for lower cost of capital cannot be
overemphasized, and Government fiscal and monetary policy should clearly be geared in that direction.
36.   Enhancing access to sustainable technologies. Continued support for research and extension
(training and logistical support) and decentralized management of these services will be critical.
37.   Improve access to external markets. As indicated earlier, this will require better partnerships
between the public and private sector in improving quality, to be achieved through training and instituting
mechanisms for quality control and timely information, and better market organization. It is imperative
that, in addition to farmers, private exporters be taught the proper packaging and handling techniques of
agricultural commodities to benefit from the premium attached to good quality products. Proper post-
harvest technologies are the key to competing in the demanding international markets! Quota restrictions,
where they exist, will have to be negotiated in bilateral and multilateral fora, such as the World Trade
Organization. The issue of the high cost of credit is already discussed above.
38.   Enhance marketing efficiency. Marketing efficiency in Ghana is adversely affected by the high
transport costs. Investments in feeder roads need to be pursued, taxation of the transport sector,
particularly spare parts and fuel, needs to be re-examined for its impact on Ghana's competitiveness, and
there is need to promote greater competition in the transport sector, including assessing, and if true,
curbing the monopolistic tendencies of the major players (e.g. the Ghana Private Road Transporters
Union).
39.   Improve to access credit. Outside of the cocoa sector, most of the participants in agricultural
markets lack access to credit to make the investments necessary for sustainable growth. Government has
taken strides to improve rural financial intermediation, and these efforts should continue to be pursued.
Long term instruments remain absent, and there is currently no clear policy in this regard. This should
clearly be put on Government Policy agenda.
40.   Improve the monitoring system of the agricultural sector. MOFA's monitoring unit is ill-
equipped: limited production and price data are collected, and those that are, are not kept in electronic
form, making the analysis of past performance for policy guidance difficult. There is need for staff
training and logistical support for this important function.



15
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR PERFORMANCE REVIEW
AND
ACCOUNTABILITY IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORTS
PART II: ACCOUNTABILITY IMPLEMETATION COMPLETION REPORTS
1.    Implementation Completion Reports for the Projects Closed in 1999
National Agricultural Research Project
CREDIT 2247 - GH
A. PROJECT DATA
Key Dates                 Original                   Revised/Actual
PCD                       February 1989              February 1989
Appraisal                 October 1990               October 1990
Approval                  May 1991                   May 1991
Effectiveness                                        October 1991
MTR                                                  September 1995
Closing                   March 1997                 March 1999
B. PRINCIPAL PERFORMANCE RATING
Outcome                                Satisfactory
Sustainability                         Likely
Institutional Development Impact       Substantial
Bank Performance                       Satisfactory
Borrower Performance                   Satisfactory
Quality at entry                       Satisfactory
Project at Risk at any time            Yes
C. ASSESSMENT OF DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE AND DESIGN, AND OF QUALITY AT
ENTRY
Objective. To initiate a long-term process to strengthen Ghana's agricultural research system, in
order to generate improved technologies, thus contributing to national development objectives and
growth in the agricultural sector. This objective was clear, important for Ghana's development and
consistent with the CAS.



16
Components. (a) Research Management Development, (b) Human Resource Development, (c)
Rehabilitation of Research Facilities, (d) Improvement of Library and Information Systems (e)
Research Program Support. The original components were adequate to achieve the project objectives,
within the capacity of the implementing agency, and built on earlier experiences.
Quality at Entry. Satisfactory. Project was relevant to the sector and national goals, consistent with
Bank's CAS and satisfied Bank's safeguard policies. However, the design was over ambitious
regarding assumptions on the timeframe for formulating the National Agricultural Research Strategic
Plan.
D. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVE AND OUTPUTS
Outcome/Achievement of Objective. 'Satisfactory. The project achieved most of its objectives,
particularly in establishing the institutional base for improved research management, rehabilitation of
research facilities and provision of logistical support, establishment of library information systems
and research program support despite the delayed start in implementation. The incremental
production arising from adoption of research recommendations will contribute to higher farm
income and reduction of poverty as well as increase in foreign exchange earnings from non-
traditional agricultural exports.
Output by Components. The achieven,ent of institutional development objective was substantial.
The achievement of physical objectives was partial, due to slippage in human resource development
targets and delayed financial support for r esearch programs.
Research Management Capacity Buildi ig. A reasonably working national agricultural research
system has been established, forging multi-disciplinary and multi-institutional collaboration by
researchers in the national agricultural research institutes, the universities, the Ministry of Food and
Agriculture (MOFA) and the private sector. The national agricultural research strategic plan has
been prepared using criteria reflecting the agricultural development priorities of Ghana. Seventeen
commodity and factor research programs have been initiated, each of them having national
coordinating committees, comprising the leading researchers in these fields. Program budgeting
has been introduced for carrying out these commodity and factor research programs.  The
Technical Secretariat, established under the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research is
coordinating the review of research proposals, their funding and quality assurance. So far, three of
the seven agricultural research institutes have been subjected to external review.   Five
research/extension/farmer linkage committees have been established for each of the major agro-
ecological zones of the country. Farmers, and agribusiness representatives are actively engaged in
the committees which are now influencing the research and extension agenda.
The research infrastructure (laboratories, equipment, farm and irrigation facilities, etc.) have been
rehabilitated at all research institutes and to some extent in the national universities. A Ghana
Agricultural Research Information System has been established, comprising 8,000 records dating
back to colonial times. Research libraries across the country are now electronically linked to this
data base. An internet and intranet system has been installed to link the various research stations,
research centers and all the faculties of agriculture and MOFA departments with one another as
well as international data and information sets. The backlog of papers of the Ghana Journal of
Agricultural Sciences has been updated from 1978 to 1997. The first Ghana Biennial Agricultural
Symposium was held in November 1998 at which over a hundred professional papers were
presented and discussed.



17
A human resources development plan was developed and implemented. More than 80 scientists
have been trained at the M. Sc. and Ph. D. levels at local and external universities. Scientists have
also been sent abroad for short refresher courses and analysis of their research data. Several in-
country courses have been designed and conducted to sharpen the skills of scientists and technical
support staff.
Research programs.  Several recommendations have been released for adoption by farmers,
particularly in new crop varieties and improved cultivation practices of maize, cowpeas, soybeans,
cassava, plantain, millet, sorghum, pineapples and vegetables. There has been a general increase in
crop production in Ghana, making it possible for the agricultural sector to grow by nearly 4% p.a.
since 1996. In particular, production of maize has increased by 70% from 700,000 tons in 1993 to
1.2 million tons in 1997. Exports of pineapple tripled from less than 10,000 tons to about 30,000
tons during the same period. The release and enthusiastic adoption by farmers of several soybean,
cowpea varieties and the high lysine maize variety, Obatampa, has contributed to improved rural
nutrition. The Nestle Co. is using this variety to manufacture infant food in Ghana. In addition
three high-yielding hybrid varieties of maize were released in 1998. Included in improved cultural
practices are soil and water conservation methods to help farmers sustain the productive capacity of
the natural resource base. The production of digital soil and land use maps of Ghana by the Soil
Research Institute is facilitating this effort.
The design was appropriate to achieve project objectives and outputs, except for the over estimation
of the planned timeframe for the preparation of the research strategic plan to precede the release of
funds for research program support. In addition, performance indicators for judging achievement of
objectives/outputs were not quantified in the SAR.
E. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOMIE
Factors, subject to government control. These factors affected project implementation partially: (a)
initial instability in staffing Council for Scientific and Industrial Research, (b) occasional delays in
counterpart fund release.
Factors subject to implementation agency control. Lack of understanding of Bank procurement and
disbursement procedures, and, initial problems in establishing the M & E system for research
programs partially affected implementation. The late presentation of the research strategic plan and
inability of some trainers to take up or complete training fellowships affected progress in
implementing the research support and human resource development components. However, since
most research programs are long term, their implementation could not be completed during the life of
the project.
Costs and Financing. Programmed project cost was $29.5 million while actual disbursement was
$26.35 million of which IDA contributed $21.63 million and GOG $4.72 million.
F. SUSTAINABILITY
Project sustainability is likely. This project was part of a long term commitment by GOG and its
partners, a partnership that is now being formalized in an Adaptable Program Lending framework (the
AGSSIP). The project has established the policies, management and institutional base for research
development. Long term sustainability will require continued funding for research programs,
maintenance of research infrastructure, and development of the human resource base. The long term
objective is that at least one third of research expenditure be generated from sales of research output,



18
and objective to be pursued in the context of AGSSIP. Indeed, several components of the research
system will continue to be supported under AGSSIP.
G. BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE
Overall Bank Performance.  Overall, Bank performance in identification, preparation and
implementation was satisfactory. Initial delays in supporting research programs, due to tardiness in
the production of the research strategic plan by the Government, were corrected after the Medium
Term Review in 1995 and the 1996 implementation assistance mission.
Overall Borrower Performance. Borrower performance was satisfactory, considering the relatively
high proportion of project cost to be financed by government (25% of IDA contribution). However,
the major area of defect was the delay in developing the strategic plan.
H. LESSONS LEARNED
*  Due to the long-term nature of research, any implementation slippages affect timely completion
of actual research programs to enable outcomes to be visible and to ensure adequate financing
from project over sources over the life c.ycle of the programs.
*  Early training of project implementation staff in Bank procurement and disbursement procedures
is essential to minimize implementatior, delays.
* Project governance and reporting respcnsibilities need to be made clear from the onset. In the
case of the National Agricultural Research Project, which was implemented by the Council for
Scientific and Industrial Research under a Ministry other than the Ministry of Food and
Agriculture, reporting relationships were unclear.
* Effective research management depends on an operational Monitoring & Evaluation System,
which, in turn, depends on an effective M4anagement Information System.



19
National Agricultural Extension Project
CREDIT 2346-GH
A) PROJECT DATA
Key Dates                Original                  Revised/Actual
PCD                      September 1989            September 1989
Appraisal                May 1991                  October 1991
Approval                 March 1992                April 1992
Effectiveness            July 1992                 May 1992
MTR                      March 1995                May - July 1995
Closing                  November 1997             March 2000
B) PRINCIPAL PERFORMANCE RATING
Outcome                               Satisfactory
Sustainability                        Likely
Institutional Development Impact      Substantial
Bank Performance                      Satisfactory
Borrower Performance                  Satisfactory
Quality at Entry                      Satisfactory
Project Risk at any time              Yes
C) ASSESSMENT OF DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE AND DESIGN AND QUALITY AT NTRY
Objective. The primary objective of the project was to achieve sustained increase in agricultural
production and improve the nutrition and incomes of the smallholder households through
enhanced adoption of technology. Specific objectives were: (i) improve the efficiency in the
management and delivery of extension services; (ii) improve the relevance of technologies
available to farmers, and in particular, indigenous technologies developed by farmers themselves;
(iii) increase the involvement of farmers in the identification of areas where further research is
needed and develop technologies with their collaboration; (iv) assist the Department of Co-
operatives in organising farmers into groups and associations in order to improve their income
through better access to inputs, credit and markets for their produce; and (v) strengthen existing
framework for human resource development in the sector and forge linkages between research,
teaching and extension. Special emphasis will be placed on reaching women farmers.
These objectives were relevant, clear and realistic.  They were also consistent with the
Government's Medium Term Agricultural Development Strategy and the Bank's CAS for Ghana.
The project was neither particularly complex nor excessively demanding for the implementing
agency except for the high requirements for counterpart contributions. The general constraints
affecting agricultural extension were thoroughly appraised and the interventions that were
proposed through project component activities were considered as timely and essential for the
development of Ghana's agriculture.
Components. The project components, listed next, were well related to achieving the project
objective especially for facilitating increased production through enhanced adoption of
technologies:
i.    Strengthening the Extension Service in all ten regions through (i) provision of
infrastructure, transport, equipment, consultancy services, and incremental recurrent cost



20
support; (ii) in-service training of all categories of staff; and (iii) forging a closer link
between extension and agricultural research services.
ii.    Strengthening the Technical Departments of MOFA to: (a) build their capacity in
backstopping Subject Matter Specialists (SMS), (b) test the relevance of technologies
generated by research institutes to farmers' conditions through provision of transport,
equipment, technical assistance and incremental recurrent cost support to SMSs and
project monitoring and evaluation; and
iii.   Supporting the Human Resources Development of the extension service through
improved facilities, farm and laboratory equipment and transport support as well as
upgrading of the teaching staff of agricultural colleges and textbooks to the faculties of
agriculture.
Quality at Entry. This was satisfactory: the design was innovative as it introduced many new
elements into the organization, development, and functioning of the agricultural extension service
in Ghana. The objective of the project was consistent will both government priorities and the
CAS. The planned interventions were timely and essential for developing Ghana's agriculture.
The components were consistent with the Bank's safeguard policies as the planned interventions
were to have a substantial impact ol1 arresting environmental degradation and improving the
productive potential of land resources on a sustainable basis. However, assumptions about the
demand for the price of agricultural produce in relation to input prices did not hold true.
D)    ACHIEVEMENTS OF OBJECTIV'S AND OUTPUTS
Achievement of Project's Development Objectives. Achievement was satisfactory as technology
adoption rates have been high for many cereals, legumes and horticultural crops. Between 1992
and 1996, all crops yields exceeded MTADP's expected yield increase of 1.5% per annum.
However, increases in production and farmer incomes due to application of improved
technologies were constrained by high input and marketing costs. Despite the uncertainty
regarding the achievement of people-level impacts, especially on nutrition, the project made
substantial gains in institutionalizing a unified professional extension service in Ghana.
Achievement of Project Outputs. Overall, achievement of project outputs was satisfactory.
Apart from some delays in the human resource development component, the project adequately
implemented all planned project activities.  Under the extension service strengthening
component, a unified service was established covering non-cocoa crops, livestock and fisheries;
the agent to farmer ratio improved from 1:1504 at appraisal to 1:780; 119 subject matter
specialists were at post compared to the requirement of 122; five research-extension liaison
committees representing roughly the agro-ecological zones were established. The committees
functioned effectively and provided the required forum for research-extension linkages in
technology development and dissemination through the conduct of on-farm adaptive trials and
joint annual planning sessions. Extension agent training was very regular and institutionalized,
and adaptive on-farm  trials were implemented and extension test plots established.  In
strengthening the Ministry's technical departments, the project supported subject matter specialist
staffing and training, as well as crop services and fisheries, established a functioning management
information system, and, developed 1he Information Services Unit which was very active in
agricultural broadcasts over radio and TV. The component on human resources development
supported staff training, provision of' instructional materials and logistics to the agricultural
colleges and universities, and co-sponsored a mid-carrier course leading to the award of a degree
in extension. The project also contributed significantly towards the decentralization of MOFA.



21
E) FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUT COME
Factors outside Government control. Ethnic conflict in northern Ghana, and poor performance
of some contractors partially affected project implementation.
Factors within Government Control. The main negative factor was the very low provision of
counterpart funds by the government. In contrast, the decentralization of MOFA positively
enhanced the success of the project substantially by resulting in an increased grassroots level
presence and local control of extension agents.
F) SUSTAINABILITY
Project sustainability is likely for two reasons: (i) various institutional development and capacity
building activities undertaken during project implementation have established a strong base for a
stronger, more relevant and productive extension system, and (ii) GOG and its development
partners will continue to support the extension service in the context of AGSSIP's agricultural
extension component.
G) BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE
Bank. Overall, the Bank's performance was satisfactory. The commitment, quality of staff,
number of supervision and review missions and close collaboration with GOG counterparts
exhibited by the Bank during the project's lifetime was commendable.
Borrower. Apart from significant delays in providing support to the universities and agricultural
colleges, the implementing agency's performance was satisfactory. Initial implementation delays
due to unfamiliarity with Bank procurement and disbursement procedure were rectified
expeditiously. However, the project suffered from inadequate release of counterpart funds.
H) LESSONS LEARNED
1. To enhance adoption rates, extension projects need to adopt a demand driven and client focused
approach, including farmer-led extension, use of several communication methods and media, and
farmer organizations to disseminate extension messages.
2. Due to limited public resources, it is essential to encourage pluralism in extension delivery
through involvement of Non-Governmental Organizations, private sector groups and community
institutions.
3. For increased effectiveness, the extension service needs to expand the scope of its services to
include enterprise development and management, and marketing advice.



22
National Livestock Services Project
CREDIT 2441-GH
A) PROJECT DATA
Key dates                Original                  Revised/Actual
PCD                      February 1989             February 1989
Appraisal                May 19592                 May 1992
Approval                 December 1992             December 1992
Effectiveness            March 1993                April 1993
MTR
Closing                                            December 1999
B) PRINCIPAL PERFORMANCE RATINGS
Outcome                              - Partial
Sustainability                       - Likely
Institutional Development            - Partial
Bank Performance                     - Satisfactory
Borrower Performance                 - Unsatisfactory
C) ASSESSMENT OF DEVELOPMENT O]BJECTIVE AND DESIGN OF QUALITY AT ENTRY
Objective. To increase meat, egg and milk: production, to raise producer incomes, particularly those
of small-holders, and to reduce the financial burden on the Government of services it provides to the
livestock sub-sector. The objective was clear, realistic, measurable and relevant to the CAS and
Ghana's development goals. But, the project was demanding for the implementing agency and
complex, as it attempted to kick-start the livestock industry by addressing several constraints.
Components. (a) Animal Health Control, (b) Feed Resource Development, (c) Livestock Water
Supply, (d) Breed Improvement, (e) Pilot I)airy Development Scheme, (f) Institution Building. The
components were well related to achieving the objective. However, the timeframe was too short to
observe any impacts on national or localized production of livestock products, except for milk in the
pilot zone. The short duration of the project was exacerbated by initial implementation tardiness that
delayed project start-up by about two years. The large number of components in a project, which was
the first real integrated support to the sector, and, the substantial community involvement expected,
made the projected achievement of the project objective over ambitious.
Quality at Entry. Overall, the project was well designed and the objectives were consistent with the
CAS and government's priorities under the Agricultural Services Rehabilitation Project. However,
the design under estimated assumptions about community involvement, privatization of health service
delivery and the ability of the Borrower to meet its financial obligations. Nonetheless, the rating was
satisfactory.
D) ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVE AND OUTPUTS
Achievement of Project's Development Objectives. Due to livestock's long breeding and growth
cycle, the project's impact on meat production and increased farm income cannot be fully measured
within the life of a single project. It can be said, however, that the project succeeded in initiating a
process of enhancing the technological and institutional base for improved livestock production,
although more could have been done. Thus, the project's future impact will be partial.



23
Achievement of Project's Outputs. The achievement of project outputs was partial, with variations
among components. The health control component was partially satisfactory as disease control was
satisfactory but the introduction of V4/12 vaccines, the development of community health workers
and privatization of veterinary services were largely unsuccessful. The development of community
health workers was hampered in part by lack of compensation for the workers' opportunity cost of
labor, and privatization of veterinary services by the rural clients' inability to adequately remunerate
the private agents, thanks to their low incomes in the client communities, despite the great need for
their services. Targets in feed development, particularly over sowing of range lands and forage
development were largely unmet, the development of livestock water supply was unsuccessful and
the breed improvement component only partially achieved its targets. In contrast, the pilot dairy
development scheme was satisfactory.
Institutional Development Impact. Satisfactory. Intra-MOFA institutional development was
substantial but sub-sector wide institutional development was not successful as private veterinary
service, water users associations, community livestock workers and private milk fanners associations
development was tardy or weak.
E) MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOME
(a) Ethnic conflict in northern region partially affected project implementation while erratic weather
and bush fires affected forage seed production and over sowing of rangelands.
(b) Government's trade liberalization policy resulted in increased imports of livestock products,
especially poultry, which was a disincentive to domestic production.
(c) Slow counterpart fund releases and project implementation complications due to the
decentralization of MOFA substantially hampered implementation.
(d) Excessive central control of project funds and procurement results in slow project
implementation.
(e) Effective supervision of contractors results in delays and sub-standard construction work.
(f) Unfamiliarity of project management staff with Bank financing and procurement procedures
hampers implementation.
F) SUSTAINABILITY
The probability of continuing and improving the achievement of project objectives is likely. GOG is
committed to developing the sector: all the project components would be continued under the
Livestock Development Sub program of AgSSIP. Furthermore, private sector development of the
industry is increasing.
G) BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE
Bank. (i) The Bank's performance in project design and appraisal was less than fully satisfactory,
which was aggravated by:
a) the relatively short life span of the project,
b) inadequate consideration of incentives for Community Livestock Workers,
c) inadequate design features to ensure successful privatization of veterinary services,



24
d) the high financial demand on beneficiary communities which retarded the development of
stock water points, and
e) lack of targets for project indicators, as they were to be specified by the annual program and
budget;
(ii) The Bank's performance in supervision was satisfactory.
Borrower. Overall, the performance was satisfactory, despite initial problems of weak management
and lack of experience by project management with Bank procedures. The major area of weakness
was tardy and inadequate provision of agreed counterpart funds.
H) LESSONS LEARNED
1. Full privatization of public services in a setting of low client incomes needs to be progressive,
with adequate support measures to ensure success.
2. The procurement of breeder stock in breeding programs needs to be carefully monitored to ensure
that only true breeds are introduced into the system.
3. There is the need to provide incentives to entice community workers to deliver services hitherto
provided by public agencies
4. Realistic levels of community contribution, reflecting true ability to pay, enhance community
participation.
5. Early exposure., through familiarization training, of project staff to Bank procedures facilitates
timely implementation
6. To show visible impacts, livestock development projects require a life span longer than five years
and sustained support, making them ideal candidates for Adaptable Program Lending loans.
7. Open-ended projects without specific monitoring benchmarks contribute to slow and weak
implementation.



25
Agricultural Diversification Project
CREDIT 2180 - GH
A) PROJECT DATA
Key Dates                 Original                  Revised/Actual
PCD (Preparation)         March 1987                March 1987
Appraisal                 June 1988                 June 1989
Approval (Signing)        10/16/1990                October 1990
Effectiveness             03/06/1991                March 1991
MTR                       12/06/1995
Closing                   12/31/1998                12/31/1999
B) PRINCIPAL PERFORMANCE RATINGS
Outcome                                   Satisfactory
Sustainability                            Likely
Institutional Development Impact          Partial
Bank Performance                          Satisfactory
Borrower Performance                      Satisfactory
Quality at Entry                          Satisfactory
Project at Risk at any time               Yes
C) ASSESSMENT OF DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES AND OF QUALITY AT ENTRY
Objective. This was to revitalize and expand the cultivation of non-cocoa tree crops and horticultural
crops which can be efficiently and competitively cultivated for export and import substitution within
a framework of an agricultural diversification strategy aimed at reducing reliance on cocoa. The
project was to expand small scale production of oil palm, coffee and rubber and support increased
production and export of pineapples and other horticultural crops.
Components.
Oil Palm Development: (a) Expansion by 3,500 ha of small scale outgrower oil palm production
linked to Ghana Oil Palm Development Corporation (GOPDC) nucleus estate; and (b) establishment
of 60 intermediate technology small scale oil palm mills for village cooperatives and individuals.
Coffee Development: (a) Rehabilitation of 1,500ha old farms and planting of 3,000ha new ones
through application of improved technology; (b) Support to coffee research.
Rubber Development: Development of 1,200ha outgrower scheme through the Ghana Rubber Estates
Ltd. (GREL); and (b) development of a small scale model artisanal smoked sheet rubber processing
unit for private processors.
Horticulture Development: (a) Development of technical packages for pineapple production and other
horticulture export crops; (b) Technical assistance for market penetration; (c) development of pilot
production villages and resurfacing of 100km feeder roads.



26
Support Activities:  (a) Studies; (b) technical, equipment and material support to Agricultural
Development Bank; (c) training and research; and (d) project coordination.
Quality at Entry. The project was relevant and consistent with IDA's support to the Government to
reduce dependence of the economy on cocoa through a framework of an agricultural diversification
strategy that is based on comparative advantage. Although the Ghana Export Promotion Council
(GEPC), by its export promotional mandate, was the appropriate agency to be responsible for
management and coordination of the project, GEPC's capacity to effectively coordinate the several
ministries and agencies involved in the project implementation was overrated. Additionally, the
Ministry of Food and Agriculture (MOFA) was an implementing agency but never identified closely
with the project since it was not responsible for overall project performance. The combination of
these aspects of the project design was a major obstacle to satisfactory performance, early in project
implementation. Consequently, project management and coordination responsibility was transferred
to the MOFA as part of the restructuring done at the project mid-termn evaluation.
D) ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES ANND OUTPUTS
Achievement of Project Objective. The project has substantially achieved its development objective
of revitalizing and expanding the production of oil palm and rubber. Since benefits from tree crops
take a long time before being fully realized, it is premature at this time to assess the full extent to
which reliance on cocoa will be reduced. On the other hand, the development of coffee and
horticultural crops other than pineapple was not achieved.
Output by Components.
Oil Palm Development Performance of this component is satisfactory, with a total planted area of
7,820 ha of oil palm compared to the original target of 3,500ha. Contribution to the total planted area
was 6,800 ha by small scale producers uinder the GOPDC managed out-grower scheme benefiting
2,800 farm families, and 1,020 ha under the expanded program to support Juaben community oil palm
outgrower scheme. The project also constructed 204 km of new roads and rehabilitated 504 km of
existing roads, and expanded the GOPDC palm oil mill from 30 tons/hr to 40 tons/hr, and installed a
new 45 ton/hr kernel processing facility to support the out-grower plantings. The intermediate
technology small scale oil palm mills sub-component was cancelled having installed only 23 of the 60
mills due to poor quality of the equipment supplied.
Coffee Development. Given that this component was slow to take off, it finally made some progress
in production of improved planting materials but has failed to achieve its output targets. Only 1.2
million planting materials (representing 34 percent) were produced; 68 percent (136,000) of the
required rooted cuttings were supplied; and only 500 ha of old farms (33 percent of target) were
rehabilitated. A significant achievement was the initiation of private sector participation in the
production of coffee planting materials.
Rubber Development This component was slow initially mainly due to a delay in reaching an
agreement with the Agence Francaise de Developpement financing a line of credit for the
smallholders although implementation piicked up later. Smallholder plantings of rubber under the
scheme managed by GREL reached 1,250ha, above the target output of 1,200ha. Other outputs
achieved include rehabilitation of 3,050ha of existing farms and 41 km of farm roads, and provision
of service centers for farmers. The artisanal rubber processing was cancelled at project mid-term since
it never took off and there was little demand from the intended beneficiaries.



27
Horticultural Component The main achievement of this component was in development of export
production of pineapples whereby exports rose from 10,000tons in early 1990s to a peak of 27,000
tons in 1996. Although exports dropped to 25,000 tons in 1999 mainly due to drought, there is a
potential to increase exports above the 1996 level. This component supported the development of
technical packages for pineapple production, training of horticultural farmers and their association
(Horticultural Association of Ghana); participation in international trade fairs; visit to Cote d'Ivoire;
and rehabilitation of roads in pineapple producing areas. An innovative pilot was also developed
which sought to empower five small-scale pineapple producer cooperatives which teamed up with
two exporters to form a limited liability company to provide production services and inputs to
farmers, and to export their produce.  Currently, this company ranks about the second highest
exporter of pineapples in Ghana and has exported 2,335 tons of pineapple valued US $US740,000
since the company began exporting in November 1999.
Support Activities. Project management and coordination by GEPC was weak even with the
existence of a Project Implementation Committee made up of representatives of the implementing
agencies. The main reason for the poor management appeared to result from the absence, within
GEPC, of the field-based organization and hands on day-to-day experience needed to coordinate a
multi-agency project of this kind. Project coordination was ad hoc while supervision, monitoring of
physical progress, financial control and coordination were all weak. Later on, management
responsibility for the project was transferred from GEPC to MOFA which improved project
coordination.
Institutional Development Impact. The project has improved the technical capacity of the individual
implementing agencies including the Cocoa Research Institute in coffee research, established a
Horticultural Development Unit within MOFA, rehabilitated the laboratories of the Plant Protection
and Regarding Services Department in MOFA; provided training for staff; and developed private
sector capacity for supporting producer associations and cooperatives. Although capacities of
individual agencies have been developed, there is still a need for a strong capacity to coordinate the
implementation of the overall strategy of export diversification.
E) MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOME
The major factors were internal, subject to government and implementation agency control: (a) initial
poor project management and performance ; (b) implementation delays in oil palm and rubber
components; (c) delayed and inadequate provision of counterpart funds; (d) uncertainties in
implementation of the merger of Crop Services Department with MOFA; (e) weak international
marketing of horticultural crops.
The major external factors were: (a) low international prices for rubber; (b) strong competition in
international markets to Ghanaian pineapples; (c) low rainfall in the latter years of the project; (d)
depreciation of the Cedi resulting in high input costs and affecting technology adoption.
F) SUSTAINABILITY
Sustainability is likely for oil palm, rubber, coffee and pineapple. Although there is a strong GOG
commitment to sustaining project gains, there is inadequate post-project support for coffee and
horticulture development.
Enhanced private sector role is ongoing for oil palm and rubber, although it is undeveloped in coffee
seedling marketing. Private sector involvement in pineapple production and marketing is weak due to
high input prices and difficulties in external market access. Institutional arrangements to sustain



28
achievements in coffee and horticulture are weak but will be bolstered under AGSSIP through
support for development of planting materials, and promotion of selected food crops and horticultural
export crops.
G) BANK AND BORROWERS PERFORMANCE
Bank. The Bank performed its role satisfactorily, including the restructuring of the project's
management to ensure successful implementation.  The Co-financier (Agence Francaise de
Developpement) played its role satisfactorily in supporting the rubber component. In general, initial
problems with procurement procedures faced by some implementation agencies were resolved.
Borrower. The initial performance of the implementing agency was poor, but improved with project
restructuring and relocation of project management to MOFA. However, the performance of
Agricultural Development Bank was below expectations.
H) LESSION LEARNED
1. The out-grower scheme approach is a useful mechanism for integrating the private sector and
communities in increasing production and in project implementation.
2. Capacity building was essential in engendering understanding, acceptance and commitrnent by all
stakeholders.
3. Inadequate attention to technical aspects of support to small-scale operations affects their outpul
and contribution to project success.



29
Agricultural Sector Investment Project
CREDIT 2555 -GH
A)    PROJECT DATA
Key Dates                 Original                  Revised/Actual
PCD                       April 1992                April 1992
Appraisal                 November 1993             November 1993
Approval                  December 1993             December 1993
Effectiveness             April 1994                 April 1994
MTR                       Feb 1996                   Feb - March 1995
Closing                   November 1999             March 2000
B)    PRINCIPAL PERFORMANCE RATING
Outcome                                Satisfactory
Sustainability                        Likely
Institutional Development Impact      Unsatisfactory
Bank Performance                       Satisfactory
Borrower Performance                   Satisfactory
Quality at Entry                       Satisfactory
Project Risk at any time               Yes
C) ASSESSMENT OF DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE AND DESIGN AND QUALITY AT
ENTRY
Objective. The main objective was to increase the flow of technical and financial resources for rural
development in response to perceived needs at the village and district level. Related objectives were
to increase agricultural productivity and access to markets, and to strengthen communities' capacities
to develop and manage their investments using the resources of Non-Governmental Organizations,
local consultants and public institutions. The intent of the project objectives was evident, but the
statements of the related activities were general and not specific enough to facilitate measurement of
achievement. However, the objectives were realistic and important for Ghana and the CAS since they
reflected actual development needs that must be addressed to achieve increased rural growth and
poverty alleviation. The project was very demanding on the operational capacity of District
Assemblies, communities, contractors and the implementing agency while the design and
implementation of the project had several complex elements. Project risk was exacerbated by the
overestimation of grassroots capacity to effectively play their roles.
Components. (a) The Investment Component involving small-scale water schemes, marketing
infrastructure, market access roads, storage and food processing facilities; and (b) Studies and
Technical Assistance. The components were reasonably related to achieving the objectives and took
into account lessons learned in prior projects in agricultural and rural development. The components
were reasonably commensurate with the capacity of the Project Unit but the Unit was constrained by
inadequate staff and logistics.
Quality of Entry. This was satisfactory. The objective were consistent with the government's
priorities: the project had the potential to make an impact on rural empowerment and development,
and the decentralization of economic management. The project was consistent with the Bank's
safeguard policies since the development of rural infrastructure of the type and scale supported by the
project would, at worst, create localized environmental problems.



30
D) ACHIEVEMENTS OF OBJECTIVE AND OUTPUTS
Achievement of Project's Objectives. This was satisfactory. The project was the only national rural
infrastructure project in existence during the period of its implementation. Thus, its implementation
resulted in increased flows of financial and technical resources for rural development. However, due
to lack baseline measures to bench mark project achievement, and problems with attributing changes
in impacts to the project, it is difficult to assess the achievement of the sub-objective of increasing
agricultural productivity and market access.  Similarly, problems of integrating qualitative
assessments in the judgement of project achievements make it,difficult to assess the extent to which
the project helped strengthen communities' capacities to manage local development.
Achievement of Project's Outputs. Achievement was satisfactory for water schemes, storage/agro-
processing facilities, markets and roads development under the investment component. Despite initial
implementation problems, the project was largely successful in constructing rural physical
infrastructure. For example, 59 bore-holes, 10 dams/dugouts and 2,144 wells were developed; 57
stores/processing facilities built (target: 18); and 91 markets out of a target of 1 10 developed. In all,
316 sub-projects were completed (target: 236) and 473 financing agreements signed with
beneficiaries against a target of 365. Overall, achievement of project outputs by the investment
component was satisfactory, although the physical quality and location of some structures were
unsatisfactory. The achievement of management services, training, monitoring and evaluation and
project impact studies was unsatisfactory.
In,stitutional Development Impact. On thie project management side, there was little or no integration
of the project into the mainstream the Ministry of Food and Agriculture. However, the transfer of the
entire project staff to the Village Infrastructure Project (which is managed by MOFA) has helped to
institutionalize rural infrastructure development skills and experiences in MOFA. There was no
training of project beneficiaries in the management of the assets developed while the assumption of
some planned project implementation functions of the Assemblies and beneficiaries by the Project
Implementation Unit deprived the communities of institutionalization opportunities. Overall, the
institutional development impact was unsatisfactory.
G) MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOME
(a) the major exogenous factors that partially affected project implementation were the Bank's
procurement procedures, communities' inability to contribute in cash or in kind, and, the poor
performance of several contractors.
(b) inadequate Project Unit staff and resources partially affected implementation while poor market
management by the Assemblies has substantially affected the utility of those investments.
(c) implementation delays, inadequate monitoring, inadequate beneficiary participation, lack of
beneficiary training, and, some management lapses partially affected project implementation and
outcome.
E) SUSTAINABILITY
The probability of maintaining the achievements generated is uncertain, although this is increasingly
likely because of follow-up actions being undertaken by GOG, including several programs for rural
infrastructure development, decentralization and rural capacity building, one which is the Village
Infrastructure Project which has taken over some uncompleted project activities and will develop
similar rural infrastructure on its own. These programs, and the broad developmental focus on



31
poverty alleviation, provide the framework for continuity in enhancing the flow of technical and
financial resources for rural development. Furthermore, GOG will expand public infrastructure and
improve access to markets under AgSSIP.
G) BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE
Bank. The Bank's overall performance was satisfactory from project identification, design, appraised
to supervision. However, the Bank should have highlighted more forcefully the need for management
training of beneficiaries. In addition, the over estimation of the existence of implementation capacity
within the Assemblies and communities affected the pace of implementation and the quality of Sub-
projects. However, the Bank showed extreme responsiveness in agreeing to the modification of
implementation procedures to reflect beneficiaries realities on the ground.
Borrower. The overall performance of the Borrower was satisfactory, despite some management
weaknesses. Institutional development issues were not adequately addressed, as the project was
largely regarded as an engineering project. In additional, GOG/MOFA commitment to the project
waned toward the end of the project, as the new Village Infrastructure Project began taking hold.
H) LESSONS LEARNED
I. In rural infrastructure projects, the complementary development of operation and management
capacity of beneficiaries is required to ensure project success.
2. To ensure effective project management, responsibilities of project staff need to be matched to
the adequacy of their resource support base.
3. Where community input is an integral part of construction resources, the quality and pace of work
can be adversely affected if salient design features are not adequately explained to beneficiaries.
4. To ensure efficient use of project interventions, infrastructure development interventions often
need to include provision of financial assistance to support operational needs of beneficiaries of
income-generating activities.
5. Some degree of flexibility and innovativeness is required in enforcing project regulations and
procedures to ensure successful implementation.






32
2.      Related IDA  Credits
Loan/credit title                          Purpose                                Year of        Status
approval
1. Oil Palm        To continue the Bank's involvement in the agricultural sector,    1984        Closed
Development         including policy areas, strategy for development, production of
Project - Phase II    improved planting material and improved cultivation technology;
(Credit 1498-GH)    diversification away from cocoa, import substitution; and continued
development of investments made in Oil Palm Development
Project Phase I.
2. Agricultural     To enable MOFA to provide effective support to agriculture       1987        Closed
Services            through strengthening the institutional framework for policy and
Rehabilitation      program formulation and implementation, and, improving public
Project (Credit    service delivery in the sector.
1801-GH)
3. Cocoa            To support the policy reforms in the cocoa sector agreed under the  1988     Closed
Rehabilitation      first Structural Adjustment Credit and to increase cocoa production
Project (Credit     and yields to stabilize annual production at 300,000 MT through
1854-GH)            farm rehabilitation and replanting.
4. Rural Finance    To:  (i) expand rural productive capacity and employment by      1989        Closed
Project (Credit     providing financing for viable subprojects through the banking
2040-GH)            system; (ii) implement a fnancial restructuring program for the 125
rural banks to enhance their savings mobilization and credit
delivery efficiency; (iii) strengthen the Association of Rural Banks
and the Credit Union Association; (iv) strengthen the capacity of
the Bank of Ghana for rural bank inspection and examination; (v)
build an enhanced capacity for rural credit appraisal among the
rural and national-level banks; (vi) build local capacity for rural
finance policy.
5. Forest Resources  To: (i) managing industrial forestry production and export earnings  1989
Management Project  in accordance with a sustained yield policy; (ii)  promoting
(Credit 1976-GH)    conservation and tree planting on farrns to counteract fuelwood
shortages and ecological deterioration; (iii) strengthening the
institutional capacity of the sector.
6. Environmental    To strengthen the capacity of the Government and people of Ghana  1993
Resource           to manage environmental resources, through: (i) improving
Management Project  resource  management  and  monitoring  capability  of the
(Credit 2426-GH)    Environmental  Protection   Council;  (ii)  developing   an
environmental information system to improve the availability of
topographic and land use! land suitability information,
meteorological and environmental quality data; (iii) assisting the
environmental resource users to invest in the sustainable use of the
resources through the adoption of improved management and use
practices.






33
3. Agricultural Production, 1980-1998.
Maize  Maize   Maize      Paddy  Paddy    Paddy         Millet  Millet   Millet     Sorgb. Sorghum  Sorghtum    CEREALS  CEREALS  CEREALS              Cassava Cassava  Cassava
Area  Yields    Prod      Area  Yields     Prod        Area  Yields    Prod         Area    Yields     Prod          Area     Yields       Prod          Area   Yields      Prod
1000  Kg/ha   1000MT   1000  Kg/ha    IOOOMT  IOOOHA  Kg/ha    IOOOMT IOOOHA    Kg/ha IO0OMT                     1000MT   1000MT    I000MT           IO0OHA   Kg/ha  1000MT
HA                        HA
1980   319.9  1106.6   354.0       64.5  993.8      64.1       229.9  593.3    136.4        207.6    752.4    156.2         821.9      864.7       710.7        386.4  7495.6   2896.3
1981   315.5  1059.3   334.2       46.0  947.8      43.6       218.8  596.4   130,5         223.9    762.4    170.7         804.2      844.3       679.0         336.9  8075.4   2720.6
1982   276.3  956.6   264.3        43.8  847.0      37.1       224.8  535.6   120.4         243.0    518.1    125.9         787.9      695.1       547.7         274.7  7227.9   1985.5
1983   279.8  503.2   140.8        38.6  696.9      26.9       213.7  535.3   114.4         213.6    495.3    105.8         745.7      520.2       387.9         242.0  5682.6   1375.2
1984   723.6  793.3   574.0        68.8  1104.7     76.0       231.0  601.7   139.0         251.0    701.2    176.0        1274.4      757.2       965.0         813.8  4995.1   4065.0
1985   405.0  975.3   395.0        87.0  919.5      80.0       222.0  540.5   120.0         250.0    740.0    185.0         964.0      809.1       780.0         356.0  8637.6   3075.0
1986   472.1  1184.3   559.1       76.1  914.6      69.6       156.6  701.8   109.9         176.4    726.2    128.1         881.2      983.5       866.7         387.2  7428.2   2876.2
1987   548.3  1090.1   597.7       72.0  1120.8     80.7       235.0  736.6   173.1         271.6    758.1    205.9        1126.9      938.3      1057.4         389.5  6998.2   2725.8
1988   500.0  1200.0   600.0      116.6  900.5    105.0        228.2  843.1   192.4         243.0    730.9    177.6        1087.8      988.2      1075.0         444.0  7432.4   3300.0
1989   595.8  1200.1   715.0       74.4  900.5      67.0       244.0  737.7   180.0         295.5    727.6    215.0         1209.7     973.0      1177.0         446.0  7443.9   3320.0
1990   464.8  1189.8   553.0       88.3  917.3      81.0       123.7  606.3    75.0         215.2    632.0    136.0         892.0      947.3       845.0         322.8  8417.0   2717.0
1991   610.4  1526.0   931.5       94.9  1590.1    150.9       208.5  539.1    112.4        262.6    919.3    241.4         1176.4     1220.8     1436.2         534.7  10663.0   5701.5
1992   606.8  1204.0   730.6       79.7  1649.9    131.5       209.7  635.7   133.3         307.3    842.2    258.8        1203.5      1042.1     1254.2         551.9  10259.1   5662.0
1993   636.7  1509.2   960.9       77.2  2038.9    157.4       203.7  972.5   198.1         309.6   1060.4    328.3        1227.2      1340.2     1644.7         531.8  11230.9   5972.6
1994   629.4  1493.3   939.9       80.9  2006.2    162.3       191.2  877.6   167.8         299.2   1082.6    323.9        1200.7      1327.5     1593.9         520.4  11577.6   6025.0
1995   688.6  1501.9  1034.2       99.9  2215.2    221.3       193.4  1080.7   209.0        334.5   1076.5    360.1         1316.4     1386.1     1824.6         551.3  11992.4   6611.4
1996   665.0  1515.2  1007.6      105.3  2048.4    215.7       189.6  1019.5   193.3        314.3   1124.4    353.4        1274.2      1389.1     1770.0         590.7  12038.6   7111.2
1997   651.6  1566.6  1020.8      117.7  1675.4    197.2       170.0  817.6   139.0         323.6    990.1    320.4         1262.9     1328.2     1677.4         589.3  12132.4   7149.6
1998   696.6  1457.1  1015.0      130.4  2154.9    281.0       180.7  896.5   162.0         332.4   1068.0    355.0        1340.1      1352.9     1813.0         629.7  11389.6   7172.0
Growth (%)
1980-89   8.02%   3.05%   11.07%    7.61%   0.48%    8.08%       0.05%  4.05%    4.10%        2.26%    1.52%     3.78%        4.61%       3.42%      8.03%         3.37%    0,33%    3.70%
1985-98   3.47%   3.16%   6.63%     2.69%   7.89%   10.58%      -1.01%  3.38%    2.37%        3.35%    3.93%     7.28%        2.55%       4.03%      6.58%         4.31%    4.45%    8.76%
1990.98   3.46%   2.24%    5.70%    5.03%   6.81%   11.85%       1.08%  6.44%    7.52%        4.15%    4.86%     9.00%        3.38%       3.81%      7.19%         5.23%    3.30%    8.53%






34
Agricultural Production continued.
Cocoya    Cocoyam    Cocoyam          Yam    Yam         Yam       Tuber   Tuber       Tuber    Plantain    Plantain   Plantain   Ground'ts    Ground'ts    Ground'ts
m
Area      Yields       Prod       Area  Yields       Prod        Area   Yields      Prod       Area      Yields      Prod         Area       Yields        Prod
1000      Kg/ha    1000 MT   1000 HA   Kg/ha   1000 MT    1000 HA    Kglha   1000 MT   1000 HA           Kg/ha   1000 MT       1000 HA       Kg/ha    1000 MT
HA
1980   158.6      5348.7       848.3       95.4  5504.2      525.1       254.0  14742.5    3744.6      155.7     5980.7      931.2         83.8      1696.9        142.2
1981   207.1      4693.4       972.0       88.2  5247.2      462.8      295.3  12504.6    3692.6       134.5     6209.7      835.2        118.8      1059.8        125.9
1982   167.0      4527.5       756.1       79.2  4723.5      374.1       246.2  11135.7    2741.6      137.4     5552.4      762.9        115.1       965.2        111.1
1983   144.7      4237.7       613.2       75.4  4698.9      354.3      220.1  9034.1    1988.4        140.9     5356.3      754.7         95.3       955.9         91.1
1984   395.5      7168.1      2835.0      222.6  3257.0      725.0      618.1  11163.2    6900.0       333.3     3702.4     1234.0        149.0      1120.8        167.0
1985   200.0      4500.0       900.0      111.0  5045.0      560.0       311.0  12781.4    3975.0      270.0     5000.0     1350.0        119.0      1176.5        140.0
1986   206.6      4865.4      1005.2      179.0  5855.3     1048.1       385.6  10065.9    3881.4      190.8     5699.7     1087.5        162.8      1162.8        189.3
1987   196.4      5151.7      1011.8      204.4  5799.4     1185.4      400.8  9325.3    3737.6        189.0     5706.9     1078.6        150.5      1267.1        190.7
1988   249.0      4477.9      1115.0      203.0  5911.3     1200.0       452.0  9767.7    4415.0       211.0     5687.2     1200.0        130.8      1755.4        229.6
1989   249.0      4819.3      1200.0      204.0  5882.4     1200.0       453.0  9977.9    4520.0       182.4     5701.8     1040.0        158.6      1261.0        200.0
1990   141.6      5755.6       815.0      119.4  7345.1      877.0       261.0  13532.6    3532.0      129.1     6189.0      799.0        127.0       889.8        113.0
1991   202.9      6391.3      1296.8      227.3 11579.0    2631.9        430.2  16267.5    6998.3      173.5     6791.4     1178.3        100.0       670.0          67
1992   195.9      6136.8      1202.2      224.1 10403.4    2331.4        420.0  16343.3    6864.2      157.1     6887.3     1082.0        130.0       769.2         100
1993   173.3      7129.3      1235.5      206.7 13160.6    2720.3        380.0  18968.7    7208.1      164.3     8043.2     1321.5        160.0       875.0         140
1994   178.8      6418.9      1147.7      154.2 11025.3     1700.1       333.0  21539.6    7172.7      183.5     8036.5     1474.7        188.2       936.8        176.3
1995   204.5      6763.8      1383.2      176.1 12071.0    2125.7        380.6  21005.3    7994.6      212.5     7705.9     1637.5        180.4       932.4        168.2
1996   213.7      7261.6      1551.8      178.0 12779.8    2274.8        391.7  22116.4    8663.0      228.8     7969.4     1823.4        180.0       898.2       161.63
1997   206.2      7445.2      1535.2      187.4 12898.1     2417.1       393.6  22065.0    8684.8      224.8     8351.9     1877.5        175.8       874.1      153.648
1998   217.8      7240.6      1577.0      210.9 12816.5     2703.0       428.7  20408.2    8749.0      245.9     7779.6     1913.0        194.5      1092.8       212.49
Growth
(/)
1980-89   3.97%     -0.41%       3.56%     11.71%   2.16%     13.86%       7.04%   -3.44%     3.61%      4.16%     -0.26%      3.91%        5.54%       1.73%        7.27%
1985-98  -0.14%      4.15%       4.01%      1.50%   8.29%      9.79%      0.56%    7.19%      7.75%      0,66%      3.87%      4.53%        2.83%      -2.86%      -0.03%
1990-98   3.52%      2.77%       6.28%      1,79%   4.79%      6.59%       2.63%    5.44%     8.08%      7.27%      2.97%     10.25%        6.94%       3.32%       10.27%



