Environmental                 OP
Assessment/Analysis          __
Reports                    _______
Report E 0006
Ghana-
Agricultural Sector
Investment
Pro ect
EA Category B
Environmental Impact of Irrigation
Development & Mitigation Measures
April 1993
This report has been prepared by the World Bank



GHANA    - Agricultural Services Investment Project (ASIP)
- Environmental Impact of Irrigation Development
& Miti2ation Measures
1.   Support for irrigation development will be based on the principle of
assisting farmers to increase productivity of their presently cultivated farm
lands, in the low or marginal rainfall areas of Ghana. The irrigation
investment should be operationally and economicaly sustainable and, for
this purpose, would be farmer-owned and managed and appropriate in
scale. Where group operation is necessary, the schemes would be restricted
to group units of not more than thirty farmers, each farmer managing
about one hectare of irrigated crops on land which is already under
cropping. A key aspect of the project would be the training of farmers in
proper and safe methods of abstracting, distributing and managing the
application of water to the soil with due consideration for possible hazards,
such as damage to the soil, transmission of water-borne diseases, pollution
from chemicals used in crop and soil management practices, excessive
abstraction of water from streams and aquifers, or restricting the use of
land and water to traditional users and not displacing legitimate users.
2.   Except in some areas of the Guinea Savannah region, where some
grains are produced in relatively large blocks by individuals using low
levels of simple technology, crop production in Ghana is mainly by small
farmers with holdings ranging in size from 0.25 to 5.0 ha and applying
simple, sometimes very primitive cultural practices under rainfed
conditions and relying substantially an labor for all operations, including
heading their produce to markets or the nearest motorable road. Many of
these practices have long had serious effects on the landscape, such as
excessive run-off, periodic abnormal floods alternating with reduced stream
flow periods and water shortages, erosion of topsoil, reduction of natural
vegetation density and leading to production levels well below land
capacity.
3.   In the introduction of irrigation to help increase agricultural
productivity, priority will be given to measures directed at ensuring
sustainability and reversing the current land use malpractices which have
contributed to reducing the renewable resources. The following are some



of the environmental factors which would be addressed and where
warranted appropriate mitigation practices adopted against risks:
(a) Disruption of HIydrolomv. There will be no additional
disruption to the natural hydrology of the rivers. During the
peak rainy season, however, there will be a reduction in
downstream fiood flows and consequent reduction in local
flooding and waterlogging of low lying areas, where water
conservation practices are put into effect. It should be noted
that al rivers are subject to reduced flows in the dry s-ason
and, in many instances, they run dry for many months;
(b)  Settlement/Resettlement/Land Compensation. This is not an
issue for this project, since the target areas are already under
cultivation, and no settlement, resettlement or land
compensation will be necessary. Also, there are no settlements
within the catchment areas of the small reservoirs to be
rehabilitated or on the lands immediately downstream;
(c)  Encroachment into Forest or Swamplands. The project will
not lead to encroachment into any new forest or swamplands
or other ecologically sensitive areas. The irrigable areas have
already been cleared and have been used under rainfed
farming for many years. As part of the improved
management in irrigation agronomic practices, encouragement
will be given to restoring some tree species for various
economic uses, such as providing poles, firewood, fruits, nuts,
livestock forage, etc. These trees would be integrated in
appropriate land management practices such as use blocks of
woodlots, orchards or windbreaks and shelterbelts;
(d)  Impediments to Movement/Transportation. The proposed
developments will have no impact on movement or
transportation in the target areas. Local access roads do not
pass through any of the irrigable areas and will not, therefore,
require relocation;
(e)   Encroachment on Historical/Cultural Buildings/Areas. There
will be no impact on these as none exist in the target areas;
(f)   Conflicts with Existing Water Uses. The benefits of conserving
surplus rainfall in the wet season could be directed at



- 3 -
irrigation, aquatic wildlife habitat/sources of water for
terrestrial wildlife, domestic animals and human consumption,
particularly in the dry season. Since aDl the rivers are
seasonal, the small-scale irrigation practices are not expected
to have any significant impact on the existing water supply of
villagers downstream in the dry months. It is expected that
developing water for this purpose would lead to an overall
improvement, particularly for watering livestock. Also, the
introduction of improved irrigation water management would
reduce waterlogging now experienced in some significant areas.
Water abstraction from perennial water courses would take
into account any downstream users and allowance would be
made for ensuring sufricient flow for legitimate riparian user
requirements;
(g)   Traditional Mi2ratory or Free-ranging Livestock. Free-
ranging livestock are occasionally a major problem for
farmers, particularly in the drv season, when grazing is poor
and animals may be spending more time than usual around
valley bottoms and around the reservoirs. Fencing individual
plots has been a customary response to the problem. This is
costly, time-consuming and takes up useful land. A jointly
maintained perimeter fence around the contiguous irrigated
areas would be more cost-effective, but requires that the
farmers put up capital to purchase the materials.
Consideration would be given to incorporating perimeter
fencing into the standard project design, making it part of the
capital cost of project development;
(h)  Erosion Control. There is a risk, albeit small, of localized
erosion during rehabilitation and reconstruction of the spillway
channels, irrigation channels and control structures. This can
be prevented by proper construction procedures that would
ensure bank stability and minimum erosion. The management
of the irrigated lands will also provide for soil and water
conservation measures to ensure maintenance or improvement
of the soil fertility and to avoid water-logging and possible salt
accumulations;
(i)   Suitabilitv of Existine Water Quality for Irrigation. The
existing water quality is assumed to be suitable, based on
available data on major rivers in the area and based on



- 4 -
existing successful irrigation projects. Agronomic practices to
be adopted would be based on optimal chemical applications in
soil fertility and pest management to ensure little or no risk of
polution to soil and water. Only small quantities of pesticides
would be used and are not expected to cause significant
hazards. Arrangements would be made for proper handling,
application and storage practices, and only minimum runoff
concentrations of toxic chemicals, if any, are likely to occur;
(j)  VWater-Borne Diseases. Tne main water-borne diseases of
significance are guinea worm, bilharzia and malaria. In some
places, wells have been drilled, or are being drilled, to
improve village water supply and reduce problems with guinea
worm. Farmers in irrigated areas would be given advice on
simple water filtration methods to guard against ingestion of
the water flea which carries the guinea worm eggs into the
human body. BilIarzia can be a problem where open lesions
on bodies of people become submerged in water infested with
the organism. The risk could be minimized by publicizing
through extension messages, the measures for avoiding
infection. The incidence of malaria is unlikely to be increased
with irrigation because, under proper management, free water
will not be allowed to accumulate long enough on the soil to
allow the breeding of mosquitos. Any new or rehabilitated
reservoirs will be stockee with fish fingerlings to feed on the
larvae of mosquitos which are the vectors of the malaria-
causing organisms. Many of the reservoirs soon become
havens for crocodiles, which effectively prevent children from
getting into the water, and thus reduce the risk from bilharzia
and guinea worm infection.
(k)  Wildlife. The project does not pcse any danger to the sparse
wildlife population in the area. The main species in the area
are crocodiles, snakes - such as black cobras, pythons and
grass types, and rodents - such as field rats and mice and
grass cutters.
(1)   Vegetation. The irrigable areas are presently cleared and are
either fallow or cultivated. Areas not cultivated for
agricultural purposes are generally characterized bv Guinea
savannah-woodland vegetation or wet tropical forests. The
Guinea savannah-woodland vegetation consists of widely-



spaced short fire-resistant deciduous trees (fire climax species)
and a ground flora of different species of grass of varying
height. The major trees left in the target areas are Ceiba
pentandra, Buityrospremum, Parkia, Adansonia digitatita
(Baobab), Anogeissus, Acacias, and Blighia sapida. The
composition of the grasslands varies according to soil, situation
and conditions of burning and grazing. Imperata cylindrica
and Penniisetum polystachvon occur on arable soils, while
large areas of exposed land carry only a thin cover of
Heteropogon contortous. In uncultivated areas Andropogon
spp. and Cvmbopogon giganteus are common. Opportunities
e.ist in the tropical forest areas, primarily in the valley
bottoms, to produce an additional short season crop in the 4-5
dry months, when food supplies diminish. These areas are
already under cultivation in the wet months and would not
involve the removal of trees. The proposed project does not
involve any significant change in the natural vegetation of the
area.
LGCampbell/EPStorm
Fin.Rev.: April 30, 1993
a:GHA-ASIP.SAR (LGC-Q)



