O FFic AL'
CREDIT NUMBER 2555 GH
Development Credit Agreement
(Agricultural Sector Investment Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated     t, 1994


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2555 GB
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                            , 1994, between
REPUBLIC OF GHANA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, -has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Deve-
lopment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1,
1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
(a)   "Beneficiary" means a Rural Association, a District
Assembly, or a Village Coumunity Organization (each as hereinafter
defined);
(b)   "Beneficiary Contribution" means a contribution by a
Beneficiary in cash, kind or labor, calculated in accordance with
the provisions containqd in Part G of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(c) "cedi" mea 's the currency of the Borrower;
(d)   "District Assembly" means an assembly operating in
accordance with the Borrower's Constitution of 1992 and which meets
the eligibility criteria contained in Part A of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement;


﻿-2-
(e)   "District Executive Committee" means a committee of the
District Assembly established in accordance with the Provisional
National Defense Council Law 207, as amended from time to time;
(f)   "FA  Agre4ment"  means  an  agreement  for   Financial
Assistance (as hereinafter defined) between the Borrower, through
the PU (as hereinafter defined), and a Beneficiary for providing a
portion of the financing for a Sub-Project (as hereinafter defined)
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including
those contained in Part I of Schedule 5 to this Agreement
satisfactory to the Association;
(g)   "Financial Assistance" maans a loan or grant to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, made or proposed to be
made by the PU, to a Beneficiary for a Sub-Project;
(h)   "MOFA" means the Borrower's Ministry of Food and
Agriculture;
(i)   "NGO" means a nongovernmental organization operating in
the  Borrower's   territory  for  the  purposes   of  agricultural
development;
(j)   "PPHED" means the Policy Planning, Monitoring and
Evaluation Department within MOFA;
(k)   "Project Coordinating Committee" means the committee to
be established by MOFA to coordinate the Project;
(1)   "Project  Preparation  Advances" means   the   project
preparation advance granted by the Association pursuant to an
exchange of letters dated July 17, 1989 between the Borrower and
the Association, together with the project preparation advance
granted by the Association pursuant to an exchange of letters dated
August 31, 1992 between the Borrower and the Association, together
with the project preparation advance granted by the Association
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated December 30, 1992;
(m)   "PU" means the unit in MOFA established by the Minister
of Food and Agriculture on November 18, 1992, pursuant to the
Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between MOFA and the PU dated
October 22, 1993, to perform the functions contained in Part E of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement;


﻿-3-
(n)   "Rural Association" means a group of rural people
engaged in agricultural activities which meets the eligibility
criteria specified in Part A of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(o)   "Small-Scale   Water   Schemes"   means   conservation
structures including small dams, dugouts, reservoirs, stream
diversions, valley bottom schemes, community pump schemes, and other
water supply and-water harvesting systems;
(p)   "Special Account" means the account to be established in
accordance with Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(q)   "Sub-Project Approval Committee" means any of the
committees established -for the purposes of assisting the PU in the
evaluation of Sub-Project proposals for an amount of $75,000 or
more, to advise on the feasibility of Sub-Projects, to carry out the
functions, and to be composed of the members, referred to in Part D
of Schedule 5 of this Agreement;
(r)   "Sub-Project" means a sub-project which meets the
eligibility criteria contained in Part C of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement;
(s)   "Technical Support Agency" means an agency which meets
the eligibility criteria for a technical support agency contained in
Part B of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(t)   "Technical Assistance Agreement" means an agreement
between a Technical Support Agency and a Beneficiary to assist in
the carrying out of a Sub-Projecp, and to be made on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association; and
(u)   "Village Community Organization" means an organization
carrying on agricultural activities in the territory of the Borrower
which meets the eligibility criteria contained in Part A of
Schedule 5 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies


﻿-4-
equivalent to fifteen million and three hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 15,300,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonabie
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account (the Special
Account) in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-
off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay th;. principal amounts
of the Project Preparation Advances withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of both Project Preparation
Advances shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be November 30, 1999 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year


﻿-5-
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of -Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each June 1 and December 1, commen-
cing June 1, 2004 and endir. December 1, 2033. Each installment to
and including the installment payable on December 1, 2013 shall be
one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)  Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.


﻿-6-
(c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through
MOFA with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, agricultural and engineering
practices, and with due regard to ecological and environmental
factors, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required-for the Project.
Section 3.02. Without limitation upon any of its obligations
under Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall: (i)
provide in its budget amounts sufficient to cover its counterpart
contributions to the costs of the Project,; (ii) open and maintain in
cedis in a commercial bank a project account (the Project Account)
in the name of MOVA to be used by PU exclusively for purposes of the
Project; and (iii) deposit into the Project Account (A) an initial
amount of $50,000 equivalent in accordance with the provisions of
Section 5.01 (a), and (B) the remaining part of its counterpart
cotributions, quarterly in advance, in the amounts determined by
the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-7-
Section 3.04. Without any limitation or restriction upon any
of its other obligations under this Agreement, the Borrower, through
PU, shall:
(i)    enter into FA Agreements (approved by the Sub-
Project Approval Committee, if appropriate,) and
carry out the Sub-Project in accordance with the
- procedures contained in Part F of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement and on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association, including those
contained in Part I of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement; and
(ii)    ensure, ikn cases where a Technical Support
Agency is to provide technical assistance for a
Sub-Project, that the Technical Support Agency
enters into a Technical Assistance Agreement
with the Beneficiary carrying out- the Sub-
Project.
Section 3.05. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower, through PU, shall not amend, waive, abrogate or fail
to enforce the provisions of any FA Agreement, and the Borrower,
through PU, shall exercise its rights under each FA Agreement in.
such manner as to:
(i)    pursue the purposes of the Sub-Project;
(ii)    protect the intereots of the Borrower and. the
Association; and
(iii)    comply with its obligations under this Agreement
and ensure that Beneficiaries comply with FA
Agreements   and   that  Beneficiaries   ensure
compliance by each Technical Support Agency with
each Technical Assistance Agreement.
Section 3.06. Without any limitation upon its general
reporting obligations under the General Conditions, the Borrower
shall cause MOFA in each year of the Project to:
(a)   review Project implementation twice a year, each review
to include, inter alia, details concerning Sub-Project activities
(including those of Technical Support Agencies, as appropriate),


﻿-8-
disbursements, key monitoring and management efficiency indicators,
financial projections and the result of Sub-Project impact studies:
(i)    for the period October 1 to March 31 (the First
Review);
(ii)    from April 1 to September 30 in each year (the
- Second Review); and
(b)   prepare a report, of such scope and detail as is
satisfactory to the Association, and provide a copy to the
Association not later than:
(i)    April 30, in the case of the report based on the
First Review; and
(ii)    October 31, in the case of the report based on
the First Review and the Second Review.
Section 3.07. Throughout the implementation of the Project,
and until implementation of all Sub-Projects has been completed:
(i)    the Borrower, through MOFA, shall maintain the
PU and ensure that the PU is monitored through
PPMED  in   accordance  with   the   provisions
contained in Part E of Schedule 5 of this
Agreement; and
(ii)    the Borrower shall maintain the Sub-Project
Approval Committee, and the Project Coordinating
Committee, in a manner satisfactory to the
Association.
Section 3.08. In order to review the implementation and
development impact of the Project: (i) the Borrower shall prepare a
report on the Project and provide a copy to the Association, not
later than April 30, 1996, for discussion at a midterm review; and
(ii) the Borrower and the Association shall carry out, not later
than June 30, 1996, a midterm review evaluating, inter alia, the
physical and financial Project implementation and its development
impact; and (iii) thereafter the Borrower shall implement changes
agreed at the midterm review in a timely manner.


﻿Section 3.09. Not later than August 31, 1994, the Borrower
shall engage a consultant, with qualifications and experience and on
terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, to review the
technical and procurement procedures followed (A) in each of the
first two Sub-Projects entered into in respect of: (i) Small-Scale
Water Schemes; (ii) rural markets; (iii) roads to improve access to
markets; and (iv) small-scale agro-processing under Part A of the
Project; and (B-) thereafter, on a sample basis throughout the
implementation of the Project, or, on such basis, and for such
period, as the Borrower and the Association shall agree, taking into
account the findings of the consultant.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section including those
for the Special Account for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)    furnish  to   the  Association,   as  soon   as
available, but in any case not later than six
months after the end of each such year, a
certified copy of the report of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and
(iii)    furnish   to   the  Association    such   other
information concerning said records, accounts
and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.


﻿- 10 -
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall, and shall cause the PU to:
(i)    maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of
this Section, records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures;
(ii)    retain, until one year after the Association has
received the audit report for the fiscal year in
which the last disbursement from the Credit
Account was made, all records (contracts,
orders, invoices, bills receipts and other
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)    enable the Association's representatives to
examine such records; and
(iv)    ensure that   such  records and   accounts are
included in the annual audit referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
report of such audit contains a separate opinion
by said auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditures submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that the Borrower shall have established the
Project Account referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement and
shall have deposited therein an initial amount in cedis equivalent
to $50,000.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
P.O. Box M40
Accra, Ghana
Cable address:                Telex:
ECONOMICON                2205 MIFAEP GH
Accra
For the Association:
International Development
Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INDEVAS                  248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)


﻿- 12 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
By     /L. A
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By    /s
Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for-items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)   Civil works                7,080,000      100% of foreign
expenditures and
90% of local
expenditures
(2)   Goods and                  2,690,000      100% of foreign
equipment                                 expenditures and
90% of local
expenditures
(3)   Consultants'               2,830,000      100%
services
(4)   PU:
(a) operating                220,000      85% of expen-
costs                                 ditures until
December 31,
1996 and 75%
thereafter
(b) goods and                180,000      100% of foreign
equipment                             expenditures and
90% of local
expenditures


﻿- 14 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(5)   Refunding of               1,070,000      Amounts due
Project                                   pursuant to
Preparation                               Section 2.02 (c)
Advances                                  of this Agreement
(6)   Unallocated                1,230,000
TOTAL                     15,300,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and
(c)   the term "operating costs" means the PU's expenditures
for vehicle operation and maintenance, travel, office supplies and
materials and salaries for temporary contractual staff only incurred
in respect of the Project.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and (b) in respect
of Financial Assistance for a Sub-Project unless the Financial
Assistance is for a Sub-Project which has been prepared in
accordance with the requirements and procedures and on the terms and
conditions contained in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.


﻿- 15 -
4.    The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for
expenditures under contracts for goods, works and services not
exceeding $75,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) increase avail-
ability of technical and financial resources in rural areas for
agricultural infrastructure; (ii) improve agricultural productivity
and access to markets; (iii) strengthen the capacity of agricultural
communities to develop, manage and maintain agricultural infra-
structure; and (iv) alleviate poverty in rural areas.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Sub-Projects
The financing of a portioi of Sub-Projects to upgrade and
develop Small-Scale Water Schemes rural markets, small-scale agro-
processing and roads to improv access to markets through the
provision of financial assistance to Beneficiaries.
Part B:     Studies and Technical Assistance
1.    Assisting Beneficiaries to identify, formulate and implement
Sub-Projects.
2.    Prepare studies relating to such Sub-Projects, including
feasibility studies for future Sub-Projects.
3.    Carrying  out  a  training program    for  Beneficiaries  in
irrigation, rural business, marketing and management.
Part C:     PU
Assisting the PU in carrying out the Project, including, inter
alia: (i) recruitment of administrative and technical staff; (ii)
provision of logistical and operational support; (iii) carrying out
of technical studies and supervision; and (iv) employment of farmer
facilitators to liaise with Beneficiaries.
The Project is expected to be completed by May 31, 1999.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     Procurement Procedures
1.    Works estimated to cost the equivalent of $40,000 or more for
each contract shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.    Works estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $40,000,
up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $7,600,000, may be procured
on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at
least three suppliers eligible under the "Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992
(the Guidelines).
3.    Works under Sub-Projects may be carried out by the Benefi-
ciaries under arrangements acceptable to the Association.
4.    Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $40,000 or more for
each contract shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory -to the Association.
5.    Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $40,000,
up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $3,500,000, may be procured
on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at
least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines.
6.    Goods, estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $5,000,
up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $1,200,000, may be procured
directly from the suppliers, under arrangements acceptable to the
Association.
Part B:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
(a)   With respect to: (i) contracts for works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $75,000 or more, and (ii) contract for goods
estimated to cost the equivalent of $40,000 or more, the procedures
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 of the Guidelines
shall apply. Where payments for such contracts are to be made out of


﻿- 18 -
the proceeds of the Special Account, the two conformed copies of the
contract required to be furnished to the Association, pursuant to
paragraph 2 (d) of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines, shall be furnished
to the Association prior to the making of the first payment of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply to review of all
procurement decisions in respect of the Project. Where payments for
the relevant contracts are to be made out of the Special Account,
said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract, together with the other information required
to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3,
shall be furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of the
Project, the Borrower shall employ or cause to be employed
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981 (the Consultants' Guidelines).
2.    For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ
or cause to be employed such consultants under contracts using the
standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the
Association, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by
the Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents have
been issued by the Association, the Borrower shall use or cause to
be used other standard forms agreed with the Association.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultants' Guidelines requiring prior
Association review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection
procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and
contracts shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less,than
$15,000 equivalent each. However, this exception to prior
Association review shall not apply to the terms of reference for
such contracts nor to the employment of individuals, to single


﻿- 19 -
source selection of firms, to assignments of a critical nature as
reasonably determined by the Association, to amendments of contracts
raising the contract value to $15,000 equivalent or above, and to
the first ten contracts to be awarded.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
(b)   the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an      amount
equivalent to $1,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclus.ly
for Eligible Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of  this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association
requests for deposits into the Special Account
at such intervals as the Association shall
specify.


﻿- 21 -
(ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
the documents and other evidence required
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
payment  or   payments  in  respect  of .which
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
such request, the Association shall, on behalf
of the Borrower, withdraw     from the Credit
Account and deposit into the Special Account
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested
and as shall have been shown by said documents
and other evidence to have been paid Eligible
Expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from
the Credit Account under the respective Eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
Eligible Expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3       of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount      of the Credit
allocated to the Eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the Eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall


﻿- 22 -
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for Eligible Expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
(d)   Refunds to the Association made pirsuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 5
Eligibility Criteria
Part A.     Eligibility Criteria for Beneficiaries
The following groups may be Beneficiaries for the purposes of
this Agreement if the following eligibility criteria for each such
group are met:
Rural Association
A Rural Association shall meet the following criteria:
(i)    the District Executive Committee shall have
confirmed that the members of the Rural
Association   form  a   group  with   a  common
agricultural development purpose and shall have
provided facts supporting this confirmation;
(ii)    it has carried out relevant business activities
for more than one year, or such other period as
the Association may agree, and has provided
evidence of its ability to contribute the
Beneficiary Contribution in accordance with Part
G of this Schedule;
(iii)    it has a minimum of 10 members with a clearly
identified   leader,   subject  to   membership
control, and of which the Chairman, the
Secretary and the Treasurer and at least two
other members will sign and enter into an FA
Agreement; and
(iv)    it intends to enter into a Technical Assistance
Agreement with an acceptable Technical Support
Agency.
District Assembly
A District Assembly, in order to be eligible, shall meet the
following criteria:
(a)   its budget includes provision for the proposed Sub-
Project; and


﻿- 24 -
(b)   it provides evidence satisfactory to the PU that it has
made adequate financial provision for the proposed Beneficiary
Contribution.
Village Community Organization
A Village Community Organization in order to be eligible
shall meet the following criteria:
(i)    it demonstrates common economic activities;
(ii)    it can provide documentation on the way the
community is organized (e.g., by-laws, minutes
of meetings, membership records);
(iii)    it has provided evidence of its ability to
contribute its Beneficiary Contribution in
accordance with Part G of this Schedule; and
(iv)    it has provided evidence, satisfactory to the
PU, of its ability to manage and maintain the
Sub-Project.
Part B.     Eligibility Criteria for Technical Suport Agencies
A Technical Support Agency, in order to be eligible:
(i)    shall be an NGO or a consulting agency which
helps communities to implement and manage Sub-
Projects;
(ii)    shall have, in the opinion of the PU, the
required experience to assist in carrying out
the relevant Sub-Project;
(iii)    shall have, in the opinion of the PU, sufficient
managerial capacity to assist the communities;
and
(iv)    shall be willing and able to enter into a
Technical   Assistance  Agreement   with   the
Beneficiary.


﻿- 25 -
In each year, in agreement with the Association, the PU shall:
(i) review the existing prequalified Technical Support Agencies; and
(ii) invite technical and financial proposals from other Technical
Support Agencies and prequalify them for eligibility.
Part C.     Eligibility Criteria for Sub-Projects
A Sub-Project shall relate to one of the following activities:
(i)    Small-Scale Water Schemes within (a) below;
(ii)    construction and rehabilitation of marketing
infrastructure within (b) below;
(iii)    construction and rehabilitation of market access
roads within (c) below; and
(iv)    storage and agro-processing infrastructure and
equipment within (d) below.
Sub-Projects shall be prepared with due regard to ecological and
environmental factors, and Sub-Projects involving resettlement shall
not be eligible for financing.
(a)   Small-Scale Water Schemes. A Sub-Project shall be
established by a Village Community Group or Rural Association for a
Small-Scale Water Scheme if:
(i)    the scheme is managed and maintained by a
Village Community Group or Rural Association;
(ii)    the Village Community Group or Rural Association
provides written evidence of usufruct rights on
land;
(iii)    the   scheme  is   technically   feasible   and
construction costs and equipment purchases shall
not exceed $150,000 equivalent unless the
Association otherwise agrees;
(iv)    costs per irrigable hectare shall not exceed
$5,000   equivalent  unless   the   Association
otherwise agrees;


﻿- 26 -
(v)    the financial rate of return of the scheme
exceeds 10%;
(vi)    a feasibility study has been completed and
concludes that the scheme does not create
environmental  hazards   or  water   shortages
elsewhere; and
(vii)    the Village Community Group or Rural Association
shall  enter   into  a   Technical  Assistance
Agreement with a Technical Support Agency.
(b)   Markets. A Sub-Project shall be established for market
infrastructure if:
(i)    agreement, satisfactory to the Association, has
been reached between the Beneficiaries and the
traders on market design, layout, cost sharing,
responsibility for maintenance, cost recovery
methods and user fees;
(ii)    market  design  includes  sufficient  sanitary
utilities, water supply and refuse collection;
and
(iii)   the Sub-Project costs shall not exceed $150,000
equivalent unless the Association otherwise
agrees.
(c)   Roads.  A  Sub-Project   shall  be  established   for
construction and rehabilitation of farm-to-market access roads if:
(i)    the relevant district authority and Beneficiary
proposes an acceptable maintenance plan;
(ii)    the construction is technically feasible to pre-
established construction standards and at a
maximum cost of $10,000 equivalent per km;
(iii)    the  total  cost  shall not   exceed  $150,000
equivalent unless the Association otherwise
agrees; and
(iv)    the proposed roads either (A) complement the
feeder roads system targeted fcz development by


﻿- 27 -
the Department of Feeder Roads within the
Ministry of *Roads and Highways and are situated
in high and medium priority areas designated by
the Department of Feeder Roads, or (B) the PU
is satisfied as to the economic viability of the
proposed road.
(d)   Storage and Agro-Processing Units. A Sub-Project shall
be established by a Village Community Group or Rural Association for
storage and agro-processing related infrastructure and equipment if:
(i)    there is sufficient primary produce and market
opportunity for output;
(ii)    storage units are technically feasible at a
capacity below 25% of storable community
production;
(iii)    there is agreement on procedures for access by
the Village Community Group or Rural Association
and on cost recovery of user fees for
facilities;
(iv)    cost per unit does not exceed $50,000 equivalent
unless the Association otherwise agrees;
(v)    financial rates of return to investment exceed
10%; and
(vi)    the Village Community Group or Rural Association
shall  enter   into   a  Technical   Assistance
Agreement with a Technical Support Agency which
has agreed to assist the Village Community Group
or Rural Association with cost recovery.
Part D:     Membership and Functions of a Sub-Project Aproval
Committee
The Sub-Project Approval Committee shall:
(i)    assist the PU in the evaluation of Sub-Project
proposals estimated to cost more than $75,000
equivalent;
(ii)    decide upon the eligibility of the Sub-Project
and the Beneficiaries; and


﻿- 28 -
(iii)    provide a second and decisive opinion on the
feasibility of Sub-Projects in cases where the
PU has reservations concerning Sub-Project
feasibility.
Each Sub-Project's approval shall require a simple majority of
the Sub-Project Approval Committee's members present at the meeting
to be in favor of the Sub-Project.
Each Sub-Project Approval Committee (one in Accra and one in
Tamale) shall be composed of a maximum of nine experts including
representatives from MOFA, Ministry of Local Government, Department
of Feeder Roads within the Ministry of Roads and Highways, Ministry
of Works and Housing and other appropriate agencies. At least two
committee members shall be women.
Part E:     Functions of the PU
Status: The PU shall be a unit within MOFA responsible for
implementing the Project. The PU's activities shall be monitored by
PPIMED. The PU shall establish offices in Accra and Tamale and other
places, as may be necessary.
Functions: The PU's functions shall be to:
(a)   plan, organize, direct and control project operations;
(b)   act as representatives for the carrying out of the
Project to assist third parties and the Association;
(c)   manage Project information and promotion campaigns to
local communities;
(d)   elaborate and review standard Sub-Project documents and
procedures and enter into FA Agreements;
(e)   analyze and approve Sub-Project proposals;
(f)   convene and report on Sub-Project Approval Committee
meetings;


﻿- 29 -
(g)   carry out Sub-Project disbursement and accounting;
(h)   review  qualifications of, and evaluate, Technical
Support Agencies and consultants;
(i)   elaborate work plans and cash flow projections;
(j)   introduce a Sub-Project cost data monitoring system; and
(k)   report quarterly to MOFA, and semiannually to the
Project Coordination Committee and the Association.
Part F:     Procedures for Sub-Projects
The Sub-Project processing cycle shall consist of five steps.
The Beneficiaries shall:
(i)    identify Sub-Projects;
(ii)    present  the   Sub-Projects  to  the  District
Executive Committee for evaluation;
(iii)    present the Sub-Project to the PU (or Sub-
Project Approval Committee, as appropriate) for
approval;
(iv) carry out the feasibility studies; and
(v)    implement the Sub-Project in accordance with the
FA Agreement and in a manner satisfactory to the
Association.
Projects above $75,000 equivalent would be submitted to the
Sub-Project Approval Committee for approval.


﻿- 30 -
Part G:     Beneficiary Contribution
In respect of each Sub-Project, Beneficiaries shall make a
Beneficiary Contribution in accordance with the following table:
Beneficiary Contribution
Investment                        Shown as Percentage
Categories-                      of Sub-Project Costs
Small-Scale Water Schemes      10% for infrastructure,
25% for moveable equipment
Markets                        25%
Access roads                   10%
Storage and                    10% for infrastructure,
agro-processing                25% for equipment
Feasibility studies            5%
Technical assistance           15%
Part H:     Cost Recovery
Cost Recovery of a portion of Sub-Project costs shall be
required in the case of Sub-Projects for the purposes of Small-Scale
Water Schemes (recovery of the cost of moveable equipment) and Sub-
Projects for storage and agro-processing (recovery of the cost of
agro-processing equipment) in the following manner:
(i)    an amount equal to 25% of the cost of such items
shall be paid to the PU by the Beneficiaries on
entering into the relevant FA Agreement; and
(ii)    an amount equal to the remaining 75% of such
cost shall be paid over the following three-year
period with interest calculated at a rate satis-
factory to the Association.
Part I:     Terms and Conditions of FA Agreements
FA Agreements shall be entered into between each Beneficiary
and the PU for the purposes of each Sub-Project and shall provide
the PU with rights adequate to protect the interests of the Borrower


﻿- 31 -
and the Association and on terms and conditions which shall include
the following rights for the PU to:
(i)    require the Sub-Project to be carried out and
operated with due diligence and efficiency and
in accordance with sound technical, financial,
managerial and environmental standards, policies
- and procedures, including those agreed between
the Borrower and the Association;
(ii)    require that the Beneficiary maintain adequate
financial accounts and records in respect of the
Sub-Project;
(iii)    in cases of provision of Financial Assistance
which includes amounts to be repaid by a
Beneficiary, require a satisfactory schedule of
amortization or repayment;
(iv)    require that the goods and services to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
be used exclusively in the carrying out of the
Sub-Project;
(v)    require that the goods and services to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
be procured in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement;
(vi)    inspect,   by    itself   or    jointly   with
representatives of the Association, if the
Association shall so request, all goods and the
sites, works, plants and construction included
in the Sub-Project, the operation thereof and
any relevant records and documents;
(vii)    require that the Beneficiaries and the Technical
Support Agency, as appropriate, concerned with
the Sub-Project shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers such insurance, against
such risks and in such amounts, as shall be
consistent with appropriate practices;


﻿- 32 -
(viii)    obtain all such information as the Association
or the PU shall reasonably request relating to
the foregoing; and
(ix)    suspend or terminate the use of the proceeds of
the Credit upon failure by the Beneficiary to
perform its obligations under its FA Agreement.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


