Document of
The World Bank
FORt OMFCIAL USE ONLY
CR /to3s- MJ:r
Zept No. P-3605--r4
REPORT AND RECOlDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTENAIONAL D             ASSOCATON
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTERS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 7.1 MILI ON
TO
THE R        OF MALI
FOR A
BIONASS ALCOHOL AMD ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
May 26, 1983
Th e_is   me   s w a ritd _ "m sd on be aed bY reerwts aiy in the perfmmce of
theiw officiad dubii. Itrs cemkitmisa ant otherwise be ibdami withou Weed Bmum audhouaioum.



MAL
CUERENCY EQUIVALTS
Currency Unit   =  ffaliA  Frnc (IF)
USS1.00         =   NF 648
PFSi1,000       =  USS1.54
USS1                SDR 1.08163
ABBREVIATIONS AnD ACRONYMS
APU   -  Alcohol Production Unit
COD   -  Confederation of Oil Distribmtors
MA     - Ministry of Agriculture
ME    -  Ninistry of State for Equiplent
ON    -  Office du Niger
OSBP  -  Office pour la Stabilisation et la Regvlarisation des Prix
uT?F   -  Rehabilitation Task Force
SI    -  Sugar DivLsion
FISCAL YEAR
Government:     January 1 - December 31
Office du Niger: July 1 - June 30



FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
MALI
BIOHASS ALCOHOL AND ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:         Government of Mali
Beneficiary:      Office du Niger (ON)
Credit Amount:   SDR 7.1 million (USS7.6 million)
Terms:            Standard
Relending Terms: US$4.1 million of the IDA credit for alcohol production and
improved energy efficiency would be lent by Government to
ON: 5 years grace, 13 years term, 9 percent interest per
annum. Foreign exchange risk to be borne by ON. Commitment
fee of 0.75 percent per annum on undisbursed balance of the
subsidiary loan.
Project
Description:     The main objectives of the proposed Project are: (a) to
reduce Mali's dependence on petroleum imports through
production of anhydrous alcohol (about two million liters
annually) from surplus molasses to blend with gasoline and
through improved energy efficiency in its two sugar com-
plexes by better use of bagasse; and (b) to help develop a
coherent program of policy reforms and investments to
rehabilitate the Office du Niger. The project would include
the following components: (a) biomass alcohol production,
storage, and handling; (b) energy efficiency imprcvementa;
(c) gasohol blending and distribution; (di technical assist-
ance and training; (e) biomass energy study; and (f) tech-
nical assistance for an Office du Niger Rehabilitation Task
Force (RTF) and urgently required farm inputs. Benefits
would derive from substituting locally distilled anhydrous
alcohol for imported gasoline and from reducing the use of
imported industrial diesel oil to generate steam and elec-
tricity in sugar production. Additional benefits would
derive from more efficient cane and sugar production and
from its contribution to the long-term overall rehabili-
tation program for the Office. The main risk3 facing this
project are delays in implementation and insufficient cane
supply resulting in lower capacity utilization than pro-
jected. These risks would be addressed by strengthening the
management of the sugar and alcohol production units, train-
ing, agreement on minimum standards for qualifications and
experience of key project staff, and technical assistance
for cane production and handling.
This document has a resticted disbution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofril duties. Its contents may not otherwise be dislosed without World Bank authorizationo



- Lii -
Estimated Cost: 1/
Local     Foreign      Total
--- US$ million-
Alcohol Production                        -         1.1          1.1
Energy Efficiency                         -         1.0          1.0
Gasohol Blending                           -        0.1         0.1
Technical Assistance and Training        0.2        1.0          1.2
ON Rehabilitation                        0.1        2.1         2.2
Energy Study                              -         0.1         0.1
Base Costs                          0.3        5.4         5.7
Contingencies:  Physical            0.1       0.5          0.6
Price              0.1        1.1          1.2
Working Capital                     0.3        0.2         0.5
Total Project Cost                  0.8       7.2          8.0 2/
Interest During Construction        0.3         -          0.3
Total Financing Required            1.1       7.2          8.3
Financing Plan:
Local     Foreign     Total
------US$ million---
IDA                             0.4       7.2          7.6
Office du Niger                 v.2        -           0.2
Government of Mali              0.5        _           0.5
Total                      1.1       7.2          8.3
Estimated Disbursements:
1983     1984      1985       1986
---------- US$ million -------_
Annual                   1.0    2.1       3.6          0.9
Cumulative               1.0    3.1       6.7          7.6
Economic Rate of Return:  The estimated overall ERR is 21 percent, cal culated
on 59 percent of total project costs (excluding costs
of the energy study and the Rehabilitation b?ask
Force). The ERR for investment in the alcohol pro-
duction unit is estimated at 20 percent, cklculated on
57 percent of the project's capital costs;-! for the
energy efficiency improvements, the estimated EIRR is
22 percent, calculated on the remaining 43 percent of
capital costs.
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 4014-MLI
Na:  IBRD 16461
1/ Project costs are exempt from taxes and duties.
2/   Includes US$0.95 million PPF advance.



INTERNATIC AL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF MALI
FOR A BIOMASS ALCOHOL AND ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed devel-
opment credit of SDR 7.1 million (US$7.6 million equivalent) on standard IDA
terms to the Republic of Mali to help finance a proposed Biomass Alcohol and
Energy Efficiency Project. Proceeds of the IDA credit for alcohol production
and energy efficiency improvement (US$4.1 million) would be relent to Office
du Niger for 13 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at 9.0 per-
cent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.       Two reports entitled "Economic Memorandum on Mali" (3200-MLI) and
"Mali-Special Economic Study--Planning Institutions and the 1974-78 Plan'
(3333-MLI) were distributed to the Executive Directors on June 30, 1981. The
following paragraphs are based on these reports and the findings of recent
World Bank and IMF economic missions.  Annex I gives country data.
Introduction
3.       Mali is one of the poorest countries in the world.  Economic growth
has been reasonable since independence in 1960, although highly variable. But
economic management has encouraged consumption more than productive invest-
ment, with the result that this growth was obtained at the cost of increasing
imbalances in public finances and on foreign accounts. By the end of 1980,
these imbalances were severe enough that the Malian Government began to recog-
nize deficiencies of past policies. It embarked or: a cautious path heading
toward economic and financial restructuration, and IDA and the IMF were asked
to assist in this new effort. Nevertheless, growth in the near future will be
limited by poor physical resources and underdeveloped human resources and
infrastructure, although there is some potential for long-term economic devel-
opment.
Economic Resources and Constraints
4.       Mali has a population of 7 million inhabitants, in an area of 1.24
million square kilometers in the middle of sub-Saharan West Africa. In 1981,
GNP per capita was only US$190. Mali manifests all the signs of a least
developed country, including a subsistence-oriented economy (85 percent of the
1/   This part is substantially the same as in the President's Report for
the Economic Management and Training Project Report No. P-3356-MLI, dated
November 15, 1982.



-2-
population dependo on the primary sector), dependence on a few commodity ex-
ports, an extremely low rate of domestic savings (minus 3.6 percent of GDP in
1980), a high population growth rate (2.7 percent), a low level of education
(less than 10 percent adult literacy), and difficult living conditions that
give a life expectancy of only 43 years.
5.       Poor physical and underdeveloped human resources, as well as inade-
quate infrastructure, constrain economic growth in Mali in the short and
medium term. Potential for agricultural growth is limited by uncertain rain-
fall, fragile soils prone to exhaustion and erosion, and low-yielding, tradi-
tional crop and livestock technology with little scope for intensification.
Mineral and energy resources are limited and difficult to exploit.  Human re-
sources are underdeveloped, in part because access to basic amenities like
clean water, better health care, and educational opportunities remains quite
limited. There are shortages of skilled workers and experienced managers.
Transportation and communication are extremely expensive by world standards,
because Mali is landlocked and internal distances are vast. The above factors
result in low incomes, small domestic markets, and limited potential for
industrial development. Finally, Mali is a small open economy, with trade
concentrated in a few commodities. Imports and exports together amount to
more than half of GDP. Cotton and livestock comprise four-fifths of exports,
and petroleum and foodstuffs, one-third of imports. Thus. the country is ex-
treme:y vulnerable to changes in world prices and declining terms of trade.
6.       Although economic deve?lopment will be difficult in the short and
medium term, Mali has economic potential that can be developed over the long
term. Malian farmers are among the most proficient in West Africa. Rainfed
maize production could be significantly expanded in the south. Mali has more
irrigated rice land than any other Sahelian country, as weLL as the largest
physical scope for expanding irrigation. Hydroelectric generating potential
on the Eiger and Senegal rivers is significant. Although mineral resources
remain largely unexplored and unexploited, they may offer longer-term oppor-
tunities.
Sconomic Performance 1960-82
7.       The Malian Government has attempted since independence to promote
growth while trying to improve social equity and raise consumption from very
lovt levels. During 1960-81, annual growth of GNP per capita averaged 1.1 per-
cent in constant prices, although there were large swings from a decline in
GNP in one year to jumps of over 10 percent in the next, The economiz struc-
ture has shifted as the agricultural sector has becomr less important while
the services sector has become more so. Although this tendency is normal for
developin- economies, in Mali it also reflects the effect of policies that
have shifted resources to the urban sector and to public consumption. At the
same time, the industrial sector has stagnated despite government efforts to
create a modern industrial base. Because of drought and declining terms of
trade, as well as continuing mistakes in economic management and poor alloca-
tion of public resources, there have been since independence consistently
large and worsening imbalances in public finances and on foreign accounts,
with declining domestic savings and growing foreign indebtedness. While
economic and social objectives have been partially achieved, the process has



- 3 -
led to severe financial and economic disequilibria that could be sustained
only by dependence on foreign borrowing.
8.       Mali's economic history can be divided into four periods (1960-67,
1967-74, 1974-80, and 1981-82) based roughly on changes in economic and poli-
tical conditions. The changes in economic and 4inancial structure during
these four periods are indicated in the following tabulation: 1/
1960    1967    1974    1980    1981 2/
GDP (US$ millions, current)           273      241     414   1,325   1,119
Agriculture (percent GDP)           55       50      35      42       42
Industry (percent GDP)              10       13      16      10       11
Services (percent GDP)              35       37      49      48       47
Terms of trade index                  100       73,     58      64       58
Gross dom- tic savings (percent GDP)   9.5       1.3   -19.2    -3.6    -5.7
Budget deficit (percent GDP)           ..      5.3     3.5     4.0      2.3
Resource gap (percent GDP)             -4      -16     -33     -20      -21
Net foreign assets (US$ millions)       2 3/  -56    -139    -249    -218
Longterm foreign debt (US$ millions)  ..      269      441     853   1,079
GNP growth rate (percent per year) 4/ ..       3.5     1.8     6.8      0.2
These figures (as well as the economic indicators in Aanex I) illustrate some
of the major trends in the Malian economy.
9.       Post-independence, 1960-67. After independence, the first government
undertook a major program of modernization that included an independent mone-
tary system, an ambitious five-year development plan, a program of industria-
lization based on state enterprises, and a welfare orientation intended to
keep prices down and to assure consumers an adequate supply of basic commodi-
ties. During this period, GDP growth was high but public pricing and invest-
ment policies created imbalances that could not be sustained. Government
budgetary deficits often exceeded 5 percent of GDP. By 1967 the resource gap
had quadrupled (as a percent of GDP), net foreign assets had turned negative,
and the debt service ratio had risen to 19 percent. The economic crisis led
to the signature of monetary accords with France in early 1967, followed by a
50 percent devaluation in mid-1967, and to reintegration with the franc zone
in early 1968. At that time, the French Treasary opened an Operations Account
for Mlali to provide overdraft facilities to support the convertibility of the
Mali franc.
1/ The symbol -.." means "not available".
2/ Figures are provisional and subject to change.
3/ 1962.
4/ At constant market prices in Malian francs. Growth rate refers to
the period that preceeds the year under which the figure is given.



- 4 -
10.      Economic Reform, the Sahelian Drought, and the Energy Crisis,
1967-74. In late 1968, a new government launched an ambitious but pragmatic
reform program that proposed to increase official commodity prices and liber-
alize private trade--especially in cereals. But the shock of the severe
Sahelian drought (1968-73), followed by a quintupling of petroleum prices
during 1972-74, prevented the new government from carrying out the reforms.
Economic performance during 1967-74 was poor, reflecting these shocks. Output
in the primary sector fell, and real per capita income declined. Economic
policies remained inadequate.  For example, low official prices discouraged
agricultural production and led to increased food imports; and recourse to
bank credit to finance the mounting losses of state enterprises led to in-
creased external debt. By 1974, the economic imbalances--already large
7 years earlier--had either not improved or had deteriorated. The resource
gap was larger, reflecting partly the large inflow of foreign aid to sustain
consumption after the 1968-73 drought. Domestic dissaving was greater, net
foreign assets had fallen by over 100 percent, and public external debt more
than doubled.
11.      Uneven recovery, 1974-80.  Compared to the drought years, the sub-
sequent period ras favored by generally better weather and more foreign aid.
There was more rapid growth of GDP, led by agriculture and reflecting recovery
from low drought levels. But the severe disequilibria in public finances and
external account3 created earlier were not corrected. Inflation increased.
Domestic dissavings and the resource gap remained high. The need to finance
increasingly large Government Treasury deficits and growing losses in the
state enterprises sector caused short-term foreign liabilities to double.
Borrowings to finance the 1974-78 development plan caused external long term
public debt to double as well. Despite a few abortive efforts late in the
period, the Goverment did not develop and carry out reforms. While continuing
external shocks, like a second jump in petrolelum prices, hampered reform
efforts, availability of substantial foreign resources also made the im-
balances more manageable and relieved some of the pressures to chauge poli-
cies.
12.      New orientations, 1980-82.  Faced with worsening financial disequi-
libria but less central bank financing resulting from reduced access to the
Operations Account provided by France, the Malian Government at thG ead of
1980 requested technical and firLancial assistance from both the Bank and the
IMF to help it carry out a program of economic reform and adjustment. Sup-
ported in part by technical assistance financed by IDA (Cr. 1307-MLI), the
Government has started to liberalize cereals marketing, reduce the role of the
agricultural produce marketing board, restructure the state enterprise sector
and improve the viability of key enterprises, and study how to restructure
rural development agencies. The Government initiated several major fiscal
improvements in 1981, despite difficult circumstances including poor rains in
1980 and a further deterioration in the terms of trade. These measures in-
clude credit restraint, improved tax collection, higher taxes on staple con-
sumer goods and petroleum, fewer subsidies to offset price increases, rest-
raint on government personnel costs, savings on maintenance of government
material, reductions in scholarships, and suspension of some education
expenditures. Initial steps have been taken to restructure the state enter-
prise sector and to improve the medium-term viability of key enterprises. To



- 5 -
improve incentives for agricultural production, the govern,nent substantially
raised commodity prices for the 1981-82 season and increased official consumer
prices for cereals. In May 1982, the IMF approved a one-year Standby Loan for
SDR 30.375 million (about TJS$33.9 million). The government has also formally
asked to rejoin the Vest African Monetary Union (WANU), a move that would
improve Mali's financial and monetary position. Finally, the new Five-Year
Plan for Economic and Social Development for 1981-85 puts special emphasis on
the need for policy reforms to re-establish fundamental financial and economic
equilibria, notably by balancing the government budget, reducing the balance
of payments deficit, reducing the losses of the state enterprises, and
controlling training and recruitment for the Civil Service.
Development Policies
13.      1981-85 Development Plan.  The new plan continues to give priority to
water development for the rural population, livestock, and irrigation; to
agricultural and livestock production for achieving food self-sufficiency, for
supplying an expanded agro-industrial sector, and for increasing commodity
exports; to energy development; and to conservation of natural resources--
especially forests and pastures. These objectives seem to respond fairly well
to the major economic constraints facing the country.  The new Plan clearly
accepts the coexistence of the public, mixed, and private sectors, and it
seeks to increase local private participation in investments.
14.      Development expenditures proposed by the new Plan are estimated at
US$2.2 billion (in 1981 prices and exchange rates), of which US$1.7 billion
would be required during the five-year planning period. Roughly 70 percent
oulJd finance actual capital investments, the rest being for supporting expen-
ditures. Foreign sources will be expected to provide over 85 percent of the
financing. Compared to the previous planning period (1974-80), the implied
annual investment level appears to be 50 percent greater. Judging from past
experience implementation of the Plan may encounter delays and difficulties in
project preparation and execution, partly because the link to budgeting is
weak.
15.      Foreign Aid.  Foreign aid finances practically all public investment
in Mali Pr" is therefore critical for promoting future growth. More than half
of this aid is in the form of grants, and almost all the rest is loaned on
highly concessional terms by official aid agencies. Multilateral agencies
provide about two-fifths of long-term loans. IDA is by far the largest multi-
lateral lender, accounting for about half the multilateral loans and for
18 percent of total debt committed and outstanding. Long-term external public
debt (about two thirds of which is disbursed) has increased substantially over
the last 10 years, although debt levels per capita and as a share of GDP have
declined, reflecting the increase in official grant aid and growing recourse
to short-term liabilities drawn on the Operations Account. Actual debt ser-
vice payments on long-term debt have been modest, amounting to US$9.3 million
in 1981, or only 4.6 percent of exports of goods and non-factor services.
This ratio is lower than in the late 1960s and the early 1970s, and has been
made possible by rescheduling some debts and by converting some loans into
grants. However, the debt-service ratio could rise significantly in the
future unless rescheduling is extended or further conversion occurs, which
seems probable.



- 6 -
16.      Sustained and viable growth of Mali's economy in the longer run
depends crucially on policy reforms and investments that will strengthen the
economy.  As noted, the Government has recently taken some initial steps in
this direction, including changes in certain economic policies, improvements
in public finances, and a new emphasis on policies in the 1981-85 Plan.  The
Government's actions indicate a new commitment to economic reform--including
more reliance on the private sector--and warrant cautious optimism that re-
forms will be carried out. However, while these are positive signs, it is
still too early to judge if the measures can be sustained. Similar efforts
have been initiated in the past but postponed because drought, world infla-
tion, structural constraints and poverty leave the country little margin for
maaeuver. Continued progress in these directions will be difficult because
policy reforms will take time and needed investments will require increased
resources. Regarding policies, existing patterns of high domestic coasump-
tion--both public and private--will have to be switched carefully to avoid
undue hardship on an already poor population. Regarding investments, Mali's
financing capacity for initial expenditures and rerurrent costs is severely
constrained by both the legacy of high spending levels and the limited savings
potential when per capita income is extremely low. IDA can assist in design-
ing and implementing policies and can help finance sound productive invest-
ment, including a high level of recurrent, local-cost financing to reduce
delays in project implementation.
PART II - WORLD BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALI
17.      The proposed credit would be the Association's twenty-eighth credit
extended to Mali (including two supplementary credits), which would bring
total commitments of IDA funds to US$255.9 million equivalent. Of the twenty-
seven operations already approved, ten have been for agriculture, eight for
transport, two for education, two for telecommunications, one each for small-
scale industries, urban development, petroleum exploration promotion, power
and water supply, and technical assistance. Transportation and agriculture
represent the largest share of past commitments, with 31 percent each of total
commitments. The experience with ongoing operations has been mixed. In
general, project implementation has been hampered by Mali's difficult public
finance situation, althiough the disbursement profile through 1982 for Mali is
slightly more Faepid than for both the West Africa Region and all IDA coun-
tries. In addition, the International Finance Corporation has made two in-
vestments for a total of US$3.2 million equivalent, in a company manufacturing
bleach and plastic products, and in a company processing sheanut butter for                 a
export. Notes on the execution of ongoing projects are in Annex II.
18.      The Bank Group's strategy in Mali is governed by the constraints and
potentials sat out in Part I.  The principal objectives of Bank Group assis-
tance are to help improve the country's economic policies, to finance produc-
tive investments, and to help develop institutions to implement policies and
projects effectively. The scope and pace of IDA's program depends on an on-
going assessment of the country's economic management, particularly upon the
willingness and ability of the government to address policy issues and under-
take reforms where they are needed.



-7-
19.      Future IDA lending for agriculture will focus on pricing and institu-
tional issues. Future lending in the road transport sector would address the
problem of generating and allocating adequate recurrent cost financing. A
second agricultural production project in the cotton zone will address sector
pricing issues. Projects are also being prepared for rural water and health,
as well as a third education project emphasizing basic education, adult
literacy and technical training.
PART III - THE ENERGY AND AGRICULTURAL SECTORS
Energy Situation and Outlook
20.      Energy demand in 1950 is estimated at about 760,000 tons of oil equi-
valent or about 110 kg per capita. Firewood meets about 69 percent of energy
demand; petroleum products, 24 perc5nt; and charcoal, the remaining 7 percent.
Mali has forests covering 40,000 km , possibly holding wood reserves of about
150 million tons, but wood is rapidly being depleted around population centers
because it is used to meet over three-quarters of household energy demand.
Imported petroleum products satisfy virtually all commercial energy demand
that is not met by firewood or charcoal. Because high petroleum import costs
are a major factor in the serious balance of payment crisis Mali now faces,
the Government attaches high priority to developing alternative domestic
energy resources. Potential sources of renewable energy include wind and
solar power, and agricultural by-products--primarily rice husks, groundnut
shells, and sugarcane bagasse and molasses that are either wasted or under-
utilized. The latter resources form the basis of the proposed Project.
Petroleum Products
21.      Petroleum consumption grew steadily at an average annual rate of 9.5
percent between 1971 and 1979 but decreased slightly in both 1980 and 1981
because of domestic price increases. Current consumption is an estimated
191.5 million liters (157,000 tons), down from a peak of 222.7 million liters
in 1979. Petroleum products consumption is expected to increase in the 1980s,
though at a lower rate than in the 1970s. Gasoline accounts for almost 40 per-
cent of consumption volume, and its share has been increasing.
22.      All petroleum products are imported and distributed by five interna-
tional companies (Esso, Shell, Mobil, BP, and Total), who share the market
about equally. The companies are members of the Mali Confederation of Oil
Distributors (COD), a trade organization that works closely with the Govern-
mcnt in coordinating public and private interests in the petroleum sector.
Petroleum products are imported from Dakar by rail (23 percent of total
volume), and from Abidjan and Parakou by road (65 and 2 percent, respectively)
(see map). These shares reflect an acceptable compromise among several
factors, including cost effectiveness, the limited capacity of the railroad,
the need to diversify supply sources to minimize the risk of disruptions, and
the varying accessibility of different regions of Mali to different sources of
supply. The only bulk gasoline storage depot, which is owned by one of the



- 8 -
oil companies, is located at Bamako, where all premium gasoline and about two-
thirds of regular gasoline is sold. This marketing and distribution system
works reasonably well, is cost effective, and is considered satisfactory.
23.      The Government officially sets petroleum prices, and the pricing sys-
stem is managed by the Office pour la Stabilisation et la Regularisation des
Prix (OSRP), a Government agency. Prices are periodically reviewed in con-
sultation with the private impor;ers and revised as appropriate. On average,
domestic retail prices of gasoline, kerosene, and diesel have exceeded import
costs in 1980 and 1981. In January 1982 prices were substantially increased,
and the current retail price of regular gasoline is MF 520 per liter (US$3.04
per gallon).  Retail prices of all petroleum products eve above their oppor-
tunity value and on average exceed import cost by about 15 percent. Under the
Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project (Cr. 1134-M1I), the Government is
carrying out a review of its pricing policies for petroleum products.
The Sugar Subsector
24.      Compared to other countri9s in the Sahel, Mali has above average land
and water resources. Cotton, coarse grains, and rice are the main crops cul-
tivated by smallholders. In the 1970s, sugarcane also emerged as a major
crop, grown on two irrigated plantations (Dougabougou and Siribala) by the
Office du Niger (ON) approximately 280 km to the northeast of Bamako (see m'p
and paras. 30-33). There is no shortage of irrigation water. Up to about
1,300 ha can be irrigated at Dougabougou, and 2,100 ha at Siribala using
existing facilities. Cane yields have averaged about 50 tons/ha at Dougabou-
gou, and over 90 tons/ha at Siribala, the difference resulting from the
improved cane varieties and better soil and drainage at Siribala. Cultural
practices are generally satisfactory although improvements could be made in
cane handling and transport techniques through semi-mechanization. Tractors,
vehicles, and other agricultural equipment are adequate but their timely Pnd
efficient availability needs to be improved. The cane crushing capacity at
the Dougabougou mill is 400 tons per day (tpd), at Siribala, 1,000. Both
mills are of standard design with annex alcohol distilleries and were built
with Chinese aid; Dougabougou was commissioned in 1966, Siribala in 1976.
Sugar production at ON is generally considered profitable at existing official
prices. For example, in 1981 full production costs, including ON profits,
were estimated at about 400 MF/kg, when imported granulated sugar was oifi-
cially sold retail at 600 MF/kg. However, the domestic price includes signi-
ficant taxation; the border price was about 350MF/kg (US$0.64/kg) in 1981 and
250 MF/kg (US$0.40) in 1982. Future prices are expected to rise by about 50
percent from current lows, to a level near the production costs at ON.
25.      Total sugarcane production increased gradually from about 177,000
tons in 1976/77 to 225,000 tons in 1979/80. Dougabougou and Siribala together
produced over 18,000 tons of sugar and 8,000 tons of molasses annually from
1977 to 1980, when both facilities were operating normally. Sugarcane
through-put was reduced in 1980/81 (173,000 tons) and 1981/82 (88,000 tons)
because the 15-year old Dougabougou industrial complex, after frequent break-
downs, was closed for rehabilitation for the entire 1981/82 campaign, and the
factory at Siribala had operating difficulties caused by lack of spare parts
and inadequate maintenance. As a result, sugar production dropped to about
11,600 tons in 1980/81, and molasses production to about 5,300 tons.



26.      The Dougabougou factory started operating again in October 1982,
having been completely rebuilt with Chinese assistance.  The Chinese are also
expected to rehabilitate the Siribala sugar zill, -which is currently scheduled
to be completed at least one year before commercial production of alcohol
starts under the proposed project. The Malians achieved satisfactory perfor-
*nance for 15 years at Dougabougou without any prior experience in sugar
operations. It is therefore reasonable to expect that performance in the
1980's will imurove as a result of the experience gained in the 1970's and the
rehabilitation of the sugar mills.  Past production levels of sugar and
molasses can be resumed beginning with the 1984/85 campaign, and these would
be adequate to meet the reouirements of the proposed project.
27.      Each sugar mill has fermentation and distillation facilities capable
of producing 95 percent ethanol, with sufficient capacity to process all the
molasses remaining after sugar production. However, less than 10 percent of
the available molasses is used to produce the alcohol sold in Kali for pharma-
ceutical and industrial uses. The leftover molasses has no alternative market
outlet because transport and handling costs exceed its current export market
value and make it too expensive for widespread domestic use as a livest'ck
feed-supplement. It is now discarded to the bush, where it creates an en-
vironmental problem.  This wasted molasses would be the raw material for fuel
alcohol production under this project.
Government Energy Strateg'
28.      The Government intends to develop all potential domestic energy
resources to reduce dependence on imported oil products, but there is a long
lead time to exploit most potential domestic energy resources, like hydro-
electric power and solar energy. In addition, the demand for liquid fuels
(mainly in the transportation sector) is relatively inelastic over the loag
run because of current lo.f consumption levels and limited opportunities for
interfuel substitutions owing to technical and economic reasons. Meanwhile,
the cost of petroleum imports is expected to continue to rise in the medium
term. In this context, an opportunity to produce liquid fuel with a short
lead time and using existing facilities has a high priority.
29.      The molasses now wasted can be used to produce anhydrous ethanol
(ethyl alcohol of at least 99 percent purity), which could replace an equal
volume of gasoline in a blend of gasoline and alcohol commonly referred to as
wgasohol. Experience in other countries has shown that gasohol blends con-
taining up to 20 percent anhydrous alcohol have practically the same perfor-
mance as gasoline and that gasoline-powered vehicles do not require engine
modificatiKons to run on gasohol. The gasohol blend in Mali would have a
modest alcohol content (less than 5 percent), thus minimizing any technical
problems, while achieving significant savings in gasoline imports (about 2
million liter per year worth approximately US$1.0 million).
The Office du Niger
30.      The Office du Niger is a parastatal enterprise operating the largest
irrigation network in West Africa. The French colonial administration created
it in 1932 to grow irrigated rice and cotton in an area that was once part of



- 10 -
the central delta of the Niger River. The irrigation system consists of the
Iarkala barrage, which raises the water level of the river by over 5 meters, a
feeder canal upstream of the dam, and three main irrigation canals (Sahel,
Nacina, and Costes--under constrrction), and thousands of kilometers of
secondary and tertiary canals an, drains (see map). Total irrigable land,
developed mostly in the 1930s end 1940s, amounts to almost 60,000 ha, of which
about 36,000 are in single-cr,op rice and about 3,000 in sugarcane. Cotton
production was stopped in 1970.  As the largest rural development operation in
1ali, ON operates two sugar complexes (para. 24), provides irrigation water
and extension and other farnu support services to ovnr 5,000 families cultivat-
ing rice, operates four ric'! mills, and maintains two experimental feedlots
for beef cattle. The ON employs about 4,000 permanent workers, plus about
5,500 seasonal cane cutters. Annual gross revenues, including cost recovery
for agricultural services to rice producers and sales of sugar, alcohol, and
rice, averaged about US$25.0 million in 1977-80. Financially, the ON has its
own independent budget; but it has received aid from external donors and
modest transfers from the OSRP to compensate for losses caused by the official
price structure for rice.
31.      Although placed under the Ministry of Agriculture with a Director
appointed by the Council of Ministers, the ON has considerable financial and
managerial autonomy. Until recently, the managerial structure of the Office
du Niger consisted of ten centralized departments under the Director, includ-
ing civil works and mechanical support, agricultural production, industrial
activities, marketing, studies, and purchasing and supplies, as well as admin-
istrative services like accounting, personnel, statistics, and farmer affairs.
In the past year, partly as the result of technical assistance financed by the
Association, (para. 34) the office has introduced decentralization measures
that would lead to a separate rice sector (with five geographic suo-divisions)
and a separate sugar sector (with two geographic subdivisions), all supported
by services provided by reorganized profit and cost centers. The new struc-
ture, which is intended to give greater operational autonomy to the production
units, will take at least two years to put into place, and, in the meantime,
decision-making and budgetary control remain highly centralized.
32.      The operational performance of the ON was relatively good through the
late 1970s but has been deteriorating since then, especially after it started
construction of a new main irrigation canal (Costes) in 1978, in part to pro-
vide gravity irrigation for the sugarcane plantations. By switching out of
mechanized cotton production by 1970, rice cultivation increased from 30,000
ha at independence to nearly 40,000 ha by 1976, although it has since shrunk
to about 36,000, partly because of irrigation and drainage problems. Paddy
yields also increased from 1.6 tons per ha in 1970 to over 2.5 in 1978 but
have since declined to earlier levels, owing in part to problems with farmer
incentives. After the creation of the new sugar plantation in the mid-1970s,
output quadrupled from less than 5,000 tons to nearly 19,000 in 1978. Output
has a'lso fallen in the early 1980s, however, largely as a result of closing
the Dougabougou sugar factory for major renovations because repairs had not
been adequately provided for in the past.



- 11 -
33.      ON did not issue adequate financial reports on its operations from
1964 to 1978. Problems related to the valuation of assets after the transi-
tion of ownership from France to Mali are the main reason for this, but
accounting and financial control systems and staff are also inadequate.
Through the help of technical assistance financed by IDA (para. 34), Office du
Niger has prepared consolidated financial statements for 1979 and 1980. These
have been audited but not certified, pending Government decisions on its
rights as a shareholder and as a creditor of Office du Nige-r and the verifica-
tion of key assets, mninly rceiv-ables and inventories. These financial
statements indicate good capitalization but deteriorating profitability and
uncertain liquidity resulting from both allocating financial resources to
build the Canal Costes and declining rice and sugar production in 1981 and
1982. In fiscal year 1982, ON had a cash flow deficit requiring it to roll
over its bank overdrafts, but liquidity is expected to improve as sugar pro-
duction returns to previous levels. The alcohol production envisaged under
this project would further strengthen ON finances.
34.      rDA has financed one previous project to ON for US$4.5 million,
beginning in 1978 (Credit 854-MLI), consisting of a three-year program of
technical assistance and pilot rehabilitation works. As IDA's first action in
this irrigation scheme, the project was viewed as a vehicle for evaluating
both ON's capabilities and the prospects for larger-scale support, with the
basic objective to lay the groundwork for a future, large-scale rehabilitation
project. To this end, the project aimed to strengthen ON administration, to
experiment with alternative types of physical rehabilitation, to prepare plans
for and estimate costs of future rehabilitation, and to support agricultural
research for crop diversification. The project encountered several difficul-
ties, including delays and cost overruns caused by delays recruiting consult-
ants and problems working with the staff of ON. The PPAR If concluded that
the project did not achieve its major objective of preparing an irrigation
rehabilitation project, but it did bring to light the major institutional
constraints in ON, including its organizational structure and socio-economic
conditions for its farmers, which had been underestimated at appraisal. It
concluded that any improvement in physical facilities should be subordinated
to action in these areas. The PPAR also pointed out the need to include
spares and service in financing for equipment. The design of the proposed
project would deal with these problems, through provisions to strengthen
management in the sugar sector and financing for technical assistance, train-
ing, and spares to improve maintenance. More importantly, ON has demonstrated
a firm willingness to take actions consistent with this project.
35.      By early 1982, largely as the result of financial pressures caused by
the deteriorating cash-flow of ON, the Malian authorities recognized that im-
portant actions must be taken both to increase sugar and rice production and
to reforr the overly centralized administrative structure of ON. Actions to
streamline ON management include establishing separate sugar and rice sectors
as a first step toward effective devolution of authority (para. 31). Actions
to improve the relations between ON and its farmers include a reduction in
water charges where irrigation is poor, an increase in the share of production
1/ Project Performance Audit Report No. 4414, dated March 25, 1983.



- 12 -
farm families arer allowed to keep, and--in some cases--greater security cf
land use rights. The government also accepted a high-leveL diagnostic mi3sion
in late 1982, led by French representatives with Dutch and World Bank financed
participants, which collaborated with Malian authorities to produce an
ambitious rehabilitation plan for ON, covering three phases. The first would
be to consolieate current activities by intensifying production on existing
infrastructure. The second would be to rehabilitate and modernize the irriga-
tion system; and the third would be to expand production onto newly developed
land. Subsequent to the release of this rehabilitation plan, representatives
of the World Bank, French, Dutch and other bilateral aid agencies and of the
Malian government have met on several occasions in Washington, Paris, and
Bamako to discuss and agree on broad principles for a coordinated, donor-
Zinanced progr&m to help rehabilitate the ON. Znere has been general agree-
ment on measures to enhance the working conditions of rice farmers (along the
lines of on-going Dutch-financed experiments), to improve the quality of irri-
gation services, and -- with respect to the sugar zector -- to establish a
separate production unit with full managerial and financial autonomy within
the ON. The purpose of this third measure is to protect the productive assets
of the sugar sector and to enable it to function efficiently within an organi-
zation that is otherwise chronically short of funds and administratively cum-
bersome. It is all the more important since sugar profits provide essential
financial support for rice production. The proposed project would provide a
valuable first step in implementing both the first phase of the government'3
rehabilitation plan and in carrying out some of the measures agreed upon by
the donors. It would also be an important sign to the Government that IDA
supports its positive new efforts to strengthen the Office.
PART IV. THE PROJECT
Background
36.      The project was identified by an IDA mission to Mali in February
1980. Preparatory studies and related technical assistance were carried out
with financing of two advances totalling US$0.95 million under a Project
Preparation Facility. An IDA mission appraised the Project in October 1981.
Negotiations were held in Washington in May 1983 with a Government delegation
led by the Minister of Agriculture. A credit and project summary is given at
the beginning of this report and a staff appraisal report is being circulated
separately to the Executive Directors. A supplementary project data sheet is
presented in Annex III.
Project Objectives and Scope
37.      The main objectives of the proposed Project are: (a) to reduce Mali's
dependence on petroleum imports through production of anhydrous alcohol (about
two million liters annually) from surplus molasses to blend with gasoline and
through improved energy efficiency in its two sugar complexes by better use of
bagasse; and (b) to help develop a coherent program of policy reforms and in-
vestments to rehabilitate the Office du Niger. The project would include the
following components: (a) biomass alcohol production, storage, and handling;



- 13 -
Oa energy efficiency improvements; (c) gasohol blending and distribution; (d)
technical assistance and training; 'e) biomass energy study; and (f) technical
assistance for an Office du Niger Rehabilitation Task Force (RTF).
Project Description
38.      Biomass Alcohol Production, Storage, and Handling:  Tne Siribala and
Dougabougou distilleries are currently designed to produce industrial grade
alcohol (hydrous ethanol) of about 95 percent purity.  The existing distil-
lation train at Siribala would be upgraded to produce anhydrous ethanol of at
least 99 percent purity to be blended with gasoline to produce 'gasohol'. The
Dougabougou distillery would be maintained as the source of hydrous alcohol to
meet local demand; surplus industrial grade alcohol would be transported 20 km
to Siribala for further processing.
39.      To accommodate the proposed alcohol production, the project would
provide additional storage, loading and unloading facilities, and vehicles,
including: (i) vehicle loading facilities at Dougabougou to deliver surplus
hydrous alcohol to Siribala; (ii) vehicle discharge facilities and buffer
storage at Siribala to accommodate the hydrous alcohol received from Dougabou-
gou; (iii) vehicle loading facilities and storage for anhydrous alcohol at
Siribala to be delivered to the Bamako blending depot; and (iv) trucks to
transport hydrous alcohol from Dougabougou to Siribala. Existing molasses
storage capacity is sufficient to meet anticipated requirements. To help
avoid past problems caused by poor maintenance, the project would finance
technical assistance and training to strengthen onerations and mainte-ianee in
the mills and distilleries (para. 42), finance a stock of spare parts, and
help protect sugar sector finances from other ON uses until all sugar and
alcohol production costs are covered.
40.      Energy Efficiency:  The Siribala and Dougabougou industrial complexes
currently operate at suboptimal thermal efficiency because process equipment,
instruments, and piping are inadequate and maintenance and operations are
poor. The sugar mills and alcohol distilleries would be modified to increase
efficiency of steam utilization and distribution by adding cooling towers, a
yeast recycling system to increase fermenter through-put, and, at Siribala,
complete repiping, additional instrumentation, and evaporation vessels. As a
result of these investments co produce and distribute steam efficiently, there
should no longer be any need for supplementary petroleum fuel for either sugar
or ethanol production. Operation and maintenance would also be strengthened
(para. 39).
41.      Gasohol Blending and Distribution:  To ensure consistent, satisfac-
tory gasohol quality, alcohol would be blended with gasoline at the retroleum
products storage depot at Bamako owned and operated by a Mobil affiliate
(para. 22). The project would install a 250,000 liter alcohol storage tank
with piping and an automatic blending pump under Government ownership, which
would be leased to the existing depot operator under terms of no less than 13
percent interest for 12 years (Development Credit Agreement (DCA) Section
3.05). Alcohol Production Unit of ON would sell the alcohol ex-distillery to
the petroleum distribution companies who would arrange alcohol transport from
the Siribala distillery to the Bamako depot. During negotiations, assurances



- 14 -
were obtained that the Government and ON would formalize, before Janaary 31,
1984, an agreement with the Mali Confederation of Oil Distributors (or with
its individual members) specifying satisfactory arrangements for the storage,
marketing and distribution of gasohol (DCA Section 3.05). These arrangements
have already been discussed and agreed in principle.
42.      Technical Assistance and Training:  Technical assistance would be
provided to staff at various levels to support project implementation and
subsequent operations, covering both plantations and factories.  Regarding
factories, the project would finance a review of their technical and opera-
tional staff training requirements and preparation of a detaiL.d training and
technical assistance prog:em, inclrding provision for implementine revised
operations and maintenance systems and management information, accounting. and
financial controls systems. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that
the detailed prograa would be prepared for IDA approval by January 31, 1984
(Project Agreement (PA) Section 2.01f). Regarding plantations, the project
would finance training and technical assistance for sugarcane production and
handling to ensure that future cane supply is sufficient and reliable.
43.      Biomass Energy Study:  Because the Government is committed to devel-
oping other renewable energy resources, the project would finance a study to
assess both the potential and the economic justification for biomass fuel
production in Mali. The study would be carried out by the Ministry of State
for Equipment with seven work-months of assistance from internationally-
recruited consultants under mutually agreed terms of reference (DCA Section
3.06).
44.      Rehabilitation Task Force:  Since late 1982, Government has takea
initial steps to develop a comprehensive OR rehabilitation pnan (para. 35),
and discussions with possible donors on basic aspects of reform and rehabili-
tation have advanced satisfactorily.  Given the difficulties in the past,
donors have agreed that future interventions should be part of a collabora-
tive, multi-donor effort, even though donors may finance actions separately.
In order to prepare a program that incorporates both a coherent set of policy
reforms with an integrated package of investments that could be financed by
various donors, ON would set up a Rehabilitation Task Force (RTF). This com-
ponent would finance the resident technical assistance, short-term consulting
services, studies, logistical support and equipment needed to staff the RTF
and to enable it to operate effectively.  The RTF would report to the ON
Director   During negotiations, assurances were obtained that by December 31,
1983, the RTF would be created with the necessary technical assistance and a
work program established on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Associa-
tion (PA Section 2.01e). To develop a rehabilitation program, the assistance
would consist of three resident specialists, qualified in irrigation engineer-
ing and operations, agronomy, management and financial analysis, and agri-
cultural development generally. To help set up a unified sugar sector (para.
47), assistance would consist of two consultants qualified in sugar industry
management and financial accounting. Approximately 15 work-~rears of expert
and consultant services would be provided.
45.      In addition, as part of initiating the rehabilitation program, the
Government requested financing from various donors to replenish stocks of



- 15 -
inputs necessary to maintain yield levels for rice and sugar. These stocks
have been seriously depleted as a result of ON financial difficulties over the
last two years (para. 33). As cane production for the beginning of the
project is critically important to ensure throughput for the sugar mills and
distilleries, a provision of USS0.4 million has been made within this com-
ponent to allow ON to purchase fertilizers and other chemicals for cane pro-
duction. These stocks would be reconstituted by ON out of revenues fronl the
sale of sugar products paid to the Sugar Account (para. 47) in 1934 and there-
after.
46.      Project Organization and Management:  The Office du Niger would be
responsible for implementing the alcohol production, storage, and handling
component, the energy efficiency component for the sugar industrial complexes,
the industrial and plantation technical assistance and training, and the reha-
bilitation task force. The Ministry of State for Equipment would be respon-
sible for implementing the gasohol blending and distribution component and the
biomass energy study.
47.      For implementation of those components related to the sugar sector,
assurances were obtained during negotiations that by July 1, 1984 a unified
Sugar Division (SD) would be established for all ON sugar operations including
sugarcane plantations, alcohol distilleries, sugar mills, and support services
such as warehousing, storage, maintenance, and transportation (PA Section
?.Olb). The SD would have managerial and financial autonomy, including a
separate bank account, and a manager and a financial manager (DCA Section
3.07, PA Sections 2.Old, 4.02).  Opening the separate bank account for sugar,
into which ONl would deposit all revenues from the sale of sugar, sugar by-
products, and alcohol, is a condition of Credit effectiveness (PA Section
4.03a, DCA Section 6.01b).  Control over sugar and alcohol revenues would
remain under the manager of the SD until all expenditures for producing sugar
and alcohol were met (PA Section 4.03b). In addition, assurances w-re ob-
tained that, at least three months before the start of each sugar campaign,
the head of the Sugar Production Unit would submit to ON's Director for
approval an Operational Plan for the cane crushing season (PA Section 3.04a).
48.      The proposed project would also create an Alcohol Production Unit
(APU) as a separate profit center, or self-contained organizational and
accounting unit under the SD (PA Section 2.01b).  The head of the APU would be
project manager for all aspects of project implementation related to alcohol
production. He would be assisted by a chemical engineer, a financial con-
troller, and two storage operators to be recruited under the project to
supplement existing staff at the two distilleries. Establishment of the APU
is a condition of Credit effectiveness (DCA Section 6.01c).
49.      Employment and Productivity:  As the project basically involves the
modification and improvement of the existing plants, it would create only
about 200 new jobs, consisting of additional workers to operate and maintain
the distilleries and to load, unload, ship, and blend alcohol. After project
completion, the labor productivity at Siribala and Dougabougou is expected to
increase significantly, partly as a result of project training and technical
assistance, which are expected to improve the two plants' operating and main-
tenance standards and their energy efficiency.



- 16 -
Project Cost and Financing
50.      Total financing required for the project cost is estimated at US$8.3
million equivalent, of which 87 percent would be foreign exchange expendi-
ture. This estimate includes refinancing of the PPF advance of US$0.95 mil-
lion, and excludes duties and taxes, which are not applicable. Total con-
tingencies are JS$1.8 million, or 23 percent of total project costs. Base
costs are estimated in mid-1983 prices, and allowances for expected price
increases for both local and foreign costs are based on projected annual
inflation rates of 8.0 percent in 1983, 7.5 in 1984, in 1985, and 6.0 in 1986
and thereafter. Allowances for physical contingencies are estimated at 10
percent of base costs. Project costs are summarized in the credit and project
suamary. The proposed IDA Credit of SDR 7.1 million (US$7.6 million) would
finance the foreign exchange costs of the project and US$0.4 million of local
expenditures. To finance local currency expenditures for the APU, ON would
use internally-generated cash equivalent to US$0.2 million as an equity
contribution to the APU. ON's equity contribution would also include the two
distilleries and related assets. The Government equity contribution to the
APU would finance interest during construction in local currency (US$0.3
million). ON would also finance part of the local costs for the RTF (US$0.2
million). The total local contribution will be 5 percent of total project
cost.
51.      During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Government
would lend to Office du Niger US$4.1 million equivalent for the exclusive
benefit of the APU, for 13 years including 5 years of grace at an interest
rate of 9 percent p.a., with a cammitment fee of 0.75 percent p.a. on the
undisbursed partion. ON would bear the foreign exchange risk. Execution of
the subsidiary loan agreement would be a condition of Credit Effectiveness
(DCA Sections 3.01c, 6.01a). Assurances were also obtained that the Govern-
ment would enter into a financial lease agreement with the owners of the
Bamako depot. The lessee will be responsible for operating and maintaining
the project facilities. The lease will expire in 12 years and lease
installments would be calculated to yield 13 percent. The lease agreement
will be executed by January 31, 1984 (DCA Section 3.05a).
Procurement and Disbursement
52.      Contracts for goods, civil works and construction, including the
necessary engineering for the Project's alcohol production and energy effi-
ciency components shall be separated into lots; the bidders for such lots will
be grouped under the overall responsibility of a principal contractor who will
ensure adequate coordination and effici. t execution of contracts covering
detailed engineering, construction, supply of equipment, installation, and
start-up of the modified plants. Contracts will be awarded following inter-
national competitive bidding in accordance with IDA procedures, with a 7.5%
and 15% margin of preference for local contractors on civil works and local
suppliers of equipment, respectively. The principal contractor will secure
the appropriate equipment performance guarantees from the vendors. This con-
tracting arrangement would mitigate the risk of cost overruns, and minimize
the Project demand an ON's scarce management resources. Because the small
size of individual contracts would be unlikely to attract international



- 17 -
competitition, equipment for gasohol blending will be procured in accordance
.5th local procedures, satisfactory to IDA. Vehicles, tools, office equip-
ment, and training materials for the technical assistance components, esti-
mated to cost less than US$50,000 equivalent per contract, and in aggregate
not to exceed US$300,000 equivalent, may be procured through negotiated
purchase, after soliciting bids from at least three reliable suppliers, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to IDA.
53.      Funds from the IDA Credit would be disbursed as follows:  (a) civil
wcrks: US$0.3 million; (b) equipment, materials and spares: US$2.5 million;
(c) engineering services: US$0.4 million; (d) technical assistance, training
*     and studies:  US$2.7 million; (e) PPF refinancing US$0.9 million; (f) unallo-
cated: US$0.8 million. Disbursements would be against 100 percent of foreign
and 75 percent of local expenditures. Disbursements would be fully
documented. The Credit is expected to be fully disbursed by December 31,
1987.
Financial Covenants
54.      To define clearly management responsibility for this project ard to
ensure that the entire sugar sector would have sufficient funds for efficient
operations, the Sugar Division and under it the Alcohol Production Unit,
would have independent financial management within Office du Niger. At nego-
tiations, assurances were obtained that the Sugar Division would have a se-
parate bank account, distinct from the general account of the ON, where all
revenues from sugar and alcohol sales would be deposited. The funds would be
used in priority to assure operation of the plantations and mills, according
to an Operational Plan agreed to by the head of the SD and the Director of ON,
and to assure distillery operation under the APL'. It was further agreed that
the APU will maintain (i) a ratio of current asse's to current liabilities of
at least 1.5:1; (ii) working capital of at least US$500,000 equivalent; (iii)
a debt to equity ratio of no more than 55/45; and (iv) total funded debt of no
more than US$4.5 million equivalent (PA Section 4.04). Furthermore, ON would
be required to give APU first call on molasses (PA Section 4.05).
Auditing and Reporting Requirements
55.      Within six months of the end of the fiscal year, ON would be required
to submit to IDA annual audited consolidated financial statements, including
accounts of the SD sugar operations and annual financial statements of the
APU, certified by independent auditors acceptable to IDA (PA Section 4.02b,
&     c).  In addition, the Project's financial controller would submit quarterly
financial statements for the APU and quarterly project progress and procure-
ment reports (PA Section 4.02e) within four months of the end of each quarter.
Assistance to carry out the above tasks would be provided by financial consul-
tants (para. 42). Finally, within six months after the closing date for the
project, the Government would prepare and submit to IDA a project completion
report (DCA Section 3.04d).



- 18 -
Benefits, Risks and Policy Content
56.      The project's overall economic rate of return 1s estimated at 21 per-
*ent (calculated on 59 percent of project costs for which benefits have been
quantified) resulting principally from the substitution o; about two million
liters of gasoline imports per year with an equal voluce of locally distilled
anhydrous alcohol, as well as from savings of industrial dLesel oil (amounting
to about 800,000 liters per year) that would otherwise be needed to generate
steam for sugar production without this project.  Net anual foreign exchange
savings from reduced gasoline and diesel oil imports as a result of the
project are about US$1.3 million in 1983 prices. The project would also yield
several non-quantifiable benefits, including more efficient sugar production
resulting from improved plant operation and maintenance, a more effective
organization of ON resulting from decentralized profit and cost centers, a
program of coherent policy changes and investments for ON that different
donors could finance in a coordinated fashion, additional strategic fuel
storage, and a study to identify additional sources of renewable energy in
Mali.
57.      Technical risks associated with project start-up and operations are
not significant because the technology is simple and commercially proven. ON
has experience producing hydrous alcohol, and the equipment that would be pro-
vided by the proposed project to produce anhydrous alcohol requires essenti-
ally the same level of skill and expertise.
58.      The main inolementation risk is that plant construction and start-up
wotald be delayed. In addition, there is the risk that factory capacity would
be underutilized, in part because of inexperienced management and/or a pos-
sible shortage of molasses. Finally, there is the risk that the Rehabilita-
tion Task Force would not lead to an acceptable assistance program for ON.
The employment of an experienced and established engineering firm and the
proposed contracting arrangements (para. 52) are designed to minimize the
implementation risk. The risk of capacity underutilization would be reduced
by strengthening operational and maintenance staff of the Alcohol Production
Unit, improving the management of the sugar sector to assure that past high
levels of molasses production are sustained, and assuring that key project
staff have requisite qualifications and experience (para. 42). Regarding the
RTF, the risk is considered worth taking given the large improvements in the
dialogue with ON since late 1982 and the strong interest of other donors in
supporting a program of assistance.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
59.      The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of Mali
and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Association and
Office du Niger, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.



- 19 -
60.      Special conditions including conditions of effectiveness of the
project are listed in Section III of Annex III.
61.      I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would comply with
the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
62.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Devel-
opment Credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
by Ernest Stern
Washington D. C.
May 26, 1983
.



- 20-                                        ANNEX I
TAB.L 3K
ALi -S1Ci  IMDICATOMR   TA SUET
HALI                           REFC7CNCC Camps (WKCIGCD AYVECEU
ARCtA (SIIDUSAND SQ.                                                              MOST - Hor t T CSSSFSTCp
TOTAL     1    240.D MST RECENTMIDDLEcinc
AGRICULTURAL    320.5               1960 /b   1970 /b  STMATC tb  AMRICA STM OF BAARA AFRICA SOUTH OF BANUA
CNP PER CAPITA (US)                  60.0        80.0    190.0               250.8                1053.2
ENEGY CONSUNITION PER CAPITA
tRLY WCANS o. MAL EQUIVALENT)       14.0       20.0      27.7                66.5                610.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATIoN MID-TEAK (THOUSANDS)    4224.0     5362.0   7045.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)   11.0      14.9     19.9                17.8                 28.3
POPULAiION PROJECltONS
PoPULIrON 3IN eMAR Zoo (MILLIONS)                      12.9
STATIUYRT POPILATION (HILLIONS)                        40.7
WEA  STATIONARY POPULATION IS EACIED                 2135
POPULATION M tITY
PER SQ. KM.                        3.4         4.3      5.5                27.7                 54.7
PER SQ. KM. ACRTCULTURAL LAND     13.3        16.9     21.4                86.7                 129.9
POPULATIDN AGE STEUCTURE (PERCENr)
0-14 YRS.                         43.7        44.7     45.5                ".8                  4.o
15-b4 YIS.                         53.7       52.6      51.9                52.3                 51.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   2.6        2.7       2.7                 2.9                  2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.1         Z.4      2.7                 2.7                   2.8
URBAN                              5.2         5.4      5.6                 6.2                  5.2
CRUDE BIflI RATE (PER THOUSAND)     49.9        49.1     49.5                47.3                 47.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     26.8       23.8      21.4                19.5                 15.7
GROSS REPODUCTION RATE               3.3        5.2       3.3                 3.2                  3.2
FAMILY PLNNNING
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOUSAN. )
USERS (PENCENT OF KARRIFI   ) WOME)  .          ..
FOOD AND NUTRIIION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD:CTIOt
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         103.0      LOO.0      84.0                88.7                 90.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   86.9        85.6     83.1/c              90.2                 93.9
PROTEIG  (CRAMS PER DAY)          56.3        34.4      1.47               53.1                 54.8
OF WHlCH ANL AND PULSE           15.1       15.4     13.671              18.4                  17.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4i 4DRTALZTT RATE     45.8        39.8     33.9                26.7                 23.9
HEALTH
LiFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    37.2       40.3      43.2                45.6                 51.0
INFANT MOTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          194.7       174.5    154.5               129.9                118.5
ACCESS TO SAFE MATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..          .       ' 9.0/             23.9
URBAN                               ..        29.0     42d75               54.9
RURAL                               ..         ..       3.o77              18.5
ACCESS TO ElCRETA DLSPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TorAL                               *          8.0       ..                25.8
URBAN                               ..        63.0       ..                63.1
RURAL                                .          .                          20.2
POPULATION PER PEYSICIAN         67047.6    443L4.0  25555.1/c            32097.3              16185.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     4920.1/.,f 2846.1   2375.071             3264.6               2Z13.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL RED
TOTAL                            1535.07/eg 1480.OR  1848.Z/c            1225.0                1036.4
URBAN                            370.2T.   1310.8    617.77;              249.5                430.8
RURAL                           2950zss.u    1604.7      ..              1712.1                3678.6
ADMISSlONS PER HDSPITAL RED           ..        27.3     30.5/c
HOUSING
AlKICE SIZE OF HOUSEROLD
TOTAL                               ..          ..      4.8/d
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..
AVERAGE NNMER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..          ..
MAN                                 ..          ..
RU2AL                               ..          ..
ACCESS ZOM ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF WELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URRAN                               ..          ..
RURl L                              --



- 21 -
PXge 2
TABLE 3A
NALC1RTIL INDICATDRS DATA SMNT
MALI                        IEFEREICE GOUP  (uEEUTED AWAOBS
-MNOST RECENIT ESStIAUT
196D  lb   1970 /b ESTVIATE /b  AFRICA MOUTH OF TBAKA  AFRPCA SOU1N OF BANARA
EDUrATION
ADJUSTED ENROLIUEET RATIOS
PRhANAY3    TOTAL               10.0        24.0     28.0                 63.2                  83.3
HALE                14.0        31.0     36.0                 72.7                  96.1
FEMALE               6.0        17.0     20.0                30.3                   30.4
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                1.0         5.0       9.0/c              10.2                  13.3
MALE                 1.0        8.0    13. Mc               13.2                   19.'
FEMALE               0.3        2.0       s.oTe               6.6                   11.3
*                 VUCATLONAL ENROL. (Z OF SECONDARY) 14.6/h      9.8       1.0/1               7.9                   4.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIlORY                         44.6        40.1      4Z.6                47.4                  38.6
SECONDARY                       17.4        15.4        ..                26.2                  23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)      2.51         ..      9.4/d               34.0                  33.6
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CAltS PER THOUSAND
POP%fi.:.:-_                     0.5         1.6       Z.1/1               3.0.                 31.9
RADIO RECEIVERI. PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                       1.9        11.2      13.1                34.8                  71.8
TV RECElVERS PER THOUSAND
POPUIATION                        ..          ..        ..                 1.7                  17.9
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTERESr) CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULAnON                 0.2         0.5/k    D.5.                 2.9                  19.1
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PR CAPITA  2.0        o.57i      ..                 1.1                   0.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    2430.0     2963.0   3741.3
FEMALE (PERCENT)                48.1        47.9     47.6                 34.1                  36.5
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)           94.0        91.0      72.6                78.4                  56.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)               3.0         4.0     11.7                  9.2                  17.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             57.5        55.3      53.1                41.4                  37.0
MALE                              60.6        58.6      56.7                53.9                  46.9
FEMALE                            54.5        52.0     49.7                 29.1                  27.2
ECONMNIC DEPENDENCY RATIO            0.8         0.9      0.9                  1.2                   1.3
IlNCOE DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCON?
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF RUISENOLDS    ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   ..
LOWEST ZO PErCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..
LOWEST 4U PERCENT OF HOUSEBOLDS    ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCMIE
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
-                    URBAN                             ..          ..      98.0/c             134.3                 507.0
RURAL                             ..          ..      60.07i              82.9                 200.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
UURBAN                                                ..          ..      61.01c              96.4                 523.9
RURAL                             ..          ..      37.07rh             60.4                 203.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                             ..          ..     27.0/f               39.3
RURAL                             ..          ..     48.07!               69.0
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-uigbted arithltic  *ans. Coverage Df countries
mong the indicators depends on availability of data asd Is not unifoze.
/b  Unless otherwi  noted. data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; far l970. betwen 1969
end 1971; and for Moat Recent Eatisate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c  1977; Id 1970; /e 196Z; /f Covery_nt Pereonnel; /G overent hospital establisluente;  /h Not
Includilg private vocationil schools; /1 1975; L  1974; /k 1972; /; 1968.
ey, 1982



-22-                                                       ~~~~~~ANNEX I
Wbt..   Alithuaghlb  Situ ii.   S f5  its euarc-o.wmnult  Judgud tm. MUa .st1mltain   us t.tISAi.. St uhusd i..- be sits tii tim1 M; us be jtutr
uutcalIly .."tuhtu  Mam- .1 it. lick si utisa ldam  altettAc.u    cus.-.pt. -at by itt tu.nt snarl..- isutrt   h    t. lb. d                      uo 7    dam~    mu-
thu.a_. uuutc! E d..trib.  Z.Wn.9 it ndtt. aeiiuut. truudu. iS  uhtct.tan                     -Jus   .i.t dj1lV-ur... huts,  -attuu..
lb%ukr.Vu. Broap it. (SI thus eadmtry at.*.. ci h. utica e-Isnry is 21 u usiary, Wade with weumwmt blihur hcrman 1mm the thu neiman urew
si  h. usa).. r.-Cr-  (sia-Pt fur     IIIgh tarn    OaS bimirtur' *r.cq wat.  KNISS.  u.s  Mirth Lrirt. NW 1haMS. 11d  I. hualan bu.uuu   1 uAttuugr
iut-si Frlur,iluui).  SIN LiA rlitsu  tru    det. tim uniu,p  ulu PipulutMi WetMd .tttbettu dscat fu  uh ImtecturF u5 Nma  =IV shut
uujcrty ut th  -aIrte. tn . iraqp h- data in  thut INSI-Lc.,.  Elsa th. ummutic .1 .Ustttu   atm  thu aIt1cutur. dueuud  -  thu untll1ballty at ut.
ciA. sit sutr. cutlu  nue hu  -.atid in  Irutuiu  inue.. s.f -   t.dfic-t, t. eahur.  lme u.uru.a ar  MvIT  -tuci   I. auprimtu  .l  .1
eu  imttutut t. Ati   N-     hu L a. ma, .5d rut.tuc  grimy.
S   Ihumadis ufks.)                                                                                                                                p -Faylatt  (totul.
Tntu  - It.tuartci uie  myrlion Saud ur. usI isusa siufu. IVII dut.                     .a tru          .      p          uue             mi hueat   m
MMgjy          1-- ireu  i  ticluu .1.3rc.moaupu t  -r 1.1Nrioltly                          umutlubi. I. poSit  N i   's-ptu.  Mrt-a is  spuctulSe  huNApatuismu
fur crsspa. pi.tutu. .utt.i is bartho  tu.dun  a  t.  tig f.SSsas  lope data.            h Iktltiutau.cutt.-  huuqttu.            tdttctetu-IaNA  putnuety utu is
by i aIms. a - byukte. 2uaubltdsmutu . -1.mNtdia priepalMiy nu.4-
SF  Pp CPITA imj',gsr pit eptti aetiet.. a  turn,t whit plc ... ..ia'                   dia car. .r   Mt Avokodsu.  Mur.I humeltalu. bracta. SmIu huulth
-"iaut~irrtcnt'au   inthto iu hild Mek Atlim  41I1410 huui.i5 ISIO.                       Nd -dlel mnt  mit putenctly utafiud by . phpuadtu. lbst hya
ant0, us tIgo jt..                                                                          ZIsal ieut1          - r-, tIui.  st.) Stumb allur Se-patlnt eusi-
dutS. is   print  . litisud  e.M of -i-eu   tmzaSiiiuu   Fur ustoiu-
CAIA- AseiS c.Aptiua itcurt uSN-.  are  U-Iaa_ thu                        =pupu.. ,hu  huapatila turiad  kMti.tmceumi  humpttii.                                         S
iuinut.p _iS.. uutci lta. is by-. -, m No.u  isd uatsl aluc-                       m-d ti.Ara    upituts. lint us tiara  huupltcSuNo is isloam i   sisuris
trltStyJ In kftrcgus  ut -ut  "utnuie  P..t rup&Ltt  tLtS, inn,. uI 1ui                     Wttiru.  Sipuitl-1 huiPati. it. tualsd -Iv isdur tutu.
Ju. diucyy..                                                                                                . list MM   - lTia  etln  mlr uaumm   Smu dieurie
Lb. Cat" .3 hid..
Tuu   r.utuAlYut(ltidI                  - L  r July Ia ISIS.  uI1. --A [M          MCRlts
irbie Suttu  fssu .etuttht.St   IAMtt. ml -rbi  ii total ppa.qulutmI                Lekfhsl -           .r:.  armSiFilidaI   Uslt..Sl im  aqtfu
dlfii tiii _iau              b. .MTm sttutt Lawr.hllty ci atl.                    is tim    sit   -4tm    A huI=dut siWldur C1 it ep Ct im  Zeids tn
t rusttum   tO. 1970. -d SinO duts.                                                     t         Mahueud tot  outst.ttru     Mp.5-.
PinuSittu  tr.iatan.                                                                      LnA    mpt-y F5f _yjn    e    tttsbuu adtau  -u.s
r lusts tu   r, 150  - C--ttua   ustt   ptruLucte  it. bs -  tM [ut ut V-. Putt. t- at   ri.  .eJo _etu  uctPiu   nnu
WcI voy.Sittooiy  t.1 isd us. is  thuln wault,1  uI  -turiltY rite.                    d            -dSSin runc lhu. h.i15m. utd  us-NP-reia  *trs.suru  is
IPrs-ijmlspraa   fre  Wttullty ruic. -.unl- ot tbru  tunui   ueumttptid Panlm
fani lIt. -eputm`  it barth    t.ruiuium  5th rKTany ip.r -plit. tgue                Sum."tc IKuntljy tymyct at dwI fp~jj- M.N. tote, us  frarS
La-u, is  reu1, tat. -uptctey mtbtllu.tg mt y1.y1 y.ar-   Na- Par-.-                   dsnmrisuS   Bais.g th  l                  9latt    I=    qertur    uuPureeI.p
otr. i.      - tnlSIy rut. u..- hi.. thru  lI.-. u.metu  dcli.. ti                     iftt.,ubuus is   -Iu  ullsarupcl
furttty zatruriim    -   _tcu   t.. is P-u  icitly pSualg Purtr.-c..
Muc LcMaii the  .iiitui   -  u  timemi.  teb L.Nutlasi ci ustulity              UOT11
is  rnLtlarY truod  tot Prujauttu  Purplsa..                                          xist orl l t Ktati
StutIciyuu-       te- I,A ..M~` uttti yN1.SaLim thu.c I.. -a inch  L..s.                 trm   usI - tcau'7eS  imi ice1-. - Or-.sal, slot. ud fault.
..iiiiriw ..Isrlu         to Lb. mush tut,.s. li td    t uw W truL- cL.  t                u,u1.tlt  ujuu .1   i  tu   ptsmyl 1 C puwrcimnusus si riupeala
_,i_  -oatut.  Tlus iu itbtu-d ..ly itt.t hoi-ey   -itu  d-rtS. L-                        p-r ly uchu-utS. piupl.samt u- sr-lItF tsalu.u  Uiltrts uuu h- It
thu tuluras  tun-S c  u-it at riruucietuu  At. u-h iuuui= .r  hat tdlssctd F- dtrffrms tunutim   P.1-p17t adnttL1tiesfu
sit- am   tplirn t. lel  usiti.  Thu mititiuury pugt.ltlcs -gmu  Ms                      cs. riiu nath msanruai udsait Senrutmu  en ...is IGO pirrt
.t thy..r 20t0. is t.  ruti. it dcllib..u    utlt   a.t t        uplc.-                    L..f  nh-I1 - tsu   ml. is "Nour             iuut  th   an.j pucumiuryq
eet IsS                                                                                  udusd,.ia.u-    I   t   t  ruqe  i,rus w.t.t rmutgo war. atuerspre, tu-ulractad
Yuut ultten   telteI  tubi l.  urnauutuiypjultiur..tiu  iuuuto                                                 uatossS r tu-thr toruijit     prutryetuu L.rut  q11.
,t-u-it.-h  cihu.to    .rsld-7    T                 h                   .-uul Sy ct 12 t IWN 1?  ut   t i  cr   tipndue arer.uu ur. sanurtolr
Fu.9  k. - N-7., pmyUlcta  pit uq.re kilIstut 1350 hucture  ar                   WucatluuaI.isrst i(p.rustitu-c5urx  - u-tis  I               Iu tutlisa,u
Iui rhiFu; 1150. ION is  1911dt.I-w atu.                                                                                                dit. whch ssurtuuupd
_u   . hi"srciiuIt us  t- Cumpt. '. S..  fur cstcltru    -srty.r1 umdpnrst   c    Wc5my ts-tttalusa.
ediy     mt. in    smW       a.                                                      hsl-fuhurtl           ",iuy   ussd  uuS             W  uu  utmi. cenullml L.
VAisaiuttuu La. Strutur  Irar-ut  - i2.ttdtu  ft-IA  nuctu. -baMi-isu cat-                 priary     -u "~~ry 1iu   tuu              sbt   ttsluiLu tlm
hAyau. i   r'-Ad (&i Vuit. is  ,nut -  Purtatagu  .t  lid-puct p.9-                r-u-suup.mis   uI.-t..
l.atim  loam. lIlt. ad tis dat..                                                        dstStrty t.ictti-Lltwtut. .du1t. tibia te rd is  -ritu)
rt Giaam  rsth tuu  ar.st             ANstul - l I itueth rut  ..n   t.s.t eL-        unaprei.            ai   aspupa.latu  uiu  Li pair. NISic
piprt-etatl  rsir Its9-6S. It-t  a   9
PusltetnI9Jpeyy    -ubu  -  ust  rutsrtu                                                                                                  -   --lupua-utUIS
titin  fr  Iii.m.qb  -dO 1)Ot0                                                  uiest  i. I'tbeusuptssl-Peeu   uutq .Cu
itud. Btrth Mitt (put ticuiidi -         1Inuu  it.. birtim  P., tbi.uui ut  Cl-ircrMsi u    s  h. 15purmu.   lcld.llim.biru   is
p.pcMlatu; 1960. inS0. cmi Sno dui.                                                      .1titary  -hbclu..
Cru. lath  "utuMa  ttesyiu    - sususca duitho P., tt,.-i d  of tad-pai                  hat. iotutnar wu  hu.5t             1utt -IAl1 type .f  uutr  Car rida
puya.,tIu; ttIO.At0  -at I9O dut..                                                       brccs   .uurtpL .  .   hi    fpupututlm   ucluic-
iC-.!   mcucltelt  - A..rc   .. esbur u ducgt.-t u-u  .1l hIr b- u                          Ilsmud  n.er   t, n.tstu dn In yaru shu  ruittr.ttuu ut rcoal
hut nasa  tup"tcdtln  purlud it .1w aputlicis Prun  auuu. tsr    -                        uutu  s  Iu uftier: iatu fur r-a  7-ur nay -t hic.rui  tine
tllity rtut.; u.-ily tli-yuat-.P atuugc  is .1m 15G0. tIon. .d SIMS.                      at  mal.ahilhi  tc-1            ts
ru11y floomauc-  ttsium.. A-1e f hu        Ami)- Sc   -Wbr .t nt.-pt-ira                 lVtn.ucri.ur0hc   uu, Pw t.=               -,T IT tatter  fur bru.dsiat M
ci ht,h..ct.  dutc. us   uaop,b..flisisiic     feUp P1ue.1u pr.WmrI.   ~                                                            w=si   ealtusud TV wr.mieri
Faulty   iu   -   e. uratstuuru ua - P-tte.of n arriud                                      1. .-utI.. -Ad 1. ytu-  ida. tltai.1 TV et  Cu is uittt.
u citbti-hirig ut (I-L    uu = Tt.  s  banh-cera   iutc  d                                insiia  u   iuumi.slt    -                   -iuc t   puunitdul-I
pubtarette dotutd prclertly it tar-dtu   metal n.it 1.  -laurod
rMam  AN a   Etnp                                                                            t. hi -dfly- It It qpeo-ts at     looittr rm        . u auk.
lc.d.. .i rudtssata  ~  Cua.  ftfll-7i-lD) - uduc at n.t rapte. ausui                     eCfA iasMu1 Atta5isurp ",    fl7t.S   Tui - hsld -  tl. msit, ui
tr.Idttuu ut aLl t-adiaauc mr tiu.idc ...e is  r-Id m  is                                                     . tY-r.t_aUINNuiumaL   C. dras-fe tl-
tua  cltctyu No-    bet.Y..A.    C-a...u  oe   rnytad   un ,cau                          is  bett. -sIu..
lattt .f .ur)  btt  crc udAis. is coataim  sittimct (..R. cuff Fe  us
tac1=r1ugildud. Aniigte prdacilia cr .-Ib tKItr   1. lu b-  M                        Lft MiIC
Piatutg     tu.tu  p.1c  atabtush 1161-Li. 1910. .5  liW    at..Tatr!cuhsuau)-ccuiuy-inprm.silg
Fur cpitiunit.t cturt..i-r    .r esiiu.u  - Cuqictud ftI                             it.   oblii5         i      bar -cutlStm   h-mI=.m. ututtt.  L.t..
~ uqs.ialuut u us fe   anti.  uctblu. iu -uety put tipat                           -utri   papalaacI t l:l utu.  hufLiSti-e.  -u.rcu             tru    .
p.r duy       1.. nSul usptlustau  caa  pustes    .t   taus                              -s.   cuu-bt.. t  50  Sui is  tIC it..
aupur.. ud thea.. L. ut-h. Not ucppniau  -uciud  del aS. ..sm.                          faV~eyul - 1Ps. tubcf- tr.a. ..rt..ia  c  tauttaut 1A.                  teIm
umotlttuu  -od In tad precm-tug, is  I-ac. it diLrttr tle.  Muqutru-                                              I  .bcr tCra am tiralog. i.aret. h-taut is
tanue  ue-te-d by FADl Woosd  -eytlstclsd. tat cca  atl-                             tiihtm  tM p..tt .Ipt  Fut sut  icrlwtIS.17   s  isa.
rity uod buts csliu-Na     uu -r.tl tu.ac.hady m.us..cttd-.rI(ucut   Lutu, icr.. am  Ulss. tatr-ttlcu. Cuutaft.rl.
is  dit-ttbctte itFWl:ts.i  aitai   10 p-.rt fat. at  it                               imd  uscrce.-cU  ci iuu tscmut of taut tube  tcra
IsoseboI' luno:tl- S.M11  is  Il7 aut...                                                    I"G.1, mm  .  ladsw ii,:!.S.      .P
Fur ..oit  --,  .awiy si orocl tr.jer *~) -  rcsutu rct-s .1 p.r tupeta                  Pcni sotiMutitcsl-  at  a.   . isle" -I Patt1Ipm aNui t
u   V it  .f toad p.  diy. hr e-pply it tad an Suiteld -   i-u.I. M-                atlei   uu   nc          tc   att.         .i    tsl    1ihon fu.  it
qaitca":c  rat iii  -cetLuu aiti,iluhud by USDA p-ondi ta tItIn                          pi-tcetcu    ef taut. cia  -ud  -1s. puiS  i  f.t i   iguriutiup
clatr   i Go its  si totuI prtu c  p.r      isd S  trs ur uoi NsW                 t1, W O, is70   -dlI    data.  Thuc  ir. cu  No FAD'u Pit1tctptti ritut
p..   ,att.o  ditch, Si ugn  uhad hi uniuc  prasuIn.    h ls.utd-                rutlattss   -ra   -utrat    .r th. p.palutn. is lun  ti ttis.-.  A
itda ir1tn.  the thu  .1 71 ut-itf toot1 P-etui i   21 guS of                            tie utr-uct   ir_                    = .   tei it.-
itL-s Pr.tt .    ma -  - ru  fur th. arId, propd by PAS I. thu Third                       T m4PAcyun-Mthi uf P.NUtlut ti                 Wmit II is  hi isu
Unt Iad Pb  crsuy:Y  tel1-a3, tISM  usa in77 at..                                        to: thu ciii
Puttstlu tac. tapil. FE_ cutuit Wn nu.1   - tr,,tuti uuply si fed S.-
tinc  fru       l.at   isrsi.ua sr    put Sq. Stat-A,. itS7 is  ill, Sa..            issue slrtinwsius
ChItS1 (uu  -)hs    utfnt.scs)-i.iiuh    u  haadi                                         .emuac    ue. l s  0bith t.  -1i. isd kird  - nuctnid by itcun
am grta 1- WOW. tohlda an thin. it. ur... fur a-  Sciuwetut  Cu-                    I  ttat wth-u  20 y             Pr -- r.r.  it  Aatut.i   Va-    Al P-
ttacu dog  d-orms fc tItI. table; 1iW0. 1n is ins dt.tc                                  ut k_u.itdu.
SW1AT1                                                                                   roust TRaInymn'
Lafn =ttetet      1 i   arh frIt.) - &t-rW   ..t orf Vur of tat. -uetulc                 lb. tot ualst  r-tuso  in..    win  uypr.ulitu Cuwc .f panury ta-l..
abit1 itO   oitod tWO Sure,                                                         is uh-d be autusyrutud sttb rueldurbta  -taut
A-im  ta  -r ara fucr=su atsnitat     at na    srrl - tak-                                 uutl-aully NIdML. dilt pluu ua-C.1t.  sN-Sadruit   L. nut
eta  apply f1latudu    stut    .ssru-  alm           - st dii  hit eatclati            tt"nu   mat1tle  P-,rt  as- tun1 tit.l   io- ch    s ua
Notar sh cm thut I-e erstid hruhuiu. qil,eac, is  c.tt.t  auD) a                         Run! cututan  pury ac   tvu .. I. .u-hs  o  nt _..r t- -t
Purtm.  tui  tMimj cr.iycrl.. pupittuttue . 5e    satb  i-c  i rebtIt                    ticauilam   uf tb. -cuty. Inc. liet 1. Sutted fre  thu ratu
iaai       at uts*at lutuo   -t ar  th- tMU mor  irm   ia m-o    y hi                    tuu nIth adjetuet i    himb.t taut  Ci It-nng is uthi ur...
-1duadur us  lut .tthU. rma blc icuu  of thut hI-mu,  an  -La -uc                       Watisitd P-puLIttu   Muins ihc.lt. Fuut  st   au  is-com) - utbi
suaaban  -ee   -usId tpFly thur tu hcu-wtru No most. ei tu W.ambtl                       isN rail -fPtc.t .1  uautifCrh.  aS   Wrul)      me 'Wui.tu
5. a  hunt    V. up4 a itaFPrapttct  Pan of th. Sit  A. te-eiat thu                        -,
thu tlaajcm is. diu=tls. utah l-sa ttuMAt.lp ci nftuw
is   uts-su- br -ctuc-ha. W.yus    -  tu uuu of pt. pttntu  isd itt-
lit luitalias Is.
P-Mbal-  plaq" - puessLutIe itldud by msl.. at pructitug phyua-                                                       uL d   isk -d    iu  Dote1 M In imise
FuPuLatle     v,tuis  ta-u  - tepsstgtt       ut1did by1 frA. it ptUtiaug                                                                 lby 1502
acul.ata  we..o.           mesitw .prcica   s                 - i
asict  -0atlaui..



-23-
GMSS UAXICIL 1UD0C   Z10 low  U.   t CS{. camaeut Wri")
an Ban,             z                                               1967    1%7-74    1974-00         195
CP at Ihkt Price                     1.335.0             10.0                                               3.5        1.t        6.l        0.2
Cram   mesc lMt 216 t5.0                                                                                     .1       -Z.1        .7         7.9
Gems U.tLo"I SvIn                      -39.0              -3.0                                             -Z8           33           1l
Curreu Acc   Islam                    -290.9             -.0                                              -15.5 72   -5.5 21   -1.2 T.
Eaporta of coo". MrS                   295.3              20.t                                             12.0        !.a       11.-
Lapts of Goods. WS                     5M.                39.7                                             13.7        4.9        6.2
*      O.lwntr LANKR FSO   AD
Value, Added                      1*ht Tovew 41                       V.A. fat Notr     Y
Sericulcure                          55.                  41.7                  2.7       73                          210      75
tadariry                    125~~~~~~3.2        10.3                   0.4       12                          319   * 9
Services                             440.5                480                   0.5       15                        ?.174    320
Tot!/a..Cavy                 1,335.BtIO                           101}.0   3.6   lM8
CG JEMMOT PISAc b/
Gemeral Cmrmut                     eaatml Gavet Cop
1      ~~1.5   1tU7-7          1o0)            1.0t_7
Cercet Raceipta                      97.9         11.5      14.0         S9.4           10.0      11.5
Current Expeodirnm                  114.0 7r      19.2        5.1         10.9 71       13.6      13.5
carreot Surplus                     --1.1 -1.1                          -2.5             3.I      -1.7
Capital Ep.%dcutas                   .2 41       0.4       0.8          2.5 41         0.4       0.4
teteroal Assistance Cst)             73A          12.4       15.0         14.2           2.4       1.4
,Kwy. ctg    An PSicIs  If           1977         1975       1979         190           1990      196
(KIl. NV os.a.ding and period)
l-Y ad                               83.1        103.0 e     20.2        125.          119.1    121.4
Bak Credt ro Coe_t                   94          1063.      110.1        111.5          9. 41 125.A
lek Credit to E-am_W                10742        131.6      152.2        144.0     -   159.d    173.4
Caf blch kate 5   terpes)   (14.4)          (71.9)   C".2)         (10a)          103.5   (105.5)
oney m_d Q.as .uey as lCD? 9/    21.1             24.3      22.9         Z1.1
enerl prim index (1977-160) -to   100.0          109.7      12Za         160.4
CGerL Price XoAm                      7.7          9.7       11.5         15.7
Back Credit to Caom lC               31.1          2.5        5.2        -2.4
lank credit to 1comou               -12.5         22.8      15.7          7..
(Df cbic  Stats t- atrpriMet)   (-ZS.1)     (11.5)    (2.1)        (17.3)
NotE:   A11 coavemiome to US dollar. la thip teble are at the averag   ihew rata previlIng darug the period coved.  not valleaba ledicad by
a"d oot applicable by '
.;     Geoe    iocnea savCng temd meptive is 1397. mkr  It lapomaLa to Calculate a grueth rate.
2/ CGrut rate, cLcUlated Ira  teamce gap. -t  rrw  eccomt beleae.  L areattve alga Lodicace  a grue A& deficIt.
3J      FILe, my n,ot      tO totals becomes of rounding.
41   OltStWamed as dat        et                        12.
5t      Perent of e _eaty averag.
I        IM1 flgfeos uos stretly comparable to t_me foe 1977-79; 179 is provistomal
71       Xolues 4.0 foar aCewed bet uatd  eaiitmm And _    t mIlocted eupadtture
S       Prom, laternitloa  nImeucal statIstcs.
.b       1       laed on yeas-aed leve., sot -m-Atl average.
101     ct deflator.
_at Z0. I192



- 24 -
AMU I
Pag 5
TRADE FAM S MMD CaPIrAL IS
aLcE OF PAInmErS 1/                                                                        I1UPDISE   S,T. FOS (AERACZ 1978-SO)
1978           1979            1980                                             US$ In.             S
Exports of goods. UNF                1.5             193.0           268.3               CDttOn amd products            79.3            51.4          a
lapos aof goos. NFS                  339.5           634.1           5J9.8               Livestoack ad products        43.5            28.2
Resource gap (defict -        -     -95.0           -Z41.           -26b.5               Grounimts and products         8.1             5.2
P1mb (dried and inckd)         2.1             1.4
Faccor Payments (e)                  -10.9           -1 1.8          -14.4               AlL other comoditit           21.4            13.9
Prlvate Transfers (net)               37.1            32._            35.0                   Total                     IS4.4          ICOi.O
Balance on Currect Accout           -16.8           2907           -240.9
ErmAL  DE6T. DXeemer 31. 1900 6/
Coverment Transfer (ret)             W3.9            106.7           106.3                                                         US$ mu
rILT Capital (eat) 21
Recelpts                    71.7            91.9           124.2                Pbblic Debt. Sncl guar.ateed                852.6
(of which public debt)    (68.7)          (75.0)          (84.6)                (of which dsbursed)                       (621.1)71
Payents                    -19.3          -_l.2            -18.6
(of which public debr)     (8.7) (7.)                     (11.1)
Subtotal                    52.4            7S             105.6               DOUT SERVICE RATO for 1980 U1
Other Iem. 1.t.e.                    -8.7             19            -13.8
increase in Reserves (4)             -21.2           -36.4           40.8                                                               2
PubUc Debt, Iml. Warmeed                      4.1
Cross Resrves (end rer) 3/             8.5            8S8             15.3               1IRD/IDA  nDIIC. -RIL 30. 1951. (NlMilon  sO5
Net Reserve (end year) 3.4/          229.4          -25.S S248.9
DRDn     IDA
Imports of petroleum                  63.7            55.5            82.8
Imports of foodstuffs 51              52.3            47.9            78.8               04tstanding 4 Dibabrsed               0.0    143.2
Undlsbursed                           0.0    69.9
tatandi   Slci. 1ndi4bord             0. 0    213. 1
RATE OF ExCaNGE                       1978            1979            1930       1931
05$   1.00   -   PIF                451.27          425.45          422.60     543.46
HF    100  -  U55                     O.22            0.24            0.24       0.18
(As of May. 198: U55  1.00 - NW 601.71
Kr    100 - uSS 0.17)
Note: Not available lndicated by '__  and not applicable by ".
1/    Trade data from world Bank; factor payments. trasfer. and  %pital flows frm vartous DIP srces.
_I    Includes iet at nd borrowing.
31    Converted at end of period exchane rates.
41    Net foreign assets of banking sste_; differences betwen yees do not necessariy corespo0d to cha_ge  in reserves.
im part because different exchange rates my be used.
5/    Includes food aid.
61    Iedlit   and long-term.
71    Includes  $ 141.2 million In arrears on prncipal and interest.
W      Ratio of Debt Service to esports of Coods ad Non-Factor Services-
Asgut 20. 1982



- 25 -
Annex II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IS KALI
A. Statement of IDA Credits as at March 31, 1983
Borrower: Republic of Mali
Credit  IDA Fiscal                                 Amount (less cancellations)
Number     Year      Purpose                        IDA     Undisbursed
=---USS million--
Eleven Credits fully disbursed                      71.6
383-1-HLI  1975   Second Highway                     8.3 1/      0.19
538-ELI    1975   Livestock                         13.3         1.01
669-MLI    1977   Mali-Sud Agricultural             15.5         2.05
713-ELI    1977   Railway III                       10.5         3.89
733-MLI    1978   Education II                      10.0         1.41
753-MLI    1978   Mopti Rice II                     15.0         0.65
854-MLI    1979   Technical Assistance               4.5         0.28
883-MLI    1979   Forestry                           4.5         2.02
943-ELI    1979   Urban Development                 12.0         5.39
986-MLI    1980   Industrial Sector Development      8.0         6.76
1104-MLI   1981   Road Naintenance                  14.5 2/     11.36 2/
1134-MLI   1981   Petroleum Exploration Promotion   3.3 7        1.82 2/
1174-MLI   1982   ODIPAC Technical Assistance        5.9 2/      4.85 2/
1200-MLI   1982   Second Telecommunications         12.7 2/     12.43 2/
1282-1lI   1983   Water/Power                       22.0 2/ 3/  22.00
1307-MLI   1983   Economic Management and Training 10.5 2/4/  10.50
242.1        86.61
of which has been repaid         1.0
Total now held by IDAk                             241.1
Total undisbursed                                               86.61
v    Prior to exchange adjustment.
1/   Supplemeatary Credit to Credit 383-NLI.
^ 2/ SDR exchange rate at March 31, 1983.
3/   The Credit was signed on October 14, 1982 and is not yet effective.
4/'  The Credit was signed on December 21, 1982 and is not yet effective.



- 26 -
Annex II
Page 2
B.  Statement of IFC Investments as at March 31, 1983
Loan                                                Amount
Number   Year  Borrower                Phrpose     of Loan  Equity  Undisbursed
----------US$ million-------
403-MLI 1978 Societe Mamadou
Sada Diallo et Fils     Bleach and
Plastic
Products        0.6              0.0
612-HI  1982  Societe Industrielle    Sheanut butter
de Karite du Mali, S.A. for export       1.9     0.5     0.6
C. Status of Projects in Execution as of March 31, 1983 1/
Credit 538-MII   Livestock Project.  US$13.3 million Credit of
April 11, 1975; Effective Date: July 24, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982, extended to June 30, 1984.
The project consists of (a) introduction of livestock extension
services and grazing control schemes in three selected areas (b) provision for
animal health services, (c) construction of 50 ponds and 70 wells, (d) con-
struction of one slaughter house (e) provision for five livestock markets, (f)
development of a pasture trial station (g) implementation of a training and
functional literacy program and (h) preparation of a follow-up project.
Although most components were successfully executed, there was no progress on
the more innovative aspects, i.e. those elements aimed at establishing the
rational use of land and water in the livestock area. Therefore remaining
funds under the Credit have been focussed on financing the necessary research
and pilot schemes, and on strengthening sector institutions, in order to lay a
sound basis for a follow-up project.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 27-                              Annex II
Page 3
Credit 669-MLI   Kali-Sud Agricultural Project.  US$15.5 million Credit
of December 23, 1976; Effective Date: September 13, 1q77;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project consists of (a) expansion of agricultural production in
the project area: cotton, kenaf, maize and rice; (b) studies; (c) applied
research; (d) development of livestock; and (e) strengthening of public health
services. Village Mutual Guarantee Groups and a blacksmith network are being
developed beyond expectations. Production for cotton and coarse grains is
beyond appraisal estimates, although the last two years showed a declining
cotton production due to terms of trade unfavorable to the farmers:
inadequate adjustments in the cotton price structure by Government in early
1981, as a result of partial removal of subsidies on inputs, resulted in major
financial difficulties for the imp'leenting agency.  Although these were
resolved in April of that year, a second project now in preparation aims at
lasting solutions through sectoral adjustment lending.
Credit 713-MLI   Third Railway Project.  US$10.5 million Credit of June 10,
1977; Effective Date: November 22, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982, extended to March 31, 1984.
Implementation of the bridge rehaDilitation and repair program, the
project's main component, was finally set in motion in December 1979. The
remaining small bridges, which had to be excluded from the project as the bid
price exceeded the anticipated cost, were included in an EEC Special Action
Credit for US$10 million. Mali Railways (Ccp) main capacity and operational
constraint continues to be the low availability of locomotives. This had
thwarted efforts to increase CFM's utilization of imports from Dakar, where
high stocl-s of Mali-bound products accumulated at the port awaiting transport
to Bamako. The shortage of locomotive power was worsened by a collision in
December 1979, leaving a gap which can only be filled by augmenting the
locomotive fleet. This has been covered by a reallocation of available funds
from the EEC Special Action Credit.
Credit 733-MLI   Second Education Project.  US$10.0 million Credit of
September 30, 1977; Effective Date: January 30, 1978:
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
In December 1981, the Credit Agreement for this project was amended
to provide for the deletion of construction of the National Institute for
Management, Loulouni teacher training camp and housing for literacy super-
visors, and the allocation of funds for the preparation of future projects.
Construction has been completed for all remaining components. Teachers
trained in Europe for the livestock technician training center (EIY), have
returned to Bamako and will be ready for the opening of the center. Programs
for the two agricultural training centers are being developed jointly by IDA
and USAID teams. Encouraging progress is being made in implementing new
programs for grades 7, 8 and 9 in the rural lower secondary schools.



- 28 -
Annex II
Page 4
Credit 753-MLI   Mopti Rice II Project.  US$15.0 million Credit of
December 8, 1977; Effective Date: May 15, 1978;
Closing Date: November 30, 1983.
The project consists of construction of new polders (8,000 ha) and
consolidation and improvement of existing polders (21,000 ha) for rice culti-
vation under controlled flooding. Main components are civil works; deep
ploughing: building; farm machinery and civil works .naintenance; applied agri-
cultural research; technical assistance for ORM and adult literacy program.
The project also provides assistance to the Study Bureau of the Genie Rural.
In general, the physical progress has been satisfactory but the project
suffers from the inadequacy of the agricultural credit system, shortage of
agricultural equipment, grazing facilities for traction animals, rice seed
prL.duction, and excessive flooding depths. Corrective measures are being
taken in the ongoing project, which would be continued in a follow-up project.
Credit 8853-LI   Forestry Project.  US$4.5 million Credit of May 25,
1979; Effective Date: June 30, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
A five year program to increase fuelwood and building pole supplies
would establish 3,400 ha of industrial rainfed tree plantations near Bamako
and on a trial basis, 60 ha of rainfed and 70 ha of partially irrigated
plantations near Mopti; apply modern forest management techniques on 1,200 ha
of natural forest; establish three rural forestry nurseries and rehabilitate a
fourth, and carry out studies of more efficient wood use and ways to involve
local population in rural forest activities. Technical experts services
would supplement the staff of the Forestry Department of the Ministry of Rural
Development to assist with the implementation of the forestry program. The
project is being implemented satisfactorily.
Credit 943-MMI  Urban Development Project.  US$12.0 million Credit of
November 7, 1979; Effective Date: June 3, 1980
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project assists Government in providing affordable urban services
to low income urban residents and mobilizing local resources. For the capital
city of Bamako, the project provides shelter, services and related community              A
facilities for about 50,000 low income residents; improves health and sanitary
conditions; and carries out an investment study. In addition, new institu-
tions will be created and outside expertise utilized to strengthen and develop
the urban setor. Market facilities and promotion of local building materials
would aid local entrepreneurs. The secondary centers of Mopti and Kayes will
receive essential water and sanitation services. Project implementation is
proceeding satisfactorily.



- 29 -
Annex II
Page 5
Credit 986-MLI   Industrial Sector Development Project.  US$8.0 million
Credit of May 23, 1980. Effective Date: September 26,
1980. Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project consists of support to the private industrial and
traditional sector, including a US$3.5 million line of credit and a comprehen-
sive institution building program, and the rehabilitation and expansion of
Union Laitiere de Bamako (ULB), Mali's sole producer of pasteurized milk
products. All components have been initiated satisfactorily except the line
of credit and the training oO private entrepreuneus at IPGP, the management
training school. Amendments to the legal documents to remedy this situation
are being processed.
Credit 1104-NI Road Maintenance Project. SDR 13.4 million Credit of
March 11, 1981. Effective Date: September 10, 1981
Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
The project consists of urgently needed maintenance on 6,600 km of
roads and periodic maintenance works on 900 km of roads. It includes
strengthening of the Equipment Service and Training Center of the Ministry of
Transport and Public Works and assistance to the Ministry in setting up a
transport data collection unit. A program of vehicle axle-load control is
being initiated under the project.
Credit 1134-ILI Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project; SDR 3.1 million
Credit of April 29, 1981. Effective Date: October 29, 1981
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project provides technical assistance to help monitor ongoing
exploration by oil companies and interpret the results of this exploration.
Experts have been engaged to investigate known oil shale deposits, and to help
elaborate a national energy policy. In agreement with the Government and
after reviewing previously undertaken quality tests it was decided to reduce
the scope of the drilling campaign and to suppress the study of mining method
as well as the pre-feasibility study.
Credit 1174-MLI ODIPAC Technical Assistance Project. SDR 5.5 million
Credit of April 30, 198;  Effective Date:  September 17,
1982; Closing Date:  September 30, 1985.
The project supports a rural development institution in defining a
new approach to agricultural development in the groundnut belt and in investi-
gating the scope for further investments. It comprises a three-year program
aimed at (i) increasing the efficiency of agricultural production by retrain-
ing extension staff, improving seed production, distribution and storage, and
strengthening the credit and marketing system; (ii) promoting self-managed
farmer organizations able to take over village development activities, and
(iii) testing diversification programs to reduce the area's dependence on
groundnuts as an export crop.



- 30 -
Annex II
Page 6
Credit 1200-MLI Second Telecommunications Project. SDR 11.4 million
Credit of April 30, 1982; Effective Date: November 4,
1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1988.
The project assists the Office des Postes et Telecommunications (OPT)
in acquiring and installing physical facilities essential to improve and
expand its services. It also aims at developing the institutional aspects of
OPT and in particular its telecommunications department, financial management,
planning, programming, and statistical services. The project provides for:
(a) construction of an automatic telephone exchange and expansion of an
existing exchange at a regional capital; (b) substantial expansion of the
local cable network in Bamakc and construction of such networks in about eight
provincial cities; (c) construction of a microwave radio relay link on the
route Segou-Sevare; (d) construction of a number of VHF, UHF and SHF links to
serve district and subdistrict centers; (e) installation of a new telex
exchange in Bamako; (f) tools, instruments and vehicles for installation,
operation and maintenance; and (g) technical assistance for design engineering
and maintenance of installations, local training and fellowships for training
abroad.
Credit 1282-MLI Power/Water Project. SDR 20.4 million Credit of
October 14, 1982; Effective Date: May 13, 1983
(anticipated); Closing Date: December 31, 1987. 1/
Credit 1307-MLI Economic Management and Training Project. SDR 9.7 million
Credit of December 21, 1982; Effective Date: June 30, 1983
(anticipated); Closing Date: June 30, 1987. 1/
1/   This Credit is not yet effective.



- 31 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
MALI
BIOMASS ALCOHOL AND ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
A.   Project Identification Mission:         February 1980
B.   Project Preparation (by Government
and PPF-financed consultants):       March-June 1981
C.   Appraisal Mission:                      October 1981
D.   Date of  Completion of Negotiations:  Nay 1983
E.   Planned Date of Effectiveness:          October 1983
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Action
None
Section III: Specir.l Conditions
A. Conditions of Credit Effectiveness:
(i)  Opening of a separate bank account by ON into which it would agree to
deposit all revenuaes from sugar, sugar by-products, and alcohol
(para. 47);
(ii) Establishment of Alcohol Production Unit (para. 48); and
(iii)  Execution of the subsidiary loan agreement between Government and ON
(para. 51);
B. Other Conditions:
(i)  Execution of an agreement between Government and COD (or its members)
by January 31, 1984 on the storage, marketing and distribution of
gasohol (para. 41);
(ii) Preparation for IDA approval by January 31, 1984 of a detailed
program for technical assistance and training to be provided for
plantation and factory operations (para. 42);
(iii) Establishment by December 31, 1983 of a Rehabilitation Task Force
with technical assistance and a work program satisfactory to IDA
(para. 44);



- 32 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(iv)  Establishment by July 1, 1984 of a Sugar Production Unit with
independent administrative and financial management, separate bank
account, priority use over sugar and alcohol revenues, and a mutually
agreed manager, financial manager, and operational procedures (paras.
47 and 54);
(v)  Establishment of an Alcohol Production Unit as a separate profit
center under the Sugar Production Unit, having independent
administration and a mutually agreed manager, key staff, and
operational procedures (paras. 48 and 54); and
(iv)  Execution of a Subsidiary Lease Agreement between the Borrower and
the owners of the Bamako dep8t by January 31, 1984 (para. 51).
a



SUPPLY POINTS
-     SOURCES DZ4PPROVISAONNWEMEN
A      PETROLEUM PRODUCTS DEPOTS                                                 BIOMASS  ALCOHOL
S SUPPLY OF PETROLEUM PRODUCTS                                                    PROJEr DE  CARBUR
APPROVI50AVEAVENTr DE PRODUTS PETRO IES R
BIOMASS ALCOHOL SUPPLY
APPROVS/ANNVEMENT Di A COOL
ROADS
ROUTES
kAILWAY
VOLE FEfR.REE                                                                M A ;; R I T A N I A
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
FRONrTIERES NArIONAlV A ES
RIVERS
FELIVES ETE EGAEIES
-t %; ' I   '    _    ~DAKAR v      >                                   Ko
R KALA,' 
IION
LA ~
-~      *r  RIE1109  L                    jR  
*  .    )    S  GAMBI      ..J
|;     '~ ~~ .            I                                                               t       [)      F0_       i
-  ,  ,'             12-               ;\_= -B 5 S A yj *-1
'  GUINEA-S 
Molodod;wNono                               ">                                                           p
0 510  15  20
0   5  1 152           /   1'>                                                           G  U I N  E A  ,-      
KILOMETERS         -    '                                                                           ).
t  X i  Xnd                   ~~~~~~A T I A N T  C                              -
,'AS  I E R R A
SOPIOf                  O~.      0CE ANi
|                                                                                                         UPPEW KALA  ;*
df  -j5      ALA SUPEfIEUR                                                     CQK          /           
Dou.pbsugou              '                    SUGAR AND ETHANOL FACTORIES
RAFFINFRIES ET DISTiRI ES                              < f 
OF:rICE DU NIGER HEADQUARTERS                                     l 
SIEG  DE IOfFICE DU IAoGER
5c,Soniond.ng  'e,,;/i SUGAR ESrATES
.,. -   ............. i/zXf.t.f/.X. PLATATIONS DE CAVNNE A SUCRE
DIVEr90N D..                      -    --- ROADS AND TRACKS/ROUTES Fr PISTES
DIKESIDIGUES E4
AX~~~~~~~~~CNLIAVU                                                                  0   100  200
_,,/ RomoIv   -o   ~- - MAIN DRAINS IDRAAIS PRIACIPAULIX                                                    100    I00
=                                             RIVERS / LIVS                                                  KILOMETERS
.OsO                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~12-        S.



IBRD 1 6461
' j   i-                                 |       x ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ALGERIA
M A L I                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~     ~    ~ ~~MAURITANIA   i   , J
'LCOHOL AND ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT                                                            Mb At I
'E CARBUROL Er DECOAIOMIE D'EAIERGIE                                          .                       (.a.l
! A ht,,,@: B a 's sl;arw ,- t = ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NIGI It
T A N I A                          /            -w*                             ;fjlb
*_.in-*M  A            -- L  IN    ow                                                  X,,_
M    A    L    |   ,  H  Mopti  _vr           )       .      ~~~~N  I G E R
!              --sgU P P E Rl V O L T A            f
( Q * o-- * $ ( ' J , ~~~~~~~~~PARAKOUj 
k !  )                t   4S    '<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\  1 z' 
_   \   ~~I  V    O0    R   Y           )4]g                    r O I ,,h-8
\  )    0  C  OS Az S  r           ~~~~~~~~~G  H A N A     \           co   
/s   8       | \ ABIDJAN     )                ,- --X--  BIGHT OF BEIVIA
DS_ _~~~~~ModZ  w In4-t
_-o  *e _ s ,lf [_|0e SID *_a;_
100    200    300                               *__ ___S_            S-_-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*W  m'.
KILONIETERS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f -- k - qP-d                         ,S, m___1 DODDd
8-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~VN A4* MN 4..r
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.m Id I  *w .              *w mei m AN                         1



