OFFICIAL
noCUMENTS
CREDIT NUMBER 1403 MLI
Substitution Project Agreement
(Biomass Alcohol and Energy Efficiency Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
COMPLEXE SUCRIER DU KALA SUPERIEUR
Dated                               ,1987


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1403 MLI
SUBSTITUTION PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       0'Z   /7             1987, between the
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association) and the COMPLEXE SUCRIER DU KALA SUPERIEUR (herein-
after called SUKALA).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement dated
November 3, 1983 between the Republic of Mali (hereinafter called
the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to
make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies
equivalent to seven million one hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDP 7,100,000), on the terms and conditions set forth
in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that
the Office du Niger agree to undertake such obligations toward
the Association as set forth in the Project Agreement dated
November 3, 1983 between the Association and the Office du Niger;
(B) by the Subsidiary Loan Agreement dated March 5, 1984
between the Borrower and the Office du Niger, a portion of the
proceeds of the Credit provided for under the Development Credit
Agreement was made available to the Office du Niger on the terms
and conditions therein set forth; and
(C) by an exchange of letters of even date herewith between
SUKALA and the Association, SUKALA has agreed to assume all of
the rights and obligations previously undertaken by the Office du
Niger in respect of sugarcane operations to be carried out under
the Project; and
WHEREAS SUKALA, in consideration of the foregoing, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agrce as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) SUKALA shall carry out Parts A through E
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit
Agreement as amended, with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate industrial, administrative, finan-
cial, economic, engineering and agricultural practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
(b) SUKALA shall, for the purposes of Parts A through E of
the Project, open and maintain in CFA francs a special account in
a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of the
Schedule to this Agreement.
(c) For the purposes of carrying out the Project, SUKALA
shall: (i) establish PMU and thereafter maintain it with full
responsibility satisfactory to the Association for coordinating
and supervising the carrying out of all Project operations; and
(ii) appoint and thereafter maintain as head of PMU a Project
Manager whose qualifications and experience shall be satisfactory
to the Association.
(d) SUKALA shall by June 30, 1987:
(i) for purposes of carrying out Part E of the Project
prepare a training program satisfactory to the
Association;
(ii) make arrangements with the Office du Niger satis-
factory to the Association to determine the
modalities of their cooperation and the details of
their respective responsibilities with respect to
the use and maintenance of the irrigation network
facilities included in the Project. Such arrange-
ments shall provide for a full recovery of the
cost of services rendered by them from the bene-
ficiaries of said services; and
(iii) complete the study referred to in Part E of the
Project and take all necessary measures to carry


﻿-3-
out by October 31, 1987 the recommendations of
said study as they shall have been agreed upon
with the Association.
Section 2.02. In order to assist SUKALA in carrying out
Parts A through E of the Project, SUKALA shall employ consultants
and experts including, inter alia, a Technical Advisor and a
Sugarcane Expert whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association, such consultants and experts to be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) SUKALA undertakes to insure, or make ade-
quate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the
Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition, transporta-
tion and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation,
and for such insurance any indemnity shall be pavable in a cur-
rency freely usable by SUKALA to replace or repair such goods.
(b) SUKALA shall cause all goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower to
be used exclusively for the purposes of Parts A through E of the
Project.
Section 2.05. (a) SUKALA shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for Parts A through E of the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b) SUKALA shall: (i) maintain records and procedures ade-
quate to record and monitor the progress of Parts A through E of
the Project (including their costs and the benefits to be derived


﻿from them), to identify the goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their use in the
Project; (ii) enable the Association's representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in such Parts of
the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and
(iii) furnish to the Association at regular intervals all such
information   as  the   Association   shall   reasonably   request
concerning such Parts of the Project, their costs and, where
appropriate,   the  benefits  to   be  derived   from  them,   the
expenditures of such proceeds and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by SUKALA of any contract for goods,
works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Cre-
dit, the Association may publish a description thereof, the name
and nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and
the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of Parts A through E of the
Project, but in any event not later than six months after the
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose
between SUKALA and the Association, SUKALA shall prepare and fur-
nish to the Association a report, of such scope and in such
derail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the execu-
tion and initial operation of such Parts of the Project, its cost
and the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the perform-
ance by SUKALA and the Association of their respective obliga-
tions under the Project Agreement and the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit.
(e) SUKALA shall enable the Association's representatives
to examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of SUKALA and any relevant records and
documents.
Section 2.06. (a) SUKALA shall duly perform all its obliga-
tions under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, SUKALA
shall take no action or concur in any ,ction which would have the
effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) SUKALA shall, at the request of the Asso-
ciation, exchange views with the Association with regard to the


﻿- 5 -
progress of Parts A through E of the Project, the performance of
its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Credit.
(b) SUKALA shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by SUKALA of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of SUKALA
Section 3.01. SUKALA shall carry on its operations and con-
duct its affairs in accordance with sound industrial, administra-
tive, financial, economi., engineering and agricultural practices
with qualified and experienced management and staff.
Section 3.02. SUKALA shall at all times operate and maintain
its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time
to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and
renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial and agricultural practices.
Section 3.03. SUKALA shall take out and maintain with res-
ponsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. SUKALA shall maintain records adequate to
reflect, in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices, its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. SUKALA shall:
(a) have its accounts (including the Special Account) and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;


﻿-6 -
(b) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in
any case not later than six months after the end of each such
year, (i) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited, and (ii) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested;
(c) furnish to the Association such other i2formation con-
cerning said accounts and financial statements, as well as the
audit thereof, as the Association shall from time to time reason-
ably request; and
(d) furnish to the Association within four months following
the end of each fiscal quarter copies of its financial statements
for such quarter as well as progress and procurement reports
covering activities under the Project during such period.
Section 4.03. (a) SUKALA shall maintain at all times:
(i) a Debt/Equity ratio of no more than 60/40; and
(ii) a ratio of Current Assets to Current Liabilities
of at least 1.5:1.
(b) For purposes of this Section, the terms:
(i) "Debt Equity RatioI means the ratio of Funded Debt
to Equity Capital;
(ii) "Funded Debt" means any debt for borrowed funds;
(iii) "Equity Capital" means the aggregate of the un-
impaired paid-in capital, reserves and retained
earnings of SUKALA;
(iv) "Current Assets" means the sum of unrestricted
cash and bank deposits available for use in cur-
rent operations of SUKALA, marketable securities
(excluding securities, whether marketable or not,
acquired for purposes of control, affiliation, or
other continuing business advantage), receivables
collectible in the normal course of business with-
in one year, inventories (excluding spare parts)
valued at the lower of cost or market, and prepaid
expenses; and


﻿- 7 -
(v)  "Current Liabilities" means all obligations of
SUKALA due on demand or within one year or whose
liquidation is reasonably expected to require the
use of existing resources classified as Current
Assets. Such obligations shall include but shall
not be limited to customers' advances, accrued
taxes on, or measured by, income, other accrued
taxes and current maturities of long-term debt.
Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, SUKALA shall not incur any debt, unless the net revenues
of SUKALA for the fiscal year immediately preceding the date of
such incurrence or for a later twelve-month period ended prior to
the date of such incurrence, whichever is the greater, shall be
at least 1.5 times the estimated maximum debt service require-
ments of SUKALA for any succeeding fiscal year on all debt of
SUKALA, including the debt to be incurred.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) The term "debt" means any indebtedness of SUKALA
maturing by its terms more than one year after the
date on which it is originally incurred.
(ii) Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a
loan contract or agreement or other instrument
providing for such debt or for the modification of
its terms of payment on the date of such contract,
agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee
agreement, on the date the agreement providing for
such guarantee has been entered into.
(iii) The   term  "net  revenues" means    the  difference
between:
(A) the sum of revenues from all sources related
to operations adjusted to take account of
SUKALA's prices in effect at the time of the
incurrence of debt even though they were not
in effect during the twelve-month period to
which such revenues relate and net non-
operating income; and
(B) the sum of all expenses related to opera-
tions, including administration, adequate


﻿-8-
maintenance, taxes and payments in lieu of
taxes, but excluding provision for depre-
ciation, other non-cash operating charges and
interest and other charges on debt.
(iv) The term "net non-operating income" means the dif-
ference between:
(A) revenues from all sources other than those
related to operations; and
(B) expenses, including taxes and payments in
lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation of
revenues in (A) above.
(v) The average current gross value of SUKALA's fixed
assets in operation shall be calculated as one
half of the sum of the gross value of SUKALA's
fixed assets in operation at the beginning and, at
the end of the fiscal year, as valued from time to
time in accordance with sound and consistently
maintained methods of valuation satisfactory to
the Association.
(vi) The term "debt service requirements" means the
aggregate amount of repayments (including sinking
fund payments, if any) of, and interest and other
charges on, debt.
(vii) Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall
be necessary to value, in terms of the currency of
the Guarantor, debt payable in another currency,
such valuation shall be made on the basis of the
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such
other currency is, at the time of such valuation,
obtainable for the purposes of servicing such
debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the
basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the
Association.
Section 4.05. Before making any new investment aimed at
expanding or increasing SUKALA's productive capacity, SUKALA
shall prc-pare a feasibility study satisfactory to the Borrower
and the Association and proceed with said investment only upon
mutual agreement with the Association.


﻿-9-
Section 4.06. SUKALA shall ensure that first priority be
given to the use of the molasses produced at the sugar mills as a
raw material for the facilities included in the Project.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Amending Agreement to the
Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of SUKALA thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i)  the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date eighteen years after the date of this
Agreement.
(b)  If  the  Development  Credit Agreement    terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
SUKALA of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have


﻿- 10 -
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For SUKALA:
Complexe Sucrier du Kala Superieur
a Dougabougou
B.P. 119
Segou
Republic of Mali
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of SUKALA, or under the Development Credit
Agreement on behalf of the Borrower by SUKALA, may be taken or
executed by its Director General or such other person or persons
as he shall designate in writing, and SUKALA shall furnish to the
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authen-
ticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.


﻿- 11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By 141t~sd0 7vus
Regional Vice President
Western Africa
COMPLEXE SUCRIER DU KALA SUPERIEUR
Byi                               R    ev
Authorized Representative


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Category" means Category (2) set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
Parts A through E of the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligi-
ble Category in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
the Development Credit Agreement; and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount of
one hundred million CFA Francs to be withdrawn from the Credit
Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to para-
graph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible


﻿- 13 -
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Asso-
ciation from the Credit Account under the respective eligible
Category, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have
been justified by the evidence supporting the request for such
deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment was made for eligible expen-
ditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made directly by the
Borrower from the Credit Account in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section
2.02 of the Development Credit Agreement; or
(ii)  the  total   unwithdrawn  amount   of  the   Credit
allocated to the eligible Category for Parts A
through E of the Project, minus the amount of
any outstanding special commitment entered into by
the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to Parts A through
E of the Project, shall be equal to the equivalent
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eli-
gible Category for Parts A through E of the Project shall follow
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as
of the date of such notice have been or will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.


﻿-14 -
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence fur-
nished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, deposit into
the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request,
refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


