Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H379-GW 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Emergency Public Service Delivery Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated May 13, 2008
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER H379-GW 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated May 13, 2008 entered into between REPUBLIC OF 
GUINEA-BISSAU (
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (“Association”).  The Recipient and the Association hereby agree as 
follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement.  
ARTICLE II — FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to  
six million and one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 6,100,000) 
(“Financing”) to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (“Project”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this 
end, the Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
Page  3
2
ARTICLE IV 
—EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
4.02. 
For purposes of Section 8.05 (b) of the General Conditions, the date on which  
the obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement (other than those providing 
for payment obligations) shall terminate is twenty years after the date of  
this Agreement. 
ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
5.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Minister responsible for finance. 
5.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Ministério das Finanças  
Avenida Domingos Ramos 
C. P. 67 
Bissau 
Guinea-Bissau 
Cable:  
Telex:  
Facsimile: 
 
MEF 
 
257 MEF B1 
(245) 205156 
 
5.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 International 
Development 
Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
 
Page  4
3
AGREED at Dakar, Republic of Senegal, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU 
 
By /s/ 
Fali Embaló 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Madani M. Tall 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  5
4
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objective of the Project is to support human development through the 
uninterrupted delivery of education services in the 
Recipient’s territory. 
The Project consists of the following part: 
PART A 
Human Development Support
Carrying out of education programs through the provision of resources for payment  
of salaries of Primary Education Teachers working in the public sector, including audits. 
 
Page  6
5
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. Institutional 
Arrangements
 
The Recipient shall maintain at all times, during Project implementation, with 
terms of reference and resources satisfactory to the Association and competent 
staff in adequate numbers, a PCU, which shall be responsible for coordination of 
the Project. 
B
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports 
1. 
 (a) 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project  
 
and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of  
 
Section 4.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators 
 
set forth below in sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph.  Each Project 
 
Report shall cover the period of one calendar year or such shorter period 
 
as the Association shall otherwise agree, and shall be furnished to the 
 
Association not later forty five (45) days after the end of the period 
 
covered by such report.  
(b) 
The performance indicators referred to above in sub-paragraph (a) 
consist of the following:  
(i) 
Ensure provision of primary education programs during: (A) the 
 
period 2007/2008: the 2007/2008 evidenced by its successful 
 
completion; and (B) the period 2008/2009 evidenced by the 
 
starting of the school year on time. 
(ii) 
Ensure provision of primary education programs through the 
 
timely payment of Primary Education T
eachers’ salaries during 
 
Project implementation avoiding accumulation of new arrears by 
 
end of calendar year 2008. 
 
Page  7
6
2. 
For purposes of Section 4.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Association not later than July 31, 2009. 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the 
 
General Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association as part of the Project Report not later than 
forty five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited 
financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association. 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its final Financial Statements audited in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 4.09 (b) of the General Conditions. The audit of 
the Financial Statements shall cover the period of the implementation of the 
project. The project audit report of the Grant should be submitted to the Bank 
within six months after the Closing Date.  
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated  
May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made 
applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible 
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the category of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Financing to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures  
to be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
 
Page  8
7
Category 
Amount of the Financing 
Allocated (expressed in 
SDR) 
 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
 (inclusive of Taxes) 
(1) Operating Costs  
6,100,000 
100% 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
6,100,000  
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed SDR 2,430,000  
(two million four hundred and thirty thousand Special Drawing Rights) 
equivalent may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after 
October 1, 2007 for Eligible Expenditures under Category (1). 
2.
 
The Closing Date is March 31, 2009. 
Page  9
8
APPENDIX 
Section I. 
Definitions 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“Category” means the category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 
to this Agreement. 
3. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 15, 2006) . 
4. 
“Operating Costs” means expenditures incurred under Part A of the Project 
described under Schedule 1 to this Agreement consisting of salaries of Primary 
Education Teachers, as defined here below, audits and fees of payment agents  
in charge of carrying out the payment of salaries. 
5. 
“PCU” means Project Coordination Unit, a unit established and operating 
pursuant to the laws of the Borrower, with the responsibility of coordinating the 
implementation of projects financed by the Association in the Recipient’s 
territory. 
6. 
“Primary Education Teachers” means civil servants and contractors employees of 
the Recipient’s government working in the education sector.  
 
