Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB3802 
Project Name 
Emergency Public Service Delivery 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Central government administration (100%) 
Project ID 
P109722 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF GUINEA-BISSAU 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
]
B
[X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
April 4, 2008 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
April 8, 2008 
Date of Board Approval 
April 29, 2008 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
(a) Guinea-
Bissau’s economic performance since the 1998 conflict has been uneven.  
Democratic presidential and legislative elections, held in 1999-2000, were considered free and 
fair.  However, apart from a brief period of optimism in 2000, the democratic dividend failed to 
materialize.  Frequent changes in Government (about twice a year) and inadequate and 
deteriorating economic management characterized most of the first half of the current decade 
(until mid-2004).  The legacies from this period include: (i) important donors shifting their focus 
away from Guinea-Bissau; (ii) unaddressed security sector reform, contributing to instability; 
(iii) slow growth; and (iv) inability to maintain an adequate macroeconomic program and 
slippages in economic management, including a close to tripling of the public sector wage bill in 
2003, as a result of which revenues now barely cover wages, contributing to the current fiscal 
constraints.  Another consequence has been a serious delay in attaining the HIPC Completion 
Point.  
 
(b)  
The period was quite difficult for the citizens of Guinea-Bissau, especially the poor.  
Well-informed observers thought that, unless the situation was reversed quickly, the country 
would become a failed state – a risk that remains present as long as security sector reforms are 
not addressed and steady economic growth is not attained.  There was little progress towards 
meeting the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), and there were disruptions in the delivery 
of social services, which were alleviated by the funding of recurrent costs by donors.  This 
funding also helped avoid a strike by teachers in 2003.  By paying teachers through an IDA-
funded education project, at a time that the Government could not, the Bank helped ensure 
continuity in the education of children.  The proposed project builds on this experience, under 
much improved country circumstances and better prospects for sustainability of donor and 
government actions. 
 
(c)  
The 2004 legislative elections resulted in the appointment of a reform-minded 
Government that brought the fiscal situation largely under control and launched important 
reforms in taxation and the telecommunications sector.  This Government was replaced 18 
Page  2
-
2
-
months later, in November 2005, following the presidential election.  The Government that came 
into power in 2005 finalized a Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) and a Security Sector 
Reform proposal, based on work undertaken earlier.  In spite of the reform plans, economic 
management deteriorated, as evidenced by mounting arrears; less transparency in public 
expenditures; a significant drop in cashew-nut exports following government intervention; and 
the emergence of governance problems in the energy sector.  At the same time, reports began to 
emerge that Guinea-Bissau was increasingly used as a transit country for drug traffic from South 
America. 
 
(d) 
In response to the growing crisis and the decision by donors to put on hold the support 
pledged at the November 2006 Geneva Round Table, a national unity Government was named in 
April 2007.  This Government took immediate steps to address governance issues, and reform 
programs in public finance and the energy sector were brought back on track.  During 2007, the 
Government’s focus on measures aimed at improving economic governance included, on the 
fiscal front, an emergency action plan that formed the basis for IMF Emergency Post-Conflict 
Assistance (EPCA) of US$2.8 million, approved by IMF’s Board on January 29, 2008.  The plan 
included effective measures to close loopholes and strengthen revenue collection; the 
strengthening of public expenditure management; and the introduction of measures to control 
discretionary spending.  The Government has also initiated reforms aimed at stimulating growth 
and promoting transparent public-private partnerships.  As a result of these reforms, for 2007:  
(i) revenues increased by 13 percent; (ii) GDP growth increased from 1 percent p.a. to 2.7 
percent p.a.; and (iii) cashew-nut exports were stronger than in the previous year, and all the 
production was exported in November 2007, compared to 70 percent at end-2006. 
 
(e) 
Thus, the Government has established a record of accomplishment in pursuing 
macroeconomic stability and good economic governance, thereby restoring donor confidence 
and enabling the donor community to deliver and scale-up its support to the country.  
Recognizing that economic development and security go together, a donors’ meeting, held in 
Lisbon on December 19, 2007, pledged about US$7 million to fund a priority program to combat 
drug trafficking in the country.  The economic reform program that underpins the EPCA requires 
that donors fill a budget gap of about US$45 million.  By financing recurrent costs in the 
education sector, the proposed project contributes to reducing this gap. 
 
2. Objectives 
 
(a) 
The objective of the proposed project is to contribute to the uninterrupted delivery of 
critical public services.  This will be achieved through provision of IDA resources to sustain the 
education sector.
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
(a) 
The Bank’s support is part of a multi-faceted effort by the international community to 
help reduce the fragility of the economy and the State by supporting economic and security 
sector reforms, the latter being a key to social and political stability.  On the economic front, the 
Bank, together with the European Union (EU) and the IMF, is leading an important donor 
Page  3
-
3
-
harmonization effort with UN agencies, and key bilateral donors and regional institutions, 
notably ECOWAS (Economic Community of West African States).   
(b) 
This approach aims to develop a shared strategic platform based on the following three 
pillars: (i) satisfactory implementation of the Government’s macroeconomic program and 
improved fiscal sustainability; (ii) Stimulating Growth; and (iii) Alleviating Poverty.  By 
contributing directly or indirectly to all three pillars of the strategic platform, the proposed 
project is an integral part of the Bank’s strategy and is seen as an important step in helping 
stabilize the economic situation in Guinea-Bissau.  
 
4. Description 
 
(a) 
The operation is focused on a single component:  delivery of education services.  The 
grant would finance the salary of primary education teachers (civil servant and contractors), the 
cost of managing such payments, and the end of project audit.  The full US$10 million grant will 
be disbursed against this component. 
 
(b) 
As provided under Operational Policy (OP) 8.00, this project responds to a request by the 
Government for urgent assistance by the Bank to support fiscal stability, facilitate delivery of 
social services and help avoid social unrest.  Given the context discussed above, the project 
meets the criteria outlined in OP 8.00 (para. 1), namely:  (i) it addresses adverse economic and 
social impact resulting from a man-made crisis; (ii) provides relief to recovery transitions; (iii) is 
carried out in partnership with development partners; and (iv) 
appropriate oversight 
arrangements have been set up.  
 
5. Financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
IDA Grant 
10 
 Total 
10 
 
6. Implementation 
 
(a) 
The Grant will be implemented by the Ministry of Finance, in coordination with the 
Ministry of Education. 
 
7. 
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
 
a. 
The most important lesson learned since the end of the conflict is that despite a difficult 
country situation, the implementation of investment projects funded by the Bank has been quite 
successful.  Satisfactory outcomes have thus been attained, and the current portfolio remains 
sound.  This is confirmed by two recent reviews by the Quality Assurance Group (QAG) of the 
Private Sector Rehabilitation and Development Project, which rated the majority of the various 
aspects reviewed as fully satisfactory or better.  However, a weakness, noted in some 
Implementation Completion Reports (ICR), is that some project achievements may not be 
sustainable.  The present project is part of a broader coordinated effort by donors and the Bank 
Page  4
-
4
-
that should help improve sustainability of education sector financing, once the EFA program is 
in place in 2009. 
 
(b) 
A number of factors have contributed to satisfactory development outcomes, the most 
important of which are listed below: 
 
¨
Implementation of projects through strong Project Implementation Units (PIU) staffed by 
professional team leaders and qualified fiduciary experts.  The present project will utilize 
the already established Private Sector Project’s PIU, which currently manages the two 
largest projects in the portfolio, and has managed three others for short periods during the 
past three years. 
 
¨
The Basic Education Project (Cr. 2960), which closed in 2005, was part of a portfolio 
restructuring undertaken in 2003 and approved by the Board.  This restructuring included 
amending the disbursement schedule to allow 100 percent funding of eligible expenditures, 
which facilitated subsequent project implementation once counterpart constraints were 
removed -- as provided by the Country Financing Parameters for Guinea-Bissau and 
OP/BP 8.00, the proposed operation will finance 100 percent of eligible expenditures.  
Another aspect of the education restructuring was to make eligible under the previous IDA 
Credit the financing of teachers’ salaries.  This helped end the teachers’ strike and 
facilitated completion of the school year.  No major issues were encountered with the 
payment of salaries, even though public expenditure management systems were weaker 
than they are now.  The well-functioning Treasury Committee and systems put in place 
under the previous project that funded salaries are key elements of the fiduciary system 
supporting the proposed project. 
 
8. 
Safeguard policies (including public consultations) 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project 
Yes No 
TBD 
Environmental Assessment
 (OP
/BP
4.01) 
[] [X 
] 
 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
 4.04) 
[
]
[X] 
 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
[
]
[X] 
 
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
[ ] 
[X ] 
 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
 4.12) 
[] [X] 
 
Indigenous Peoples (
 
OP/BP
 
4.10) [ 
] 
[X] 
 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
 4.36) 
[
]
[X] 
 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
 4.37) 
[
]
[X] 
 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
 7.60)
*
[
]
[X] 
 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
 7.50) 
[
]
[X] 
 
Piloting the Use of Borrower Systems to Address Environmental  
 
and Social Issues in Bank-Supported Projects (OP/BP 4.00) 
[
]
[X] 
 
9. 
List of Factual Technical Documents 
 
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the 
disputed areas
 
Page  5
-
5
-
1.  Draft Memorandum of the President April 2008 
2.  Financing Agreement, April 2008 
 
10. Contact 
point: 
Contact: Joelle Dehasse 
Title:  Senior Operations Officer 
Tel:  202-458-5437 
Email:  jdehasse@worldbank.org 
 
11. 
For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
