                                        TheWorld Bank


                                   FOROFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                        ReportNo: 43250-GW




                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION

                                       PROJECTPAPER

                                   FORA PROPOSEDGRANT

                           INTHE AMOUNT OF SDR6.1MILLION

                               (US$lO MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                            TO THE

                               REPUBLIC OFGUINEA-BISSAU

                                            FORAN

               EMERGENCY PUBLIC SERVICE DELIVERY PROJECT



                                          April 11,2008




CountryDepartmentAFCFl
Africa Region




This document has arestricteddistribution andmaybeusedbyrecipients only inthe performance of
their official duties. Its contents maynototherwise be disclosed without WorldBank authorization.

                                   CURRENCYEQUIVALENTS
                             Currency Unit = CFA franc (CFAF)
                                      U S $ l  = CFAF448.44 (As ofFebruary20,2008)

                    GUINEA-BISSAU-GOVERNMENT FISCALYEAR
                                        January 1- December 31

                                    WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
                                             Metric System

                               ABBREVIATIONSAND ACRONYMS

                AfDB            African DevelopmentBank
                DPO             Development Policy Operation
                ECOWAS          Economic Community o f West African States
                EFA-FTI         Education for All-Fast Track Initiative
                EPCA            Emergency Post-Conflict Assistance
                EPSDP           Emergency Public Service Delivery Project
                EU              EuropeanUnion
                GDP             Gross Domestic Product
                HIPC            Highly Indebted Poor Country
                ICR             ImplementationCompletion Report
                IFR             Interim Un-auditedFinancial Report
                IMF             International Monetary Fund
                I S N           Interim Strategy Note
                MDG             MillenniumDevelopment Goal
                MDRI            Multilateral Debt ReliefInitiative
                NPV             Net Present Value
                OP/BP           Operational PolicyBest Practice
                PIU             Project ImplementationUnit
                PPP             Public-Private Partnership
                PRGF            PovertyReduction and Growth Facility
                PRSP            PovertyReduction Strategy Paper
                PSRDP           Private Sector Rehabilitationand DevelopmentProject
                SSR             Security Sector Reform
                UN              United Nations
                UNDP            United Nations Development Programme
                UNESCO          United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
                                Organization
                UNICEF          United Nations Children's Fund

                         Vice President:            Obiageli K. Ezekwesili
                         Country Director:          MadaniM.Tall
                         Task Team Leader:          Iradi Alikhani

This document has a restricted distributionand may be usedbyrecipients only inthe performance
o f their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank
authorization.

                                                                                                            FOROFFICIAL USE ONLY



                                                 REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
                         EMERGENCY PUBLIC SERVICE DELIVERY PROJECT

                                                                          Contents
         EMERGENCYOPERATIONPROJECTPAPERDATA SHEET..........................................                                                                     i
         A. INTRODUCTION                  ..............................................................................................................        1
         B. THEUNMETDEMOCRATICPROMISE........................................................................                                                   1
         C. THE EMERGENCYAND WINDOW OF OPPORTUNITY............................................                                                                  1
         D. POVERTYAND MACROECONOMICPROSPECTS.....................................................                                                              3
            Povertyandits Determinants.......................................................................................................                   3
            MacroeconomicPerformance200~2006                                                                                                                    4

            Medium-termStrategy ................................................................................................................
            RecentPerformanceandProspects                        .............................................................................................
                                                                           ...................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                5
                                                                                                                                                                6
         E. THE EDUCATIONSECTOR ............................................................................................                                    6
         F. THE BANK'S RESPONSE.................................................................................................                                8
         G. THEPROJECT              ...................................................................................................................         9
            Project DevelopmentObjectives                                                                                                                       9
            Project Components           ....................................................................................................................
                                                             .................................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                9
            Eligibilityfor ProcessingunderOP/BP 8.00                           .............................................................................
            ExpectedOutcomes................................................................................................................... 11
            Consistencywiththe Country Assistance Strategy...................................................................                                  10
                                                                                                                                                               10

         H KEYELEMENTSOFIMPLEMENTATIONARRANGEMENTS................................
           .                                                                                                                                                   11
            LessonsLearnedandReflectedinProject Design....................................................................                                     11
            ProjectImplementationPeriodandImplementationSupport                                            ................................................... 12
            Project ImplementationArrangements                        ......................................................................................   13
            ProcurementArrangements
            DisbursementArrangements,FinancialManagement,ReportingandAuditing.......................
                                                    .......................................................................................................    13
                                                                                                                                                               13
            CompliancewithBank SafeguardPolicies                             ...............................................................................   14
         1. PROJECTBENEFITS,RISKS AND MITIGATIONMEASURES.................................                                                                      14
            Benefits
            Risks..........................................................................................................................................
                     ...................................................................................................................................... 14
                                                                                                                                                               14
         J TERMS AND CONDITIONS............................................................................................
          .                                                                                                                                                    15
         Annex 1: The EducationSector inGuinea-Bissau                                     ................................................................     17
         Annex 2: Operations Portfolio(IDA andGrants)                                   .................................................................. 26
         Annex 3: Countryat a Glance                   ................................................................................................        27
         Annex 4: ProjectPreparationandAppraisalTeam Members                                                ................................................   30
         Annex 5: FinancialManagementAssessment                                   .......................................................................      31
         Annex 6: ProcurementAssessment(Not applicable)............................................................                                            37
         MAP: IBRD33415


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance o f
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.                                                             1


                                                     i



            EMERGENCYOPERATIONPROJECTPAPERDATASHEET



Date: April 11,2008                                              Team Leader: Iradj Alikhani
Country Director: Madani M.Tall                                  Sectors: Primary Education, Central
Lending instrument: Emergency operation                          Govt.Administration
                                                                 Themes: Education for all, Public
                                                                 expenditure/financial & Macroeconomic
                                                                 management
                                                                 Environmental screening category: C
                                                                 Safeguard screening category: n.a.




Proposedterms: Grant                                    Expectedimplementationperiod: 12 months
Expected effectiveness date: May 2008                                      closing date: March 31,2009
BorrowerRecipient: Republic o f Guinea-Bissau         I Expectedrevised
                                                        Responsible agency: Ministryo f Finance
Development Objective:
To contribute to uninterrupteddelivery o f critical public services through the provision o f resourcesfor
payment o f teachers' salaries.
Short Description: Bank support for this project is part o f a multi-faceted effort by the international
community to helpreduce the fragility o f the economy andthe State. The approach aims to develop a
strategic platformbasedon three pillars: (i) satisfactory macroeconomic program andimproved fiscal
stability; (ii)
              stimulating growth; and (iii)
                                          alleviatingpoverty. The project aims to ensure that educational
services are maintained in2008, paving the way for more substantial support in2009, beyondthat to be
provided under the Educationfor All-Fast Track Initiative(EFA-FTI).
Financing Plan (US$m.) 10
Source                                       I Local                    I Foreign                  ITotal
Borrower
Total IBRJYIDA                                                                                         10
TrustFunds
Others
Total

                                     2008          2009         2010         2011         2012        2013
Total IBRD/IDA                         5             5
Trust Funds
Does the emergency operation require any exceptions from Bankpolicies?                       Yes [ 3 No [XI
Have these been approved by Bank management?                                                 Yes[ ] N o [ ]
Are there any critical risks rated"substantial" or "high"?                                   Yes [XI No [ ]
                 Macroeconomic and fiscal stability
What safeguard policies are triggered, if any?                                                 n.a.
Sirmificant. non-standard conditions. ifanv:                                                   n.a.


                                   A. INTRODUCTION

1.      This Project Paper seeks the approval o f the Executive Directors for a grant inthe
amount o f US$10 million equivalent to the Republic o f Guinea-Bissau to finance an
Emergency Public Service Delivery Project (EPSDP). The grant will ensure continued
delivery o f essential basic educational services, especially to the poor, through the
funding o f primary teachers' salaries. The project will thus help the Government deal
with a difficult fiscal situation and lack o f resources for the education sector, pendingthe
expected Education for All-Fast Track Initiative (EFA-FTI) approval o f a program that
would fund primary education from 2009 onward. This project i s an integral part o f a
broader targeted response by the Bank inGuinea-Bissau, aimed at avoiding a breakdown
o f the State-one o f six strategic themes proposed by President Zoellick in his October
22,2007 remarks to the Boardo f Governors o fthe Bank Group.


                       B. THE UNMETDEMOCRATICPROMISE

2.       Guinea-Bissau's economic performance since the 1998 conflict has been uneven.
Democratic presidential and legislative elections, held in 1999-2000, were considered
free and fair. However, apart from a brief period o f optimism in 2000, the democratic
dividend failed to materialize. Frequent changes ingovernment (about twice a year) and
inadequate anddeteriorating economic management characterized most o f the first halfof
the current decade (untilmid-2004).      The legacies from this period include: (i)  important
donors shifting their focus away from Guinea-Bissau; (ii)        unaddressed security sector
reform, contributing to instability; (iii)  slow growth; and (iv) inability to maintain an
adequate macroeconomic program and slippages in economic management, including a
close to tripling o f the public sector wage bill in 2003, as a result o f which revenues now
barely cover wages, contributing to the current fiscal constraints. Another consequence
has beena serious delay inattainingthe HIPC Completion Point.

3.       The period was quite difficult for the citizens o f Guinea-Bissau, especially the
poor. Well-informed observers thought that, unless the situation was reversed quickly,
the country would become a failed State-a        risk that remains present as long as security
sector reforms are not addressed and steady economic growth i s not attained. There was
little progress toward meeting the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), and there
were disruptions in the delivery o f social services, which were alleviated by the funding
o f recurrent costs by donors. This funding also helped avoid a strike by teachers in2003.
By paying teachers through an IDA-funded education project, at a time when the
Government could not, the Bank helped ensure continuity in the education o f children.
The proposed project builds on this experience, under much improved country
circumstances and better prospects for sustainability o f donor andgovernment actions.


             C. THE EMERGENCYANDWINDOW OFOPPORTUNITY

4.      The 2004 legislative elections resulted in the appointment o f a reform-minded
government that brought the fiscal situation largely under control and launched important
reforms intaxation and the telecommunications sector. This government was replaced 18

                                              2


months later, in November 2005, following the presidential election. The government
that came into power in 2005 finalized a Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) and a
Security Sector Reform (SSR) proposal, based on work undertaken earlier. Inspite o f the
reform plans, economic management deteriorated, as evidenced by mounting arrears; less
transparency in public expenditures; a significant drop in cashew-nut exports following
government intervention; and the emergence o f governance problems in the energy
sector. At the same time, reports began to emerge that Guinea-Bissau was increasingly
used as a transit country for drug traffic from South America.

5.      Inresponse to the growing crisis and the decision by donors to put on hold the
support pledged at the November 2006 Geneva Round Table, a national unity
government was namedinApril 2007. This government took immediate steps to address
governance issues, and reform programs in public finance and the energy sector were
brought back on track. During 2007, the government's focus on measures aimed at
improving economic governance included, on the fiscal front, an emergency action plan
that formed the basis for International Monetary Fund (IMF) Emergency Post-Conflict
Assistance (EPCA) o f US$2.8 million, approved by IMF's Board on January 28, 2008.
The plan included effective measures to close loopholes and strengthen revenue
collection; the strengthening o f public expenditure management; and the introduction o f
measures to control discretionary spending. The Government has also initiated reforms
aimed at stimulating growth and promoting transparent public-private partnerships
(PPPs). As a result o f these reforms, for 2007: (i)   revenues increased by 13 percent;
(ii)GDP growth increased from 1 percent per annum to 2.7 percent per annum; and
(iii)cashew-nut exports were stronger than in the previous year, and all the production
was exported inNovember 2007, compared to 70 percent at end-2006.

6.      Thus, the Government started to establish a recordo f accomplishment inpursuing
macroeconomic stability and good economic governance, thereby helping to restore
donor confidence and enabling the donor community to deliver and scale-up its support
to the country. Recognizing that economic development and security go together, a
donors' meeting, held in Lisbon on December 19, 2007, pledged about US$7 million to
fund a priority program to combat drug trafficking in the country. This program goes
hand in hand with security sector reforms, based on a national Security Sector Reform
strategy prepared with the assistance o f bilateral donors and presented at the Geneva
Round Table. These reforms aim to support the establishment o f a smaller, professional
m y , andreduce military expenditures onwages.

7.      The implementation o f the SSR began in earnest in 2008, when donors started
implementing concrete actions in support o f the security sector and peace-building in the
country. On February 12,2008, the Council o f the European Union (EU) announced the
establishment o f a mission in support o f security sector reform in Guinea-Bissau. The
overall objective o f this initiative is to provide advice and assistance to the local
authorities on reform o f the security sector, in order to contribute to creating the
conditions for implementation o f the reforms, in close cooperation with other EU,
international and bilateral actors, and with a view to facilitating subsequent donor
engagement. A key specific objective i s to operationalize the national security strategy
by assisting in downsizinghestructuring the armed forces and security forces. There is

                                                      3


about EUR 6.0 million available to hnd the mission. In addition, the EU is providing
about EUR 8.0 million in 2008 to fund demobilization. Parallel to the EU Council
initiative, the UN Peace-Building Commission has created a configuration for Guinea-
Bissau headed by the Brazilian Ambassador to the UN. A first mission visited the
country in April 2008 to explore areas for quick-win activities and medium-term peace-
buildingactivities to be financedthrough a specific Peace-Building Fund.

                  D. POVERTYANDMACROECONOMICPROSPECTS

PovertyanditsDeterminants

8.       With an average per capita GDP estimated at about US$l50 over 1999-2003,
Guinea-Bissau ranked 175 out o f 177 countries in the United Nations' 2008 Human
Development Index. The Bank's Integrated Poverty and Social Assessment (IPSA) for
Guinea-Bissau, based on the 2002 partial household survey, indicates that about three-
fifihs o f the population o f approximately 1.5 million i s living in poverty. Poverty i s
concentrated in the rural areas, where the rate is estimated at 64 percent compared to 46
percent in cities.       The poverty rate across genders is about the same (66 percent).
Regionalpoverty comparisons indicatethat Bissau, the mainurbancenter, i s the least poor
among the seven regions, with a poverty rate o f 46 percent, while Oio, one o f Guinea-
Bissau's northernregions, is the country's poorest, with a 76 percent poverty rate.'

9.       About 80 percent o f the poor (70 percent of the workforce) are employed in
agriculture. The sector, which i s not diversified, is concentrated in the production and
processing o f cashew nuts, with heavy reliance on unskilled labor. People living inrural
areas earn nearly40 percent o f their income from agriculture, compared to 30 percent for
the people deemed poor. This can be explained by the fact that rural farmers earning
incomes from cashew-nut production earn relatively highincomes.

10.      The breakdown o f poverty by type o f employment indicates that the incidence o f
poverty i s lower (53 percent) for wage and salary earners (public and private). This
highlights the importance o f sound public finance management to allow the timely
payment o f public service salaries, an objective o f the proposed project in the case o f
teachers. Regular payment o f wages in the civil service would have a positive spillover
effect on poverty, as the dependency ratio remains high in Guinea-Bissau, and there are
significant social transfers between the poor and non-poor sections o f the population.

11.      Access to schooling and health care remains constrained by lack o f proximity,
especially in rural areas. The dropout rate i s worse among boys, probably because they
need to participate at an early age in agricultural and other economic activities. Private
hospitals and community health centers seem to play an important role inmeeting health
care needs. At the national level, 51 and 29 percent o f respondents reported to have used
private hospitals and community centers, respectively. This may reflect the inadequate
level o f service inpublic hospitals and clinics, which are inadequately funded and where

'Thepovertyrate  is the povertyheadcountindex usingthe 2002 light householdsurveywith apoverty line of CFAF
216,000 (equivalentto US$l per day).

                                               4


budget financing barely covers salaries.        Recognizing the difficulty o f covering the
recurrent costs o f the health system, the authorities passed a law introducing user fees.
The law i s seen as a means o f legalizing the practice o f informal payments andproviding
more transparency and efficiency inthe collection and utilization o f user fees.

Macroeconomic Performance 2000-2006

 12.     Since 2000, several efforts have been made to restore macroeconomic stability
and implement structural reforms, with mixed results.            Guinea-Bissau reached the
Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Decision Point in December 2000 and
subsequently negotiated a three-year PRGF arrangement with the IMF, which went off
track inearly 2001. During2001-2004, there were several short-lived attempts to restore
macroeconomic stability. During 2005-2006, the Government implemented two IMF
Staff Monitored Programs (SMPs), which were only partially successful.

 13.    As a result o f political instability, poor governance and short-lived adjustment
efforts, Guinea-Bissau's economic performance was generally unsatisfactory during
2000-2005. Duringthis period, the real GDP growth rate averaged about 1percent, with
negative growth rates recorded in 2002 and 2003. A modest economic recovery took
place in 2004 and 2005 due to higher production o f cashew nuts and large donor
disbursements.     Real GDP growth in 2006 declined to 1.8 percent, while inflation
increased to 3.2 percent. As a member o f the West Afican Economic and Monetary
Union (WAEMU), Guinea-Bissau's inflation rate remained aligned with that o f the other
members, Le., around 3 percent on average per year over 2000-2006. The real exchange
rate was stable, but appreciated on average by about 1 percent per year vis-a-vis the
trading partners during this period due to a relatively stronger Euro; this appreciation has
accelerated recently, following the steep depreciationo f the dollar.

 14.    The period was also characterized by lack o f control over the wage bill. Between
2001 and 2003 the size o f the civil service increased beyond what would be needed in
order to deliver public services, and the payroll included "ghost workers". Furthermore,
civil service wages were almost tripled in late 2003. While there may have been some
justification in increasing the minimum wage, which was very low, the rationale for
others, including the military, was weak. As a result, wages in 2004 exceeded tax
revenues by 3 percent o f GDP. The subsequent governments took steps to reduce wages
andincrease revenues. Some o fthe pay increases were rolled-back. Furthermore, wages
were frozen andthe payroll was audited, leading to a more sustainable situationwhereby
tax revenues in2008 are projected to cover wages. Further reductions inthe wage bill to
GDP are expected to take place in the next 3 years through a combination o f higher
growth, civil service retrenchment (also fhded by the EU) and demobilization (see
para. 7).

15.     Overall, between 2000 and 2006, the slow pace o f policy reforms--combined
with unfavorable terms o f trade and periodic insufficient rainfall, as well as late and
insufficient donor support-largely     explains the lack o f rapid economic recovery during
the period following the conflict when GDP fell by about 25 percent. At the same time,
the delivery o f basic social services deteriorated sharply, inpart due to the inability o fthe

                                             5


Government to pay wages on time. Both the Government and donors are determined to
reverse these trends, and the proposed project i s an integralpart o f this effort.

RecentPerformanceandProspects

16.     InApril 2007, a new government was appointed, following a Parliamentary vote
o f no confidence in the former Prime Minister. The new coalition government has the
support of 90 percent of National Assembly Deputies and includes individuals with a
proven track record at the helm o f critical ministries. This strengthens the government's
credibility toward its citizens andthe donor community.

17.      Backed by broad political support to make significant changes in the direction o f
economic policies, and faced with a difficult fiscal situation, the new Government in
April 2007 started implementinga "minimum economic reform program" to stabilize the
macroeconomic situation and reactivate economic growth.           These measures received
broad support from the People's National Assembly, the general public and donors, and
their implementation is overseen by a high-level team inthe Ministry o f Finance. They
aim at increasing revenues, restraining expenditures and improving transparency and
financial management (FM). Revenue-enhancing measures include limiting tax
exemptions, improving customs collection, increasing taxes on 14 products, and
enforcing collection o f the stamp tax.          Expenditure control measures include:
(i) processing all payment orders through the Budget Directorate; (ii)       restricting extra-
budgetary expenditures only to emergency situations and regularizing them within 48
hours; (iii) normalizing budget execution procedures; and (iv) requiring Treasury
approval for any purchase o f goods and services by line ministries. To improve
transparency and financial management, the Government i s implementing additional
policy actions in line with recommendations o f the Bank and the IMF. The most critical
o f these measures was the reinstatement and strengthening, starting in May 2007, o f the
Treasury Committee in charge o f implementing the Treasury's cash-flow plan.               To
improve governance and public confidence, representatives o f civil society, the armed
forces, the Ministry o f Interior, ex-combatants and the donor community have been
invited to participate inthe Committee as observers. There i s a general consensus among
donors that this Committee is functioning transparently and effectively.

18.     The Government faces several challenges in the implementation o f its "minimum
economic reform program": (i)     maintaining broad political support and strengthening
public administrative capacity for implementation; (ii)     defining measures to achieve
fiscal and debt sustainability and adhering to regulations and laws, notably inthe area o f
public financial management; and (iii)defining and putting in place a program that
deepens structural reforms to improve the investment climate and reduce widespread
poverty in the country. The implementation o f reforms will need to be sustained over
several years and considerable donor support i s required if the country is to address the
challenges discussed above. The Bank i s a leader inproviding this support, starting with
the proposed project and the exceptional extension o finterimH P C reliefto 50 percent o f
Net Present Value (NPV), approved by the Board on January 29,2008. Furthermore, and
as mentioned in para. 5, the EPCA program was approved by the IMF Board on
January28, 2008.      This program is expected to leverage additional budget support

                                                        6


plannedbythe Bankand other donors in2008 and 2009. A keyperformancetarget o fthe
EPCA i s that the Government does not run any new arrears in 2008 and repays part o f
arrears accrued in 2007. By financing salaries, the proposed project provides critical
support for attaining this goal.

19.     During its short period in power, the government's achievements have been
remarkable (see para. 5): (i)           increasing revenues despite the first half o f 2007 that was
below par, (ii)   ensuringa successful cashew-nut export campaign, and (iii)           demonstrating
an ability to mobilize concessional resources from non-traditional donors.                       The
Government i s now deepening earlier revenue reforms, while adopting measures in
parallel aimed at improving the investment climate and stimulating growth. This reform
program provides the basis for future budget support planned by the Bank and other
donors.

Medium-termStrategy

20.     Inaddition to stabilizing the economy, the Government intends to implement its
Poverty Reduction Strategy. The first full PRSP was presented to the World Bank and
IMF Boards on May 10 and 11,2007, respectively. The PRSP presents a medium-term
strategy for the period 2007-10,                    which aims at: (i)strengthening governance,
modernizing public administration and ensuring macroeconomic stability; (ii)              enhancing
economic growth and job creation; (iii)               increasing access to social services and basic
infrastructure; and (iv) improving the livingconditions o f vulnerable groups.

21.     As underscored in the Joint Staff Advisory Note (JSAN) prepared by the Bank
and the IMF, during the implementation o f the PRSP, the authorities will need to:
(i) prioritize the proposed activities under each strategic pillar; (ii) constraints to
                                                                              identify
growth such as those resulting from low productivity o f the country's resources and
unexplored comparative advantages, while further defining and implementing specific
policies andprograms to address them; (iii)             develop a detailed and sequenced strategy to
improve governance, includingfor emerging miningand oil activities; (iv) implement the
security sector reform strategy; and (v) strengthen the monitoring and evaluation
framework, including by developing poverty statistics that are comparable over time and
strengthening the capacity to collect and analyze poverty data. Furthermore, the success
o f the PRSP will depend on acceleration o f capacity building and policy reforms, social
service delivery (a goal o f this project) and adequate donor funding.


                                   E. THEEDUCATIONSECTOR

22.      The social sector review being prepared by the World Bank incollaboration with
UNDP, UNICEF, and the AfDB concludes that, in spite o f the difficult country
circumstances, the positive evolution o f the education sector inGuinea-Bissau constitutes
a relative success story and the underlying effort warrants renewed Bank and donor
support. The most visible sign o f progress in education in Guinea-Bissau i s the large


 See Annex 1 for a fuller description of the sector.

                                             7


increase in coverage in recent years as a result o f unprecedented public, community-
based and private efforts to buildnew classrooms andto stimulate demand.

23.     Gross Enrollment Rate (GER) in primary education has doubled since 1995
reaching 102 percent in 2005. However, due to delayed schooling, the net enrollment
rate inprimary education i s only 45 percent. Gross Intake Rate (GIR) has beenhighover
the recent years. It was estimated at an average o f 120 percent during the period 2002-
2005.

24.     A detailed analysis o fthe education sector, its challenges andprospects, as well as
strategic issues i s detailed in Annex 1. The main conclusion o f this analysis is that
renewed funding o f the sector by donors is essential. The key actions to support the
Education for All-Fast Track Initiative (EFA-FTI) program are developed in Annex 1
and summarized below.
+      Prioritizing actions for better results. This would address interconnected and
       mutually reinforcing factors: (i) investment in the sector; (ii) deficient
                                          low                                the
        structure and organization o f the education system; and (iii)poor sector
       management. The PRSP addresses these topics ina general, andwould need to be
       complemented by a long-term education policy and strategic document.

+      Implementing short-term reforms. Adopting a six-year primary education cycle i s
       critical to ensure that a growing number o f children complete a six-year basic
       education and that the basic skills are mastered by all children. A new curriculum
       for the six-year model o f primary education has been drafted under a pilot
       program.

+      Providing adequate external funding to meet the MDG. It is still possible to
       achieve universal primary education by 2015.         Progress toward this goal will
       require more resources, better policies, and greater internal efficiency o f the
       system.

+      Makingmore rational use of teachers inthe classroom. This includes rethinking
       teacher training and improving school-based management.

25.     The medium- to long-term needs o f the sector clearly go beyondwhat can be done
under the proposed project: Nevertheless, it is important to-keep in mind that Guinea-
Bissau may still be able to reach the education MDG. To do so, the substantial donor
funding under the EFA-FTIhas to become available in 2009, as expected. It is in this
context that the present project provides essential bridge support to the EFA-FTI, by
contributing to a successful completion o f the 2007/8 school year and helping to ensure
that the 2008/9 school year starts on time, by eliminating education sector wage arrears,
which has been the main cause o f teacher strikes inthe past at the beginningof the school
year.

                                             8


                             F. THEBANK'SRESPONSE

26.     The Bank's support is part o f a multi-faceted effort by the international
community to help reduce the fragility o f the economy and the State by supporting
economic and security sector reforms, the latter being key to social andpolitical stability.
On the economic front, the Bank, together with the EU and the IMF, is leading an
important donor harmonization effort with UN agencies, and key bilateral donors and
regional institutions, notably ECOWAS (Economic Community o f West African States).
This approach aims to develop a shared strategic platform based on the following three
pillars:

        Satisfactory implementationof the Government's macroeconomic program
        and improved fiscal sustainability. In the first instance, this involves the
        implementation o f a minimum budget that adequately prioritizes expenditures,
        especially to ensure continued delivery o f social services.     Civil service and
        security sector reforms discussed earlier constitute an integralpart o f this short- to
        medium-termapproach, which involves reducingthe weight of the wage bill. As
        expenditures currently outpace revenues, the budget gap (especially in 2008 and
        2009) i s expected to be fully funded by donors, through a combination of
        temporary debt relief and budget support. Inthe mediumterm, by 2010, Guinea-
        Bissau i s expected to reach HIPC completion and benefit from the Multilateral
        Debt Relief Initiative (MDRI). Renewed growth, on the basis o f the approach
        outlined below, and increased donor investment and budget support-together
        with implementation of the above-mentioned reforms to improve public
        expenditure management and the PRSP-should           provide the budget with the
        fiscal spacenecessary to implement more ambitious development programs aimed
        at progressively reducingpoverty and improving MDGindicators.


    0   Stimulating Growth. The main elements o f a growth strategy include re-
        establishing infrastructure services, improved investment climate, and private
        sector development, through enhancement o f skills and reduction o f the domestic
        debt overhang.     Given the current fiscal situation, the Government is over-
        extended, and the development o f infrastructure will require the development o f
        public-private partnerships (PPPs). A good example o f this is provided by the
        telecommunications/infonnation technology sector, the expansion o f which i s
        estimated to be contributing about 0.5 percentage points to Guinea-Bissau's
        annual GDP growth.      Other sectors, notably energy and transport (port), are
        proving more challenging, due to past governance problems. A PPP framework i s
        under preparation and would help support transparent selection o f private
        operators. Inparallel, donor funding has been mobilized for the critical energy
        sector that would allow the country to have a ten-fold increase in electricity
        supply, which would be available inBissauroundthe clock instead o f a few hours
        a week. Guinea-Bissau is ranked 176 out o f 178 in the 2008 Doing Business
        Indicators, and the Government has initiated reforms aimed at improving this
        ranking. These measures complement tax reforms adopted in 2005 (notably the
        reduction in the corporate income tax rate), and their implementation during the

                                               9


         first half o f 2008 aims at stimulating private-sector investments, job creation, and
         highergrowth.

     0   Alleviating Poverty. The country's poverty situation highlights the challenge of
         poverty alleviation, including meeting the challenges in the social sectors o f
         health and education, particularly for the poor. The macroeconomic and growth
         pillars make direct and indirect contributions to tackling these challenges.
         However, macroeconomic stability and growth will not be sufficient to address
         issues such as rural poverty. Therefore, promotion o f agricultural production and
         helping communities address their small infrastructure needs constitute important
         complementary measures, inaddition to support for the social sectors.

27.      Donor efforts at developing a common approach based on the above three pillars
are intended to help Guinea-Bissau achieve greater economic and social stability, hold
successful legislative elections in 2008, and pave the way for reaching the HIPC
Completion Point and MDRIin 2010. Inparallel, the launch o f security sector reforms
and measures to combat drug trafficking aim at reducing the fragility o f the State. The
above approach i s embodied in the forthcoming Interim Strategy Note (ISN), which i s
under preparation and expected to be presented to the Board in 2008. Inthis context, the
Bankhas articulated, inline with OPBP 8.00, a targeted response, which is embodied in
the proposed project. It aims to provide the Government with resources for payment o f
salaries, thereby avoiding a situation where cash-flow problems cause a disruption inthe
delivery o f educational services.

28.      It should be noted that the Bank is a major donor in Guinea-Bissau, with a good
track record o f supporting strategic reforms, and enjoys the necessary convening power
to bring other donor funding. The Bank has a comparative advantage in the design and
implementation o f programs that pave the way for economic recovery in post-conflict
countries, andthat enhance peace and stability. This experience i s reflected inthe Multi-
sector Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project, approved in 2006, that i s working with
Government and development partners to bring reliable electricity back to Bissau. The
proposed operation builds on this experience and constitutes a sound use o f IDA
resources.


                                     G. THE PROJECT

ProjectDevelopmentObjectives

29.      The objective o fthe proposed project is to contribute to the uninterrupteddelivery
o f critical public services. This will be achieved through provision o f IDA resources to
sustain the education sector.

ProjectComponents

30.      The operation i s focused on a single component: delivery o f primary education
services. The grant would finance the salary o f primary education teachers (civil servant

                                                10


andcontractors), the cost o fmanaging such payments, and the end-of-project audit. The
full US$10milliongrantwill bedisbursed against this component.

Eligibilityfor ProcessingunderOP/BP8.00

31.     As provided under Operational Policy (OP) 8.00, this project responds to a
request by the Government for urgent assistance by the Bank to facilitate delivery o f
social services and help avoid social unrest. Given the context discussed in Sections C,
D, and E, the project meets the criteria outlined in OP 8.00 (para. l),        namely: (i)it
addresses adverse economic and social impact resulting from a man-made crisis; (ii)           it
provides relief to recovery transitions; (iii) is carried out in partnership with
                                                     it
development partners; and (iv) appropriate oversight arrangements have been set up.

32.     Success o f the activity financed under the project depends on rapid support
through accelerated procedures, as allowed under OPBP 8.00. As explained below, the
flexibility provided inthe OP is required, but the rapid processing o f this project is not at
the expense o f compliance with safeguards (none are triggered), procurement (there will
be no procurement activities), and insufficient financial and disbursement arrangements,
because these will be provided by an existing, well-functioning Project Implementation
Unit (PIU) andbased on already tested procedures. Nevertheless, flexibility is required
andwill be utilizedvery selectively to ensurethat project funds are disbursed quickly.

Consistency with the CountryAssistance Strategy

33.     The proposed ISN will outline the Bank's support for the three pillars described
previously. The existing Bank portfolio, specifically the private sector and infrastructure
projects, supports the growth and related reform agenda. By contributing directly or
indirectly to all three pillars o f the strategic platform, the proposed project i s an integral
part o f the Bank's strategy and is seen as an important step in helping stabilize the
economic situation inGuinea-Bissau.

34.     The proposed project, as well as the planned series o f at least two Development
Policy Operations (DPOs), expected to be presented to the Board in late 2008 and 2009,
provide further critical support for the continued provision o f essential services,
especially to the poor.      Finally, the ongoing HIV/AIDS Global Mitigation Support
Project, under IDA'SMulti-Country HIV/AIDS Program (MAP) for the Africa Region,
together with the proposed Community-Driven Development Project (planned for the
second half o f 2008), fund initiatives that aim to alleviate poverty. Funding by IDA i s
reinforcedby the extension o fHIPC interim debt relief to 50 percent o fNPV o f IDA total
debt relief under HIPC. It i s also worth noting that even though IDA is unlikely to have
sufficient resources to directly fimd social sectors in Guinea-Bissau, the preparation o f
timely sector work will help the Government prepare sector strategies and seek other
donor funds. For instance, the ongoing Social Sector Review i s expected to provide the
basis o f forthcoming requests to the Global FundandEducation for All programs.

                                             11


ExpectedOutcomes

35.      There are two expected outcomes o f the activities to be financed under the
project:

           Project Development Outcome 1: Ensure the uninterrupted delivery o f primary
           education services. Two indicators will be used: (1) 2007/8 primary school year
           completed satisfactorily, as measured by the number o f days public primary
           schools were open; and (2) the 2008/9 primary school year starts on time.
           Indicators to be providedby the Ministries o f Finance and o f Education.

           Intermediate Outcome 1: Timely payment o f primary teachers' salaries.
           Teachers' salaries are paid and no new salary arrears to primary teachers are
           accumulated in2008. Indicator to be provided by the Ministries o f Finance and
           o fEducation.


          H. KEYELEMENTSOFIMPLEMENTATIONARRANGEMENTS

LessonsLearnedand ReflectedinProjectDesign

36.      The most important lesson learned since the end o f the conflict is that despite a
difficult country situation, the implementation o f investment projects fundedby the Bank
has been quite successful. Satisfactory outcomes have thus beenattained, and the current
portfolio remains generally sound. This is confirmed by two recent reviews by the
Quality Assurance Group (QAG) o f the Private Sector Rehabilitation and Development
Project, which rated the majority o f the various aspects reviewed as fully satisfactory or
better. However, a weakness, noted insome ImplementationCompletion Reports (ICRs),
i s that some project achievements may not be sustainable. The present project i s part o f a
broader coordinated effort by donors and the Bank that should help improve
sustainability o f education sector financing, once the EFA-FTIprogram is in place in
2009.

37.      A number o ffactors have contributedto satisfactory development outcomes inthe
Bank'sportfolio, the most important o fwhich are listedbelow:
     +     Implementation o f projects through strong Project ImplementationUnits (PIUs)
           staffed by professional team leaders and qualified fiduciary experts.        This
           approach-which      is deemed appropriate in the current rehabilitation from
           conflict situation-has  provided stability and retention o f institutional memory
           in an unstable environment with frequent changes o f government and civil
           servants who are project counterparts. This has also allowed complex projects
           to be implemented with relative success. The present project will utilize the
           already established Private Sector Project's PIU, which currently manages the
           two largest projects in the portfolio, and has managed three others for short
           periods duringthe past three years.

                                            12

    +    The Basic Education Project (Cr. 2960), which closed in 2005, was part o f a
         portfolio restructuring undertaken in 2003 and approved by the Board. This
         restructuringincluded amending the disbursement schedule to allow 100 percent
         funding o f eligible expenditures,       which facilitated subsequent project
         implementation once counterpart constraints were removed. As provided by the
         Country Financing Parameters for Guinea-Bissau and OP/BP 8.00, the proposed
         operation will finance 100 percent o f eligible expenditures. Another aspect o f
         the education restructuring was to make eligible under the previous IDA Credit
         the financing o f teachers' salaries. This helped end the teachers' strike and
         facilitated completion o f the school year. No major issues were encountered
         with the payment o f salaries, even though public expenditure management
         systems were weaker than they are now.           The well-functioning Treasury
         Committee and systems put in place under the previous project that funded
         salaries are key elements o f the fiduciary system supporting the proposed
         project.  It should be noted that the coordinator o f the education project is
         currently working in a PIU for another project. This person was responsible for
         implementing the salary payments to teachers under the closed project and
         would help support the implementation o fthe one proposed herein.

38.     The project also draws on experience elsewhere. Inparticular:
    +    A key component o f the recent emergency operation in the Democratic
         Republic o f the Congo supports education recovery through the finance o f
         recurrent expenditures. The proposed project follows a similar approach.
    +    As recommended by QAG on the basis o f its assessment o f emergency
         operations, the proposed project i s simple in design, benefits from adequate
         implementation capacity, and the funding o f its activities i s expected to be
         sustained.


ProjectImplementationPeriodandImplementationSupport

39.     The project i s expected to become effective inMay 2008 andis scheduled to close
on March 31,2009. Much o f the disbursement i s expected to be completed by August
2008. The longer implementation period allows for possible additional funding under
IDA 15, ifneeded.

40.     The project will not require any specific implementation support. Ifneeded, such
support will be provided either by the Liaison Office in Bissau, or by the Country
Management Unit inthe context o fportfolio reviews. Further assessment o fprogress and
results will be undertaken in the context o f preparation o f the proposed DPO. An ICR
will bepreparedwithin six months ofproject closing.

                                              13


ProjectImplementationArrangements

41.       The project will be implementedbythe Project ImplementationUnit (PIU) for the
existing Private Sector Project, inclose coordination with the Ministry o f Finance. This
implementation arrangement has been successfilly tested under other ongoing projects.
The manager o f the previous education project, currently employed by another PIU, who
managed the payment o f teachers' salary under that operation, will also provide
implementation support.

ProcurementArrangements

42.       The project will only finance recurrent costs o f government (salaries), and it
involves no procurement o f goods, services, or works.

DisbursementArrangements, FinancialManagement,ReportingandAuditing

43.       The project will finance 100 percent o f eligible expenditures, namely that o f
salaries paid to primary teachers. Given that the wage bill for teachers hovers around
US$2 million equivalent per month, the project is expected to be fully disbursed during
2008. Inorder to ease the cash flow constraints experienced by the Government andhelp
clear salary arrears to teachers, the project will provide retroactive financing o f up to 40
percent o f the grant amount (as allowed by OPBP 8.00) for eligible expenditures
incurred after October 1,2007.

44.       To facilitate project implementation, a Designated Account o f US$3 million will
be established. The account will be managed by the existing PIU o f the private sector
project. The payment process will be as follows: (i)    Government to present an updated
list o f teachers on the govement's payroll, (ii)   payment to teachers through a contract
with a payment agency on the basis o f pay statements issued by Ministryo f Finance or
validated payment receipts signed by teachers, and (iii)       final control verified by an
internal audit. The Treasury Committee, which prioritizes expenditures and allocates
certain amounts toward payment o f salaries, will also be notified o f these payments.

45.       The Ministry o f Finance and the Ministry o f Education will collect the necessary
evidence o f salary payments to primary teachers. One audit of these documents i s
foreseen at the end o f the project. This audit will be financed by the grant, and will be
undertaken by the auditors o f the Private Sector project, whose terms o f reference will be
suitably modified for this purpose. The audit will be submittedto the Bank no later than
six months after the project closes. The details o f financial management arrangements
andthe relatedrisk analysis arepresented inAnnex 5.

46.      Social controls. The above financial management systems are intended to ensure
that they are such as to deter usage o f funds for purposes other than those intended.
Additional social controls have also been built-in. The Ministry o f Education, the
Ministry o f Finance, the Teachers' Union and local governments will work closely
together to monitor project implementation. The involvement o f ultimate stakeholders

                                             14


will also be ensured through a public information campaign aimed at teachers and
parents, and through periodic updates on project implementation.


Compliancewith BankSafeguardPolicies

47.     The project does not trigger any safeguards and has been classified as
environmental category C.

         I.PROJECTBENEFITS,RISKSANDMITIGATIONMEASURES

Benefits

48.     The project will help ensure that key social services are not interrupted by new
salary arrears, which in the past have caused teachers to go on strike. Experience has
shown that this i s a key factor inpreventing renewal o f conflict, and the project will thus
contribute to peace and stability. The project is also expected to pave the way in2009 for
broader multi-donor support to the sector through the EFA-FTI, aimed at making
progress toward the education MDG.

Risks

49.     The new Government has inherited a difficult fiscal situation and weak capacity
inthe public service. Other legacies o fthe recent past include highlevels o fdebt, mostly
in the form of domestic arrears, underlying social and political tensions, a fragile
situation in the security sector, and late or inadequate donor hnding. Some risks are
inherently outside o f the government's immediate control, even though the project will
contribute to their alleviation,      especially by avoiding a deterioration o f the
macroeconomic and social situation.       Where feasible, the Government has begun to
address the underlying problems o fpoor governance andhas adopted various measures to
strengthen progressively the fiscal situation (discussed inparas. 5 and6).

50.     The macroeconomic risks remain high. Inthe short run, there is the risk that the
Government will be unable to implement its cash flow management plan or that the
envisioned donor support does not materialize. Given that under the plan expenditures
have already been reduced to the most critical, inadequate fiscal resources would lead to
an accumulation o f wage arrears, threatening social peace. However, the government's
track record during the second half o f 2007 points to its strong commitment to the
macroeconomic reform program. The risk o f donor support not attaining required levels
i s being addressedmainly through improved dialogue, peer pressure andjoint reviews in
the context o f periodic donor meetings, including the December 2007 Lisbon conference,
which helpedmobilize close to US$7 million needed to start preventingdrug trafficking,
probably the highest social, economic and political risk faced by Guinea-Bissau today.
The forthcoming Round Table planned for mid-2008 will be the opportunity to take stock
ofprogress and to mobilize additional donor funding.

                                               15


51.      The main risk in the education sector relates to the sector's long-term efficiency
and sustainability. This risk is considered moderate to high. While slippages inthe EFA-
FTI action plan could result in delayed donor funding, it is unlikely that such a slippage
would be significant.      Therefore, there i s reasonable assurance that education service
delivery will be expanded over time. A more significant risk i s that o f complexity o f the
reforms needed to improve the quality, efficiency and sustainability o f the system. As
discussed inAnnex 1, there are mutually reinforcing actions that need to be put inplace in
order to put the country on a path to reaching the education MDG. But, once the funding
is available, the encouraging experience o f the first half of the decade suggests that this
goal i s still within reach. Inthe short term, it i s also possible that education services may
be disrupted during the period preceding the elections andor because o f yet to be settled
salary arrears dating back to before 2004. The social controls described earlier combined
with aninformation campaign on the EFA-FTIare expected to moderate this risk.

52.      The fiscal risks will continue inthe mediumterm, as the Government will need to
sustain a program o f fiscal restructuring over the next several years to return public
finances to a sustainable level.      Key to this will be the mobilization o f additional
domestic and international resources, attainment o f the HIPC Completion Point, and a
progressive reduction inthe size o f the wage bill inthe budget through security and civil
service reforms, both of which are being initiated with funding by the EU. The
Government is aware o f this and its success to date, under difficult circumstances, in
implementing the cash flow management plan gives evidence o f its seriousness in
addressing deep-seatedproblems.

53.      The government's program could also be derailed by special interests resisting
reforms and better governance. This could result in renewed political and economic
uncertainty. Furthermore, legislative elections are planned in late 2008/early 2009 and
this could affect the implementation of the economic program. Guinea-Bissau has been
able to conduct free and fair elections andmost stakeholders inthe country recognize that
the present window o f opportunity may not reopen soon.                 There i s therefore the
expectation that any new government resulting from the next elections will sustain the
policies o f the present one.

54.      Finally, in light o f above-mentioned arrangements, despite a difficult country
environment, the fiduciary risks o f the proposed project after mitigation are moderate.
The main reason for this rating is that the project includes fiduciary and social controls
that provide credible assurancethat h d s will be utilized for the purposes intended.


                              J. TERMSAND CONDITIONS

55.     The project is expected to be funded through a grant o fUS$10million equivalent,
which will cover 100 percent o f eligible recurrent costs o f government, as per OP 8.00
and the Country Financing Parameters. There will be no Board conditions. The sole
effectiveness condition will be receipt by the Bank o f a legal opinion confirming that the
Grant Agreement has been duly ratified. Furthermore, the project is simple and will not
require aprocedures manual.

                16




Thispage is intentionallyleftblank.

                                                       17


              GUINEA-BISSAU: EmergencyPublicService DeliveryProject
                     ANNEX 1: THEEDUCATION                 SECTORINGUINEA-BISSAU

                                           A. Access andEquity

1.       The most visible sign of progress in educationin Guinea-Bissauis the large
increasein coverage in recentyears. With nearly300,000 students enrolled inprimary
and secondary education in 2005, the education system holds today twice as many
students as in 1995. Inprimary education, the number o f students more than doubled over
the same period, from 105,430 to 252,479.                     This increase in coverage, particularly in
recent years, i s a result o f the unprecedented public effort to increase the supply o f new
classrooms and to stimulate demand. It is also associated with the growing involvement
ofprivate providers and local communities inthe provision o fprimaryeducation ~ervice.~

2.       Gross EnrollmentRate (GER) in primary education has steadily increased.
GER rose from 53 percent in 1995 to 102 percent in 2005, reflecting the growing
accommodation capacity o f the system. However, the net enrollment rate in primary
education i s at 45 percent. Gross andnet enrollment rates are highly divergent because o f
widespread delayed enrollment. While the theoretical age group for children in the
primary cycle is 7 to 12 years old, the actual age group o f students in this cycle ranges
from 6 to about 18 years.

3.       Gross IntakeRate (GIR) has been high over the recentyears. Consistent with
the increase in participation in primary education, as expressed by the raising levels o f
enrollment across the primary education sub-cycle, the intake rate in the first grade has
been highinrecent years. It was estimated at an average o f 120 percent during the period
2002-2005.4 This high value reflects the presence in the group o f new entrants into the
first grade o f over-aged children. Keeping the GIR at 100 percent or more i s important to
achieve inthe mediumterm the objective o funiversal primary completion.

4.       Secondary education has followed a similar pattern.The number o f students
enrolled in this level o f education more than tripled between 1995 and 2005, rising from
15,000 to 50,000. The private sector, with 12.4 percent o f enrollments in 2005, played a
catalytic role in this expansion, as the government investment in the sector remained
m ~ d e s tPrivate schools, however, are unevenly distributed across the country, with most
            . ~
o fthe schools concentrated inthe capital andits outskirts.




3 The number o f primary schools grew from 650 to 1,334 over the same period (an increase o f about 100 percent).
Today, community and private schools represent 20 and 12percent o f all primary schools inthe country respectively.

 GIR for the school year 2004-05, the last year for which data are available, is estimatedat 137.4 percent.
5 The growth o f private schools providing secondary education has been remarkable.           In 2000, private schools
accounted for 6 percent o f enrollments.

                                             18


5.      Further development of secondary education seems to be constrained by a
limitedsupply of schools. This expansion inenrollment has contributed to increase the
GER in secondary education to 35 percent, a value slightly higher than the average 30
percent for sub-Saharan African countries in 2005. In 2005, the transition rate from
primaryto secondary education was 75 percent. From 2002 to 2005, the GIR inthe first
year o f the secondary cycle averaged 36 percent. A limited intake capacity, the high
opportunity costs, and the low external efficiency o f secondary education may explain
families' decisionnot to enroll their children inthis level o f education.

6.      Tertiary educationhas been growing.An important feature inthe development
o f the education system in Guinea-Bissau in recent years is the increasing supply o f
tertiary education as a result o f a surge in demand.       Two universities were opened
recently: the University Colinas do Bob, a private university created in 2003, and the
University Amilcar Cabral, a public university established in 2004.             These two
universities accounted for 3,000 students enrolled inhigher education in 2005 (excluding
students who benefit from scholarships abroad). Despite this surge in the availability o f
higher education, the tertiary education GER i s at a mere 3 percent, well behind the
average o f 6 percent for sub-Saharan African countries.

7.      Early childhood education and technical and vocational education remain
two marginal sub-sectors. Early childhood education is supplied mostly by private
providers. Most schools are concentrated inurban areas. In2005, these schools enrolled
about 7,500 children and employed 250 teachers (40 percent unqualified). Coverage i s
only 2 to 3 percent o f the population o f relevant age group. Technical and vocational
training i s still suffering from the effects o f the conflict o f 1998-99 that contributed
decisively to disarticulate the sub-sector. Three out o fthe four schools that were publicly
run before the conflict are currently closed. There are a few emerging private sector
initiatives enrolling several hundreds o f students in different specialties, most o f which
are located inthe capital city.

8.      A system with multiple inefficiencies. Despite the positive trends in coverage,
the education system presents several inefficiencies. The primary education cycle is
divided into four years o f elementary primary education andtwo years o f complementary
education. The two cycles are often not provided at the same school, and the
complementary education i s available mainly in urban areas. As such, rural children are
unlikely to complete primary school. The repetition rate o f 15.2 percent in primary
education. Completion rates are low, particularly compared with the enrollment rate that
has steadily increased inrecent years. In2005, only 58 percent o f the cohort o f children
who had entered primary school four years earlier was retained through grade four. The
average numbero f years o f schooling i s only five years.

9.      Enrollment in primary education is influenced by location of the school.
According to the 2005 Integrated Social and Poverty Assessment (IPSA) 2005, while 96
percent o f households in Bissau are located 30 minutes or less from a primary school,

                                               19


only 79 percent o f households on average for the rest o f the country are located at that
same distance. In other words, primary schools are accessible to more households in
Bissau than in other regions. School access remains geographically uneven across the
country, with communities inthe south andthe islands being the most disadvantaged.

10.    Gender gap in primary education has been closing. Increased enrollment in
primary education was favored by an overall positive trend in girls' enrollment. The
gender gap has been gradually closing, to a ratio o f 0.9 girls per enrolled boy. In2005,
girls represented about 47 percent o f enrollments in primary education. Compared
to1995, this represents a 6 percent increase inthe share o f girls to boys. Girls' enrollment
drops off at higher levels o f the education system, they are underrepresented at the
secondary level and account for only 39 percent o f enrollment nationwide.


                                  B. RelevanceandQuality
11.    The quality of education is low. Empirical evidence suggests that learning
achievements are very low. A poor learningenvironment and insufficient teacher training
and motivation are among the main factors that affect students' learning outcomes. In
addition, while the official language o f instruction is Portuguese, many teachers teach
partlyincreole (the nationallanguage), as they have not masteredthe official language.

12.    The learning environmentis poor. Despite considerable efforts made inrecent
years to provide decent low-cost classrooms to a growing number of primary school
students, one-third o f classrooms at the primary level are in bad shape, most o f these
being shacks made o f palm leaves or bamboo that flood when it rains. Textbooks have
not been distributed to students since 2004. Insecondary education, the curriculum has
not been revised for decades and there i s no harmonized curriculum throughout the
system.

13.    Teachers' qualifications and performance levels need to be improved. The
substantial increase in enrollment in recent years has put enormous pressure on the
recruitment o f new teachers, which inprimary education increased from 3,269 in2001 to
4,712 in 2005. Teacher training programs have not kept up with demand and due to the
shortfall o f qualified teachers, contractual teachers have been hired. In 2005, contractual
teachers represented 20 percent o f active primary education teachers. Most o f them were
recruited locally and did not hold adequate academic training. The same is true for
secondary education.

14.    Inefficientorganization of the learningprocess has resultedin a shortage of
teachers in public schools. In 2006, the Government launched a reform whereby
teachers' hours inthe classroom were extended from four to eight hours a day. This was
supported by a 50 percent increase in salaries but also resulted in a reduction o f 40
percent o fprimaryeducation teachers inpublic schools and 35 percent for secondary.

                                             20


15.     Teachers' motivation needs to be improved. The systematic arrears in salary
payments appear to discourage some teachers. Although there i s no consistent data to
prove it, teachers' absenteeism i s reported to be high. While the main causes o f
absenteeism include participation in traditional ceremonies, travel to the capital o f the
region to receive salaries, and engaging in agriculture and farming activities), teachers'
strikes and other perturbations o f the system disrupted 20 percent o f the officially
plannednumber o f school days.

                       C. Managementof the EducationSystem

16.     To put the main features o f the management o f the education system incontext, a
brief account o f the administrative arrangements in Guinea-Bissau's education system is
important. The system i s managed by one central Ministry in charge o f all levels o f
education (from preschool to higher education). The central Ministry has several
departments, some o f which possess a degree o f administrative and financial autonomy,
mainly attributable to their nature or mission. The National Institute for Education
Development (WE) and the School Printing House [Editoru Escolur] enjoy some
autonomy. The system consists o f eight peripheral levels that coincide with the
administrative division o f the country. There are eight regional directorates o f education
(plus the directorate o f the capital city). Each directorate is responsible for the local
management o f the education system. Among the competencies o f these local education
authorities are: (i)the supervision o f schools; (ii) collection of education statistics;
                                                     the
(iii)the recruitmentofcontractual teachers, ifnecessary; and(iv) theprovisionand
distribution o fpedagogical inputs to schools.

17.     Financial difficulties result in a tumultuous school year. The central
Government's inability to pay teachers' salaries in a timely manner, given the chronic
financial crisis, frequently results in disputes with teachers' unions, strikes and
disruptions in the school year. By paying salaries in 2004, the previous Bank-hnded
education project help avoid such a disruption that year. Contractual teachers are not
paid regularly, partlybecause o f the dense bureaucratic measures needed to develop their
payroll. The Government has, in the past, often opted to first pay salaries to "effective
teachers" (civil servants) while accumulating arrears to contractual ones. The proposed
project would help alleviate the latter problem.

18.     A long-term strategic education plan is being prepared. Many attempts have
been made inthe recent past to develop such a plan. In2000, a Letter o f EducationPolicy
was developed, setting the vision and the objectives for the development o f the education
sector. The letter, however, was not translated into a sector plan with quantitative and
qualitative targets because there was no coherent statistical data on which to base the
plan. In 2003, efforts were undertaken to develop an Education for All (EFA) Plan,
following the commitments of the 2000 EFA Conference in Dakar. This plan did not
have a coherent financial framework andwas never endorsed by the Government.

                                                21


19.     More recently, in 2006, the Ministry o f Education, with support from UNESCO,
embarked on a process o f development o f a strategic education plan. The process is under
way and i s expected to be completed in 2008. Having a strategic education plan i s now
crucial for Guinea-Bissau to give clear orientation to its long-term education goals and
objectives, but i s also one o f the eligibility criteria for the Education For All-Fast Track
Initiative (EFA-FTI). Inthe current context o fheavy constraints to domestic andexternal
financing o f the sector, this would be an opportunity to benefit from additional funds,
such as the catalytic fund, to tackle supply andquality issues inthe education sector.

20.     There is insufficient monitoring and evaluation information for policy
decisions. School surveys are now hardly organized and when they are, data are often
fragmented or incomplete. Data collected are often treated with delays and are
insufficiently usedbypolicy decisionmakers.

21.     The main causes o f this weakness are: (i)        financial difficulties in carrying out
consistent data collection; (ii)organizational problems related to transmission and
collection o f questionnaires; and (iii)  institutional weakness at the central level to treat
questionnaires and conduct analysis. In 2002 and 2003, the Basic Education Support
Project financed the school surveys that allowed the collection o f data from all regions on
an ad hoc basis. Since then, school surveys have been carried out sporadically and are
often incomplete. This situation shouldbe improved under the EFA-FTI.

22.     Public funding to schools is limited. It is important to stress that the limited
financial capacity o f the government makes it difficult to finance much beyond salaries.
As a result, schools are under fimded. The more distant a school is from Bissau, the less
probable that it will receive public funds.

23.     Human resources managementis still deficient.Much still remains to be done
to allow the Ministry to access and analyze the data necessary to make effective policy
and planning decisions. With the support o f the BESP, some work was accomplished to
improve the personnel management system. In2003, the M o E set up an Individual Staff
Record wherein data on personnel was collected and entered into a central database
containing the academic qualifications, other training experiences, and professional
career evolution o f every staff member. This data has allowed the Government to make
more informed decisions when appointing new candidates to posts and in determining
humanresources development needs across the sector. However, they system still needs
to be put into an electronic format.        In addition, the database at MoE needs to be
harmonized with that o f the Ministry o f Finance and the Ministry o f Public
Administration.

                        D. GovernanceandInstitutionalCapacity

24.     Government effectiveness in the sector has been seriously affected by
political and institutionalinstability in the country. With seven different ministers

                                              22


over the last seven years, the education sector never really had an opportunity to take root
and time to develop and implement medium- and long-term policies. This resulted in
decreased government capacity to effectively deliver education services, particularly in
remote and underprivileged areas. With a rising demand for education coming from
families and communities, religious organizations (the Catholic Church, Muslim
charities), NGOs, and community-based organizations (CBOs) have appeared to fill the
gap o f education provision inthese areas. Several NGOs are reported to be active in the
education sector, but according to a capacity assessment undertaken recently by
PLACON (Platform o f National NGOs), only a few NGOs have the capacity to
effectively deliver education services.

25.     Communities are playing a greater role in service delivery. Community
participation in school management and community ownership have been enhanced as
the role o fthe community increases inthe management o f schools and, inmany cases, in
the process o f school building. Many community schools in recent years have been
promoted by NGOs through a process that relies on community empowerment. In the
region o f Bafati, for example, Plan International has backed a process through which
community members take an active part in the construction o f classrooms and in the
follow-up o f the academic performance o f their children. Community members control
teachers' presence in schools and incentives are provided to families to send girls to
school. Inremote areas across the country, communities often contribute to the costs o f
education, for example by paying part o f teachers' salaries andor allowances. Of course,
communities' voice and accountability in these schools are stronger than in publicly
managed schools.

26.     The institutionalcapacity in the Ministry of Education needto be improved.
Inadditionto the politicalvolatility andhighturnover rate at senior levels ofgovernment
that disrupt services delivery, visible signs o f declining institutional capacity in the
ministry include: (i) low quality o f infrastructure; (ii) scarcity o f resources to
                      the                                      the
cover current expenses; (iii) frequent arrears in salary payments; and (iv) a pronounced
brain drainphenomenon that impoverishes the humancapital available inthe sector.

27.     Legal and regulatory framework in the sector needs to be strengthened.
Frequent changes inthe structure o f the ministry constitute a barrier to the development
o f a sound and coherent legal and regulatory framework. The rule o f law i s not always
clear when it comes to the internal role o f the departments and units within the ministry.
Organic law i s often non-existent or does not keep pace with changes inthe structure and
organization o f the ministry. By the same token, not every unit has its tasks clearly
defined, with cases o f overlap and conhsion o froles and responsibilities. Challenges also
include the development o f a regulatory framework for the emerging higher education
sub-sector as well as the strengthening o f the internal capacity o f the ministry to perform
oversight and exercise appropriate supervision duties with regardto non-state actors.

                                                      23


                          E. Cost andFinancingofEducationServices

28.       Budgetaryprovisionsfor the education sector continue to be below average
for sub-Saharan African countries. Between 1996 and 2004, public spending on
education represented 2.8 percent o f GDP compared to the average 3.8 percent for sub-
Saharan African countries. The education share o f the Government's budget fluctuated
between 11percent and 17 percent over the same period. It declined between 2003 and
2005, when average current public spending on education was 10.7 percent o f the total
recurrent government spending.6

29.       The execution rate of the education budget has been low. In the context of
heavy resource constraints and competition between different government institutions for
meager resources, the education sector i s often unable to get an adequate share. This
tendency persists. Between 2003 and 2005, for example, the average executionrate of the
education recurrent budget was only 62 percent. More recent budget allocations have
been lower, but also more realistic.

30.       Governmentexpenditurescannotmeet demand. Current expenditure on inputs
other than salaries and allowances i s very limited. The intra-sector allocation o f public
resources does not favor primary education. Unit costs are under-estimated at all levels o f
the education system. Capital expenditure remains low. This highlights the importance o f
fundingofthe sector by donors, expected to berestarted in2009.


                       F. RecentPolicyOptionsandStrategicPriorities

31.       Policy reform efforts have been undertaken in the past with encouraging
results.Guinea-Bissau has undertaken various education policy reforms in recent years
to address the many issues plaguing its education system. Among the key ones with
direct impact on families and schools are the following: (i) elimination o f school fees
                                                                         the
for primary education in academic year 2001/02; (ii)               the free provision o f textbooks to
primary school pupils, beginning in academic year 2000/01; (iii) development o f an
                                                                                  the
integrated basic education system o f six years beginning in academic year 2001/02; (iv)
the adoption of a low-cost model of infrastructuredevelopment inprimary education; and
(v) the provisiono fhighereducation to a growing number o fyoungpeople.

32.      These policies, however,have had limitedimpact on the development of the
educationsector. The main causes o f this counter performance are the very low level o f
public investment inthe sector and institutional instability. Free primary schooling led to
a significant increase in enrollment, but raised the problem o f how to accommodate the
additional number o f children given the scarcity o f resources.                    The construction o f


 Recurrent education expenditure(excluding debt service and common expenditures)accountedfor 9.4 percent of the
total governmentrecurrent budgetin2003. It remainedat 9.9 percentin2004 androse to 13 percentin2005.

                                               24


hundreds o f classrooms in recent years by means o f external support helped in part to
address the problem. In addition, for many schools, the collected fees were the only
resources available to meet the needs o f a minimal set o f pedagogical inputs. By
eliminating the fees andnot being able to provide pedagogicalinputs or transfer money to
schools, the government has in practice contributed to the further degradation o f the
learning environment o f most o f the schools. The same is true regarding free textbook
distribution, which, ultimately, has ledto a shortage o f textbooks inclassrooms.

                                    G. TheWay Forward

33.      Renewedfundingby donors is essential. The Government andthe civil society
support the proposed project because it ensures continued delivery o f education services.
But, these stakeholders recognize that the Bank support is a stop-gap measure that paves
the way for more sustainable funding by donors.               Specifically, they hold high
expectations that funding as a result o f the EFA-FTIwill be substantial and help address
the basic issues o f funding primaryeducation and improving its quality. The key actions
to support the EFA-FTIprogram are summarized below.

34.      Prioritizing actions for better results. As discussed above, the weak
performance of Guinea-Bissau's education system is mainly due to a combination o f
three interconnected and mutually reinforcing factors: (i)     low investment in the sector;
(ii) deficientstructureandorganizationoftheeducationsystem;and(iii) sector
    the                                                                            poor
management. Acting on these three factors is important in order to ensure better
education service delivery, but this will require that policy priorities be defined. An
important first step inthat direction i s to develop an explicit long-term strategic education
plan that defines the vision, establishes objectives and priorities, and sets a clear
timetable for implementation. The PRSP addresses these topics in a general way but
cannot serve as a reference policy document for the sector. Developing an explicit long-
term education policy and strategic document is therefore a priority.

35.      Implementingshort-termreforms.Adopting a six-year primary education cydle
i s critical to ensure that a growing number o f children complete a six-year basic
education and that the basic skills are mastered by all children. A new cumculum for the
six-year model o fprimary education has been drafted under a pilot program. The process
now needs to be scaled up and quickly rolled. Restructuring the primary education
architecture; providing free primary education o f six classes to children; addressing the
issue o f repetition; investing on teachers and makinga more rationalized use o f them; and
introducing some measurement o f learning achievements are among measures that are
likely to have a positive impact on schooling.

36.      Meeting the MDG related to achieving universalprimary education in the
sector by 2015 is still possible. Progress toward this goal will require more resources
and better policies. One first important step might be to mobilize adequate domestic
financial resources to the sector. It was estimated that by simply increasing budget

                                                           25


allocation to the sector from the current 11 percent to 20 percent and by allocating 50
percent o f that allocation to primary education will raise the completion rate from 42
percent to 96 percent. If this measure i s kept in parallel with key structural reforms to
ensure greater internal efficiency o f the system, including less repetition and dropout and
an integrated primary education cycle, 99 percent o f the relevant population will be able
to complete a full cycle o fprimaryeducation ina few years.

37.       Making more rational use of teachers in the classroom. Doubling the time
teachers spend in classrooms from four to eight hours should be consolidated and
improved. The setting up o f an integrated basic education system will also reduce the
number o f teachers needed at this level (the current complementary primary sub-cycle
curriculum i s taught by six teachers; the new integrated curriculum will require no more
than three teachers for all subjects). These reforms will also help mitigate the potential
impact o f HIV/AIDS on the education system. Assuming that teachers are affected inthe
same proportion as adults in general, about 280 primary education teachers are likely to
be infected with HIV/AIDS. With absent or sick teachers, substitutes will be needed to
avoid disruptions to schooling.

38.       Rethinking teacher training. The current model o f primary education teacher
training is inadequate, costly, and lengthy.' More effective initial teacher training could
be achieved by developing a combination o f pre-service training, in-service support and
training, and continuous professional development, limiting therefore the initial training
time. Inthis way, it would be possible to reduce the cost to the system if teachers leave
the profession and also increase teacher supply by placing teachers in the classroom
quickly.

39.       Improvingschool-based management.Incentivesmay involve capitation grants
to schools, increased participation o f parents and communities in school management,
and makingavailable information on inputs, outputs, and outcomes. These measures can
create accountability mechanisms and improve transparency at the school level, by
enabling parents and students to use information to lobby for school performance. The
capitation grant incentive could also stimulate girls' enrollment and attendance in basic
and secondary education.

40.       Strengthening the education management information system. Successful
design and implementation o f reforms cannot take place without reliable information.
Strengthening o f the information system will require a specific action plan that includes
training and training support, as well as provision o f materials (equipment and other
inputs) to strengthen the institutional capacity o f the Ministry o f Education to produce
statistical information on a regular basis.



'Teachers  graduate from teachers training college after a full three years training course. The entrance requirement to
these colleges i s the completion of gthgrade of secondary education.

N rg




        hlcuNcuhl 00000 00000 u3lnb(Dcu

                                                                           27

                  GUINEA-BISSAU: EmergencyPublicServiceDeliveryProject
                                              ANNEX 3: COUNTRYAT A GLANCE


Guinea-Bissau at a glance                                                                                                                  3/19/06

                                                                                   Sub-                                                                 I
Key Development Indicators                                         Guinea-      Saharan          LOW
                                                                    Bissau         Africa     income           Age dlrtrlbutlon,2000
(2006)                                                                                                                                      Female

Population,mid-year (millions)                                         1.6           770       2,403           7G74
Surfacearea (thousandsq. km)                                            36       24,265       29,215
Populationgrowth (%)                                                                                           me4
                                                                       2.9           2.3          1.6
Urbanpopulation(% of total population)                                  30            36          30           52-54
                                                                                                               4044

GNI (Atlasmethod,US$ billions)                                         0.3           646        1,562          3024

GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                                    190            642         650           2024

GNI per capita (PPP, international$)                                  830          2,032       2,696           1014
                                                                                                             I                                          I
                                                                                                                M
GDP growth(%)                                                          1.8           5.6          8.0
GDPper capita growth (%)                                              -1.1           3.2          6.1               30    2o   'O percent 'O
                                                                                                                                    O           2o    30

(moatrecentesUmate, 1000-2006)

Povertyheadcount ratioat $1 a day (PPP, %)                                            41
Povertyheadcount ratioat $2 a day (PPP, %)                                            72                      Under4mortalltyrate(per 1,000)
Lifeexpectancyat birth (years)                                          45            47          59
Infant mortality(per 1,000 live births)                               124             96          75
Chiid malnutrition(%of childrenunder5)                                  25            29

Adult literacy, male (% of ages 15and older)                                          69          72
Adult literacy, female (%of ages 15and older)                                         50          50
Grossprimaryenrollment, male (% of age group)                           64            98         108
Grossprimaryenrollment,female (% of age group)                          56            66          96

Access to an improvedwatersource (% of population)                      59            56          75
Access to improvedsanitationfacilities (% of population)                35            37          36

                                                                                                                   OGuinea-Bissau CaSubSaharanAfrica


Net Aid Flows                                            1980        1990          2000         2006 '
                                                                                                             /lOT
(US$millions)
Net ODA and officialaid                                      56       126             80          79          Growthof GDPandGDP per caplta (%)
TOP 3 donors (in 2005):
  France                                                      3          9              7         16
  Portugal                                                              13             15         14
  Netherlands                                                14          6             11           3

Aid (% of GNI)                                             55.5       54.2          39.5         27.4
Aid per capita (US$)                                         73       124             59          50

Long-Term Economic Trends

Consumerprices (annual% change)                                       33.0           6.6          2.0
GDP implicit deflator (annual% change)                     11.5       30.2           3.3         -0.5             *GDP           -      GDP per caplta

Exchange rate (annualaverage, local per US$)                 0.6      33.6         712.0       522.4
Terms of trade index (2000 = 100)                                     127            100          76
                                                                                                                1980-90     1990-2000    2000-06
                                                                                                                      (averageannualgrowth %)
Population,mid-year(millions)                                0.6       1.0            1.4         1.6                 2.5         3.0          3.0
GDP (US$ millions)                                          111       244            215         308                  4.0         1.2         -0.2
                                                                       (% of GDP)
Agriculture                                               44.3        60.6          56.4         61.1                 4.7         3.9         4.4
Industry                                                   19,7       16.6          13.0         11.3                 2.2        -3.1         3.7
  Manufacturing                                                        8.4          10.5          7.1                            -2.0         3.7
Services                                                   36.1       20.6          30.6         27.6                 3.5        -0.6         0.6

Householdfinal consumptionexpenditure                      73.3       66.9          94.6         96.0                 -1.2        2.0         -1.1
Generalgov't final consumptionexpenditure                 27.6        10.3          14.0         17.7                 7.2         1.9         -2.1
Grosscapitalformation                                     26.2        29.9          11.3         17.2                12.9        -6.5         -2.6

Exportsof goods and services                               12.7        9.9          31.6         22.9                -1.7        15.4         4.3
Imports of goods and services                             41.8        37.0          51.6         53.7                 0.3        -0.4         -1.1
Grosssavings                                             -13.6        15.3           -2.7         2.2


Note:Figures in italicsare for years other than those specified. 2006data are preliminary. ..indicatesdata are not available.
a. Aid data are for 2005.

DevelopmentEconomics.DevelopmentData Group (DECDG).

                                                                             28


                                                                                                                                            Guinea-Bissau

Balance 01 Payments and Trade                              2000     2000

(US$millions)                                                                          IGovernanceIndicators,2000 and 2008

Total merchandiseaxpotts (fob)                               62       61
Total merchandise imports (cif)                              68      121                 Voice andamuntability
Net trade ingoods and servicas                              4 3       -96                        Politicelstability
Currentaccount balance                                      -30       -35
   as a % of GDP                                           -14.0    -11.3                      Regulatoryquality

Workers' remittances and                                                                              Ruleof iBw
   compensation of employees(receipts)                        2       28                     Controlof mmption

Reserves,induding goid                                       87      210                                           0     25        50           75      IW

Central Government Flnance                                                                      2008                 Counlry's percentilerank(0-100)
                                                                                                                       her% W u Mrm&' t d s r Wlnp

(% of GDP)
Currentrevenue(including grants)                           27.4      31.5               Soume: Kauimann-Kraav-Mastmu.WOM Bank
   Tax revanue                                              11.4     11.5
Current expenditure                                        33.6      29.0
                                                                                     Technology and Infrastructure                             2000      2005
Overallsurplusldeficit                                     -16.4     -9.7
                                                                                     Pavedroads (% of total)                                    10.3
Highestmarginaltax rate(%)                                                           Fixedlineand mobile phone
   Individual                                                                          subscribers (per 1,000people)                               6       8
   Corporate                                                                         Hightechnologyexports
                                                                                       (% of manufacturedexports)
External Debt and Resource Flows
                                                                                     Envlronment
(US$ mllllons)
Total debtoutstandingand disbursed                          804      993            Agricultural land (% of landarea)                             58      58
Total debt service                                           20        12            Forestarea (% of landarea)                                 75.4     73.7
Debt relief(HIPC, MDRI)                                     515                      Nationallyprotected areas (% of land area)                    ..    0.0

Total debt (% of GDP)                                     373.3     322.8            Freshwaterresources per capita(ar.meters)                     .. 10,088
Total debts e m e (Ohof exports)                           26.3      12.3            Freshwaterwithdrawal (% of internalresources)              1.1

Foreigndirect investment(netinflows)                           1       2             C02 emissions per capita (mt)                              0.19     0.18
Portfoiioequity(net inflows)                                  0        0
                                                                                     GDP perunit of energy use

    :ompaltion of total externaldebt, 2000                                             (2000 PPP $ per kg of oil equivalent)

                                                                                     Energyuse per capita (kg of oil equivalent)




                                                                                      (US$ millions)

                                                                                      IBRD
                                                                                       Total debt outstanding and disbursed                       0        0
                                                                                       Disbursements                                              0         0
                                                                                       Principalrepayments                                        0         0
                                              Mhermulu-                                Interestpayments                                           0         0
                                              inIer.1, 188
    IS$ millions                                                                      IDA
                                                                                       Total debt outstandingand disbursed                      228      284
                                                                                       Disbursements                                              14       7
Private Sector Development                                2000      2000               Total debt semce                                           4        6

Time requiredto start a business (days)                              233              IFC(fiscalyear)
Costto starta business (% of GNI per capita)                        261.2              Total disbursed and outstanding portfolio                  1        0
Time requiredto registerproperly(days)                        ---    211                of which IFCown account                                   1        0
                                                                                       Disbursementsfor IFC own accwnt                            0        0
Rankedas a major constraint to business                                                Partfoliosales, prepaymentsand
   (% of managerssurveyedwho agreed)                                                    repaymentsfor IFCown account                              0        0
     EIectricity                                              ..     41.4
     Access tolcost of financing                              ..     19.6             MlGA
                                                                                       Gross exposure
Stock marketcapitalization (% of GDP)                                                  Newguarantees                                              --       --
Bank capitalto asset ratio(%)


..Note:Figuresin italicsare for years other than those specified. 2006data are preliminary.                                                           3/19/08
  indicatesdata are notavailable. -indicates observationis notapplicable.

DevelopmentEconomics, Development Data Group(DECDG).

                                                                              29


Millennium Development Goals                                                                                                       Guinea-Bissau


Withselected targets to acheve between 1990 and 2075
(esthate dosest to date shown, +/- 2 years)


Goal 1:halve the rates for $1a day povertyand malnubltlon                                             1990        1995           2000         2006
 Povertyheadcount ratioat 51 a day (PPP, % of population)
 Povertvheadcount ratioat national~overtvline(% of DoDulation)
 Share bf income or consumptiontoihe p&est qunitiiekh)                                                             5.2
 Prevalence of malnutrition(Ohof children under 5)                                                                               25.0

Goal 2: ensure that children are able to complete primary schoollng
 Primaryschool enrollment (net, %)                                                                     38                          45
 Primarycompletion rate (% of relevant age group)                                                                                  27
 Secondaryschwl enrollment (gross. %)                                                                                               18
 Youth literacyrate(% of peopleages 15-24)                                                             44           51             56            65

Goal 3: ellmlnategender disparity Ineducation and empower women
 Ratioof gids to boys in primaryandsecondaryeducation (%)                                                                          65
 Womenernployedinthe nonagriwltural sector (% of nonagriculturalemployment)                            11
 Proportionof seats held bywomen in national parliament (%)                                            20           IO              8            14

Goal 4: reduce under4 rnortall~by two-thirds
 Under-5mortalityrate(per 1,000)                                                                      253          235            215          200
 Infantmortalityrate (per 1,000live births)                                                            153         143            132          124
 Measlesimmunization (proportion of one-yearolds immunized, %)                                         53           45             59            60

Goal 5: reduce maternal mortality bythree-fourths
 Maternalmortality ratio(modeledestimate,per 100,000 live births)                                                                1,100
 Births attendedbyskilledhealthstaff(% of total)                                                                    25             35

Goal 6 halt and begin to reversethe spread of HIWAIDSand other malor dlseares
 Prevalenceof HIV (% of populationages 15-49)                                                                                                   3 6
 Contraceptive prevalence(% of women ages 15-49)                                                                                     6
 Incidenceof tuberculosis(par 100,000people)                                                           161         175            190          206
 Tuberculosis cases detectedunder DOTS(Oh)                                                                                         46            79

Goal 7: halve the proportion of people without sustalnable accesa to basic needs
 Access to an improvedwater source (% of population)                                                                57             56           59
 Access to improvedsanitation faalioes (% of population)                                                            32             34           35
 Forestarea (Oh of total landarea)                                                                    76 6                       75 4          73 7
 Nationallyprotectedareas (% of total landarea)                                                                                                0 0
 C02 emissions(metnctons per capita)                                                                   0 2         0 2             0 2         0 2
 GDP per unit of energyuse (constant2000 PPP5 per kg of oil equivalent)

Goal 8: develop a global partnership for development
 Fixedline andmobile phonesubembers(per 1,000 people)                                                    6           6              6            8
 Internet users (per 1,000 people)                                                                       0           0              2            20
 Personal computers (per 1,000people)
 Youth unemployment(% of total labor force ages 15-24)


   iducation Indicators (K)                             Measleslmmunlzatlon ('A of lyear olds)            ICT lndlcatorr (per 1,000 people)
   11
                                                         75                                n               301



          2000         zm2              2w5

                                                                                                                  2000     2m            2co5
      --O-Prlmary      netenrollmentratio
      -C-    Ratioof girls bbop In primary8                                                                        0Fixed t mobilesubsaibm
             semndaw education                              0Guinee.BIsau       0SubSaharanAmca                    EInternetusen



Note: Figures in italicsare for yeas other than thosespecified. .. indicates data are not available.                                        3/19/06

Development Economics,DevelopmentData Group(DECDG).

                        30



GUINEA-BISSAU: EmergencyPublicServiceDelivery Project
ANNEX4: PROJECTPREPARATIONAND APPRAISALTEAMMEMBERS



 Iradj Alikhani             Task TeamLeader

 BoubacarSid-Barry          Economist

 MichaelDrabble             EducationSpecialist

 HerminiaMartinez           Consultant

 LuzMeza-Bartrina           Senior Counsel

 OsvalRomao                 FinancialManagement

                                                  31


               GUINEA-BISSAU: EmergencyPublicServiceDelivery Project
                       ANNEX5: FINANCIAL       MANAGEMENT      ASSESSMENT


                             ExecutiveSummaryandConclusion

1.      The objective o f the Financial Management Assessment i s to determine whether the
entity to be responsible for the implementation o f the Emergency Public Services Delivery
Project (EPSDP) has acceptable financial management (FM) arrangements as required by the
Bank's policies and procedures, including system o f accounting, reporting, auditing and
internal controls.

2.      The EPSDP activities will be managed through the existing Private Sector
Rehabilitation and Development Project (PSRDP) implementation unit and by the PSRDP
Financial Management specialist and accountant who have been implementing several projects
financed by the World Bank. The PSRDP has an acceptable accounting and financial
management system inplace.

3.      In conclusion the financial management arrangements in place at PSRDP are
adequateandmeet the Bank's minimumrequirementsunder OP/BP8.0.

                                           RiskAnalysis

InherentRisk

   At the Country level

4.      The Public Expenditure Review undertook an assessment o f the budget preparation,
execution and control in2004. The main finding i s that in Guinea-Bissau, the budget execution
process suffered from a number o fweaknesses and i s generally weak. The situation highlighted
the dysfunctional aspects o f the budget execution process that may have been pervasive in
Guinea-Bissau. The final accounts o f the fiscal years were not consolidated in time, creating
disruptions inthe flow o f information about the execution o f the budget. The Treasury did not
yet have a sufficiently developed State accounting system. Since 2005, and especially during
2007, the situation improved. As highlighted in the main text o f the present report, the
activation o f the treasury committee and other public expenditure management reforms have
helpedimprovethe prioritization o fexpenditures andreduced fiduciary issues.

5.      On the budget control side, there i s no efficient mechanism o f internal control to
evidence budget execution problems. The General Audit Office does not operate well,
especially for the ex-post control o f the public accounts not audited.

   At theEntity level

6.      To avoid slippage, the fiduciary aspects o f Bank projects are strengthened through
outsourced experts. Accounting staff i s hired as consultants, typically on salaries higher than

                                               32


civil service salaries, to work on projects, even when a Ministry implements those projects.
IDA projects are invariably audited according to internationally recognized standards by
independent and competent audit firms.

    At the Project level

7.      The risk remains Moderate. Because o f the highfiduciary risk at the country level, IDA
has taken special measures to ensure adequate financial management o f the portfolio. Project
management units are often established to manage IDA-financed projects and Bank finding i s
following special mechanisms to mitigate fiduciary risk.

ControlRisk

8.      The overall control risk for the project i s rated as "Moderate". The project will be
implemented by the qualified staff including Financial Management Specialist recruited within
the PSRDP's PIU.

                                 StrengthsandWeaknesses
9.      Strengths:
        +      Experience and FMcapacity already inplace within the PSRDP
        +      Most o fthe FMarrangements inPSRDP are adequate and functioning

               The Ministryo f Finance has adequate capacityto implement the project

10.     Weakness:
        +      Lack o f capacity within the Supreme audit institution

FinancialManagementImplementationArrangements

11.     The Emergency Public Services Delivery Project will take advantage o f the existing,
well-functioning Implementation Unit o f the Private sector Project and based on already tested
procedures.

FinancialManagementInformationSystem

12.     A sound computerized financial management system is already set up for the PSRDP.
This system will beused for the current project.

AccountingPoliciesandProcedures

13.     A comprehensive, integrated budgetingandaccountingsystem is already inplace under
the PSRDP. The internal control system operates effectively to ensure proper authorization o f
expenditures inaccordance with budget, andproper authorizationo fpayments.

                                                         33



14.      The grant will be accounted for by the project on a cash basis. This will be documented
with appropriate records and procedures to track commitments and to safeguard assets.
Accounting records will be maintained in local currency. Annual Financial statements will be
prepared in accordance with International Accounting Standards. All accounting and financial
procedures will be documented inthe project operational manual.

Staffing


15.      The PSRDP has an adequate number of experienced FMstaff.

InternalAudit

16.      Internal audit hnction does not exist. However, key internal control mechanisms
(Approval andauthorization controls, Bank reconciliation statements) are inplace.

ExternalAudit

17.      An external independent and qualified auditor will carry out the audit o f project
accounts. This audit should be carried out in accordance with International Standards on
Auditing(ISA). By expressing an opinion on the AnnualFinancialStatementsincompliance
with International Standards on Auditing (ISAs), the auditors will be required to prepare a
ManagementLetter giving observations and comments, and providing recommendations for
improvements in accounting records, systems, and controls. The PSRDP audit firm contract
will be amended to cover the current project's operations. The audit report will be submittedto
IDAwithin six months following the closing o fthe project.

ReportingandMonitoring

18.      Quarterly Interim Un-audited Financial Reports (IFRs) will be prepared and will
include sources and uses o f hnds and a comparison o f budgeted and actual Project
expenditures (commitment and disbursement) to date and for the quarter.

19.      The PSRDP Coordination Unit will produce Annual Financial Statements, and these
statements will comply with International Accounting Standards (IAS) and World Bank
requirements.

20.      These Financial Statementsswill comprise:

a.       A Statement of Sources and Uses of Funds
b.       A Statement of Commitments.
c.       TheAccounting Policies Adopted and Explanatory Notes.


 It shouldbe notedthat the programfinancial statements should be all inclusive and cover all sources and uses of funds and
not only those providedthrough IDA funding. It thus reflects all program activities, financing, and expenditures, including
funds from other developmentpartners.

                                               34


d.     A Management Assertion that project hnds have been expended for the intended
       purposes as specified inthe relevant financing agreements.

21.    The IFR shall be furnished to the World Bank not later than 45 days after each
subsequent calendar quarter. Formats for the IFR and financial statements were defined during
the appraisal mission and confirmed duringnegotiations.

DisbursementArrangements

22.    At effectiveness, the grant will be disbursed following transaction-based disbursement
(SOE, reimbursement and direct payment). All replenishment or reimbursement applications
will be submitted on a monthly basis or when the Designated Account is reduced by one-third,
whichever comes first. All replenishment or reimbursement applications will be hlly
documented except for contracts under the prior review. Transaction-supporting documentation
for Statements o f Expenditure will be retained by the PSRDP which has the primary
responsibility for maintaining all documentation.

23.    A Designated Account in CFAF will be opened in a commercial Bank. This Account
will be managed by the PSRDP and the Treasury Department. The ceiling for the Designated
Account will be CFAF 1,500,000,000         and will cover approximately three months of
expenditures. The Designated Account will be used for all the expenditures regarding the
operating cost categories and financed at 100 percent by the grant as indicated in the specific
terms and conditions o f the FinancingAgreement.

SupervisionPlan

24.    Supervision activities will include review o f IFRs; review o f annual audited financial
statements andmanagement letter, as well as timely follow-up o f issues arising; participation in
project supervision missions as appropriate; and updating the FMrating in the Implementation
Status Reports (ISRs).

MainGrant Conditions

25.    There i s no financial management condition for effectiveness o fthis grant.

                                        35


Flow of Funds scheme

 -----b           Evidenceofpaymentof salaries
 -b               Payments
 r-b
 +.-               Transfersof funds

              1    Withdrawalapplication

                                                              36




                                                                                                             Residual
                                           Risk                                                             Risk
                  Risk                   Rating                    RiskMitigationMeasure                     Rating
InherentRisks:                              S                                                                   M
                                                                                                         -       S
Weak financial management                         measuresto mitigate those risksthrough the
environment at country level,                      implementation o fthe action plan annexed to the June
                                                  2006 Country IntegratedFiduciary Assessment (CIFA)
                                                   Report.

EntityLevels
Low capacity at ministry levelto            S                                                                   M
implement andmonitor the project
activities.

Project level                               M                                                                   M
ControlRisks:                               S
Accountingandbudget execution               M                                                                   M
A comprehensive, integrated
budgeting and accounting system i s
already inplace.
The internal control systemoperates
effectively to ensure proper
authorization o f expenditures in
accordance with budget, and proper
authorization o fpayments.

Internal Audit
Internal audit function does not exist.
However, key internal control               M                                                                   M
mechanisms (Approval and




ExternalAudit
The supreme audit institution does                 External auditor with qualification and experience
not have capacity to carry out the          H      satisfactory to the World Bank will conduct an annual        M
audit o f the project.                             audit o f the project's financial statements. This audit
                                                   should be carried out inaccordancewith International
                                                   Standards on Auditing (ISA)

FundsFlow                                   M                                                                   M

Reporting                                   M                                                                   M

Overall Risk                                S                                                                  M

         H:High                    S: Substantial                    M:Moderate                  L:Low

                       37


GUINEA-BISSAU: Emergency Public Service Delivery Project
  ANNEX6: PROCUREMENTASSESSMENT   (NOTAPPLICABLE)


                                                                           16W                                                                                       15W                                                                 14W



                                                                                                                                                                                                                             To
                                                                                S E N E G A L                                                                 To                                                           Kounkan
                                                                                                                                                            Sdhiou             To
                                                                                                                                                                               Kolda                    To
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Kolda
                                                                                                                                 To
                                                                                                                              Sdhiou                           Cuntima           Cambaju            Sare Bcar
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Bcar            Pirada                        (300 m)

                                                                                                                                            Dungal                                                                                    Bajocunda
                                                                                                                                                                  Jumbembem                   Canhmina
                                                                                                                                                                                              Canhmina
                                                          To                                                                                                                                                                                Canquelif
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Canquelif
                                                       Ziguinchor                                    To
                                                                                               Diiattakounda                                Farim
                                                                                                                                                                     Cambaju                                                                                 Buruntuma
                                  To
                        To      Oussouye
                      Kabrousse                                                        Ignor
                                                                                       Ignor                                                                                 Canjambari     Contuboel                                             Camajb
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Camajb
                                                           So Domingos
                                                           So                                           Barro       Cacheu                                                                                                                                                 To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Youkounkoun
                                                                                                                               Olossato                                         Mansaina                   Mansab
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Mansab                         Pitchie

                         Varela      Susana                                                                                                                                                                                   Gabu
                                                                                                              Olossato                                      Mansab
                                                                                                                                                            Mansab
                                                    Cacheu       Cacheu                                                                                                                       Gba
                                                                                                                                                                          Gamamudo
                                                                                 Jolmete                              Bissor
                                                                                                                      Bissor                                                                                                                                  To
                                                                                                                                      O I O                                                                                                                Youkounkoun
                                                                                                                                                                                 Gba
                                                                                                                                                                                 Gba                            Uacaba
                                                                  C A C H E U                                                                                                                    Bafat
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Bafat                 G A B 
                                                                                                 Bula
                                              Calequisse                                                        Binar          Encheia                                                  B A FAT 
                                                             Canchungo                                                                         Mansa
                                                                                                                                               Mansa                                                                            Cabuca

              12N                                                                                                                                                                Bambadinca                                                                                  12N
                                                                                                     Safim             Nhacra                                                                     Galomaro
                                                      Cai                                                                                                                    Xime
                                                                                                                                             Porto Gole                                                                            Corubal
                                                                            Quinhmel
                                                                            Quinhmel                           BISSAU                         Gba                  Ganquecuta                                                 Ch Ch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Ch Ch

                                                                                                                                            Jabed
                                                                                                                                            Jabed                                   Garfanhapa                                                    Bli
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Bli

                   ATLANTIC                                                     MansaB I O M B O                                                                                                           Dulombi
                                                                                             Prbis
                                                                                             Prbis         BISSAU Enxud  Enxud                                     Corubal                                                                               Vendu
                                                                 Iljante                                                                                    Fulacunda                                                           Bo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Bo                           Leidi
                   OCEAN                                                                                                                Tite
                                                                               Ondame                                                                                                  Xitole
                                                                                                                                                 Q U I N A R A                                                      Guilege
                                                                                                         CanaldoGba
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      To
                                                                                                                                                                         Buba                                                                                      Koumbia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      To
                                            Ilha de                                                                              So Joo
                                                                                                                                 So Joo                                                                                                            Ffin
                                           Caravela         lha de
                                                                             Ilha de                   Ilha de     Bolama         BubaEmpada                                         Quebo           Saafa
                                           Caravela       Carache
                                                                            Formosa                   Bolama                                                                                                  To
                                                                                       Abu     I. das                                                                                                       Bnnsan
                                                                                            Galhinas                 Rio Grandede


                                        Arquiplago                                                                                                                          Gandembel                                 G U I N E A
                                        dos Bijags                                   I. de Soga I.               Madina de
                                                                                                     de                  Baixo
                                                                 B O L A M A                      Rubane
                                                                                Bubaque                                          Tombali                        Bedanda


                                                                                                                                           Cati
                                                                                                                                           Cati            T O M B A L I               To
                                               Ilha de                                                                     Tombali
                                                                           I. de           Ilha de                                                                                      Bok                                               14W
                                                 Uno            Uno      Canogo           Bubaque
                                                                                                         Ilha de                                           Cachamba
                                                                                                                                                             Balanta   Songonha
                                                                     Eticoga                             Roxa
                                                                                        Ilha de
                                                               Ilha de                  Orangozinho                                                              Cacine             To                                      GUINEA-BISSAU
                                                               Orango
                                                                                                                                                            CacinCampeane
                                                                                                                                                                 e                 Bok
                                                                          I. de                                   IIlha
                                                                        Meneque                                   Joao Vieira                                                                                  11N
                                                                                                            Ilhu                                                                                                                         SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                                                                          do Meio                                                                                                                         REGION CAPITALS

                   GUINEA-                                                                                                                                                                                                                NATIONAL CAPITAL
                    BISSAU                                                                   0       10      20       30       40 Kilometers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          RIVERS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          MAIN ROADS
                                                                                             0           10             20            30              40 Miles
DECEMBER                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  RAILROADS                                 IBRD
                                                                                            This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                            The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                                                                               REGION BOUNDARIES
                                                                                            shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                                                                                                                               33415
                                                                                            Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
        2004                                                                                                                                                                                                                              INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                            endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                           16W                                                                                       15W

