 IEG
                                                                                               Report Number: ICRR14856

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                       Date Posted: 12/15/2015

               Country: Madagascar
             Project ID: P074086                                                   Appraisal               Actual
         Project Name: Irrigation And                Project Costs (US$M):                     40.30                36.05
                         Watershed
                         Management Project
  L/C Number:                                         Loan/Credit (US$M):                      35.90                34.05
      Sector Board:      Agriculture and Rural        Cofinancing (US$M):                        0.0                  0.0
                         Development
           Cofinanciers:                                Board Approval Date :                                 11/14/2006
                                                                 Closing Date:            03/01/2011          12/31/2014
          Sector(s):       Irrigation and drainage (30%); General public administration sector (25%); General
                           agriculture; fishing and forestry sector (20%); Crops (15%); Agro-industry; marketing; and
                           trade (10%)
          Theme(s):        Rural markets (25%); Rural services and infrastructure (25%); Water resource management
                           (24%); Rural policies and institutions (13%); Other rural development (13%)

Prepared by:               Reviewed by:            ICR Review                 Group:
                                                   Coordinator:
Hassan Wally               Ridley Nelson           Christopher David         IEGPS1
                                                   Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

 a. Objectives:
 This project was the first phase of a 12 year Adaptable Program Loan (APL). The Program would support the
implementation of the Government’s National Irrigation and Watershed Management Program in six of the country’s
main irrigation zones and associated watersheds. However, the next stages of the APL were cancelled.

The Project Appraisal Document (PAD, p. vii) stated that the development objective of the project was to: "sustainably
increase agricultural productivity in four high potential watershed areas and their associated irrigation schemes."

The PAD (p. vii) also stated that the Global Environment Objective (GEO) was to:
"improve the environmental sustainability of land management practices in four targeted watersheds areas."

According to the Financing Agreement (p. 6) and the Global Environment Facility Grant Agreement (p. 4), the
objective of the Project was to: "support the Recipient in establishing the basis for viable irrigated agriculture and
natural resources management in four of its areas, namely: (a) Andapa (Sava Region); (b) Marovoay (Boeny Region);
(c) Itasy Region; and (d) Lac Alaotra (Alaotra Mangoro Region)."

This review assesses the outcomes against the objectives stated in the Financing Agreement. IEG notes that the
Financing Agreement language of “establishing the basis for viable irrigated agriculture" was set at a significantly
lower evaluative level than the PAD which called for "sustainably increasing agricultural productivity". The Financing
Agreement essentially set an output level objective whereas the PAD set an outcome level objective.

This project was originally designed as a fully blended IDA/GEF operation, however, a delay in processing the GEF
Grant led to a split approval process. In a further communication, the project team confirmed that despite the split
approval process the project was still considered a fully blended IDA/GEF project.
b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

 c. Components:
  1. Development of Commercial Agriculture (Appraisal Cost: US$12.46 million, Actual Cost: US$7.97 million). This
component aimed to lay the foundations for improved market access and sustainable intensification and diversification
of irrigated and rainfed agricultural systems in the project’s watersheds. It was planned that the component would
include the project area as a whole, both irrigated and upland areas, and would promote an approach focused on
market-driven demand, agricultural technology development and dissemination, private sector initiative and vertical
integration of supply chains, as well as promotion of partnerships among stakeholders (including public/private
partnerships (PPP). The component included two sub components: (i) Support to agricultural services, and (ii)
Support to private investment, through a cost sharing mechanism.
2. Irrigation Development (Appraisal Cost: US$17.47 million, Actual Cost: US$11.46 million). Includes two
sub-components:
      (i) Management of Irrigation Schemes . Activities would include: (i) awareness raising and mobilization of
      irrigation farmers and their associations; (ii) participatory diagnostic of options for management and rehabilitation
      of the irrigation scheme (Scheme Development Plan); (iii) selection of the preferred option for the mobilization
      and utilization of water resources; and (iv) preparation of a Performance Contract between water users, Region,
      communities and the Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Husbandry and Fisheries.
      (ii) Irrigation Investments . The Regional Directorate for Rural Development is responsible for the implementation
      of the irrigation rehabilitation works. In each region, specific activities can be outsourced to (i) a national
      consultant for the technical studies and design of the works, including supervision of the works, and (ii) a
      contractor for the construction works. A single contract per region would be signed with a consultant for the
      duration of the project.
3. Watershed Development (US$4.33 million, Actual Cost: US$6.71 million). This component aimed to lay the
foundations for sustainable management of watersheds including irrigated and rainfed agriculture, the conservation of
the natural heritage, and improved productivity of the natural resources. The component included two
sub-components:
      (i) Planning and capacity building for sustainable management of water sheds including (a) preparation, as part
      of Watershed Master Plans, of Watershed Development Plans in the four project areas; (b) preparation of
      participatory plans for managing approximately eight sub-watersheds (each of about 10-500 Km; (c)support to
      communication and negotiation platforms; (d) training and capacity strengthening of SLM groups; (e) support to
      improvement of land tenure security; and (f) the establishment of an integrated SLM knowledge and information
      system.
       (ii) Sustainable investments in watershed including: (a) determining, through participatory
      negotiations, local strategies for controlling erosion, arresting gullies and reducing the sediment load of river
      runoff. The project would finance investments in strategic anti-erosion works (through, among others, biological
      methods and technologies); and (b) interventions on communally owned land to improve plant cover,
      reforestation and pastures through strengthened technologies and management transfer of natural resources.
4. Program Management (Appraisal Cost: US$4.43 million, Actual Cost: US$9.91 million). This component would
manage and use resources in accordance with the project’s objectives and procedures, and to put in place a policy
framework that is favorable to scaling up of the project at the national level. It financed the following two
sub-components:
      (i) Management of the project . This included: (a) provision of technical assistance, training, office equipment and
      vehicles, minor office upgrading works, auditing and evaluation studies, and incremental operating costs in
      support of project management; (b) overall project planning, quality oversight, procurement, financial
      management, and monitoring of project activities; and (c) outsourcing of quality oversight through independent
      financial and technical audits, and evaluation of project activities. Project management encompassed all four
      target watersheds as well as national level coordination.
      (ii) Support to national policies . This included: (a) provision of technical assistance, studies, training, information
      campaigns, exchange visits and workshops for the development of major national policies, regulations, and plans
      considered critical to the Government’s National Irrigation and Watershed
      Management Program; (b) provision of support to emerging professional groups, in particular the Platforme
      Consultative de Riz and the Association Malgache de Producteurs de Semences; and (c) provision of support to
      prepare a multi-partner SLM investment development framework, in collaboration with UNDP. This involved data
      collection and reporting on key performance output and impact indicators, including targeted data collection,
      surveys, participatory assessments and mid-term and final evaluations.

Revised Components: While components 1 and 2 were not formally revised, the scope of activities planned under
Component 1(Development of Commercial Agriculture) and 2 (Irrigation Development) were adjusted during the two
main restructurings of 2011 and 2012.
    1. The reallocation of funds (first restructuring) from the first two components to the Watershed Development
    component reduced the number of sub-grants and focused investments under the sub-grants on
     production-related activities only. This included seed production, distribution of inputs and support to community
     granaries. Under the second component, the target for rehabilitation of irrigated areas was reduced from 21,000
     ha to 15,000 ha. The reason for the reduction was to free up funds to start the implementation of the Watershed
     Development Component which was getting pushed back due to the delayed processing of the GEF grant.
      2. The second restructuring in August 2012, after the GEF agreement had been signed in December 2011,
     increased the number of sub-grants but did not reintroduce the market access-related and other support
     investments to avoid the risk of the funds getting too thinly spread over a wide range of activities. Along the same
     lines, it was decided that production-related activities in irrigated schemes would focus exclusively on rice, thus
     leaving out diversification support. Additionally, the irrigation rehabilitation area target was increased to 19,000
     ha.

 d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
 Project Cost. Total project cost at appraisal was expected to be US$40.40 million (PAD, Annex 5). The ICR (Annex
1) reported that actual project cost was US$36.05 million. The difference was mainly due to a cancellation of US$0.65
million of GEF Grant and a US$2.4 million shortcoming on beneficiary contributions.

Financing. The Project was financed through an IDA Credit worth US$30.0 million; and a Global Environment Facility
Grant worth US$5.90 million. Actual amounts disbursed were US$28.80 million and US$5.25 million for the IDA
Credit and the GEF Grant, respectively.

Borrower Contribution . The beneficiary communities were planned to contribute US$4.4 million. Actual amount
contributed was US$2.0 million (ICR, Annex 1). No counterpart funding was expected from the Government.

Dates. The project closed three years and ten months later than its expected closing date. The project was
restructured three times, all Level 2. The first restructuring was in February 2011 in order to free up funds to start the
implementation of the Watershed Development Component which was getting pushed back due to the delayed
processing of the GEF Grant. The second restructuring was in August 2012 where it was decided that
production-related activities in irrigated schemes would focus exclusively on rice, thus leaving out diversification
support; while the irrigation rehabilitation area target was increased to 19,000 ha. The third restructuring was in May
2014 in order to complete some critical irrigation activities (Ankaibe weir and primary canal construction) that had
been delayed by adverse climatic conditions; also the project closing date was extended by a six month to December
31, 2014. The Mid-Term Review was conducted on time (September, 2011).

3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

 a. Relevance of Objectives:
Substantial.
At appraisal, objectives were substantially relevant to the Government's priorities for irrigation and watershed
management but the Financing Agreement objectives used here ("... establishing the basis for viable irrigated
agriculture ...") fell well short of the PAD objective in ambitiousness (... to sustainably increase agricultural productivity
...").

There was an evident need for action on rice productivity. In 2006, about 1.1 million hectares (about 40% of arable
land) was under irrigation in both traditional and more developed schemes. Rice was the main staple crop and
represents about 40% of total gross agricultural production value and 50% percent of total calorie consumption. Over
the period from 1970 to 2004 the area of irrigated rice increased by 0.4% per year and yields had increased by 0.7%
per year over the same period, much slower than in other major rice producing countries (PAD, p. 2).

Objectives were in line with the Government's National Rural Development Program (NRDP, 2005) which called
among other things to improve food security and production through increased productivity, diversification, and risk
management; and to promote better natural resources management. Objectives were also in line with the
Government's National Program of Watershed Management and Irrigation Improvement (2006), where agricultural
development takes into account land management issues at the watershed scale. Objectives were also in line with the
World Bank's Country Assistance Strategy for Madagascar (FY07-11) which had three priorities, (i) improve
governance; (ii) promote broad based growth; and (iii) provide human security. (IEG was not able to locate a 2014
strategy for Madagascar.) The project was expected to contribute to the second priority by promoting sustainable land
management across the watersheds.

Objectives were also in line with the GEF Operational Program 15 concerning the mitigation and prevention of land
degradation.

At completion, objectives continue to be substantially relevant as most irrigation schemes are far from being fully
operational due to high sedimentation and lack of maintenance. Objectives continue to be in line with the
Government's priorities in irrigation and watershed management.

 b. Relevance of Design:
Substantial.
Design included a statement of objectives that explained the aim of the project and specified the project areas,
however, it did not mention any specific actions that the project would support nor specify project beneficiaries. As
noted above, the objectives in the Financing Agreement fell well short of the PAD objective. Better coordination of
objective statements would have improved clarity of purpose.

To achieve the stated objective, design featured four components. In terms of the logical chain, the first would
contribute towards achieving the objective through promoting an approach that focused on market-driven demand,
dissemination agricultural technology and strengthening the links between producers and markets. It would also
provide demand-based support to private investment by operators, farmers and farmer groups at all levels of the
agricultural activity. The second component would focus on capacity building of Water User Associations and
identification and rehabilitation of irrigation sites in addition to improving land tenure security. The third component
would contribute to the objective through supporting watershed management plans and providing the necessary
capacity building training in addition to financing investments in strategic anti-erosion works and supporting
interventions on communally owned land to improve plant cover, reforestation and pastures through strengthened
technologies and management. The fourth component would focus on project management and supporting national
policies.

Design was comprehensive and geared towards tackling multiple constraints in a simultaneous fashion within a given
watershed. However, it was complex, incorporating market, production, infrastructure rehabilitation- and land
conservation related investments, all with cost-sharing mechanisms, in addition to capacity and institutional building;
and improving land tenure security. The Results Framework did not provide clear links between the project inputs,
outputs and expected outcomes. Also, the objective to “establishing the basis for viable irrigation” is too vague to be
measurable and in particular the measurement basis for “viability” is not clear in the Results Framework. The
matching grants approach promoted by the project was a partial approach towards sustainable adoption of improved
technologies. An alternative might have included a combination of demonstration plots with targeted extension and
improved access to microfinance.

4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):
  PDO: support the Recipient in establishing the basis for viable irrigated agriculture and natural resources
management in four of its areas. Modest.

Outputs
By project completion the following intermediate outcomes/outputs were achieved:
  6,122 ha were cultivated with improved technologies and/or inputs provided through the project compared to a
    baseline of none, original target of 4,050 ha and a revised target of 5,175 ha.
  7,500 ha were provided with improved irrigation and drainage services which represents 56% of revised target of
    13,362 ha, original target was 21,780 ha. Infrastructure rehabilitation work was 100% completed in one site only
    while the other sites were 46%, 12% and two sites at 8% completion.
  The area cultivated during the dry season in the irrigation schemes targeted by the project was not measured due
    to discontinuing the diversification efforts. (Baseline: 1,120 ha, original target: 3,000 ha, revised target: 4,150 ha).

     5 agriculture service centers were established and functioning (target achieved), however, with limited impact in
     linking farmers to suppliers and service providers.
     Between 5900 to 9100 farmers have adopted an improved agricultural technology promoted by the project
     compared to an original target of 14,810 and a revised target of 32,130 and a baseline of none.
    1,935 sub-projects (target achieved) were financed and implemented compared to an original target of 1,554 and
     a revised target of 1,560.
    8 new technologies were demonstrated by the project (target achieved) compared to an original target of 9 and a
     revised target of 6.
    8,300 water users were provided with improved irrigation and drainage services (40% of revised target of 20,278,
     original target was 10,117).
    88 Water User Associations were functional (target achieved, revised target: 78, original target: 60, and baseline:
     none). Women represented 27% of the WUA members supported by the project.
    The Agency for irrigation infrastructure management was not established (target not achieved), but the new Law
     14-042 that in particular provides for the establishment of the Agency for Irrigation Infrastructure Management at
     national and regional levels was promulgated in January 2015.
    4 watershed development plans were developed (target achieved) and 17 sub-watershed management plans
    were developed and signed (target achieved, revised target: 13, original target: 8).
   117 anti erosion measures were implemented including: 81 lavaka biological and mechanical stabilization, 14
    river banks stabilization, 19 canals and drains reinforcement, and 3 sand deposits stabilization. (Degree of
    achievement was 81% against original target of 145 and 183% against a revised target of 64).
Outcome
  The average yield of irrigated rice at the end of the project according to ICR estimates (Annex 3, table 2) was 3.4
    tons/ha, a 41% achievement of the objective of an increase from 2.7 to 4.4 tons/ha and a 26% increase in
    absolute terms.
  While crop diversification and increasing crop intensity are critical components of irrigated agriculture viability in
    the context of an increasing fragmentation of the land, diversification efforts were abandoned by the project.
  Five Agricultural Service Centers were established, however, their impact on linking farmers to suppliers,
    produce collectors, and finance institutions was limited. Activities were mostly focused on collecting and making
    available to farmers input and output prices in their respective region and assisting farmers in organizing
    themselves in order to access the project services.
  The management of irrigation schemes by Water User Associations was strengthened as demonstrated by a
    30-fold increase on a low base in the collection of irrigation service fees. However, WUAs remain fragile and in
    need of further support to be financially viable. Irrigation service fees collected are still insufficient to cover basic
    O&M costs despite increasing 30-fold during the project life. The envisioned Agency for Irrigation Infrastructure
    Management was not established by project closing.
  The area under Sustainable Land Management practices was less than 5% of the watershed total area (ICR,
    para 60). In addition, the farmers showed little interest in the sustainable land management "under-cover"
    cultivation sub-projects on upland as demonstrated by a 100% drop-out rate between years 1 and 3.
  While five guichets foncier were established, they were not expected to issue any land certificates until after
    seven years of project implementation due to delays in the acquisition of aerial photography.
  Overall achievement of the PDO is rated modest due to limited achievements to establish the basis for viable
    irrigated agriculture and natural resources management. Also, there are concerns on the accuracy of M&E data
    which casts doubt on the reported achievements (ICR, p. 37).

GEO: the GEF Trust Grant Agreement stated only the project's PDO while the ICR used the GEO as stated in the
PAD: "to improve the environmental sustainability of land management practices in four targeted watersheds areas."
While 1,425 farmers adopted SLM activities which represents an achievement rate of 59%, the drop-out rate for
under-cover cultivation sub-projects that represented 58% of subprojects on uplands was 100% between Year 1 and
Year 3. This highlights the lack of interest of farmers for this SLM technique. The impact of anti-erosion measures was
unclear due to the lack of any indicators to assess this area. The project almost achieved its target on afforestion
efforts, however, the absence of maintenance arrangements and future exploitation of the newly vegetated areas
casts doubt on the sustainability of these activities.

5. Efficiency:
 Economic and Financial Efficiency
ex ante
    The project investment cost was expected to be around $1,330 per hectare for the four-year period of project
     implementation, or about $330 per hectare per year. The economic analysis was carried out separately for each
     of the four watersheds selected by the project because the initial conditions of the irrigation systems and upper
     watersheds were different along with the amount and balance between the three components that was applied to
     each of the watersheds.
    The economic benefits of the project were expected to be: (i) additional paddy production coming from
     improvement in cropping intensity in well-irrigated areas and in yield linked to introduction of new varieties in
     partially-irrigated areas, (ii) other additional crop production coming from a reduction in nutrient depletion, and (iii)
     lower O&M costs coming from a reduction in siltation and in cyclone damages are based on projected agricultural
     production increases in the four watersheds, compared with agricultural production in the situation without the
     project.
    Paddy productivity in the irrigated areas was expected to be around 3 tons per hectare per year, with some
     variability between watersheds. Andapa had the lowest productivity at 2.3 tons per hectare per year, while Lac
     Alaotra had the highest at 3.3 tons per hectare per year.
    Without the irrigation and watershed management project, the paddy production of the irrigated areas that would
     have been concerned by the project was expected to decrease from around 54,000 tons per year at the
     beginning of the period to 43,000 tons by the end of the period (without taking into account the impact of cyclonic
     damages on productivity), or a loss of 21%. At the same time, the higher area (tanety area) production was
     expected to decrease from 35,000 tons to 11,000 tons, or a loss of 69%. The loss in paddy production alone was
     expected to be equivalent to the milled rice consumption of 12,000 households for an entire year. The cumulated
     difference of production in the situation with the project compared to the situation without the project was
     expected to be 105,000 tons during the 4 years of project implementation, 55,000 tons of which are paddy, the
     equivalent of the annual consumption of 355,000 people or around 65,000 households.
    The calculations assumed a real discount rate of 10%, a total life of public investment of 25 years, and use of
     foreign currency (US$) at the border price level. Using conservative estimates for the unit rent, the pace, and the
     quantity of benefits, the investment is likely to increase the welfare of the country by about US$9.5 million,
     corresponding to an economic rate of return (ERR) of 14%.
ex post
    Economic rates of return (ERR) and Net Present Values (NPV) were computed for each region, as was done at
     appraisal, using a slightly different methodology to account for the variations between the plans that were made
     at appraisal and actual implementation.
    The average cost per hectare for irrigation rehabilitation was only US$175 compared to US$704 at appraisal. In
     comparison, irrigation infrastructure rehabilitation projects currently funded by the African Development Bank in
     Madagascar have a cost per hectare of US$ 2,000 to US$ 3,000 and favor concrete coated primary canals on
     durability grounds (ICR, p. 22 footnote#14). While low costs could be efficient, such a large difference raises
     some doubt about the quality of works funded by the project and therefore about sustainability.
    Benefits from diversification were not included since diversification activities were discontinued early in the
     project life. Only the costs directly related to investments in the irrigated areas were taken into account in the
     economic analysis. A 10 year lifespan for project investments (compared to 25 years at appraisal) was used to
     reflect the much lower intensity of the rehabilitation works that were actually carried out.
    Overall project ERR was estimated at 15% after including the Ankaibe diversion weir and feeder canal
     construction which were both not envisioned at appraisal. Ankaibe diversion weir and feeder canal boasts the
     highest ERR at 27%. However, without the Ankaibe diversion canal, the overall ERR would drop to 7%. This
     reflects the limited results in terms of profitability for farmers and the fragility of the economic viability of most of
     the irrigation schemes supported by the project. Also, the high drop-out rates for the uplands intensification
     sub-projects reflects "lack of attractiveness of the proposed packages to farmers in the absence of a subsidy
     element (ICR, p. 61, para 9)."

Administrative and Institutional Efficiency
The project closed three years and ten months late (total aggregate implementation period was about 8 years). This
partially stemmed from a 15 month disbursement freeze due to the political crisis in 2009 which resulted in total
suspension of project activities. Actual spending across components was slightly different from what was originally
planned. Component 4 (Project Management) exceeded its originally planned share by 230% from US$4.31 million to
US$9.91 million, mainly at the expense of Component 1 (Development of Commercial Agriculture) and Component 2
(Irrigation Development) which both recorded 63% and 66% of their appraisal estimates, respectively. The ICR (p. 57)
attributed this increment to the extension of project by three years and ten months. Component 3 (Watershed
Development) also exceeded its originally planned share by 155% from US$4.33 million to US$6.71 million. Finally,
US$0.65 million from the GEF Grant were cancelled.

Efficiency is rated modest.

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                  Rate Available?                           Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

     Appraisal                        Yes                                       14%                                     72%

     ICR estimate                     Yes                                       15%                                     100%
                                          * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



 6. Outcome:
   Relevance of objectives and relevance of design were each rated substantial, although design was complex.
Efficacy was rated modest due to limited achievements in establishing the basis for viable irrigated agriculture and
natural resources management. Efficiency was rated modest due to limited results in terms of profitability for farmers,
the fragility of the economic viability of most of the irrigation schemes, and questions about sustainability, in addition
to significant implementation delays.
  a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:
  Risk to development outcome is rated high. This stems from six main concerns:
  By project completion, the water user associations supported by the project were still not fully capable of
    assuming full responsibility of the O&M of the rehabilitated schemes. In addition, the fees collected to cover O&M
      costs were significantly below the actual amounts needed. This would undermine efforts to maintain the
      rehabilitation investments. Furthermore, the Irrigation Scheme Maintenance Fund which was supposed to take
      care of non-transferable infrastructure maintenance was not operational yet.
     The absence of a sustainable, affordable and accessible financing mechanism to farmers limits their capacity to
      purchase fertilizers needed for optimal crop productivity. This in turn would translate into lower yields and lower
      profitability to farmers; and would negatively impact water use fees recovery.
     The lack of any maintenance and future exploitation arrangements for afforestation and pasture improvement
      sites could undermine the sustainability of these areas.
     The low involvement of communal authorities in the project could result in limited support to project activities after
      completion due to lack of ownership. Activities that could be impacted include: Water User Associations and
      Sustainable land management associations, O&M of the various investments, extension, land tenure security and
      the maintenance and operation of the guichets fonciers.
     There is concern that the Regional Directorate for Rural Development will not have the resources necessary to
      conduct the very demanding field work of supervising the Organizations of Producers both in irrigated areas and
      the uplands. In addition, these organizations should have reached a more advanced level of autonomy at the end
      of the project compared to where they actually were before leaving them under the distant supervision of the
      Regional Directorate for Rural Development.
     The deteriorating state of the access roads to some of the project sites (in particular the road leading to the Lac
      Alaotra area, which is Madagascar’s main rice basket) and of feeder roads within the irrigation schemes may
      negatively impact achievement on the agricultural productivity side. However, in a further communication the
      project team explained that deterioration of rural roads was not seen as a long term risk. The team explained that
      there were synergies with other Bank funded projects and that roads were expected to be rehabilitated.

     a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : High

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
    The Government of Madagascar requested World Bank and Global Environmental Facility (GEF) funding for
an Irrigation and Watershed Management Project to accelerate economic growth in rural areas, through an
integrated effort aimed at increasing productivity in high potential production zones.
   The project preparation was long and took 2 years. Objectives were consistent with the Government's new
     irrigation strategy. In a further communication the project team concluded that too much time was spent on
     studies and that the project should have followed a learning by doing approach.
   During project preparation the lending instrument was changed from a Sector Investment Loan (SIL) to an
     Adaptable Program Loan (APL) after a reduction in IDA allocation. This resulted in a shorter four year time
     frame for a rather ambitious and complex project.
   The project was supposed to be a fully blended IDA/GEF financed operation. However, changes in the
     processing of GEF grants related to sustainable land management resulted in a split approval process. The
     IDA Credit was first approved in November 2006 while the GEF Grant was processed as a separate package
     that was approved on November 6, 2008 (ICR, para 22).
   Design featured a comprehensive approach geared towards tackling multiple constraints in a simultaneous
     fashion within a given watershed. However, it was complex incorporating market, production, infrastructure
     rehabilitation- and land conservation related investments, all with cost-sharing mechanisms, in addition to
     capacity and institutional building; and improving land tenure security.
   Design benefitted from five lessons described in the PAD (p. 12) as conditions of success from evaluations of
     programs and projects in the irrigation sub-sector. These include: an integrated approach, a conducive
     economic environment, an unambiguous institutional framework, an approach that emphasizes capacity
     strengthening and a participatory approach.
   At the preparation stage seven risks were identified, four were substantial and three were moderate. Overall
     mitigation measures were adequate, (but according to the ICR (para 29) "the project failed to apply some of
     these mitigation measures and the failure of the M&E system did not allow the introduction of corrective
     measures").
   Two important risks were overlooked at the preparation stage, first was the low rate of adoption of new
     technologies; and second was the possibility that the project will revert to some of the shortcomings that had
     characterized previous irrigation development experiences, for example: "focusing on technical extension
     messages with little attention paid to the economic constraints farmers are facing and little effort to
     differentiate between farmers in order to develop a range of messages, technologies, and accompanying
     modes better adapted to each farmer category; insufficient emphasis put on issues such as land tenure
     security, access to credit and markets and diversification that are critical for sustainable and replicable
     productivity enhancement; insufficient attention paid to the human and material resources needed, during and
     after the project, to accompany the beneficiaries and their associations until they can possibly be weaned off
      external support without jeopardizing sustainability; and insufficient attention paid to the importance of feeder
      and main road infrastructure status to maximize project outcomes (ICR, para 32)."
     M&E design suffered from shortcomings (see section 10a).

     Quality-at-Entry Rating:                      Moderately Unsatisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:
    The project was implemented under a difficult environment. It experienced a 15 month disbursement freeze
and high political instability during the transition period until elections were held during the final months of the
project. There are five main points on supervision:

     Supervision should have paid more attention to several important elements of component design including
      diversification, value chain approach and land tenure securisation or should have at least offered alternative
      strategies. According to the ICR (para 83) these issues "have been largely sacrificed on the altar of
      implementation simplification and disbursement acceleration due to the delays the project had accumulated."
     More attention should have been given to improving M&E earlier in project implementation;
     More attention was needed in the application of risk mitigation measures.
     Supervision missed the opportunity to trigger the Safety of Dams (OP 4.37) safeguard in relation to the
      Sahamaloto dam.
     More positively, supervision was regular and took a number of strategic decisions to facilitate implementation.
      These included: the introduction of a more realistic "upfront contribution considered realistic" approach which
      helped implementation by lifting the deadlock created by the original compulsory 20% upfront beneficiary
      contribution to works. After the disbursement freeze, implementation benefitted from the recruitment of
      Strategic Partners with international experience and the use of multiannual Performance Contracts. An
      appropriate supervision decision was the use of a significant share of the project resources (21%) to finance
      the Ankaibe diversion weir and feeder canal.
     In terms of the supervision challenge, the complicated nature of project financing (which was supposed to be
      a fully blended IDA/GEF project from the start) added extra work to the project team beyond normal
      supervision.



     Quality of Supervision Rating :                Moderately Unsatisfactory

     Overall Bank Performance Rating :             Moderately Unsatisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

 a. Government Performance:
    The Government was supportive and committed to the successful implementation of the project. The project
received high management support when needed. The Government also contributed a substantial budget towards
the implementation of the Ankaibe weir and feeder canal resettlement action plan (ICR, para 37). While political
unrest was exogenous to the project, it was nevertheless a fact that negatively impacted implementation. As a
result of political unrest in 2009-2010 the project faced a disbursement freeze for 15 months. This negatively
impacted implementation and contributed to a loss of confidence by the project's beneficiaries. Finally, the
Government did not extend enough resources at the end of the project to the Regional Directorate for Rural
Development to enable it to continue, consolidate, and possibly expand the project activities.

     Government Performance Rating                               Moderately Satisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:
    The project was implemented under the Ministry of Agriculture through a dedicated Implementation Unit and
the Regional Directorate for Rural Development. The project Implementation Unit responded promptly to the
supervision missions’ recommendations. Project implementation also benefitted from Technical Assistance at the
regional and national levels. Also, relying on two Strategic Partners (local consultant firms with international
experience) for implementation of activities in the four regions and on an external financial management agency
proved to be an efficient arrangement in light of the prolonged disbursement freeze. Financial Management and
Procurement activities were overall successful.

However, the project missed several targets in particular for rehabilitation of irrigation sub-projects. This casts
doubt on the effectiveness of the implementation arrangements and the performance of the implementing agency.

M&E implementation was particularly weak. More attention should have been given to M&E activities. (The ICR
(para 40) reported that "deficient M&E did not permit a meaningful evaluation of outcomes at project closing." )

   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                    Moderately Unsatisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                       Moderately Unsatisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:
  M&E design suffered from a number of shortcomings:
  The project development objective was to"establish a viable basis for irrigated agriculture and natural resources
    management" which reflected a clear dimension of sustainability and replicability. However, PDO level indicators
    were not geared to assess impact or sustainability. Most outcome indicators were qualitative for example:
    dissemination of innovative technologies, improved management, and increased support.
  A number of indicators were poorly defined, in particular those expressed as a percentage increase of a baseline
    situation that was never assessed afterwards. The indicator related to increase in vegetation cover was dropped
    after the first restructuring for no apparent reason despite its relevance to assess SLM.
  The revision of the result framework during the restructurings of 2011 and 2012 should have allowed a better
    quantification of the PDO level results indicators, however, these revisions resulted in PDO level indicators that
    were redundant with the component outputs indicators; and impact and sustainability continued to be
    understated.
  M&E design did not include any indicators to capture important aspects of the project including: technology
    spread-out as a result of the demonstrative effect of the sub-projects on irrigation schemes and uplands; impact
    of the work of the Agricultural Service Centers; impact of the work of the guichets fonciers on securing land
    tenure; and the impact of the various anti-erosion measures tested on siltation.

 b. M&E Implementation:
   M&E implementation was the responsibility of a dedicated unit within the Project Implementation Unit.
Implementation was negatively impacted by a poor design and limited staff capacity. The M&E unit produced data that
was not reliable as figures were collected without double checking and in some cases numbers looked over optimistic.
These issues cast doubt over the reported achievements. M&E activities focused on quantitative data that pertained
to project outputs, however, the qualitative side in terms of project impact and sustainability was overlooked.

 c. M&E Utilization:
   Out of four project evaluations envisioned at appraisal, only one at the end of the project was carried out. With poor
design and problematic implementation, M&E utilization was deficient. The ICR (para 40) concluded that "M&E did not
permit a meaningful evaluation of outcomes at project closing."

M&E Quality Rating: Negligible




11. Other Issues

 a. Safeguards:
The project was classified as a category A under the World Bank environmental screening procedures
specified in OP/BP 4.01. It triggered the following five Safeguard Policies: Environmental Assessment Policy OP/BP
4.01, Natural Habitat Policy OP/BP 4.04, Forests Policy OP/BP 4.36, Involuntary Resettlement OP/BP 4.12, and Pest
Management OP/BP 4.09.

Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01). The capacity of the project's team to manage environment and social
safeguard activities benefitted from clinics and on-the job training. This contributed to the successful formulation and
implementation of Environment and Social Impact Assessments and Resettlement Plans. The ICR (para 42) reported
that one of the target irrigation schemes (Sahamaloto) was supplied by a dam of less than 15 m in height, but its
water storage capacity was more than 3.0 million cubic meters. According to the Bank's OP4.37 "Safety of Dams" the
storage volume of this dam puts it under the classification of large dams. Under the current definition of OP4.37, the
policy should have been triggered even though the project did not undertake any construction works on the dam itself.
The project only rehabilitated an irrigation network of primary and secondary channels that are dependent on the dam;
mostly dredging irrigation channels and reinforcing embankments. The ICR (para 42) stated that "paragraph 8 and
subsequent paragraphs of OP4.37 require an independent safety review and if necessarily, other safety measures."
The ICR noted that OP 4.37 “Safety of Dams” would be triggered under the ongoing Emergency Food Security and
Social Protection Project which would be financing follow-up activities on the same dam and irrigation scheme.
According to the ICR (para 41) "overall safeguard compliance was rated either Moderately Satisfactory or Satisfactory
throughout the project life and was rated Satisfactory at the end of the project." However, there is no further
information provided on compliance with the Bank's safeguards policies with regards to the above mentioned
triggered policies. In a further communication the project team explained that there were no issues of non-compliance
for any of the safeguards policies triggered by the project.

 b. Fiduciary Compliance:
Financial Management . The project benefitted from hiring an experienced external financial management agency
from the beginning of the project. Also, an internal auditor was hired in 2011. According to the ICR (para 45) financial
management reports were timely and of high quality. No information was provide on internal or external audits. In a
further communication the project team explained that "all audit reports were clean without any reserve."

Procurement. While procurement faced some difficulties during implementation, these were swiftly addressed by the
project's team and the central administration. According to the (ICR para 46) "all procurement under the project had
complied with the Bank’s rules and procedures." In a further communication the project team explained that there
were no instances of misprocurement.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):


d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                  Reason for
                                                                                      Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Moderately                    Moderately
                              Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory
          Risk to Development High                          High
                     Outcome:

           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                              Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately          Significant M&E shortcomings and
                              Satisfactory                  Unsatisfactory      missed targets in particular for
                                                                                rehabilitation of irrigation sub-projects.
                                                                                In addition, per ICR guidelines, where
                                                                                there is a split rating for borrower
                                                                                performance, the Outcome rating
                                                                                determines the rounding above or
                                                                                below the line.
                Quality of ICR:                             Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:
 The following lessons are emphasized with adaptation of language:
  Establishing an adequate M &E system is critical to assessing project achievements . Establishing an
   adequate M&E system is also important when it comes to providing project management with impact and
   sustainability assessments that may induce shifts in strategies and resources during the project life. This is
   particularly the case in complex projects with both productivity and environmental sustainability objectives
   which interact.
  A farm systems approach to agricultural intensification that accommodates labor and financial constraints
   and an understanding of incentives is more important than simply ensuring that inputs are readily available .
   The project's experience showed that the matching grant approach proved to be less efficient for agricultural
   intensification with the exception of its initial demonstration effect. Initially in the first year, farmers took
   advantage of the opportunity to use heavily subsidized new technologies, but due to risks, lack of labor or lack
   of access to finance, opted for stepping down to less capital intensive practices in the second and third year. A
   more systems focussed approach might have been a combination of realistic demonstration plots exhibiting
   moderate resource scenarios with parallel targeted extension support and improved and easier access to
   microfinance.
  Watershed projects should not claim significant downstream impact when it is unattainable . While broad
   scale erosion control and soil conservation measures would always be technically desirable, there is an
   opportunity cost in terms of competing public expenditure. Unless there is broad coverage of a watershed very
   quickly, rarely possible, there is unlikely to be significant and quick impact on erosion control, sedimentation
   and downstream dam life. A realistic claim with limited resources would be to learn from pilots about how best
   to do watershed treatment selectively and efficiently to enable strategic thinking for later broader, longer term,
   interventions.

14. Assessment Recommended?                 Yes     No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

The ICR is well written. It provided thorough coverage of project activities and reported candidly on shortcomings. It
included several lessons that reflect the project's experience, although some lessons are closer to recommendations.

The ICR provided a logical discussion of outcomes to the extent possible given the weakness of M&E data. It also
included a very good farm management/farm economics analysis. It reported well on the risks identified at the
preparation stage and discussed how effective were the mitigation measures.

There were some weaknesses or missing points that the ICR should have covered including:

  Safeguard compliance in particular with regards to: Natural Habitat Policy OP/BP 4.04, Forests Policy OP/BP
   4.36, Involuntary Resettlement OP/BP 4.12, and Pest Management OP/BP 4.09.
  External Financial Audits;
  Candor of ISRs;
  Lessons that informed the project design; and,
  (a smaller point) the ICR reported different time frames for the disbursement freeze, 15 months and 18 months.
a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
