Report No. PID5929
Project Name                     Madagascar-Microfinance Project
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Financial Sector Adjustment
Project ID                       MGPE52186
Borrower                         Republic of Madagascar
Implementing Agency              Ministere de l'Economie et des Finances
Groupe de Preparation du Projet Microfinance
Contact Person: Mr. Renaud Rajanoah
Antananarivo, Madagascar
Date this PID prepared           September 22, 1997
Projected appraisal date         October 1998
Projected Board date             February 1999
Environment Category             C
Country and Sector Background:   A country with promising economic
prospects, Madagascar now ranks at the bottom tier of developing
countries.  Seventy per cent of its 13.5 million inhabitants live in
poverty. The economic decline over the last decade, exemplified by
declining GDP, is due to inappropriate economic policies and
problems resulting from a political transition. Since 1995,
implementation of a reform agenda has gained some momentum, although
sustained growth remains elusive. An IDA credit of US$70 million
was signed on March 14, 1997 to support Madagascar's continuing
structural adjustment, including financial sector reforms,
privatization, and actions to open the country to foreign investment
and tourism. In the financial sector, the Government is in the
process of disinvesting from the two failed public banks. Past
attempts to develop credit operations to smallholders had not been
successful, as the banking sector, particularly the public banks
which were to lend to low-income clients, had ill-adapted products,
high costs, and poor recovery rates. The IDA-supported pilot Rural
Finance Technical Assistance Project (RFTAP), implemented since
1994, has been trying the new approach of delivering savings-based
credit through the creation of mutualist savings and loan associations.
Project Objectives: The proposed project draws on the experience of
the pilot RFTAP (Rural Finance Technical Assistance Project). Its
objectives are to deepen financial intermediation and help alleviate
poverty by increasing the use of financial services by lower-income
households in both rural and urban areas. They will be achieved
through the strengthening of private, progressively self-sustainable
microfinance institutions (MFIs) and capable coordinating institutions.
Project Description: The project will entail three main components:
first, providing an appropriate framework for developing savings and
loan associations and other successful microfinance institutions;
second, developing the local capacity to put in place the above



microfinance intermediaries throughout the country and increasing
their linkages with the banking sector; and third, building
competencies in microfinance through training of participants.
Participation of beneficiaries, NGOs, Government, and other donors
is expected at every stage of project preparation, implementation
and follow-up.
Project Financing:    Detailed cost estimates for the project
components will be developed during preparation.
Project Implementation: Each project component will be executed by
national institutions as follows: (a) for the legal and regulatory
framework component, CSBF (the Banking Supervisory Commission) and
microfinance coordinating institutions; (b) for the microfinance
institutions development component, the regional savings and loan
networks with support from institutions (including NGOs) providing
technical assistance, and other MFIs; and (c) for the capacity-
building component: INSCAE and regional training centers for the
finance/banking training program of microfinance professionals;
specialized institutions (including NGOs) for the training of staff
and clients of MFI networks, and other outreach programs; and
selected technical assistance for the strengthening of microfinance
coordinating institutions. Activities under the project will be
coordinated by a small independent unit.
Project sustainability: The following factors are important to the
sustainability of project benefits:
-- Macroeconomic stability and banking sector reform;
-- Adaptability of approach to the specificity of each locality;
-- Ongoing capacity building and institutional development in MFI
networks at village and regional levels;
-- Clear business plans to achieve sustainability of participating
institutions, such as high recovery rates and low overhead; and
-- Arrangements to transfer management to nationals at the regional level.
Lessons from Bank-Group Involvement: The proposed project builds
upon the successful ongoing pilot project which has created 54
savings and loan associations with a membership of over 10,000 low-
income people. The high repayment rate and the growing demand are
incentives for preparing the expansion phase. Technical assistance
will continue to be provided under the proposed project to
successfully implement this critical stage for the sustainability of
the established microfinance networks. The experience gained with
the pilot schemes will be reflected in the design of the institution
development component of the project.
Poverty Category: By focusing on increased use of financial
services by the low-income population, the project is consistent
with the Bank's poverty reduction strategy. In addition, the
project will include specific mechanisms for targeting the poor
through tailored support.
Environmental aspects: The project has no environmental impact.
Project Objective Categories: The project will contribute to the
following Bank Group objectives: (a) poverty alleviation; (b)
financial system development; (c) private sector development; (d)
- 2-



institution building; and (e) local capacity building.
Contact Point:           Mrs. Chau Duong
Africa Private Sector Finance Group
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202) 473-2939
Fax No.: (202) 477-2978
Note:   This is information on an evolving project.     Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending January 23, 1998.
- 3 -



