Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3217-1-MAG 
 
Project Agreement 
 
(Additional Financing for the Microfinance Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
and 
 
CENTRAL BANK OF MADAGASCAR 
 
Dated May 22, 2007 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3217-1-MAG 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated May 22, 2007, entered into between INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (
“Association”) and CENTRAL BANK OF 
MADAGASCAR (CBM) (“Project Implementing Entity”) (“Project Agreement”) in connection 
with the Financing Agreement (“Financing Agreement”) of same date between the REPUBLIC 
OF MADAGASCAR (“Recipient”) and the Association.  The Association and the Project 
Implementing Entity hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to the Financing Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the Financing Agreement or the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE II — PROJECT
 
2.01. 
The Project Implementing Entity declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  
To this end, the Project Implementing Entity shall carry out Parts A.1 through D of the 
Project in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions, and 
shall provide promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for its Respective Part of the Project. 
2.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, and except as 
the Association and the Project Implementing Entity shall otherwise agree, the Project 
Implementing Entity shall carry out its Respective Part of the Project in accordance with 
the provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III — TERMINATION 
3.01. 
For purposes of Section 8.05 (c) of the General Conditions, the date on which the 
provisions of this Agreement shall terminate is twenty years after the date of this 
Agreement. 
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE IV 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
4.01. 
The Project Implementing Entity
’s Representative is the Governor of the Central Bank of 
Madagascar. 
4.02. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 International 
Development 
Association 
 
1818 H Street, NW 
 
Washington, DC 20433 
 
United States of America 
 Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 INDEVAS 
 248423(MCI) 
 
 1-202-477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
 
4.03. 
The Project Implementing Entity’s Address is: 
 
B.P.  550 
Antananarivo - 101  
Madagascar 
Page  4
-
3
-
AGREED at Antananarivo, Republic of Madagascar, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By: 
    /s/ 
Robert 
R. 
Blake 
Authorized Representative 
 
CENTRAL BANK OF MADAGASCAR 
 
By: 
    
/s/ Frédéric Rasamoely 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
SCHEDULE 
Execution of the Project 
Implementing Entity’s Respective Part of the Project 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
A. Institutional 
Arrangements
 
1. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall: 
(a) 
carry on all operations and conduct all affairs pertaining to its respective part of 
the Project in accordance with sound administrative, financial and banking 
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management 
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers; 
(b) 
at all times operate and maintain its buildings, office space, plant, equipment and 
other property relating to its respective part of the Project, and from time to time, 
promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in 
accordance with sound engineering, financial and administrative practices; and 
(c) 
with its respective part of the Project, take out and maintain with responsible 
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance 
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate 
practice. 
2. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall: 
(a) 
carry out its respective part of the Project in accordance with the provisions of 
this Schedule and the procedures set out in the Project Implementation Manual; 
(b) 
obtain the consent of the Association before making any material changes in the 
Project Implementation Manual; and  
(c) 
not make any such changes in the Project Implementation Manual that are, in the 
opinion of the Association, likely to affect materially or adversely the carrying 
out of the Project or the achievement of the objectives of the Project. 
3. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall: 
(a) 
furnish to the Association no later than November 30 of each year an annual 
work program and budget satisfactory to the Association; and 
Page  6
-
5
-
(b) 
employ qualified and competent staff to assist CSBF General Secretariat in 
supervising microfinance institutions. 
B. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Project Implementing Entity shall ensure that its Respective Part of the Project is 
carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A. Project 
Reports 
1. 
(a) 
The Project Implementing Entity shall monitor and evaluate the progress of its 
Respective Part of the Project and prepare Project Reports for its Respective Part 
of the Project in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth below in subparagraph (b) 
of this paragraph.  Each such Project Report shall cover the period of one 
calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to the Recipient no later than forty-five 
days after the end of the period covered by such report for incorporation and 
forwarding by the Recipient to the Association of the overall Project Report.  
 
(b) 
The performance indicators referred to above in sub-paragraph (a) consist of the  
following: 
(i) b
y
the Closing Date, licensing requirements and procedures have been 
adopted and become effective; 
(ii)  
by the Closing Date, a monitoring and supervision mechanism for  
microfinance institutions, including a monitoring database for 
microfinance institutions and accounting and management norms for 
microfinance institutions, is in place and being implemented; and 
(iii) 
by the Closing Date, the Project Implementing Entity has carried out 
regular on and off site supervision of all licensed microfinance 
institutions. 
B.
 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall maintain a financial management system and 
prepare financial statements in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards 
acceptable to the Association, both in a manner adequate to reflect the operations and 
financial condition of the Project Implementing Entity, including the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to its Respective Part of the Project. 
Page  7
-
6
-
2. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall have its financial statements referred to above 
audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Association, in accordance with 
consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the Association.  Each audit of these 
financial statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Project Implementing 
Entity.  The audited financial statements for each period shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than six months after the end of the period.
 
Section III. 
Procurement
All goods, works and services required for 
the Project Implementing Entity’s Respective 
Part of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of Section III of Schedule 2 to the Financing 
Agreement.
 
