Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3217-1-MAG 
 
Project Agreement 
 
(Additional Financing for the Microfinance Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
and 
 
AGENCE D’EXECUTION DU PROJET MICROFINANCE 
 
Dated May 22, 2007  
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3217-1-MAG 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated May 22, 2007, entered into between INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (
“Association”) and 
AGENCE D’EXECUTION DU PROJET 
MICROFINANCE
 (AGEPMF) (
“Project Implementing Entity”) (“Project Agreement”) in 
connection with the Financing Agreement (“Financing Agreement”) of same date between the 
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR (“Recipient”) and the Association.  The Association and the 
Project Implementing Entity hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to the Financing Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the Financing Agreement or the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE II — PROJECT
 
2.01. 
The Project Implementing Entity declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  
To this end, the Project Implementing Entity shall carry out Parts A.2 through D of the 
Project in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions, and 
shall provide promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for its Respective Part of the Project. 
2.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, and except as 
the Association and the Project Implementing Entity shall otherwise agree, the Project 
Implementing Entity shall carry out its Respective Part of the Project in accordance with 
the provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III — TERMINATION 
3.01. 
For purposes of Section 8.05 (c) of the General Conditions, the date on which the 
provisions of this Agreement shall terminate is twenty years after the date of this 
Agreement. 
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE IV 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
4.01. 
The Project Implementing Entity
’s Representative is the Minister of Finance and Budget. 
4.02. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 International 
Development 
Association 
 
1818 H Street, NW 
 
Washington, DC 20433 
 
United States of America 
 Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 INDEVAS 
 248423(MCI) 
 
 1-202-477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
 
4.03. 
The Project Implementing Entity’s Address is: 
 
B.P. 628 
Antananarivo - 101  
Madagascar 
Page  4
-
3
-
AGREED at Antananarivo, Republic of Madagascar, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By: 
     /s/ 
Robert 
R. 
Blake 
Authorized Representative 
 
AGENCE D’EXECUTION DU PROJET MICROFINANCE 
 
By: 
 
 
       /s/ Benjamin Andriamparany Radavidson 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
SCHEDULE 
Execution of the Project 
Implementing Entity’s Respective Part of the Project 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
A. Institutional 
Arrangements
 
1. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall: 
(a) 
carry on all operations and conduct all affairs pertaining to its respective part of 
the Project in accordance with sound administrative, financial and banking 
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management 
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers; 
(b) 
at all times operate and maintain its buildings, office space, plant, equipment and 
other property relating to its respective part of the Project, and from time to time, 
promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in 
accordance with sound engineering, financial and administrative practices; and 
(c) 
with its respective part of the Project, take out and maintain with responsible 
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance 
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate 
practice. 
2. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall: 
(a) 
carry out its respective part of the Project in accordance with the provisions of 
this Schedule and the procedures set out in the Project Implementation Manual; 
(b) 
obtain the consent of the Association before making any material changes in the 
Project Implementation Manual; and  
(c) 
not make any such changes in the Project Implementation Manual that are, in the 
opinion of the Association, likely to affect materially or adversely the carrying 
out of the Project or the achievement of the objectives of the Project. 
3. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on 
an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Association, 
the carrying out its respective part of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof; 
Page  6
-
5
-
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and furnish to 
the Association, by April 30 each year, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to subparagraph (a) of 
this paragraph, on the progress achieved in the carrying out its respective part of 
the Project and setting out the measures recommended to ensure: (i) the efficient 
carrying out of the Project; and (ii) the achievement of the objectives of the 
Project; and 
(c) 
review with the Association, by June 30 of each year or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this 
paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on 
the conclusions and recommendation
s
of the said report and the Association’s 
views on the matter. 
4. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall: 
(a) 
furnish to the Association no later than November 30 of each year an annual 
work program and budget, satisfactory to the Association, for the next following 
fiscal year of the Project; 
(b) 
cause each of the SLA networks to furnish to AGEPMF: (i) no later than 30 days 
after the end of each quarter of the year, tables showing progress made by the 
SLA networks in meeting the performance indicators of the Project; (ii) no later 
than 60 days after the end of each such quarter, quarterly reports detailing the 
comments of the SLA networks on the performance indicators; said indicators to 
reflect increasing contributions of the SLA networks to their cost of operations; 
and (iii) no later than March 31 each year, annual reports summarizing the 
situation of the SLA networks as compared with such situation as at the 
beginning of the immediately preceding 12 month-period; 
(c) 
cause each of the SLA networks to furnish to AGEPMF an action plan, 
satisfactory to the Association, no later than four months immediately after the 
end of any year of the Project in which a technical audit is carried out or at such 
other time as shall have been agreed upon between AGEMPF and the 
Association. Said action plan shall set out the measures the SLA network 
concerned shall take to resolve any problems indicated in the report of such 
audit; and 
(d) 
cause the annual financial audits of each SLA network and microfinance 
institutions participating in the Project to be carried out under terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Association. 
Page  7
-
6
-
B. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Project Implementing Entity shall ensure that its Respective Part of the Project is 
carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A. Project 
Reports 
1. 
(a) 
The Project Implementing Entity shall monitor and evaluate the progress of its 
Respective Part of the Project and prepare Project Reports for its Respective Part 
of the Project in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth below in subparagraph (b) 
of this paragraph.  Each such Project Report shall cover the period of one 
calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to the Recipient no later than forty-five 
days after the end of the period covered by such report for incorporation and 
forwarding by the Recipient to the Association of the overall Project Report.  
 
(b) 
The performance indicators referred to above in sub-paragraph (a) consist of the  
following: 
(i) 
by the Closing Date, the Recipient has adopted and implemented its new 
law for microfinance institutions; 
(ii) 
by the Closing Date, five SLA networks with about 200 SLAs are in 
operation, reaching about 300,000 members, of which 50% are women;
 
(iii) 
by the Closing Date, the total savings in the SLA networks reach 25 
million Dollars and total loans outstanding reach 23 million Dollars; 
(iv) 
by the Closing Date, the five SLA networks under the project are 
operationally self-sufficient and profitable; 
(v) 
by the Closing Date, specially designed and adapted technical training 
modules have been developed and delivered to all microfinance 
practitioners in the
 Recipient’s territory; and 
(vi) 
by the Closing Date, evaluation of training program confirms increase in 
knowledge and skills for proper management of microfinance 
institutions. 
Page  8
-
7
-
B.
 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall maintain a financial management system and 
prepare financial statements in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards 
acceptable to the Association, both in a manner adequate to reflect the operations and 
financial condition of the Project Implementing Entity, including the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to its Respective Part of the Project. 
2. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall have its financial statements referred to above 
audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Association, in accordance with 
consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the Association.  Each audit of these 
financial statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Project Implementing 
Entity.  The audited financial statements for each period shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than six months after the end of the period.
 
Section III. 
Procurement
All goods, works and services required for 
the Project Implementing Entity’s Respective 
Part of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of Section III of Schedule 2 to the Financing 
Agreement.
 
