Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3217-1-MAG 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Additional Financing for the Microfinance Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated May 22, 2007 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3217-1-MAG 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
Agreement dated May 22, 2007, entered into between REPUBLIC OF 
MADAGASCAR (
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (“Association”) for the purpose of providing additional financing for 
activities related to the Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  
The Recipient and the Association hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement.  
ARTICLE II — FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to 
three million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 3,400,000) 
(variously, 
“Credit” and “Financing”) to assist in financing the project described 
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 1 and November 1 in each year. 
Page  3
-
2
-
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with the 
repayment schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is that of the United States of America. 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Recipient shall cause Part A.1 of the Project to be carried out by CBM 
and Parts A.2 through D of the Project to be carried out by AGEPMF in 
accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and the 
Project Agreements. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consists of the following: 
(a) The 
CBM
’s Legislation has been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of 
the CBM to perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement. 
(b) 
The AGEPMF’s Legislation has been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of 
the AGEPMF to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement. 
 4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following: 
Any event specified in 
Section 4.01
 
of this Agreement
 occurs and is 
continuing for a period of 30 days after notice of the event has been 
given by the Association to the Recipient. 
ARTICLE V 
—
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
Page  4
-
3
-
(a) 
A subsidiary agreement has been executed on behalf of the Recipient and 
CBM. 
(b) 
A subsidiary agreement has been executed on behalf of the Recipient and 
AGEPMF. 
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matters consist of the following: 
(a) 
A subsidiary agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Recipient and CBM and is legally binding upon the Recipient and the 
CBM in accordance with its terms. 
(b) 
A subsidiary agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Recipient and AGEPMF and is legally binding upon the Recipient and 
the AGEPMF in accordance with its terms. 
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
5.04. 
For purposes of Section 8.05 (b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the 
obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement (other than those providing for 
payment obligations) shall terminate is twenty years after the date of this 
Agreement. 
Page  5
-
4
-
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Minister at the time responsible for finance. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Ministry of Finance and Budget 
 B.P. 
61 
 Antananarivo 
101 
 Madagascar 
 
Cable address:   
Facsimile: 
 
MEFB    
 
(261) 20 22 34530 
Antananarivo 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 International 
Development 
Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
Page  6
-
5
-
AGREED at Antananarivo, Republic of Madagascar, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR 
 
By: 
 
       /s/ Benjamin Andriamparany Radavidson 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By: 
    /s/ 
Robert 
R. 
Blake 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in carrying out: (a) the first 
phase of its program to provide about 300,000 low-income clients engaged in small-scale 
farming, livestock, fishing, commerce and handicraft production activities with long-term 
access to financial services and thereby improve their productivity, income and living 
standards and conditions; (b) the establishment of an appropriate legal and regulatory 
framework for microfinance operations; (c) the expansion of microfinance skills; and (d) 
the development of strong and sustainable microfinance institutions. 
The Project consists of the following Parts: 
Part A. Improving Microfinance Institutions Legal and Regulatory Framework
1. 
(a) 
Strengthening of the legal and regulatory framework in which 
microfinance institutions operate, including the adoption of prudential 
and supervision norms, the accounting plan, licensing requirements and 
procedures.  
(b) 
Strengthening the CBM capacity to supervise microfinance institutions 
through 
inter alia
,
the training of staff and acquisition of required 
technical advisory services and logistical support and the establishment 
and implementation of a monitoring database for microfinance 
institutions. 
2. 
Support the formulation and implementation of laws and regulations aimed at 
addressing specific microfinance issues and providing a conducive environment 
for doing microfinance business in Madagascar. 
Part B.  Development of Viable and Sustainable Microfinance Institutions
1. 
Development of regional networks of microfinance institutions, including: (a) the 
strengthening of five existing SLA networks through technical assistance and 
capacity building in the provinces of Toamasina, Fianarantsoa, Antsiranana, and 
Antananarivo; (b) the extension 
of SLA network financial services to women 
and marginalized groups, through outreach programs, in isolated regions 
of Madagascar and the development and introduction of new microfinance 
products to respond to client needs; 
(c) the further development of linkages 
between SLA networks and the banking sector; (d) the support to microfinance 
Page  8
-
7
-
institutions in the provinces of Mahajanga and Toliary through the supervision 
activities of the CBM; and (e) the monitoring and evaluation of SLA networks.  
Part C.  Building Capacity in Microfinance through Training
Support the delivery of: (i) tested training courses developed by CGAP on 
delinquency management, interest rate setting, accounting for microfinance institutions, 
financial analysis, business planning, information system, operational risk management 
and product development; and (ii) new courses on regulations, accounting standards, and 
other topics  tailored to the specific needs of the microfinance industry in Madagascar. 
Part D. Audits and Studies to Expand Microfinance Knowledge
The carrying out of audits and studies including: (i) operational and financial 
audits of the SLA networks; (ii) studies to evaluate the impact of the Project on 
beneficiaries in each of the provinces where SLA networks operate; and (iii) the carrying 
out of studies satisfactory to the Association on other pertinent subjects relating to the 
microfinance sector. 
Page  9
-
8
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. Institutional 
Arrangements
 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain CBM as the Project Implementing Entity with the 
overall responsibility for the implementation, coordination and oversight of Part 
A.1of the Project. 
2. 
The Recipient shall maintain AGEPMF as the Project Implementing Entity with 
the overall responsibility for the implementation, coordination and oversight of 
Parts A.2 through D of the Project.
 
B. Subsidiary 
Agreements
 
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the 
CBM’s Respective Part of the Project, the 
Recipient shall make part of the proceeds of the Financing available to the CBM 
under a subsidiary agreement between the Recipient and the Project 
Implementing Entity, under terms and conditions approved by the Association. 
2. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the AGEPMF’s Respective Part of the Project, 
the Recipient shall make part of the proceeds of the Financing available to the 
AGEPMF under a subsidiary agreement between the Recipient and the Project 
Implementing Entity, under terms and conditions approved by the Association. 
3. 
The Recipient shall exercise its rights under the subsidiary agreements in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Association and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Financing.  Except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate
 
or waive the 
subsidiary agreements or any of its provisions.
 
C. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
Page  10
-
9
-
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A. Project 
Reports 
1. 
The Recipient shall cause the Project Implementing Entities to monitor and 
evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance 
inter alia
 with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the General Conditions. Each 
Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar quarter, and shall be 
furnished to the Association no later than 45 days after the end of the period 
covered by such report. 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits  
1. 
The Recipient shall cause the Project Implementing Entities to: (i) maintain a 
financial management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 
of the General Conditions; (ii)  prepare and furnish to the Association not later 
than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial 
reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and   substance satisfactory 
to the Association; and (iii) have its Financial Statements audited in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 4.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of 
the   Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the 
Recipient. The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be 
furnished to the Association not later than six months after the end of such 
period.
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
1.
 
Goods and Works.
 
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
3.
 Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
Page  11
-
10 - 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works
1.
 
International Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided in 
paragraph 2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used: 
Procurement Method
 
(a)  National Competitive Bidding 
(b)  Shopping 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1.
 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in 
paragraph 
2
below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify 
the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
Procurement Method
 
(a) Least-cost Selection 
(b) Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications (CQS) 
(c) Single-source Selection 
(d) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines 
for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
Except as the Association shall otherwise determine by notice to the Recipient, 
the following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Association:  
Page  12
-
11 - 
(a) each contract for goods or works
 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 
or more; (b) each contract for
 consultants’ services provided by: (i) a firm 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more; or (ii) individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more; and (c) any 
single source selection.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Association. 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made applicable to 
this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as 
set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Credit to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
Category Amount 
of 
Additional Credit 
Allocated (in SDR) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
(inclusive of taxes) 
(1) Development of MFIs, Goods, 
works, consultant services, training, 
and operating costs for the project 
3,400,000 100% 
Total  
3,400,000 
100% 
B. Withdrawal 
Period 
1.
 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2009. 
Page  13
-
12 - 
SCHEDULE 3
 
Repayment Schedule 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit 
repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
On each May 1 and November 1: 
 
commencing May 1 2017 to and including 
November 1, 2026 
1% 
commencing  May 1, 2027 to and including 
November 1,  2046 
2% 
*
The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be 
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of 
the General Conditions. 
Page  14
-
13 - 
APPENDIX 
Section I. 
Definitions 
1. 
“AGEPMF” means 
Agence d'Ex
écution du Projet Microfinance
 established and 
operating pursuant to the Recipient
’s ordinance No. 60-133, dated 
October 3, 1960, as amended to the date of this agreement. 
2. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
3. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
4. 
“CBM” means the Central Bank of Madagascar established and 
operating pursuant to Law No. 94-004 of the Recipient, dated June 10, 1994, as 
amended to the date of this agreement. 
5. 
“CSBF” means the Recipent’s 
Commission de Supervision Bancaire et 
Financière
 established and operating pursuant to Law No. 95-0300 of the 
Recipient, dated February 22, 1996. 
6. 
“CGAP” means the Consultative Group to Assist the Poor. 
7. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
8. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 15, 2006). 
9. 
“Original Financing Agreement” means the development credit agreement for a 
Microfinance Project between the Recipient and the Association, dated June 10, 
1999, as amended to the date of this Agreement (Credit No 3217-MAG). 
10. 
“Original Project” means the Project described in the Original Financing 
Agreement. 
Page  15
-
14 - 
11. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October, 2006. 
12. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated February 26, 2007 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
13. 
“Project Implementing Entities” means the Central Bank of Madagascar (CBM) 
and the 
Agence d
’Exécution du Projet Microfinance
 (AGEMPF). 
14. 
“SLAs” means the Savings and Loan Associations established and operating 
pursuant to Law No. 96-020 of the Recipient, dated September 22, 1996, as 
amended to the date of this agreement
.
15. 
“Subsidiary Agreements” means the agreements referred to in Section I.B of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Recipient shall make the 
proceeds of the Financing available to the Project Implementing Entities.
 
