Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24048
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-26940)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 20.4 MILLION
US$ 30.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
FOR A
BASIC EDUCATION
April 14, 2002
Human Development Sector Management Unit
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective April 14, 2002)
Currency Unit = Lempira (L)
16 21 Lempiras = USS 1.00
USS 1.00 = XDR 1.25
FISCAL YEAR
January I  - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADEPRIR              Rural Primary Education Management Project
(Proyecto Administraci6n De L.a Educacidn Primaria Rural)
AMHON               Honduran Association of Municipalities
(Asociact6n de Municipios de Honduras)
BIE                 Bilingual and Intercultural Education
(Educaci6n Bilinguey Intercultural)
CADs                Teacher Training Centers
(Centros de Aprendizaje Docente)
CAS                 Country Assistance Strategy
CBH                 Central Bank of Honduras
(Banco Central de Honduras)
CEPENF              Centers for Non-Formal Preschool Education
(Centros de Educacidn Pre-escolar No Formal)
CCIE                Community Centers for Initial Education
(Centros Comunitarios para la Iniciacion Escolar)
DIGECE              Of fice for Evaluation of Academic Quality
(Direcci6n General de Evaluacion de la Calidad Academica)
FHIS                Honduran Social Investment Fund
(Fondo Hondureiio de Inversion Sociaol)
FHIS-I              Social Investment Fund Project
FHIS-11             Second Social Investment Fund Project
GDP                 Gross Domestic Product
GOH                 Govenmment of Honduras
GTZ                 German Agency for Technical Cooperation
(Deutsche Gesellschafffur Technische Zusammenarbeit)
iCB                 International Competitive Bidding
INFOP               Professional Training Institute
(Instituto Nacional de Formaci6n Profesional)
NICE                National Institute for Education Research and Training
(Instituto Nacional de Investigacid n y Capacitacion Educativa)
IDA                 International Development Association
KfW                 German Credit Institute for Reconstruction
(Kreditanstaltfur Wiederaufbau)
MIS                 Management Information System
MOE                 Ministry of Education
(Secretaria de Educacion Ptiblica)
MOF                 Ministry of Finance
(Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico)
MOH                  Ministry of Health
(Secretaria de Salud Publica)
NGO                  Non-Govemmental Organization
PCU                  Project Coordination Unit
PRAF                 Family Assistance Program
(Programa de Asignacidn Familiar)
PRONEEAAH            National Program of Education for Indigenous and Afro-Honduran Ethnic Groups
(Programa Nacional de Educaci6n para las Etnias Autdctonas y Afro-Antillanas
de Honduras)
RUTA SOCIAL          Regional Unit for Technical Assistance in the Social Sectors
SECPLAN              State Secretariat of Planning, Coordination and Budget
(Secretaria de Planificaci6n, Coordinacidn y Presupuesto)
SOE                  Statement of Expenditure
UNDP                 United Nations Development Program
(Programa de las Naciones Unidaa para el Desarrollo)
UNESCO               United Nations Education, Science and Culture Organization
UNHA                 Honduran National Autonomous University
(Universidad Nacional Aut6noma de Honduras)
UNICEF               United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund
(Fondo de las Naciones Unidas para la Infancia)
UPNFM                National Pedagogic University
(Universidad Pedagdgica Nacional Francisco Morazfin)
UMCE                 Unit for Measurement of Education Quality
(Unidad para la Medicidn de la Calidad Educativa)
USAID                United States Agency for Intemational Development
WBI                  World Bank Institute
Vice President:  David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director.   Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Manager/Director:  Ana Maria Arriagada
Task Tearn Leader/Task Manager:  Joel Reyes



HONDURAS
HN- BASIC EDUCATION
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                     1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                    I
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry          2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                             3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              14
6. Sustainability                                                                  16
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   17
8. Lessons Learned                                                                 19
9. Partner Comments                                                                20
10. Additional Information                                                         28
Annex 1. Key Perfornance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                               29
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                               33
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                               36
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                               39
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components               41
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                  42
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                              43






Project ID: P007399                                       Project Name: HN- BASIC EDUCATION
Team Leader: Joel E. Reyes                                TL Unit: LCSHE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: June 21, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: HN- BASIC EDUCATION                            L/C/TFNumber: IDA-26940
Country/Department: HONDURAS                                             Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: EP - Primary Education
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:    10/15/1993                            Effective: 09/19/1995          12/27/1995
Appraisal:  08/08/1994                                MTR: 02/25/2000            07/01/1997
Approval:  03/28/1995                              Closing:  12/31/2000         12/31/2001
Borrower/lImplementing Agency:  GOVERNMENT OF HONDURAS/MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
Other Partners:  GERMAN CREDIT INSTITUTE FOR RECONSTRUCTION
(KREDITANSTALT FUR WIEDERAUFBAU- KFW) AND GERMAN AGENCY
FOR TECHNICAL COOPERATION (DEUTSCHE GESELLSCHAFT FUR
TECHNISCHE ZUSAMMENARBEIT - GTZ)
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      David de Ferranti                          Shahid Javed Burki
Country Manager:     D-M Dowsett-Coirolo                        Edilberto L. Segura
Sector Manager:       Ana Maria Arriagada                       Kye Woo Lee
Team Leader at ICR:  Joel Reyes                                 Anna Sant'Anna
ICR Primary Author:   Joel E. Reyes; Anna Maria
Sant'Anna; Jill Larnnert
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The project's objectives were:
* To improve the quality of learning and student performance, inspire better teaching, increase
school attendance, and create more effective learning conditions, thereby reducing student dropout
and repetition rates and raising students' academic achievements.
*   To strengthen the institutional capacity of the Ministry of Education (Secretaria de Educaci6n
Publica - MOE) to deliver basic education services at higher levels of efficiency and fiscal
accountability, leading to a reduction in administration costs.
3.2 Revised Objective:
No revisions were made to the project objectives.
3.3 Original Components:
Component A - Improving the Quality of Basic Education through five subcomponents:
1. Training of Teachers, Principals and Supervisors at preschool and primary education levels (IDA
financed);
2. Textbooks and Didactic Materials, including classroom libraries and improved distribution
facilities (co-financed by IDA and KfW);
3. Bilingual Education for the Miskito and Garifuna communities (IDA financed);
4. National System of Extemal Evaluation of student academic achievement (IDA financed);
5. Infrastructure Improvements, including additional teachers, at preschool and primary education
levels (co-financed by IDA and KfW).
Component B - Institutional Strengthening through three subcomponents:
1. Technical Assistance for the Reorganization and Decentralization of the MOE (IDA financed);
2. Teacher's Performance Incentives Pilot Program (IDA financed);
3. Project Administration, monitoring and evaluation (IDA financed).
3.4 Revised Components:
Several changes were made to the original project design due to (a) new national and sector priorities and
policies, and (b) the emergency created by Hurricane Mitch in November 1998. The specific changes are
described below.
Component A. Modifications were made to three subcomponents, as follows: (a) the teacher training
subcomponent was modified in 1998 to replace the locally-based Teacher Training Centers (Centros de
Actualizaci6n Docente - CADs) by a university-based teacher development program called Programa de
Formacion Continua, PFC (Continuous In-Service Education Program) designed and implemented by the
National Pedagogic University (Universidad Pedag6gica Nacional Francisco Morazan - UPNFM); (b) the
bilingual education subcomponent was expanded from 2 to 8 ethnic groups; and (c) the infrastructure
improvement subcomponent was modified to included construction of new primary schools instead of the
expansion of existing schools.
Component B. The most important change made to this component was to the pilot program of teacher
performance incentives that was replaced by a community-based integrated approach to attract, retain and
- 2-



improve the attendance of teachers in isolated rural communities.  This new program, Honduran
Community Education Program (Proyecto Hondurefio de Educaci6n Comunitaria - PROHECO) was
created in 1999.
Component C. This third Component was added to the Project, through a Credit Agreement amendment,
in response to the emergency created by the Hurricane Mitch in November 1998. It financed emergency
subprojects (prepared at the departmental, district and community levels) consisting of: (a) the acquisition
and distribution of teaching materials, textbooks and other educational materials, acquisition of school
furniture, provision of psychological assistance to the teachers, students and their families and/or other
investment for productive purposes that met the criteria set forth in the Project Operational Manual; and (b)
the provision of food supplements to students enrolled in those public preschools and primary schools
selected by the MOE in accordance with the criteria established in the Project Operational Manual, through
the Healthy Schools Program (Programa de Escuelas Saludables). An amendment to the legal documents
signed in April 12, 1999, formalized the inclusion of this new component.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The overall quality at entry was satisfactory, based on: (a) the clarity of the project objectives and key
performance indicators; (b) the economic analysis of project costs and benefits; (c) the analysis of the fiscal
impact of the project and the required financing of recurrent costs with and without the project; (d)
extensive stakeholders consultations including with Indigenous ethnic groups; and (e) the definition of
specific strategies to minimize risks associated with the timely provision of counterpart funds.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The achievement of the Project objectives is rated satisfactory, based on the aggregated evidence of project
outcomes with respect to: (a) positive trends on students' academic achievement (although % change is
much lower in Spanish than in Math, and for 6th graders in comparison to 3rd graders); (b) improved
growth enrollment rates for preschool and improved net enrollment rates for primary education (net
enrollment rates evidence improved school efficiency through early access to school, appropriate
age-to-grade enrollment, and reduced repetition rates); and (c) increased institutional efficiency shown in
better delivery of educational services through decentralization and rural community-led models (which in
turn improved access and educational indicators in rural areas) and in reduced administrative costs
(nonetheless, in areas such as on-time delivery of textbooks and library books to schools and the
management of intercultural and bilingual education, the MOE still needs to increase its capacity and
efficiency). These results are described in more detail below.
*   Raise Students' Academic Achievement. Table 1 shows the series of test scores in standardized
exams, carried out by the Project's supported External Education Quality Evaluation Unit
(UMCE), between 1997-2000. Higher test scores were attained in mathematics for both 3rd (19%
positive change) and 6th graders (11% positive change). In Spanish, test scores remained the same
(for 6th graders) or increased slightly (for 3rd graders). Although, Honduras still has broad
margins for improvement (national scores are below the 50% mark), positive trends can already be
inferred.
-3 -



Table 1. National Standardized Test Scores in Math and Spanish for 3rd and 6th Graders: 1997-2000.
% of Change Between 1997-2000 in
Standardized Test Scores in Spanish and Math for 3rd and 6'h Graders
% change
1997        1998        1999      2000     1997-2000
National
Spanish - 3rd grade   40          41          42         41        2
Spanish - 6th grade   46          47         n.d.        46         0
Math - 3rd grade      36          43          43         43        19
Math - 6th grade      35          40         n.d.        39        11
Source: UMCE
*   Improved Access and School Efficiency. Table 2 documents the expansion in enrollment rates
for preschool and primary education during the life of the project. Preschool coverage of 4 to 6
year-old children, increased by approximately 9.2 percentage points, from 29.7% in 1995 to
38.9% in 1999, largely as a result of the creation of the Community Centers for Initial Education
(Centros Comunitarios para la Iniciacion Escolar - CCIE) financed by the Project. Similarly, the
net primary education enrollment among children, 7 to 13 years of age, increased by 3.4%
percentage points during the life of the project, from 86.4% in 1995 to 89.8% in 2001. Improved
net enrollment rates evidence not only increased access but also efficiency indicators such as early
and appropriate age-to-grade enrollment, and lower repetition rates (see table 3 below). As a
result, the average number of primary school years completed in Honduras is showing positive
trends for all income quintiles (see table 4, below).
Table 2. National Student Enrollment Rates in Preschool and Primary School, 1990-1999
Preschool                           Primary
Year            Gross Enrollment Rate  Gross Enrollment Rate  Net Enrollment Rate (%)
(%)                    (%)
1995                   29.7                    97.4                   86.4
1996                   32.6                    98.3                   88.0
1997                   34.2                    98.8                   89.1
1998                   35.4                    98.0                   89.0
19991/                  38.9                    97.2                   89.8
Reference Population:        4-6 years              7-13 years             7-13 years
1/ Preliminary ennrlment figures.
Source: ESA Consultores. "Ex-post Economic Evaluation of PROMEB." Honduras, March 2002.
- 4 -



Table 3. Impact of Increased Internal School Efficiency on Primary Education Student Flows
Impact                 -                  Percentage
Indicators       Baselirte   1996       1997       1998       1999      2000
Dropout Rate              NA        8.95       9.53       NA         NA         3.0
Repetition Rate          28.0        9.8       9.4        9.6        9.2        8.0
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ (1 9 8 8 )   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Source: For net enrollment, completion rate and repetition rate, see Darlyn Meza. Informe ICR-Honduras. February 2002. For dropout rate
see PKF Worldwide. Evaluaci6n del Impacto del Proyecto de Mejoramiento de la Educaci6n Basica. January 2002.
Table 4. Trends in Primary Education Attainment
Cohort aged    Average Primary years completed by  Percent with primary years completed by
15 in year:             income quintile                      income quintile
2     31    4      5; Avera    1     2     3     4      5   Avera
_ J   J~~~~~~~~~ j ~~~~~~ge                                            ge
1994      4.4   4.5  48      5.3   5.7   5.0   49     65    66    83    88    71
1999      4.6   4.8   5_2     5    5.6   5.1   52     63    71    81    87    70
Source: World Bank. 'Project Appraisal Document: Honduras Community-Based Education Project." Apnl 10, 2001.
*   Improved Institutional Efficiency.
(a) Improved Education Services in Targeted Rural Communities. Institutional efficiency was
achieved through decentralization and community involvement in the provision of education
services, especially in isolated rural schools. In extremely isolated and hard-to-reach rural schools
(representing about 11% of all primary schools), the impact of the decentralization and community
participation program (called PROHECO) resulted in (i) an expansion of 1,020 primary schools in
hard-to-reach rural areas; (ii) 7,100 parents, organized in 1,284 community education associations
(called AECO), with direct school management functions; (iii) efficient allocation of more than
1,300 teaching staff; (iv) primary education access for over 40,000 children; and (v) reduction of
50% in repetition rates (Table 5). Studies evaluating the program show that the management of
teaching staff, decentralized to the community level, has increased teacher attendance at
PROHECO schools and is significantly higher than at traditional primary schools. In particular,
the UNDP/CEPAL study (Durston, September 1999) shows that PROHECO had an important
impact in (i) ensuring the availability of teachers and educational materials in isolated rural
schools; (ii) better attendance of both students and teachers; (iii) generating parental support to
school activities; and (iv) creating a more efficient and participatory system of school management
that ensures accountability to civil society in the application of public and community resources.
- 5-



Table 5. Performance of PROHECO Prima  Education Program
Indicator                  1999             2000              2001
Number of Schools                        506              820              1,020
Net Student Enrollment (grades 1-6)     22,361           39,540           42,842
Average Repetition Rate (%)              18.4             10.8              9.2
Number of Teachers                       648              1,109            1338
Organized Parental Committees            645              1,179            1284
Parents Directly Involved in School     3,858            6,528             7,100
Management                        I
Source: Secretaria de Educaci6n; Pryecto Hondureno de Educaci6n Communitaria: PROHECO (Tegucigalpa). January 2002.
(b) Improved Institutional efficiency is also apparent in the administration of the MOE as a
result of its decentralization policies and community involvement, including lower transaction and
transportation costs (since, for example, education materials are purchased by the school and
community rather than centrally by the MOE) and school management support by communities. In
general, during the life of the project, MOE administrative costs were reduced by about 47%, from
US$3.96 million in 1996 to US$2.12 million in 2001, as shown in Table 6.
Table 6. Indicators of Increased Administrative Efficiency in the MOE (US$ millions)
Indicator         1996       1997      1998       1999      2000       2001
MOE Administrative       3.96       3.48      3.96       2.10       2.75      2.12
Costs
Source: Govemment of Honduras. MOE Planning Department. 2002.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Component A: Improve the Quality of Basic Education
ICR Rating: Satisfactory
Subcomponent A.1 Teacher Training. This subcomponent successfully provided technical and financial
assistance for pre-service and in-service training of teachers and administrators, initially through the
teacher training centers (Centros de Aprendizaje Docente - CAD) in 1996 and 1997, and subsequently
through the continuous in-service education program (Programa de Formacion Continua - PFC) of the
National Pedagogic University (UJPNFM). A total of 1,449 CADs were established and supplied with
appropriate teacher training materials, serving primary teachers nationwide. In parallel, national and
regional training seminar benefitted 2,800 preschool and 27,000 primary school teachers, 1,168 school
principals, 1,756 supervisors, and 120 professors of Escuelas Normales (high-school level teacher training
schools).
Starting in 1998, the teacher training strategy was modified to focus on the Programa de Formaci6n
Continua (PFC) to be implemented by the National Pedagogical University. Although the CADs were not
officially closed, subsequent teacher training investments concentrated on a university-level accredited
Teacher Development program. The PFC was especially designed for rural teachers, and included modules
for content areas, multigrade pedagogy, and community involvement. Changes in sector policy priorities
regarding teacher training also affected the planned reform of Escuelas Normales (teacher training schools
at the secondary education level), which aimed at reducing the number of schools from 12 to 4. Rather
than closing these secondary school (at a high political cost), the Pedagogical University is defining
strategies to incorporate Escuelas Normales into a broader in-service teacher training system, which will
- 6 -



require further university-level training for these students. The PFC is also incorporating the CADs into its
training delivery system, as local satellites where teachers can exchange classroom experiences and support
each other with the application of the new content and methodologies learned in training programs.
Stakeholders perceived as positive the changes in teacher training policy.
Among the important achievement of the PFC teacher training program, is the development of curriculum,
educational materials, and standardized tests for an accredited Associate Degree in Basic Education at the
National Pedagogic University. The revised curriculum includes multigrade and participatory teaching
methodologies which are essential for improving teaching quality in rural areas. Also, the financial
sustainability of this program is being achieved. The costs of university level training beyond two years
(BAs or Master Degrees) will be financed by teachers themselves. Already, 65% of the 2,000 plus teachers,
benefited from the Project's PFC investments, have self-financed their continued university level training
and education.
Subcomponent A.2 Textbooks and Didactic Materials. This subcomponent was successfully carried out
through (a) the provision of technical assistance for the revision of existing primary school textbooks,
student and teacher guides, field tests of new educational materials, and selection of library books; (b) the
procurement of books for small classroom libraries; and (c) the financing of office equipment and operating
costs for the MOE unit responsible for teaching and learning educational materials, and the improvement of
distribution systems. Given the decentralization and rural community participation policies, enacted during
the life of the project, the provision of nondurable educational materials and complementary classroom
supplies, for hard-to-reach rural schools, was managed by community education associations.
In terms of physical progress, targets were exceeded for the supply of textbooks, student supplies and
classroom libraries (see Table 7). These increases in physical output included the replacement of textbooks
and library materials destroyed or lost during Hurricane Mitch. The large increase in the physical targets
for this component required increased institutional capacity to design, produce and distribute education
materials. To this effect, KFW, a co-financier for this subcomponent, provided continuous technical
assistance in the field.
The subcomponent provided educational materials (to complement training provided under component Al)
for the Community Centers for Initial Education (Centros de Educaci6n Pre-escolar No Formal - CCIE).
A total of 2,508 CCIEs were supported in rural communities, more than doubling the original target of
1,200. The CCIEs successfully provided preschool education during the Summer for children entering the
first grade of primary school in the Fall. The teachers of CCIE were 15,700 community volunteers trained
under the Project. No civil works were involved in the establishment of the CCIE, as they operated in
existing schools during vacations. Evaluations of the CCIE program have shown that it provides preschool
children with a minimum of school-readiness skills that help them improve their first grade performance.
- 7 -



Table 7. Textbooks and Educational Materials
Educational Materials     Units Produced and Distributed  Actual vs. Original Target (%)
Primary education textbooks for         11,740,698                       273
grades 1 through 6
Student supplies for preschool and       48,160                         1,447
primary school (including CCIE
toys)
Preschool and primary classroom           4,270                         21.3
libraries/                   I_I
1/ The original design of classroom libraries was changed to school libraries, which explains the large differential between planned and actual
achievements.
In terms of financial progress, the subcomponent utilized less than 50% of the original amounts budgeted
for its implementation (see Annex 2). There are two reasons for this. One, given that the physical targets
in terms of textbooks, library books and didactic materials were exceeded, the expected costs and budgets
allocated at time of project design were overestimated, even when the efficiencies and savings achieved
during project implementation are factored in.  Second, the new decentralization and community
participation policies included the transferring of funds to hard-to-reach rural communities to purchase
nondurable education materials and other complementary classroom supplies.  The funds for these
resources, thus, were transferred from the Textbook and Didactic Materials (subcomponent Al) to the
Teaching Performance Improvement Program (subcomponent B2), from where the community-based
education management strategy was financed.
In general, a particularly innovative feature of this subcomponent was the field testing of new education
materials, which ensured the adequacy of the content and the presentation of the materials for the students
and the teachers to whom they were intended. One aspect of the implementation of this component was less
than satisfactory, namely the original centralized and long distribution systems. As a result, there were
delays in the arrival of textbooks and materials to the schools in the beginning of each school year. This
problem was corrected by the MOE through intensive involvement of Departmental and District Offices as
well as parents' organizations.
Subcomponent A.3 Bilingual Education. This component was partially successful in achieving its
original expected outputs. It intended to make broad reforms-from the macro level to the
classroom-in Bilingual and Intercultural Education (BIE) in Honduras. However, the benefits achieved
focused only at the macro-level, and included (i) the normalization of the Miskito and Garifuna languages,
(ii) the development of dictionaries and grammar reference materials, and (iii) the development of a number
of textbooks and teaching materials. The Project did not reach the classroom level, as originally intended.
This subcomponent was to focus on the two larger ethnic and bilingual communities in Honduras: Garifuna
and Miskito (representing 61% of the Indigenous population in the country). However, during project
implementation, the MOE decided to support the development of BIE education materials for two other
languages, the Tawahka and Pech (see table 8 below), and initiate BEI assessments for four other groups:
Chorti, Islefio-Criollo, Lenca, and Tolupan. As part of the macro BIE reforms, the subcomponent
supported the delivery of national training seminars on bilingual and inter-cultural education, improving
awareness and understanding of new teaching methodologies. Subsequently, the MOE and the National
Pedagogic University (UNPFM) signed an agreement to set up an accredited Bilingual and Inter-cultural
Education program to train specialized teachers. Finally, within the development of the National Basic
- 8-



Curriculum, the MOE is addressing the needs of BIE.
The trade-off of focusing on a large number of ethnic groups and on macro reforms was to postpone direct
classroom support to Garifuna and Miskito school, as intended by the original subcomponent design. The
Govemment, however, continues to be committed to intercultural and bilingual education and has
earnarked 10% of a new IDA education credit to support directly indigenous communities and BEI
schools.
Table 8. Didactic Materials Developed through the Bilingual Education Subcomponent
Didactic Materials            Grade    Language         Number Distributed
Reading and writing primers                 1        Miskito              1,000
Reading and writing primers                 2        Miskito              1,000
Student guide package                       1       Tawahka     Not reproduced or distributed
Student guide package                       1 I       Pech      Not reproduced or distributed
Source: ICR Mission
Subcomponent A.4 External Evaluation of Student Academic Achievements. This subcomponent was
very successful in meeting its objectives. A Unit for the Evaluation of Education Quality (Unidad de
Medici6n de la Calidad de la Educaci6n - UTMCE) was established at the National Pedagogic University.
The dMCE started applying standardized achievement tests in 1996 after its staff had been trained, the
necessary equipment and physical resources were in place, and the prepaftory work of developing testing
instruments had been completed. The tests developed and applied covered Mathematics and Spanish for
grades 2 through 6 and oral and written language for grades 2 through 5 (see Table 9). In addition, the
UaMCE carried out several surveys to determine the main factors affecting the results of the student
achievement tests, analyzed test results, and disseminated these results within the MOE, Departmental
Offices and at the school level. In 1999, due to hurricane Mitch, test application was interrupted, but was
promptly reinstated in 2000. As a result of the project, Honduras has now one of the most advanced
standardized student achievement test systems in Central America. Nevertheless, the Government is
strongly committed to continue improving its education quality evaluation system, particularly in the
following areas: (a) gradual increase of the test sample from 10% to 20% of the student population in each
grade, in order to strengthen the reliability of results; (b) improved coordination between student
achievement tests, curriculum development, didactic materials. production, and teacher training; (c)
expanded dissemination of test results at the school level; and (d) increased application of test results in
education sector policy making.
Table 9. Standardized Student Achievement Test Applied
Test                          Year                         Grades
Spanish and Mathematics                    1996                         3 and 6
Spanish and Mathematics                    1997                       2, 3, 4 and 6
Spanish and Mathematics                    1998                       2, 3, 4 and 5
Spanish and Mathematics                    1999                         3 and 6
Spanish and Mathematics                    2000                2 and 3 at PROHECO schools
Oral and Written Language                  2001                       2, 3, 4 and 5
Oral and Written Language                  2001                         2 and 4
Source: ICR missiom
Subcomponent A.5 Improvement of Physical Infrastructure in Rural Areas. The performance of this
subcomponent is rated satisfactory, although the original design was modified to address the demand for
new schools rather than the need to expand existing schools. The FHIS successfully carried out
- 9-



construction design, implementation and supervision, building and furnishing for a total of 107 classrooms
in 71 new schools; rehabilitated 39 existing classrooms; and furnished an additional 144 classrooms in
schools built with GOH funds. The subcomponent was co-financed by the GOH (14.4%), KfW (84.1%)
and IDA (1.5%). Standard designs were used in the construction of the new primary schools, consisting of
1-2 classrooms, kitchen, storeroom, lavatories, and water supply connection. The MOE selected the school
location, based on the school census; established the technical standards to be used by FHIS, including
furniture specifications; and appointed a teacher for each of the new classrooms once construction was
finished. This subcomponent also financed construction and equipment for 13 new Departmental offices,
rehabilitation and equipment for 5 existing Departmental offices, and construction and equipment of 120
District Offices.
When hurricane Mitch devastated Honduras in November, 1998, the physical infrastructure program was
adjusted to respond to the needs of damaged schools, departmental offices and of the MOE building, which
was virtually destroyed, resulting in considerable loss of physical assets and information, including many
vehicles, office equipment, educational materials and other goods provided by the Project. Part of the
emergency resources were transferred to decentralized Departmental and District Offices of the MOE,
enabling them to effectively address the emergency needs under their jurisdiction (see Component C).
To ensure the sustainability of the school buildings, maintenance contracts were entered into between the
MOE and the municipalities were the new schools were located. A maintenance committee was formed for
each school, consisting of five community members who were trained in basic preventive maintenance.
Finally, during 2001, the MOE initiated a pilot to promote and support community participation in
education infrastructure and maintenance called "Ayuda Mutua" (Mutual Help), and so far 74 additional
schools have been built and maintained directly by the community.
Component B: Institutional Strengthening
ICR Rating: Satisfactory
Subcomponent B.1. Reorganization, Decentralization, and Development of Management Capacity
and Information System of the MOE. The implementation of this subcomponent was successful in
meeting its original development objectives, including the reorganization of the MOE and the
decentralization to 18 departmental education offices. Nonetheless, central MOE offices still need support
to increase their management capacity and to integrate and consolidate their information systems. Key
achievements are highlighted below:
* The reorganization of the MOE, carried out in 1996-1997 after extensive discussions with staff,
resulted in a reduction from 80 to 20 administrative divisions at headquarters.
*   Important procedural reformns were introduced in the MOE, notably through increased delegation of
authority from the office of the Minister to Division heads at the central office.
*   18 Departmental Offices were created and assumed the following functions, originally handled by the
central MOE:   (a) processing of student graduation requests; (b) assessment and award of
equivalencies for student transfers; (c) personnel management, including leave requests, permits, and
benefits; (d) legal processing associated with school creation and classification; and (e) the handling of
most administrative complaints. The transfer of these functions to Departmental Offices resulted in
significant process time savings for the public sector as well as for parents and students.
*   The administrative reform of the MOE included a national strategy for parental and communal
participation in the delivery of education services, through the PROHECO program.
*   The new decentralized structure of the MOE and its Departmental Offices proved a key element in the
success and speed of response to the emergency created by hurricane Mitch.
- 10-



*   The proposed reformnof employment and salary regimes observed progress in the following areas: (a)
in 1997 a new Teacher Statute (Estatuto Docente) was published; (b) during the 1998-1999 period,
several instruments to operationalize the teacher statute were completed, such as detailed regulations
and a manual of functions; and (c) a draft manual of positions and compensation has been extensively
discussed with the teacher's union, and is currently being revised on the basis of in-depth analysis of the
performance of teachers. In 2002, a fiscal impact analysis carried out by the new Government showed
the need to control radical increments in the education wage bill and, thus, salary regimes negotiations
between the Government and Teacher Unions continue to-date.
*   The current administration is committed to pursuing further administrative reforms in the sector and
strengthening management capacity.
Subcomponent B.2 Teachers' Performance Improvement Program.        This subcomponent was
redesigned during project implementation in line with the new policies of decentralization, school-based
management and community participation in the education sector. The subcomponent's objective was to
improve teaching performance in rural schools, especially those in isolated and hard-to-reach communities.
This objective did not change, but the specific intervention did. The original (SAR) design focused on
paying yearly bonuses to rural teachers to attract, retain and improve their attendance. However, the new
community participation policies provided the opportunity to involve rural parents and communities in the
management of their schools, including the contracting and monitoring of teachers. This new strategy,
launched within the subcomponent, was called PROHECO (Programa Hondureno de Participaci6n
Comunitaria). After only one year of implementation (in 1999), PROHECO was highly successful in
attracting 650 teachers to hard-to-reach rural areas and, thus, providing school services to approximately
22,500 students, without previous education opportunities. By the year 2001, over 1,000 new rural schools
were functioning, 42,000 children were attending these schools, and more than 1,300 teachers had been
attracted to rural communities traditionally not served by the centralized education provision system. More
than 5,000 rural parents are directly involved in school management through their participation in
Community Education Associations (Asociaciones de Educaci6n Comunitaria, AECO).
PROHECO was patterned after successful programs in El Salvador and Guatemala, and consisted of
forming parental associations in rural areas to manage schools with financial resources directly transferred
from the MOE. This parental committees became formal and legal units within the education system;
allowed to open schools; hire, pay and monitor teacher attendance; and, in general, manage public funds for
school improvements. The community-based strategy successfully accomplished the original goal of
improving teachers' performance in rural areas, but also strengthened the process of decentralization
through the active participation of community and parents' organizations. An economic analysis of
PROHECO costs and benefits indicates that the program has an internal rate of return of 11% (see Annex
3).
As a newly emerging education strategy in Honduras, PROHECO is still in the process of learning,
adjusting and improving. Major changes were required especially in the area of school administration and
financing.  Decentralizing public resources to more than 1,000 hard-to-reach and isolated rural
communities has not been easy. Traditional institutions such as the Ministry of Finance, the Auditors
General, the Ministry of Education's administrative units, and even commercial banks have had to learn to
work with rural parents and with simpler but effective management tools. At times, financial transfers to
the communities were delayed and rules and regulations had to be re-negotiated to guarantee both
administrative efficiency and community involvement. Nonetheless, all stakeholders are fully committed to
continue to reform the education system in line with the positive evidence of school based management and
community support.



PROHECO evidenced the important role that parents and communities can play in the education sector, as
well as the benefit of decentralization strategies focusing at the school level. This impact has been
perceived across the education system and the Government will strengthen school based management and
community participation not only in rural areas but nationwide. The new IDA Credit for the education
sector (the Community Based Education Project) will not only expand PROHECO, but will support the
formation of school governments in traditional schools with the participation of parents, principals,
teachers and students. In conclusion, this restructured subcomponent absorbed 20% of the project budget;
however, it became the most innovative and far reaching education reform intervention in the last decade in
Honduras.
Subcomponent B.3 Project Administration, Monitoring and Evaluation. The administration of the
Project evolved through three quite different phases.  The initial start-up phase (1995-1997) was
characterized by rapid turnover of Project coordinators and staff and a relative isolation of the Project
Coordination Unit (PCU) from the MOE. The second phase (1998-1999) is dramatically marked by the
emergency created by hurricane Mitch. The crises served as a catalyst to use project resources more
effectively in support of the national educational system, providing for the rapid replacement of equipment,
vehicles, didactic materials and information.  During this phase, the PCU began working with
Departmental and District offices, which vastly increased its efficiency. The third phase (2000-2001) is
characterized by the good use of lessons leamed from previous years, improved efficiency, and
consolidation of the administrative capacity.
A major output of this subcomponent was the design and consolidation of an automated financial
management system for the Project. Initially, financial accounting was done manually (with support of
spreadsheets), but by 1999 a fully automated system was implemented. Also, the new administrative and
financial management system was adapted to the needs of the community-led components (mainly
PROHECO) and contributed an important set of administrative manuals for community-based procurement
and financial management. Finally, in terms of the monitoring and evaluation outputs, the MOE and the
PCU fully documented and systematized the implementation experience and lessons leamed from the key
subcomponents of the projects, which have been published and disseminated, as well as contributed to the
preparation of this ICR.
Component C. ICR Rating: Satisfactory - Emergency Subprojects. This subcomponent, introduced in
early 1999, was very successful in enabling the MOE to participate in the National Emergency Plan in
response to the destruction in the education sector caused by Hurricane Mitch. The component was
implemented largely through the Departmental offices with the objective to match well emergency
investments with actual local needs. To create this new component, an amendment was made to the project
legal documents in April 1999. This new component (absorbing US$ 1.1 million or 2.4% of total Project
costs) financed direct transfers for education emergency subprojects at the departmental and community
levels, including psychological assistance to teachers, students and their families, and for emergency
education food supplements to students enrolled in schools severely affected by the hurricane. However, the
project also contributed to the education sector emergency through its regular components (educational
materials and infrastructure), which did not require restructuring but did benefit from expedited
procurement strategies to guarantee timely replacement of teaching materials, textbooks and other
educational materials and acquisition of school furniture.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The project can be expected to meet its projected goal of contributing to the economic development of
Honduras through a higher rate of human capital accumulation achieved by increased years of schooling
and positive trends in student cognitive achievement. It is still too early to assess the full economic impact
- 12 -



projected at appraisal, due to the difficulty of measuring, at this time, the quality improvements in
educational services achieved by the project. Nevertheless, for the ICR an update of the expected rates of
return for the community education model, mainly PROHECO, was done. The economic analysis update
utilized a simpler measure of human capital accumulation, which keeps constant education quality and
measures the impact of increased years of schooling of students. It estimated the benefit stream based on
the analysis of the household survey data for March 1999, as reported in Annex 3. The estimation of the
internal rate of return of the PROHECO model was based on the projected increase in earnings of the
students, the real efficiency factors reported in PROHECO schools, and the real costs of the program. The
resulting internal rate of return is 11%. This rate is still considered a lower-bound estimate, since
community involvement in school management will probably result in additional improvements in efficiency
and education quality, reducing the costs and increasing the specific value of the additional years of
education for the students over their work lives.
Also, the original project fiscal impact expected cost savings generated by more efficient student flows in
primary education. Indeed, the analysis in Annex 3 shows that repetition rates were reduced during the life
of the project, but less so than projected. However, if one attributes to the project all the savings associated
with the national repetition rates reductions, occurring between 1995 and 2000 (which may be
overestimating the impact of the project), the cumulative value of the savings is $13.1 million, or 17.4% of
the amount estimated at appraisal.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
NA
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project had a substantial institutional development impact, reflected in increased management capacity
at the MOE, in the decentralization of MOE operations to departmental and district levels, and in the
effective involvement of local communities in the provision of educational services. These reform are
exemplified by the following key improvements:
*   The community involvement in education services delivery, introduced by PROHECO (within the
Teaching Performance Improvement Program), resulted in important savings from traditional
centralized administration and opened up immense possibilities for improving the delivery of rural
education services countrywide;
* The reorganization and decentralization of the MOE strengthen its administrative capacity and
increased the accountability at all levels of the system (departments, school districts, school and
communities);
*   The newly created Departmental Offices of the MOE have the capacity to address most of the
administrative needs of their constituencies, generating public and private savings in time and money
accrued from their decentralized operation;
*   The Honduras education system now has the capacity to conduct standardized academic achievement
tests of primary school students, throughout the country, on an yearly basis, and has the technical
expertise to analyze test results and disseminate the information in ways that are meaningful for sector
policy making; and
*   The Honduras education system has significantly improved its capacity to provide pre-service and
in-service training for preschool and primary teachers, through the operation of the PFC by the
- 13 -



National Pedagogic University.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The most substantial impact on Project implementation was caused by hurricane Mitch in November 1998.
This natural catastrophe caused great damage throughout the country and resulted in extensive loss of
infrastructure, materials, and information in the education sector. To respond to the crisis, an amendment
was made to the project legal documents in April 1999, thereby integrating the project in the national
Emergency Plan through a new emergency subprojects component. This new component, although
absorbing only US$ 1.1 million of project funds (approximately 2.4% of total actual project costs), was
instrumental in providing resources at the departmental and community level. Within the other original
project components (mainly the educational materials and infrastructure subcomponents), expedited
procurement strategies guaranteed timely replacement of teaching materials, textbooks and other
educational materials and acquisition of school furniture. Finally, the new added component provided for
psychological assistance to teachers, students and their families, and for emergency education food
supplements to students enrolled in schools severely affected by the hurricane.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The provision of counterpart funds by the Government was below expected levels during the first two years
of project implementation, although such deficiency was effectively redressed as of 1998. Project
administration suffered from high personnel turnover during its start-up period, but beginning with the new
administration in 1998, governmental support for the Project was clearly strengthened and project
implementation benefitted accordingly.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
*   Frequent changes in Project Coordinator. During the six years of project implementation, the UCP
Coordinator changed four times. Changes in key personnel resulted in implementation delays, loss of
institutional memory, and renewed need to train new staff to carryout basic project execution functions
and familiarize new people in IDA normns and procedures.
*   Relative isolation of the PCU from the MOE. Although several attempts were made to fully
integrate project management into the regular administration of the MOE, the PCU in fact worked
independently, stating that this relative autonomy improved efficiency. However, seeking to improve
the level of project ownership by its permanent staff, the MOE has created a new organizational
strategy to manage projects financed by multilateral Banks: only an Administrative and Financial Unit
will be created to handle credit and loan specific procedures, but all technical management and decision
making will be the responsibility of the line units of the MOE. Technical consultants will be hired
within the technical units of the MOE, and not independently by a PCU.
*   Delayed operation of the Financial Management System. During 1996-1998, financial accounting
was done manually with support of spreadsheets, generating problems in systematic and on-time
reporting and internal control. An automated financial management system was formally adopted in
1999. This automated system also facilitates integration with other financial management systems,
especially with those designed by the Ministry of Finance.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Total project costs are estimated at US$50.52 million (US$53.1 total budget minus US$2.58 undisbursed
at project end) or 95% of the appraisal estimate (see Annex 2). Allocated IDA credit funds utilized by the
Project were US$28.9 (above 96% of the US$30 million equivalent credit). The non-utilized funds of
- 14 -



US$1.1 million undisbursed funds will be canceled from Credit 2694-HO. Project financing by source is
estimated in Table 10 below.
Table 10. Latest Estimate of Total Project Costs
Source of Financing (US$ million)              Total
sComponent         5 IDA               GOH              KfWV          (US$ million)
A. Improving the
Quality of Basic        10.32              1.2              13.3             24.82
Education
B. Institutional        17.48             7.12               0.0              24.6
Strengthening
C. Emergency              1.1              0.0               0.0              1.1
Subprograms
Undisburse        1.1              1.48                               2.58
Total             30.0              7.8               13.3             53.1
The pattem of IDA Credit disbursements given in Table 11 below, shows that in 1997-1998 (FY98)
disbursements were markedly slow, reflecting project management difficulties.  However, these
disbursement delays were fully compensated in 1998-1999 (FY99) reaching an annual peak of US$9.8
million.
Table 11. Actual Disbursement of IDA Credit 2694-HO (US$ million)
FY96       FY97    -     FY98  .  FY99                FY01             FY02
Per year  2.62      4.31        1.08     9.78     4.68          3.89            2.54
Cumula              6.93        8.01     17.79    22.47        26.36            28.90
Note: The total disbursed IDA funds of US$28.9 million equivalent reflects an amount of US$1.1 million
equivalent undisbursed from a total approved IDA credit of US$30 million equivalent.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
It is likely that the Project will maintain, over its economic and impact life, the achievements generated
during its implementation. Project impact sustainability is based on the following considerations:
1. Strong government commitment to continue to improve the delivery of basic education services.
2. The mobilization of the active participation of community members and parents in the management of
preschool programs and primary schools.
3. The preparation and approval of a follow-on education project -- Community-Based Education Project,
financed by IDA Credit 3497-HO which will continue, expand and enhance the most successful
activities initiated by the Project. Specifically, the new project will:
*   complement textbooks with additional educational materials to guide pedagogic adaptations
required for multigrade and inter-cultural education;
*   continue to support standardized national student achievement tests in Mathematics and Spanish,
as well as surveys on factors affecting test results, to provide effective feedback to teachers and
parents;
*   continue the teacher training program (PFC) and introduce a BIE training program for teachers and
- 15-



community volunteers;
* expand the PROHECO program at preschool and basic education levels, including in indigenous
comrnmunities;
* strengthen the operation of Departmental and District offices;
* focus on school and community level education investment for ethnic communities of Honduras by
the development of a bilingual and inter-cultural teacher training program (already set up within
the National Pedagogical University) and by earmarking at least 20% of new PROHECO schools
in indigenous communities; and
*   continue to support the process of MOE decentralization, by channelling financial resources
directly to schools for the implementation of their own school-improvement subprojects, giving
priority to the schools located in the poorest rural areas.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Many project activities have already been mainstreamed into the regular sector operations. Of particular
importance is the institutionalization of the programs managed by the National Pedagogic University,
including teacher training and external evaluation of student academic achievements, and the involvement
of local community and parents in the management of schools.
To maximize the benefits of the Project, the MOE and IDA agreed on the following transition plan:
* Continue support for the education decentralization policies;
* Strengthen school-based management not only in rural areas but system-wide;
*   Consolidate the National Standardized Testing System, improving its articulation with on-going
curriculum reforms, production of didactic materials, and teacher training;
*   Strengthen the university-based teacher training system by articulating it with the local teacher
leaming circles (CADs) in an integrated National Teacher Training System;
*   Absorption of operation costs of at least 800 PROHECO schools, which already has been
incorporated in the MOE's recurrent budget;
*   Support the planned expansion of at least an additional 800 PROHECO schools in hard-to-reach
rural areas (of which 200 in ethnic communities);
*   Strengthen the integration of education policies throughout projects financed by different donors
and with community participation;
*   Continue to strengthen the institutional capacity of the MOE to administrate, monitor, and evaluate
the delivery of educational services, taking into account the lessons learned through this Project;
and
*   Continue utilization in future operations of automated financial management systems developed in
this project.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
IDA performance in the identification, preparation and appraisal of the Project is rated satisfactory, based
on the following reasons:
*   The objectives of the project were consistent with GOH priorities and were clearly and concisely
stated;
*   During project preparation, a multidisciplinary IDA team supported the GOH in the design of the
project, through needs assessments, feasibility studies, stakeholders consultations, and preparation
- 16-



of action plans.
* Project risks were identified during preparation and mitigated through strategies incorporated into
the project design.
* Project design was innovative in the preparation of the economic, fiscal, and risk management
analyses, and, consisted with country assistance objectives, providing for the articulation between
the project and other institutional reforms being carried out at the time by the Ministry of Finance
and the Ministry of the Presidency.
* Project design was successful in attracting co-financing.
7.2 Supervision:
IDA performance in supervising the Project is rated satisfactory, based on the following considerations:
* Careful project supervision gave the project the necessary flexibility to respond well to changing
needs of the country and the sector;
* IDA was responsive to positive policy changes regarding teacher training, school-based
management and community participation, and particularly in enabling an efficient response to the
emergency created by hurricane Mitch;
*   The restructuring of the Teaching Performance Improvement Program by relying on high parental
and community involvement in their schools (the PROHECO program), led the way for further
decentralization, school-based management, and community participation reforms in the sector;
* Team work among Task Managers in the Central American region and cross-fertilization of best
practices, which was best exemplified by technical assistance and lessons learned provided to
PROHECO from the successful EDUCO program in El Salvador;
* Upon less than satisfactory implementation of the project during its first two year of life and
Government request for additional IDA team support, technical assistance, policy dialogue, and
continued monitoring and supervision of the Project was increased. IDA's intensive follow-up
during the last three years of project implementation contributed to the Project achieving
satisfactorily its development objectives and component outputs and disbursing almost fully (94%)
credit proceedings;
* Continued IDA focus and technical assistance on fiduciary aspect of project implementation
contributed to greater accountability and the financial institutionalization of key programs, such as
PROHECO, with the regular administrative and financial systems of the MOE;
* Sector dialogue was maintained throughout the project supervision period, facilitating timely
adjustments and the introduction of innovative programs, as well as an agreed plan for transition of
project component to the regular operations of the MOE; and
* During supervision, IDA supported external evaluations of key project components, which led to
an improved design of the follow-on education project.
* Notwithstanding the positive aspects of IDA supervision mentioned above, more intensive
supervision during the start-up phase of project implementation (1996-97) might have precluded
the low implementation and disbursement rates and earlier deficiencies in the automated financial
system.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall IDA performance is rated satisfactory as a result of the factors mentioned in sections 7.1 and 7.2,
above, and summarized below:
*   Flexible response according to client and sector needs and expectations;
*   Intensive supervision and technical assistance after 1998 and especially during and after the Hurricane
Mitch catastrophe;
- 17 -



*   A successful support for community-led policies and incorporation into project components; and
*   Field visits and direct dialogue with project beneficiaries at the school and community levels.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Government performance during preparation was satisfactory. The MOE led the process of project
preparation and worked directly with IDA teams supporting the process. Project design was directly linked
to the sector priorities of the time and the recommendations of the various feasibility studies were also
incorporated.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Borrower's performance during project implementation is rated satisfactory. The GOH embraced a
complex and ambitious project with full commitment to its objectives and invested the best of its ability in
making the Project a success.  At mid-term, recognizing key project execution weaknesses, GOH
re-committed to project goals and guaranteed the achievement of the implementation and development
objectives by project end. Most importantly, the GOH demonstrated extraordinary capacity to utilize the
lessons leamed during the initial phase of project implementation and introduce timely changes in project
design and management that greatly enhanced the overall quality of the project and ensured the
sustainability of its benefits.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the MOE is rated satisfactory. In spite of the project management weaknesses during
1996-98 (very slow project start up, continued turnover of PCU staff, and weak financial management
systems), the MOE tumed around very successfully and, during the last three years of implementation of
the project, increased execution, met and surpassed physical targets, guaranteed the development
objectives, and ensured the transition and ownership of project activities after credit closing. Of particular
interest is the fact that the MOE was able to successfully complement its installed capacity by mobilizing
the participation of other institutions such as the National Pedagogic University, as well as local
communities and parents in the effort to improve the delivery of basic educational services.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
In general, the GOH performance is rated satisfactorv. The GOH is praiseworthy in supporting the MOE
in carrying out bold reforms in its structure and decentralizing important functions to departmental and
district levels, even though institutional reforms in the education sector are particularly difficult given the
size and the political ramifications of the sector. The GOH also ensured the necessary inter-ministerial
coordination to keep the implementation of the project consistent with national priorities, especially in line
with the decentralization and community participation policies of the MOE. Lessons were leamed regarding
the first two years of less-than-satisfactory project implementation, and the project was successfully
revamped and its objectives achieved.
8. Lessons Learned
The main lessons learned through the implementation of the Project are:
*   A community based strategy can lead to rapid improvements in the delivery of education
services in rural areas. The evaluation of PROHECO confirms the success of similar models
previously applied in El Salvador and Guatemala. Benefits from direct community involvement in
the management of rural schools include access to education in very isolated rural communities
which never had a school, attracting and retaining teachers in those schools, and increasing
attendance of both teachers and students.
- 18-



*   The achievement of project development objectives is best guaranteed by appropriate
adjustments to the changing needs of the country and the sector. Project implementation
demonstrated that the changes made to project design, particularly in so far as teacher training and
performance improvements and community-led development, were key elements to the success of
the project. The innovative restructuring of the teacher incentives components into the PROHECO
program proved particularly felicitous.
*   The development impact of external evaluation of student learning achievements is greatly
enhanced when results are broadly disseminated and utilized in sector policy decision-making.
The establishment of a national system of external evaluation of student learning achievements is a
necessary first step; nevertheless, practical measures to improve education quality, and
consequently student learning achievements, depend to a great extent in translating test results to
specific classroom-based teaching and learning strategies, in involving parents and community
members in monitoring the quality of the educational services delivered, and in incorporating
lessons learned from the evaluations in the training of teachers and in the development of
educational materials. These tasks are still the focus of the Honduras education system and being
addressed by a follow-up project.
* Maintenance Agreements for the sustanability of education infrastructure must be supported
by adequate financing. Although the MOE was able to sign maintenance agreements with most
municipalities where school infrastructure improvements were made, and maintenance committees
were trained to operate in these schools, the impact of these agreements were dependent upon the
establishment of appropriate funding mechanism to support maintenance activities. Such funding
does not need to be solely provided by the MOE, and cost-sharing arrangements with other
stakeholders, including municipalities, are being explored.
*   The production of textbooks and other education materials must be supported by an efficient
distribution system. Delays occurred, during the beginning of the school year, in the delivery of
education materials to the schools. The MOE is exploring different alternatives to minimize this
problem in the future, such as more active involvement of decentralized offices, parent's
organizations, and the private sector. While this problem is common in many other countries
besides Honduras, solutions are needed to fully harvest the benefits of improved didactic materials
and the on-time availability and utilization in the classroom.
*   New textbooks should be consistent with changes in curriculum. The problem of consistency
between textbooks and curriculum reform is not easily resolved, given the preparation time
involved in both activities. Nevertheless, efforts must continue to make new textbooks reflect
important modifications in the curriculum.
*   The production of new education materials is significantly enhanced by the systematic field
test of such materials. It is important to carry out field test of all the elements of new educational
materials: their contents, language, illustrations, and overall presentation. Field tests will help
ensure the pertinence of the didactic materials and the development of precise specifications for
production. It is especially important to verify what is the language level accessible to most
teachers while preparing teaching guides.
- 19-



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
I.     Consideraciones Generales
El Banco Mundial present6 un informe de evaluaci6n inicial basado en los resultados de la misi6n que
visit6 Honduras en Agosto de 1994. Dicho informe (Informe de Evaluaci6n Inicial, Honduras, Proyecto
Escuela Morazanica. Reporte No. 13791-HO, Banco Mundial 8 de marzo de 1995) reflej6 problemas
claves, tratados bajo tres enunciados: calidad, eficiencia y equidad.
Para responder a las necesidades del sector educativo, el Proyecto Mejoramiento de la Calidad de la
Educaci6n Basica (PROMEB) naci6 a traves del Convenio de Credito NO. 2694 - HO de fecha 21 de junio
de 1995, firmado entre el Gobiemo de Honduras y la Asociaci6n Intemacional de Fomento (ATF). El
financiamiento total del Proyecto fue de US$53.1 millones de d6lares donde la AIF aporta US$30.0
millones, el Gobiemo de Alemania a traves de la KfW aporta US$13.3 millones de dMlares y el Gobiemo
de Honduras aporta US$9.8 millones.
Los principales objetivos del Proyecto fueron:
* Mejorar los niveles de rendimiento academico y reducir la tasa de repetici6n de los estudiantes
matriculados en las escuelas primarias puiblicas.
*   Incrementar la asistencia escolar y crear condiciones de aprendizaje mas efectivas.
*   Proveer educaci6n bilingiue en las escuelas primarias publicas que sirven a los grupos etnicos Miskitos
y Garifunas.
* Mejorar la eficiencia administrativa de la SEP.
Se crearon convenios de asistencia tecnica relacionados con la ejecuci6n del convenio de credito, tales
como: Convenio FHIS, Convenio UPNFM, Convenio Programa Formaci6n Continua (IJPNFM), Convenio
KfW/GTZ, y Convenio con el PNUD.
Los componentes del PROMEB fueron:
Meioramiento de la Calidad de la Educaci6n Basica (US $38.2 millones, 6 72% del costo total del
Proyecto, incluyendo contingencias). El componente fue orientado a proporcionar: a) capacitaci6n y
asistencia para mejorar las habilidades de los maestros, directores y supervisores de pre-primaria y
primaria, y para lograr mejoras en la formaci6n de maestros previa al servicio y la certificaci6n de
maestros; b) materiales didActicos, incluyendo libros de texto, materiales complementarios, bibliotecas de
aula y mejores sistemas de distribuci6n; c) educaci6n bilingiie en areas indigenas para las comunidades,
Garifana y Miskito; d) evaluaci6n extema del logro academico estudiantil; y e) mejoras en infraestructura
para escuelas rurales sobrepobladas, incluyendo maestros adicionales y acceso a la educaci6n pre-escolar
manejada por la comunidad en Areas rurales pobres.
Fortalecimiento Institucional (US$14.0 millones 6 28% del costo total del Provecto. incluyendo
contingencias). Este componente tuvo los subcomponentes siguientes: a) asistencia tecnica para la
reestructuraci6n y la descentralizaci6n de la SEP y una mejor supervisi6n; b) un programa piloto de
incentivos al desempefio de maestros; y c) administraci6n, monitoreo y evaluaci6n del Proyecto.
- 20 -



Enmiendas del Convenio de Credito. Con fecha 12 de abril de 1999 se efectu6 la primera enmienda del
credito AIF 2694-HO. Incorporindose el financiamiento con fondos del cr6dito: Los subproyectos
formulados en el Plan de Emergencia y la reorientaci6n del sub-componente Programa de Incentivos a
Maestros por el Programa Hondurefio de Educaci6n Comunitaria (PROHECO).
II.    Impacto
Un factor externo importante en la evaluaci6n del Proyecto es el Huracan Mitch, que tambien afecto a la
SEP en si, destruyendo o daniando parte de la infraestructura de oficinas, equipo y archivos. Dentro de lo
administrativo las consecuencias fueron un retroceso institucional debido al gran dafio en las oficinas
centrales, una disminuida capacidad de acci6n del nivel central y la perdida de expedientes. Respecto al
Proyecto PROMEB la consecuencia principal del Mitch fue que la administraci6n gubemamental introdujo
el concepto de emergencia, lo que a su vez modific6 la asignaci6n de recursos y obviamente los objetivos
del Proyecto se vieron afectados.
En el proceso de descentralizaci6n el PROMEB jug6 un papel importante, ya sea como financiador de
infraestructura y de costos de funcionamiento o como impulsor activo. En un balance entre estos dos
factores podemos decir que mas peso tuvo el factor financiamiento que el factor tecnico en si, a tal punto
que se podria decir que si el PROMEB no hubiera financiado varios componentes claves, la
descentralizaci6n hubiera sido hoy inexistente o del todo formal.
Si consideramos las experiencias de otros paises, se puede decir que se avanzo bastante rapido durante los
afios 1999 - 2001. Se avanzo con exito en aspectos como descentralizar las siguientes funciones: la
apertura de nuevos centros educativos, los tramites de titulos de bachiller, las adecuaciones del calendario
escolar a cada regi6n, y en lograr la participaci6n de la comunidad en diferentes areas y la programaci6n,
formulaci6n y ejecuci6n presupuestaria en cada Direcci6n Departamental. Ademas existen ciertos avances
en la implementaci6n de un sistema administrativo financiero integrado.
En conclusi6n, el PROMEB tuvo un impacto relativo en la educaci6n basica de Honduras. El impacto fue
focalizado, y se evidencia sobre todo en el apoyo a la descentralizaci6n de la SEP, a traves de
infraestructura, insumos y salarios, la distribuci6n de textos y el mejoramiento de la infraestructura
educativa.
III.   Principales Logros
A. En los subcomponentes con el financiamiento con el prestamo HN-26940 Banco Mundial se
identificaron los siguientes logros:
a.     El subcomponente de Capacitaci6n.
- 21 -



Este subcomponente se disefio con el prop6sito de promover una ensefianza mas efectiva al mejorar las
habilidades especificas de ensenanza a traves de programas de formaci6n de maestros y capacitaci6n, y de
la introducci6n de criterios objetivos y tecnicos para la contrataci6n de nuevos maestros. Se destacan los
siguientes logros:
* A trav6s del programa de capacitaci6n de INICE se formaron en forma de cascada 27,000 docentes de
primaria, 2,800 docentes de pre-primaria, 1,756 supervisores de primaria, y 120 profesores de escuelas
normales.
*   Se desarroll6 e institucionaliz6 el Programa de Formaci6n Continua (PFC) por la Universidad
Pedag6gica Nacional Francisco Morazan (UPNFM) y se formaron 2,253 docentes.
* Se dio capacitaci6n a 23,200 voluntarios de los CCIE.
*   Se desarroll6 m6dulos para la capacitaci6n de maestros, incluyendo: El Gobiemo Escolar, La Escuela
Comunitaria, Trabajo Productivo, Aprendamos Juntos, y El Repaso Escolar Clave.
* Se editaron y se distribuyeron titulos relacionados con la capacitaci6n de docentes.
*   Se formaron 1,449 proyectos de capacitaci6n CADs.
Como se puede observar, los indicadores definidos para la capacitaci6n de profesores de escuelas normales,
voluntarios del CCIEs y proyectos de capacitaci6n CAD fueron alcanzados y superados. Las otras metas
fueron atendidas pero sin un avance significativo.
b.     El subcomponente de Educaci6n Bilingiie
Entre los logros de este subcomponente se cuenta: i) estandarizaci6n, gramatica y diccionario de las
lenguas Miskita y Garifuna; ii) desarrollo de seminarios y talleres sobre fundamentos curriculares de la
Educaci6n Intercultural Bilingiie (EIB) el las comunidades de los ocho pueblos indigenas y negros de
Honduras; iii) realizaci6n con exito y desarrollo de un programa continuo de capacitaci6n en antropologia,
lingiiistica, y pedagogia para los miembros del PRONEEAAH.
Otros logros incluyen:
* Se realiz6 la propuesta para el desarrollo del diccionario y gramatica Pech y Tol.
* Se distribuyeron 1000 ejemplares de cada una de las cartilla de lecto escritura para ler y 2do grado en
misquito.
* Se edit6 el libro para colorear 1, Lilka nanira Katataka Yabala Wanhkataya.
* Se desarroll6 un estudio de etnohistoria Garifuna.
*   Se formaron 24 miembros de las diferentes etnias del pais mediante el diplomado de World Bank
Institute (WBI), como parte de un grupo semilla.
*   Se equip6 a las 14 unidades de Educaci6n Intercultural Bilingiie que existen en las direcciones
departamentales
c.     El subcomponente de Evaluaci6n Externa
En este subcomponente se desarroll6 e implement6 la Unidad de Medici6n de la Calidad Educativa
(UMCE) al interior de la UPNFM y la Direcci6n General de Evaluaci6n de la Calidad Educativa
(DIGECE) al interior de la SEP para generar la capacidad tecnica e institucional para brindar informaci6n
valida y confiable sobre los logros academicos en Espafiol y Matematicas de los educandos que cursan el
nivel primario del pais. El Sistema de Evaluaci6n Extema evalu6 cada afio, sistematicamente a una
- 22 -



muestra nacional representativa de estudiantes de primaria, en las materias de espafiol y matemitica. Para
el proceso de evaluaci6n, se cre6 la red desconcentrada de evaluaci6n que funciona en 16 Direcciones
Departamentales de educaci6n, 29 representantes de 29 sedes distritales para facilitar el proceso de
evaluaci6n en todo el pais. El personal involucrado en las evaluaciones fue capacitado en tecnicas de
aplicaci6n de pruebas estandarizadas. Las evaluaciones que se realizaron por afio son las siguientes: 1997
- Evaluaci6n de Tercer y Sexto grados, 1998-Evaluaci6n de Segundo, Tercero, Cuarto y Sexto grados,
1999-Evaluaci6n de Segundo, Tercero, Cuarto y Quinto Grados, 2000-Evaluaci6n de Tercero y Sexto
grados, y evaluaci6n del nivel academico de los estudiantes de segundo y tercer grados del Proyecto
Hondurefio de Educaci6n Comunitaria, PROH-ECO.
Ademas,
*   Se revisaron los indicadores de logro acad&mico y se desarrollaron tablas de alcance de logro
acad6mico para cada grado evaluado, en donde se establecen los estandares minimos en t6rminos de
areas de dominio y competencias especificas que los estudiantes deben lograr en Espanol y
Matematicas
*   Se publicaron los resultados de las evaluaciones, ademas de los resultados de los estudios de factores
asociados al rendimiento academico de los estudiantes.
*   Se disefiaron planes de capacitaci6n en Evaluaci6n Pedag6gica, los cuales beneficiaron mas de 2,350
maestros, directores y tecnicos distritales.
*   Se formaron aproximadamente 600 docentes en la ensenanza de matematicas y espafiol, utilizando las
publicaciones de la UMCE que a manera de retroalimentaci6n ha disefiado para reforzar el trabajo del
docente en el aula.
d.     El subcomponente de Reorganizaci6n y Descentralizaci6n del MOE
A partir de 1996 se inici6 el proceso de reorganizaci6n de la estructura funcional de la SEP, procurando
con ello una mejor utilizaci6n de los recursos humanos, tecnicos y financieros.
En el nivel central se logr6 una mayor eficiencia a traves de la simplificaci6n y reducci6n de la estructura
organizacional de la SEP, la eliminaci6n o consolidaci6n de unidades, traslado de competencias al nivel
desconcentrado, la capacitaci6n tecnica y administrativa, y la reforma de los regimenes de empleos y
salarios.
Como parte de la desconcentraci6n administrativo, con el decreto legislativo No. 0034-96, se crearon las
direcciones Departamentales de Educaci6n. La desconcentraci6n permiti6 que el nivel central transfiriera
funciones y competencias a la Direcciones Departamentales; al final del afno 1999 ya se habian transferido
mas de doce funciones.
La Gerencia Administrativa desconcentr6 el manejo del presupuesto a traves del traslado de transferencias
a las Direcciones Departamentales. Se implement6 el Sistema Integrado de Administraci6n Financiera
(SIAFI), lo cual permiti6 mejorar la gesti6n administrativa y habilit6 a los directores y gerentes de negocios
departamentales para el manejo de la administraci6n presupuestaria.
Se construyeron 13 edificios para las Direcciones Departamentales y se repararon y adecuaron otros 5
edificios. Todas las Direcciones Departamentales fueron equipadas con equipos de c6mputo y se las
entregaron 18 vehiculos. Adicionalmente se entregaron 44 vehiculos y 194 motocicletas para el trabajo de
campo, incluyendo a los promotores de PROHECO.
- 23-



e.     El subcomponente de Incentivos para Maestros
A finales de 1998, en parte debido a los dafios que ocasion6 el Huracan Mitch y la iniciativa presidencial
de contar con un programa de participaci6n comunitaria en la gesti6n escolar, se hizo una addenda al
Proyecto para crear el Programa Hondurefio de Educaci6n Comunitaria dentro del componente
Fortalecimiento Institucional.  PROHECO tenia el prop6sito de proveer servicios educativos a las
comunidades rurales mas distantes del pais, donde no existia servicio educativo.
Dentro de los logros del programa son los siguientes:
*   Se cre6 una Coordinaci6n General del programa, que tiene como funciones principales coordinar la
promoci6n, organizaci6n, y capacitaci6n de las AECOS y coordinar las actividades administrativas y
financieras, de transferencias y liquidaciones de las mismas.
*   Se di6 asistencia tecnica a las AECOs, especificamente en el proceso de liquidaci6n de transferencias
de fondos y revisi6n de la documentaci6n legal y contable de la AECO.
*   Se habilitaron aulas para que funcionen como escuelas, movilizando para ello a la comunidad de las
areas rurales mas desprovistas, mejorando el acceso de los nifios mas pobres a la educacion pre-escolar
y primaria.
* Se crearon, en 13 departamentos del pais, 800 escuelas comunitarias, donde se atendieron cerca de
40,000 alumnos del area rural. Se organizaron 1,284 AECOs con personalidades juridicas. Se
capacitaron aproximadamente 5,700 padres y madres de familia en el nuevo modelo de gesti6n
administrativa en educaci6n comunitaria, quienes deberian contratar directamente a los maestros,
administrar los recursos necesarios para el pago de salarios y la adquisici6n de materiales educativos
menores. Se entregaron paquetes con materiales didActicos a las 800 escuelas y se entregaron becas de
excelencia academica a 4,000 alumnos.
f. El subcomponente del Plan de Emergencia
En noviembre de 1998, la AIF autoriz6 a la secretaria de educaci6n para utilizar fondos del proyecto, de
hasta 15 millones de d6lares para apoyar la reconstrucci6n del sistema en el periodo de emergencia, bajo el
contexto del plan de los cien dias y asi reactivar el sistema educativo nacional.
Con estos fondos se financiaron las actividades de apoyo a las Direcciones Departamentales y Direcciones
Distritales para la rehabilitaci6n de centros de albergue, la rehabilitaci6n o adecuaci6n de centros
educativos, apoyo a los docentes y alumnos extremadamente damnificados, apoyo a pequefios proyectos
educativos con participaci6n de la comunidad, la compra de bienes y servicios con caracter de emergencia
en apoyo a actividades de reconstrucci6n y transformaci6n, y acondicionamiento y reparaci6n de la oficina
central de la SEP y de las oficinas distritales y departamentales mas afectadas por el Mitch.
Otros logros del subcomponente son:
*   Se adquirieron y distribuyeron materiales que se habian perdido en el huracan a escuelas de
pre-primaria y primaria.
*   Se di6 asistencia al subcomponente Educaci6n Bilingiie para realizar actividades de capacitaci6n
relacionado con el diagn6stico de las condiciones prevalecientes en las comunidades garifunas y
misquitas, el tratamiento del amarillamiento letal del cocotero, la adquisici6n y distribuci6n de
materiales a 37 escuelas misquitas y garifunas en los departamentos de Atlantida, Col6n y Gracias a
Dios.
*   Se repusieron un total de 44 vehiculos para las oficinas centrales, se suministraron 199 motocicletas
- 24 -



para los Directores Distritales.
g.     El subcomponente de Administraci6n, Monitoreo y Evaluaci6n
La administraci6n del proyecto fue coordinada por la Unidad Coordinadora de Proyecto UCP. Esta unidad
fue responsable de monitorear los proyectos por la SEP, FHIS, PFC y UMCE. A cada Componente del
Proyecto fue asignado un coordinador y un responsable por subcomponente.
La UCP tuvo la responsabilidad de: la preparaci6n de planes de ejecuci6n, la preparaci6n de los informes
de ejecuci6n, el procesamiento de la documentaci6n para el desembolso del Credito de y otros fondos del
Proyecto, asi como la adquisici6n de bienes y servicios, la ejecuci6n de las tareas de adquisici6n, el
mantenimiento de registros y cuentas separadas, el manejo de los fondos del Proyecto y el monitoreo de la
ejecuci6n y la evaluaci6n de impacto del Proyecto.
Despues de la evaluaci6n de medio termino, en lo que corresponde al anio 2000, las actividades de
seguimiento y monitoreo y la aplicaci6n de las recomendaciones de la evaluaci6n se mejoraron en aspectos
de la generaci6n de informaci6n para la toma de decisiones.
Los logros del subcomponente son los siguientes:
*   Se desarrollo e implement6 un sistema de contabilidad completo que pernite la definici6n de las
cuentas contables, asi como las categorias de gasto, para completar la nomenclatura contable,
asociadas a los componentes del proyecto. Con este sistema se puede tener el control de la informaci6n
financiera, por ano y subcomponente.
*   Se realiz6 la evaluaci6n de impacto del PROMEB.
B.     En los componentes con el financiamiento de KfW se identificaron los siguientes logros:
a.     El subcomponente de Textos y Materiales Didicticos
*   Se revisaron los libros de la serie "Mi Honduras", del proyecto Mejoramiento de la Eficiencia de la
Educaci6n Primaria financiado con prestamo de USAID para hacer cambios sustanciales en los
contenidos y publicar los textos revisados.
* Se actualizaron los libros de "Escuela MorazAnica", que luego fueron puestos en cuadernillos de
impresi6n separada (fasciculos), para facilitar su utilizaci6n. Se trabajaron los libros de 3ro, 4to, 5to y
6to grados de primaria y se produjeron los fasciculos correspondientes, alcanzando la cantidad de
7,270,000 para los 6 grados de educaci6n primaria y en el afio 2001 se distribuyeron 6,300,000
fasciculos.
* Se hizo una reproducci6n y distribuci6n de 126,000 libros (de 38 titulos distintos) para un total de
1,410 bibliotecas integradas de aula en escuelas unidocentes y bidocentes para 16 Departamentos.
*   Se hizo una reproducci6n y distribuci6n de 21,119 libros para un total de 500 bibliotecas integradas de
aula para el nivel parvulario, para 16 Departamentos.
*   Se distribuyeron 27,880 paquetes de materiales para estudiantes de los CCIEs.
b.     El subcomponente de Infraestructura
El FHIS fue el responsable del cumplimiento de las metas de este subcomponente. Los logros son los
siguientes:
- 25 -



* Se disefio, ejecut6 y public6 un censo nacional de maestros, personal administrativo, materiales,
matricula e infraestructura para los niveles de educaci6n preescolar, primaria y media. Este censo
escolar tuvo como referencia el censo escolar de 1995, el cual posibilita una comparaci6n de
resultados, especialmente el crecimiento tenido por el sistema educativo.
*   Se construyeron 146 aulas conforme a normas tecnicas y de localizaci6n establecidas por la secretaria
de Educaci6n con fmanciamiento de KfW, con la participaci6n de miembros de la comunidad.
*   Se equiparon 290 escuelas unidocentes con mobiliario escolar, y se entreg6 a escuelas de PROHECO,
15,756 pupitres, 10,083 catedras y sillas para las escuelas de primaria y 2,526 catedras, sillas y
pupitres para el nivel parvulario.
*   Se firmaron los convenios con la Asociaci6n de Municipios de Honduras para el mantenimiento de las
aulas.
*   Se asignaron maestros de primaria a las escuelas nuevas, por parte de la SE.
*   Se crearon 4,500 nuevos CCIEs, donde se entregaron 14,127 paquetes de materiales didActicos y
juguetes didActicos para la atenci6n de 1,923 jardines.
IV.    Desempeino de las Entidades Prestatarias
Banco Mundial - Tal como lo manifiesta la Firma PKF Worldwide que efectu6 la Evaluaci6n de Impacto,
El Banco Mundial si acompano tecnicamente el Proyecto y fue muy critico en varios momentos." lo cual se
reconoce por parte del PROMEB, por cuanto existe la evidencia en las recomendaciones plasmadas en las
Ayudas Memorias de las diferentes misiones de evaluaci6n realizadas. No obstante, en la fase final de
ejecuci6n se ha mejorado la comunicaci6n e implementaci6n de medidas recomendadas, especialmente en lo
referente a justificaci6n de fondos y no objeciones a los procesos de adquisici6n y contrataciones, lo cual
podria dar elementos para inferir que anteriormente el planteamiento de solicitudes de desembolsos y no
objeciones no haya sido efectuado adecuadamente, posiblemente por falta de una capacitaci6n adecuada y
continua por parte del Banco.
KfW - Como es del conocimiento, la mayoria de la ejecuci6n financiera de KfW se canaliz6 a traves del
FHIS, responsable de la contrataci6n y supervisi6n de la construcci6n de aulas y edificios para las
Direcciones Departamentales. Hay que decir que estas operaciones no fueron canalizadas a traves de la
UCP del PROMEB, posiblemente porque al inicio de las actividades no hubo participaci6n efectiva para el
seguimiento, dotaci6n de recursos y localizaciones de las construcciones papel que fue asumido por GTZ
en cumplimiento a un convenio suscrito con KfW con autorizaci6n de la SEP. GTZ asumi6 un papel
paralelo a la UCP, de tal forma que desembolsos y contrataciones se canalizaban sin tomar en cuenta a la
UCP.
V.     Perspectivas de Sostenibilidad
Con respecto a la sostenibilidad tecnica, los procesos de caracter tecnico iniciados y/o fortalecidos en el
marco del PROMEB continuan vigentes en el desarrollo de las actividades cotidianas de la SEP, tales
como: espacios de analisis para el estudio y mejoramiento de la calidad de la educaci6n, y socializaci6n de
la evaluaci6n de pruebas aplicadas al rendimiento academico de los educandos en los niveles de preescolar
y primaria.
Con respecto a la sostenibilidad financiera, en el marco del PROMEB se identificaron programas
educativos y proyectos que contribuyeron a la obtenci6n de financiamientos no oficiales para llevar
beneficios a poblaciones no atendidas u otras que mejoraron el nivel de calidad de la atenci6n. AdemAs,
con la aprobaci6n de un nuevo credito fmanciado por la AIF, se garantiza la continuidad de acciones
importantes iniciadas con financiamiento del PROMEB. Finalmente, la desconcentraci6n en el manejo del
- 26 -



presupuesto asignado a las diferentes Direcciones Departamentales ha permitido una mejor gesti6n
administrativa, que se evidencia en aspectos de reducir tiempos en los procesos de adquisici6n y
contrataci6n y consecuentemente ejecutar oportunamente las acciones de apoyo logistico de la educaci6n.
Con respecto a la sostenibilidad social, los programas de incentivos iniciados basicamente a traves de
Programas Educativos de Gesti6n Comunitaria han demostrado su efectividad en la ampliaci6n de
cobertura, asistencia efectiva de los maestros y a la vez tiene a incrementar el compromiso de los padres de
familia en otros aspectos de la vida escolar. Las actividades desarrolladas en el marco de la EIB han
contribuido a mejorar la atenci6n en los aspectos educativos y culturales de las etnias mayoritarias del pais.
AdemAs, el incremento de la infraestructura fisica de los centros educativos, asi como el incremento de las
plazas de docentes, ha significado el mejoramiento de los indices de cobertura y calidad de la educaci6n.
Con respecto a la sostenibilidad institucional, desde el logro de la institucionalizaci6n del PROMEB, se
podria decir que los componentes del mismo estuvieron ligados a la estrategia de mejoramiento del sistema
educativo. El proceso de descentralizaci6n de las atribuciones y recursos de la SEP iniciado y financiado
por el PROMEB han alcanzado aceptables niveles de consolidaci6n a nivel tecnico, administrativo y
financiero. AdemAs, se generaron espacios de consulta con la sociedad civil de la Repuiblica para la
concertaci6n en el Foro Nacional de Convergencia, de la Estrategia Nacional de Educaci6n. Finalmente,
con la modernizaci6n de las unidades de administraci6n de los recursos humanos docentes y no docentes, la
SEP ha mejorado la administraci6n del personal.
VI.    Lecciones Aprendidas
1. Considerando las modificaciones que se tuvieron en la vida del proyecto, la evaluaci6n de los
indicadores de desempeno muestran que se cumplieron la mayoria de actividades de los componentes,
cuantitativamente hablando.
2. Los principales obstAculos encontrados en el logro de los objetivos de los componentes fueron: la
ausencia de liderazgo en la direcci6n de PROMIEB y en la misma SEP, la falta de seguimiento a las
observaciones y recomendaciones hechas por misiones del Banco Mundial, el continuo cambio de
autoridades en los niveles del PROMEB, entre otros.
3. El Programa de Formaci6n Continua de la UPN ha sido muy exitoso, sobre todo por haber
desarrollado un curriculum que procur6 la formaci6n de las competencias profesionales que los
docentes requieren para realizar una prActica pedag6gica de calidad. Un beneficio importante para los
docentes fue que despues de cursar y aprobar el plan de estudios del PFC, los docentes participantes
obtuvieron el titulo de la carrera tecnico universitario de Educaci6n basica (primero y segundo ciclo) en
el grado asociado.
4. La creaci6n y funcionamiento de la UMCE ha generado una valiosa capacidad tecnica en la
construcci6n, administraci6n y procesamiento de pruebas estandarizadas a nivel nacional, lo que ha
permitido, en forma cientifica, obtener informaci6n acerca de los resultados del proceso educativo y los
factores externos e intemos que afectan al mismo.
5. La construcci6n de aulas en las escuelas rurales sobre pobladas, el convenio con las comunidades
locales para su mantenimiento y la posterior contrataci6n de maestros capacitados para esas escuelas
primarias es un logro para el acceso con equidad de los ninos en las areas rurales mas pobres de
Honduras.
6. El desarrollo de un sistema de control contable estandarizado completo permite la definici6n de las
cuentas contables, asi como las categorias de gasto, para completar la nomenclatura contable,
asociadas a los componentes y subcomponentes de cualquier proyecto.
7. Las escuelas de PROHECO son parte de un proyecto exitoso que sigue funcionando y se vislumbra
que este proyecto seguirA creciendo porque satisface las necesidades educativas bAsicas de las
- 27 -



comunidades rurales mas pobres debido en parte a una mayor participaci6n comunitaria tanto en la
administraci6n de sus recursos y la contrataci6n de los maestros, por otra parte porque los ninos tienen
una escuela mas cerca.
(b) Cofinanciers:
A draft of the ICR was circulated to KfW, the Project's co-financing agency. ICR authors met and discuss
with KFW representatives the preparation of the document. No further comments from KFW have been
received by the time of ICR publication.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
National Pedagogical University (UPNFM) and Parental Organization Rural Parent-School Organizations.
Positive comments received on the final outcomes of project implementation.
10. Additional Information
N/A
-28 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome/lmpact Indicators:
(a) Education Quality: Standardized Student Achievement Tests Results in Primary Schools (% of
correct answers)
Test                           1997                          2000
Spanish - Grade 3                        40                            41
Mathematics - Grade 3                     36                            43
Spanish - Grade 6                         46                            46
Mathematics - Grade 6                    35                            39
(b) School Efficiency: Increased (net) Enrollments and Completion and Reduced Dropout and Repetition
Rates.
Impact                             Primary Education (Grades 1-6)
Indicators.                                   Percentage
Baseline      1995       1997         1998      1999       2000
Net Enrollment Rates       80         86.4       89.1         89.0       89.8       na
(1992)
Completion Rate           33.5         na         na         43.0        na       67.0
(1992)
Dropout Rate              NA           n.a       9.53         na         na        3.0
Repetition Rate           28.0         n.a        9.4         9.6        9.2       8.0
(1988)
Source: Ministry of Education of Honduras, Tegucigalpa: January 2002.
2000 completion percentage data from World Education For All Study: April, 2002.
- 29 -



(c) Institutional Efficiency: Improved delivery of Education Services (to Rural Areas) and Reduced
Central Administrative Costs.
Indicator                    1999              2000             2001
Number of New Rural Schools                506               820               1,020
(hard-to-reach communities)
Net Student Enrollment (grades 1-6)       22,361            39,540            42,842
Average Repetition Rate (%)                18.4              10.8              9.2
Number of Rural Teachers                   648               1,109             1338
(hard-to-reach communities)
Organized Parental Committees              645               1,179             1284
Parents Directly Involved in School       3,858             6,528             7,100
Management
Source Secretana de Educaci6n; Pryecto Hondureno de Educaci6n Communitana: PROHECO (Tegucigalpa). January 2002.
|   Impact Indicator      1996        1997       1998       1999       2000       2001
Reduced MOE               3.96       3.48        3.96       2.10       2.75       2.12
Administrative Costs
Source: Govemment of Honduras. MOE Planning Department. 2002.
- 30 -



Output Indicators:
Indicator                           Target             Actual/Latest
Estimate
A.1 Teacher Training Program
Training for trainers                                2,644                 2,644
Multigrade Primary teachers                          53,500               44,608
Other primary teachers                               44,000               27,000
Preschool teachers                                   5,600                 2,800
School principals                                    12,500                1,168
School supervisors                                   2,498                 1,765
Normal School professors                              120                   120
CCLE volunteers                                      15,700               15,700
CAD training projects                                 250                   0
A.2 Textbooks and Didactic Materials
Textbooks Grade 1                                    1.2 M                 1.1 M
Textbooks Grade 2                                    1.1 M                 1.0 M
Textbooks Grade 3                                    0.9 M                 1.6 M
Textbooks Grade 4                                    0.8 M                 1.7 M
Textbooks Grade 5                                    0.2 M                3.2 M
Textbooks Grade 6                                    0.1 M                3.1 M
Primary classroom libraries                          19,300                3,770
Preschool libraries                                   750                  500
Packages of student's materials                      16,800               18,357
CCIE materials                                       15,700               27,880
Packages of Preschool toys                            790                  1,923
A.3 Bilingual and Intercultural Education
Normalization of Miskito and Garifuna Languages      Study               completed
Miskito and Garifuna curriculum                    Curriculum            completed
Linguistic, anthropological, historical Aspects of 4  Study             8 languages
languages                                                                completed
Miskito and Garifuna teacher training curriculum   Curriculum           Completed
Didactic Materials Grades 1 and 2 for Miskito and  Distribution         Miskito only
Garifuna
Training bilingual teacher & supervisors               12                    12
Training Normal school professors                       I                    I
Design academic achievement tests                      1                    0
Apply academic achievement tests                       4                    0
A.4 External Evaluation
Application of achievement tests Grades 2-6            5                    8
A.5 Infrastructure Improvements
New classrooms build                                  290                  146
Furniture for classrooms                              290                  290
School maintenance agreements signed                  290                  290
Teachers appointed                                    290                   0
CCIE new progrms                                     1,200                 2,508
B. Institutional Strengthening
B.1 MOE Reorganization & Decentralization
Reorganization action plan                            Plan              Completed
- 31 -



Implementation of reorganization                   3 stage process         Completed
Reorganization evaluation                              Study               Completed
Reform of employment and salary regime                Progress            Incomplete
Administrative functional decentralization            Progress             Completed
Construction of new Departmental Offices                 13                  12 1/
Rehabilitation of Departmental Offices                   5                     5
Equipment for Departmental Offices                       18                    18
Supervisors appointed                                   225                   138
Staff trained                                            13                   13
Design of MIS system                                  Design               Completed
MIS annual reports and bulletin                         10                     5
B.2 Teacher Improvement Program
Teacher performance assessment criteria               Criteria             Completed
Distribution of school calendars (years)                 5                     5
Payment of teacher incentives (cumulative)             3,000                 1,737
Students enrolled in PROHECO schools                   15,000               42,842
PROHECO schools                                         500                  1,020
PROHECO teachers trained                                500                  1,070
PROHECO parents trained                                3,000                 5,700
PROHECO parents organizations                           500                  1,020
B.3 Project Administration, Monitoring & Evaluation
Use of textbooks                                       Study               Completed
Curriculum reform                                      Study               Incomplete
School performance                                     Study              Incomplete 2/
Community participation                                Study              Incomplete 2/
Teacher performance improvement program                Study               Completed
Impact of the CADs                                     Study               Completed
Impact of the CCIEs                                    Study               Completed
Impact of bilingual education                          Study               Completed
C. Emergency Subprojects                            _
School rehabilitation                                    18                    18
1/ One departmental office is still being built.
2/ An in-depth analysis ofthe PROHECO schools is being carried out by Columbia University and can be
consulted separately.
- 32 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Apprais'al  ActualULatest - Percentage of
Estimate      Estimate,     Appraisal
Project CostoBy omponent              US$ milon     -US million',
A. Improving the Quality of Basic Education
A. 1 Training of Teachers, Principals and Supervisors  2.30          1.41           61.2
A.2 Textbooks and Didactic Materials                 23.20          14.30           61.6
A.3 Bilingual Education                               1.60           0.22           13.8
A.4 External Evaluation                               1.30           1.53          115.1
A.5 Infrastructure Improvements                       6.90           7.36          106.7
B. Institutional Strengthening
B.1 Reorganization and Decentralization of the MOE   10.30           6.30           50.8
B.2 Teachers' Performnance Improvement Program        1.50          11.32            690
B.3 Project Administration, Monitoring and Evaluation  2.10          6.98            424
C. Emergency Subprojects                              0.00           1.10
Government Undisbursed                                               1.48
IDA Undisbursed                                                      1.10
Total Baseline Cost                                  49.20          53.10
Physical Contingencies                               1.20
Price Contingencies                                  2.70
Total Project Costs             53.10          53.10
Total Financing Required             53.10           53.10
The major changes in original and project-end financial allocations were perceived in three key areas:
First, the Bilingual Education program only utilized he resources allocated to the macro reforns in
the sector (15% of the subcomponent budget), including support for the normalization of indigenous
languages and the design of dictionaries and grammars. Resources for school level inputs (85% of the
subcomponent budget) were not utilized (as explained in section 4.2).
Second, additional funds were required for the restructured Subcomponent B.2, The Teachers
Performance Improvement Program, which financed the implementation of the School-Based Management
and Community Participation program (PROHECO). Within the restructured program, communities
identified, plan, procured and managed directly school resources, including nondurable educational
materials and other classroom complementary inputs.  Thus, resources from  Subcomponent A.2
(Textbooks and Didactic Materials) were reallocated to Subcomponent B.2.
Third, increased financial resources were required for Project Administration (Subcomponent B.3)
after Hurricane Mitch, both to support the emergency and reconstruction plan of the education sector (to
which this project contributed through a credit amendment) and also to guarantee that the project recovered
its rate of execution and achieved its implementation and development objectives, including a complete
monitoring and evaluation strategy. Also, in retrospect, the project design budget only allocated 4% of total
project costs for administration, monitoring and evaluation; which may have been grossly under-estimated.
- 33 -



Project Costs by Procurem    nt Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent) .
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category         ICB                              2         N.B.F.      Total Cost
NCB            thr2
1. Works                        0.00           0.00           0.00           5.77          5.77
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                        18.38           1.38          0.90           7.53         28.19
(13.93)         (0.91)        (0.71)         (0.00)       (15.55)
3. Services                     0.00           0.00           7.49           0.00          7.49
(0.00)         (0.00)         (7.49)        (0.00)        (7.49)
4. Operating Costs              0.00           0.00           11.65          0.00          11.65
(0.00)         (0.00)         (6.96)        (0.00)        (6.96)
Total                        18.38           1.38          20.04          13.30        53.10
(13.93)         (0.91)        (15.16)        (0.00)       (30.00)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (ActuallLatest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method"
.Expenditure Category                        . ICB. NCB                      .''Other2  Totil Cost
1. Works                        0.00           0.00           0.00          7.36          7.36
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                         6.30          2.56           1.38          6.20          16.44
(6.30)         (2.56)        (1.05)         (0.00)       (9.91)
3. Services                     0.00           0.00           7.14          0.23          7.37
(0.00)         (0.00)        (6.69)         (0.00)       (6.69)
4. Operating Costs               0.00          0.00           19.35         0.00          19.35
(0.00)         (0.00)        (12.30)        (0.00)       (12.30)
Total                         6.30           2.56         27.87          13.79         50.52
(6.30)         (2.56)        (20.04)        (0.00)       (28.90)
Note: The actual total project cost of US$50.52 million, is based on calculations of US$2.58 million undisbursed
funds from the total cost of US$53.1 million estimated at appraisal. Total IDA credit cost of US$28.9 million
equivalent is based on calculations of US$1.1 million undisbursed at the credit closing date.
Note: Operating Costs Include Financing of Subcomponent B.2, (Teachers' Performance Improvement Program,
PROHECO). To guarantee transition to regular MOE operations, PROHECO's financial resources from the IDA
credit were considered "operating costs" and financed on a declining basis and, thus, be incorporated fully by
project-end into the regular Goverment budget.
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
D Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
- 34 -



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
-;n srL L ; 'S ''' ' z ; ss                                                                                             ,,   '  9  s  S.;   U;s   1  ;   a     ,,   _ Percentage of Appraisal
TxtCos7nimponent  :-  :  Appraisal Est  ate              ActuallLatest Estimate-
________             _       IA         Govt. ,      oF!       -DA        Govt          F. i. DA        Govt    CoF.
A. Improving the Quality     16.10       5.90       13.30      10.32        1.20      13.30     64.1     20.3   100.0
of Basic Education
B. Institutional             10.00       3.90       0.00       17.48       7.12       0.00      174.8   182.6    0.0
Strengthening
C. Emergency Subprojects     0.00        0.00       0.00        1.10       0.00        0.00      0.0     0.0     0.0
Contingencies                3.90        0.00       0.00                                         0.0     0.0     0.0
Total 1/                     30.00       9.80       13.30      28.90       8.32       13.30     96.3     84.9   100.0
Undisbursed Funds (at                                           1.10        1.48
Credit Closing)
1/ Appraisal Estimates have been reconstmrted, since the SAR specified financing by disbursement accounts, not by component. See SAR, Annex 13,
Table 7, page 96.
2/Some KFW funds have not been disbursed; however their financing line for this Project is still opened and its expected I 00/o of funds will be used.
- 35 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
1. Economic Analysis
The original economic analysis (SAR, Annex 17) estimated the benefits of the Project as including (a) an
increase in the future earning power of students who received a basic education of higher quality; (b) a
reduction in the fiscal cost of delivering public education as the rate of repetition and dropout are reduced;
and (c) a reduction in the fiscal cost of delivering public education resulting from the decentralization of
education services and the reorganization of the MOE. The original analysis also indicated that the project
would generate distributional gains as a result of its focus on improving the education of low income and
rural students.
The benefits of increased earning power of students exposed to the project was estimated at Appraisal
based on 6,902 individual earners observations from the Honduras national household survey for the year
1992. Based on these data, "mincerian" earning functions were estimated for three socioeconomic groups:
workers within the lowest three declines (62%), workers within the intermediate four deciles (32%), and
workers in the three top deciles of the income distribution (6%). These functions were used to estimate the
future flow of income of a student from the low-income group and for the middle-income group. Assuming
only project benefits pertaining to students from the low-income group, two academic achievement
scenarios were adopted: (i) the project would enable students to increase their future earning power by 10
percent of the existing earning differential between low and middle-income groups; and (ii) the project
would only enable students to increase their future earning power by only 5 percent of the existing
differential. With regard to project costs, two scenarios were considered. The first scenario considered
only the costs of the component A, Improving the Quality of Basic Education net of bilingual education,
while the second scenario considered total project costs.
Based on these assumptions, the estimated internal rate of return of the Project at Appraisal is shown in
Table 1 below.
Table 1. Estimated Internal Rate of Return at Appraisal
Improvement of Income Earning                    Considering Costs of:
Power             -Quality of Education Component     Total Project Costs
With 10% of income differential          20.78%                        18.13%
With 5% of income differential            16.18%                       13.82%
Although trends in primary education attainment observed during the 1995-200 period, especially lower
repetition rates and higher primary education completion rates are widely believed to be closely associated
with improvements in education quality, the appraisal economic analysis could not be replicated because
the assumed improvements in the quality of education could not be directly measured. Instead, an
economic analysis of the PROHECO program was carried out, and benefits were estimated based on the
additional years of education attained by PROHECO students, compared with data from the Honduras
household survey for the year 1999. Results are presented in Table 2.
- 36 -



Table 2. Average Yearly Income of Employed and Self-Employed Individuals by Age group and Level of
Education
Yearly Income by Years fP'riinary Education Completed   'Difference 6 v.0
A- "  ge  -, c t S              (Lempira of-1999) 
-  .- .-h   --  .0,  ,^M     l,-2    x  <    3-5-  <.      . 6  -_      __.. :. ._- ._
10-14          5,315           4,915          6,209           7,744           46
15-19          8,992          10,142          9,446          11,615           29
20-24           9,456          12,744         13,976          16,960           79
25-29          12,421          15,936         13,073          17,972           45
30-34          11,615          18,055         16,442         21,052            81
35-39          11,047          15,136         18,401         23,438           112
40-44          12,078          19,244         19,949         25,211           109
45-49          11,635          16,879         24,322         26,317           126
50-54          12,539          19,739         21,158         31,250           149
55-59          10,050          18,763         24,420         28,244           181
60-64           8,330          12,443         14,918          19,684          136
Total          10,948          15,827         16,536         19,062           74
The internal rate of return of the PROHECO program (Table 3) is estimated based on the projected
increase in earnings of the students, the real efficiency factors reported in PROHECO schools, and the real
costs of the program.
Table 3. Internal Rate of Return of the PROHECO program (Lempiras 2001)
,aniingss wit hout ,                   Earning with
Age Cohort         PROHECO       :Cost of PROHECO,      PROHECO           -Net Benefits
.___.'__                *~,,-,,,     ,                        ''(A.),- -: ., ,  ;':':'@)' ' | < | t (C).,  (C-A-'B)
7                  0              315,872               0              -315,872
8               13,184             40,406             1,281            -52,309
9               17,195             37,302             2,816            -51,682
10              159,444            35,756            27,536            -167,664
11              159,444            34,998             35,105           -159,337
12              159,444            33,043            42,101            -150,386
13              159,444           -205,761            47,878            94,194
55-59            '301,500              0               758,533           457,033
60-65             301,500              0               758,533           457,033
IRR           Discount Rate:         NPV
11.0%              12%            (1.96,678.53)
10%              117,475
5%              1,812,964
4%              2,650,118
As suggested in the original econonic analysis, the project appears to have generated significant
distributional gains as a result of its focus on improving the education of low income and rural students.
- 37 -



Table 4 shows that the average number of years of schooling for children in the bottom quintile of the
income distribution rose from 3.7 in 1989 to 4.6 in 1999; and the proportion of the poor who graduated
from primary school increased from 40% in 1989 to 52% in 1999.
Table 4. Trends in Primary Education Attainment 1989-1999
Average primary education years completed by  Percent 'ith primary education completed
Cohort                    quintile    :yquinti]e
1      2-     3   |5               Total    2      3      4    5       Total
1989    3.7    4.2    4.6     5.3    5.5    4.7     50     63      77     86     62
1994    4.4    4.5    4.8     5.3    5.7    5.0     65     66      83     88     71
1999    4.6    4.8    5.2     5.5    5.6    5.1     63     71      81     87     70
Source: EPHPM, March 1999.
2. Fiscal Analysis
The SAR estimated the fiscal savings to the Honduran education system as a result of the Project based on
the estimated reduction in dropout and repetition rates. Table 5 summarizes the Appraisal analysis
compared with the actual primary education repetition rates for the period 1990-2000, indicating the
number of repeaters and the estimated cost of this inefficiency.
Table 5. Savings due to reduced primary education repetition rates
Repetition Rate (%)             No. Repeaters        Estimated Savings.per
.   ~ ~          .- .               . --_____ jyer:(US$)-1,
Year      SAR Estimates                 SAR Estimates
Without    With     Actual   Without     With   -Actual     SAR      Actual
project   project            project   project        .   _._._.
1990                          13.4                       118,934
1991                          11.9                       107.651
1992                          11.3                        108,495
1993                          11.9                        117,843
1994                          12.4                       125,066
1995      20.5      14.5      12.4    246,028   154,121   124,924  10,953,506   0
1996      20.0      13.5      10.9    247,750   145,295  112,099 12,210,659 1,890,411
1997      19.2      12.5      10.3    243,166   136,239  .108,496  12,743,553 2,644,522
1998      18.4      11.7      10.5    236,419   127,223   112,590 13,013,898 2,348,641
1999      17.7      10.9      10.1    228,757   109,526   109,526 13,142,497 2,909,983
2000      17.0      10.2      10.0    220,815   110,362   111,984 13,163,807 3,268,791
Total  75,227,92013,062,348
1/ Estimated at USSI 19.18 per student per year.
Source: Educacion en Cifras 1990-1999 for actual figures Enrollment and repetition rates are extrapolated for the year 2000 based on the 1990-99
senes The re-estimation of repetition rates uses 6 year cohort to be consisted with the SAR estimates
As Table 5 shows, the SAR fiscal analysis was overly optimistic, basically for two reasons. First,
enrollment rates did not increase as expected, reaching only 55% of the projected SAR figures. Second,
although actual repetition rates are even lower than expected, the corresponding cost savings were
significantly lower. Nevertheless, if one attributes to the project all of the savings associated with the
reduction in repetition rates during the 1995-2000 period -- which may be overestimating the impact of the
project --, the aggregate value of the savings totals US$13.1 million, equivalent to 17% of the SAR
estimate.
- 38 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty           Perforrnance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count           Specialty                     Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
08/01/1995           Education   Education Specialist, Consultants
Specialist,
Consultants
Supervision
09/01/1995                   1   Task Manager                      S             S
03/23/1996                   4   Task Manager, Economist,         HS             S
Educator, Financial Analyst
09/30/1996                   1   Education Specialist              S             S
12/05/1996                  3   Sr. Operations Officer, Education  S            U
Specialist, Procurement
Specialist
07/10/1997                   1   Sr. Education Officer             S             S
11/28/1997                  5   Team Leader, Procurement           S             S
Specialist, Financial Specialist,
Social Scientist, Bidding Analyst
03/19/1998                   5   Team Leader, Procurement          S             S
Specialist, Financial Specialist,
Accounting Specialist, Social
Scientist
06/03/1998                   1   Team Leader                       S             S
08/10/1998                   3   Task Manager, Operations
Specialist, Team Leader
10/09/1998                  4   Team Leader, Procurement           S            U
Analyst, Financial Analyst,
Monitor/Evaluation Consultant
04/27/1999                   7   Team Leader, Consultant,          S             U
General Educator, Procurement
Specialist
06/13/1999                   4   Team Leader, Social Scientists,   S             S
Education Sector Management
09/22/2000                  2    Institutional Development         S             S
Specialist
09/22/2000                   3   Task Manager, Consultant,         S             S
Education Specialist
ICR
January 2002               13    Sr. Institutional
Development Specialist,
Consultants
February 2002               4    Sr. Institutional Development     S             S
Specialist, Consultants
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
- 39 -



No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                 na                      162.73
Supervision                                na                      475.74
ICR                                        na                       54.24
Total                                      na                      692.71
1/ The number of staff weeks is not recorded in the historical budget system. ICR figures are estimated, as the
historical budget system does not distinguish between supervision and ICR expenditures.
- 40 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                        O H  OSUOM      O N   * NA
D Sector Policies                       O H  *SUOM      O N   O NA
I Physical                              O H  *SUOM      O N   O NA
O Financial                             O H  OSUOM      O N   O NA
O Institutional Development             0 H  0 SU O M   0 N   0 NA
O Environmental                         O H  OSUOM      O N   * NA
Social
5 Poverty Reduction               O H  * SU O M   O N   O NA
O Gender                          OH OSUOM ON *NA
L Other (Please specify)          O H  OSUOM      O N   * NA
LI Private sector development           0 H  O SU O M   0 N   0 NA
OI Public sector management             0 H  0 SU O M   0 N   0 NA
OI Other (Please specify)               O H  OSUOM      O N   * NA
- 41 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                  Rating
OI Lending                                           OHS OS OU OHU
OI Supervision                                       OHS OS       OU     OHU
El Overall                                           OHS OS       OU     O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                             Rating
L Preparation                                        OHS OS       O U    O HU
O Government implementation performance              O HS OS      O U    0 HU
LI Implementation agency performance                 OHS OS       OU     O HU
O Overall                                            OHS OS 0 U O HU
- 42 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Preparation and Appraisal Documents
World Bank, Staff Appraisal Report, Honduras: Basic Education Project, March 8, 1995.
World Bank, Project Appraisal Document, Honduras: Basic Education Project, November 1999.
World Bank, Informe de Evaluaci6n Inicial, Honduras: Proyecto Escuela Morazanica, March 1995.
Mid-Term Evaluation Documents
Reyes, Joel and Darlyn Meza. Informe de Resultados: Evaluaci6n de Medio Termino (November 7-13,
1999). World Bank, Washington, DC, December 1999.
Project Closing and Evaluation of Impact Documents
Carvajal, Mireya, Informe inicial de los Centros Comunitarios CCIE 199X-2000, February 2002.
ESA Consultores, Ex-post economic evaluation. Honduras Basic Education Project, Tegucigalpa,
Honduras, March 2002.
Grasser, Klaus. Reporte de actualizacion de los dos componentes constructivos al final del aiio 2001:
Construcci6n de aulas y construcci6n de Direcciones Departamentales de Educaci6n. January 2002.
IN[CE, Lineamientos para producci6n de materiales de capacitaci6n. Tegucigalpa, Honduras, 1996.
INICE, INICE: diseiio de seguimiento y monitoreo al proceso de formaci6n de docentes en educacion
Basica en servicio, a nivel nacional, 1999.
Landivar, Wilma, Informe de Consultaria: Propuesta de una estrategia para capacitar docentes en la
utilizaci6n de textos. September 1999.
Mimbrefio, Juan Sim6n, INFORME Final del Componente Mejoramiento de la calidad de la Educaci6n.
December 7, 2000.
PKF Worldwide, Evaluacion de Impacto del Proyecto de Mejoramiento de la Educaci6n Basica, Fairfax,
VA, January 2002.
PROMEB. Plan de Acci6n Octubre de 1999 a Diciembre 2000, Secretaria de Educaci6n Publica de la
Repliblica de Honduras, Tegucigalpa, Honduras, November 1999.
PROMEB. Informe Final de Actividades a Diciembre 2000, Secretaria de Educaci6n Publica de la
Repuiblica de Honduras, Tegucigalpa, Honduras, October 2001.
PROMEB, Lista final de titulos para bibliotecas de Aula Financiadas por la Cooperaci6n Alemana,
- 43 -



KfW/GTZ. Secretaria de Educaci6n Puiblica de la Rep6blica de Honduras, Tegucigalpa, Honduras,
November 2000.
PROMEB, Informe Final de Ejecuci6n Fisica y Financiera al 31 de diciembre del 2001. Ministry of
Education, Tegucigalpa, Honduras, February 2002.
PROMEB, Informe Final 1996-2000 Componente Mejoramiento de la Calidad de la Educacion
Reputblica de Honduras, Secretaria de Educaci6n Publica de la Repuiblica de Honduras Tegucigalpa,
Honduras, December 2000.
PROMEB, Informe PROMEB evaluacion de Medio Termino, Secretaria de Educaci6n Publica de la
Rep6blica de Honduras Tegucigalpa, Honduras, November 1999.
PROMEB, Informe de ejecuci6n del Plan Operativo Tercer Trimestre de 1997, Secretaria de Educaci6n
Publica de la Republica de Honduras Tegucigalpa, Honduras, Noviembre 1997.
PROMEB, Informe de Revisi6n Anual 1996. Secretaria de Educaci6n P[iblica de la Repuiblica de
Honduras Tegucigalpa, Honduras, April 1997.
Secretaria de Educaci6n Publica de la Republica de Honduras, Plan de los cien dias, Tegucigalpa,
Honduras, November 1998.
Secretaria de Educaci6n Publica de la Republica de Honduras, Directrices para Reorganizaci6n de la
Secretaria de Educacion Publicay Mordenizacion de su gerencia, Tegucigalpa, Honduras, June 1996.
Secretaria de Educaci6n Piblica de la Repuiblica de Honduras, La UMCE y sus comienzos; Tegucigalpa,
Honduras, September 2001.
Secretaria de Educaci6n Publica de la Republica de Honduras, El Programa deformaci6n continua. Una
experiencia alentadora. Tegucigalpa, Honduras, September 2001.
UPNFM. Informe del PFC. December 1998.
Documents prepared by UMCE-UPNFM. Subcomponent A4. External Evaluation of Student
Academic Achievement
UMCE, Rendimiento Global de Tercero y Sexto Grado en las asignaturas de Espaniol y Matemdticas,
Universidad Pedag6gical Nacional Francisco Morazan, Tegucigalpa, Honduras, 2000.
UMCE, Rendimiento Academico de 2o, 3o, 4o y 5o Grado en las asignaturas de Espaiiol y Matematicas,
Universidad Pedag6gical Nacional Francisco Morazan, Tegucigalpa, Honduras, 1999.
UMCE, Rendimiento en Espanol y matamaticas en los grados de: 2O, 3O, 4o y 6O Grado, Universidad
Pedag6gical Nacional Francisco Morazan, Tegucigalpa, Honduras, 2000.
UMCE, Informe de Resultados del Rendimiento Acad6mico en Espaniol y Matemdticas de Tercero y
Sexto Grado, Universidad Pedag6gical Nacional Francisco Morazan, Tegucigalpa, Honduras, 1998.
- 44 -



UMCE, Rendimiento en Matemdticas de: 2o, 3o, 4o, y 6o Grado, Universidad Pedag6gical Nacional
Francisco Morazan, Tegucigalpa, Honduras, 1998.
UMCE, Rendimiento en Espanol degb 2o, 3o, 4o, y 6o Grado, Universidad Pedag6gical Nacional
Francisco Morazan, Tegucigalpa, Honduras, 1999.
UMCE, Rendimiento en Matemrticas de: 2o, 3o, 4o, y So Grado, Universidad Pedag6gical Nacional
Francisco Morazan, Tegucigalpa, Honduras, 1999.
UMCE, Rendimiento en Espanol de: 2o, 3o, 4o, y 5o Grado, Universidad Pedag6gical Nacional Francisco
Morazan, Tegucigalpa, Honduras, 2000.
UMCE, Rendimiento en Matematica de Tercero y Sexto Grado, Universidad Pedag6gical Nacional
Francisco Morazan, Tegucigalpa, Honduras, 2000.
UMCE, Rendimiento en Espanol de Tercero y Sexto Grado, Universidad Pedag6gical Nacional Francisco
Morazan, Tegucigalpa, Honduras, 1999.
UMCE, El Lenguaje Oral y Escrito en 2o, 3o, 4o, y 5o Grado de las escuelas primarias de Honduras,
Universidad Pedag6gical Nacional Francisco Morazan, Tegucigalpa, Honduras, 1998.
UMCE, El Lenguaje Oral y Escrito en 2o y 4o Grado de la escuela primaria de Honduras, Universidad
Pedag6gical Nacional Francisco Morazan, Tegucigalpa, Honduras, 1998.
UMCE, Factores Asociados al Rendimiento Academico en las asignaturas de Espanol y Matemdticas de
Tercero y Sexto Grado, Universidad Pedag6gical Nacional Francisco Morazan, Tegucigalpa, Honduras,
1998.
UMCE, Informe de Patrones de Error en Matemdticas de Tercero y Sexto Grado, Universidad
Pedag6gical Nacional Francisco MorazAn, Tegucigalpa, Honduras, 1998.
UMCE, Analisis Multivariado, Universidad Pedag6gical Nacional Francisco MorazAn, Tegucigalpa,
Honduras, 1998.
UMCE, Resolucion de Problemas Matemdticos en Sexto Grado, Universidad Pedag6gical Nacional
Francisco Morazan, Tegucigalpa, Honduras, 1998.
UMCE, Informe Global del Rendimiento Academico 2o y 3o Grados. Proyecto Hondureno de Educaci6n
Comunitaria (PROHECO). Primera Evaluaci6n, 2000, Universidad Pedag6gical Nacional Francisco
Morazan, Tegucigalpa, Honduras, 2000.
UMCE, Estrategias Metodol6gicas para el Aprendizaje de Espanol y Matematica en la Escuela Primraria
Universidad Pedag6gical Nacional Francisco MorazAn, Tegucigalpa, Honduras, 1997.
- 45 -



- 46 -






IMAGING
Report No.:         24048
Type:     lCR



