Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 13791-HO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
HONDURAS
BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
MARCH 8, 1995
Country Department II
Human Resources Operations Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    =        Lempira (L)
US$1.00             =     9.3 Lempiras (January 1995)
SDR 1.0             =     US$1.47 (January 31, 1995)
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ACADEMIC YEAR
February 1 - November 30
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ADEPRIR  Rural Primary Education Management Project (Proyecto Administracion de la Educacion Primaria Rural -
ADEPRIR)
AMHON  Honduran Association of Municipalities (Asociaci6n de Municipios de Honduras)
CADs Teacher Training Centers (Centros de Aprendizaje Docente)
CAS Country Assistance Strategy
CBH  Central Bank of Honduras (Banco Central de Honduras)
CEPENF Centers for Non-Formal Preschool Education (Centros de Educaci6n Pre-escolar No Formal)
CCIE Community Centers for Initial Education (Centros Comunitarios para la Iniciaci6n Escolar)
EDI World Bank Education Development Institute
FHIS Honduran Social Investment Fund (Fondo Hondureflo de Inversion Social)
GDP Gross Domestic Product
GOH Government of Honduras
GTZ  German Agency for Technical Cooperation (Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeir)
ICB International Competitive Bidding
INFOP Professional Training Institute (Instituto Nacional de Formaci6n Profesional)
INICE National Institute for Education Research and Training (Instituto Nacional de Invesngaci6n y Capaciraci6n
Educativa)
IDA International Development Association
KfW   German Credit Institute for Reconstruction (Kreditanstalt fur Wiederauflwau)
MIS Management Information System
MOE  Ministry of Education (Secretaria de Educacion Publica)
MOF  Ministry of Finance (Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico)
MOH  Ministry of Health (Secretaria de Salud Publica)
NGO Non-Governmental Organization
PCU Project Coordination Unit
PRAF  Family Assistance Program (Programa de Asignaci6n Familiar)
PRONEEAN  National Program of Education for Indigenous Ethnic Groups (Prograna Nacional de Educaci6n para las Etnias
Aut6ctonas de Honduras)
SECPLAN State Secretariat of Planning, Coordination and Budget (Secretaria de Planificaci6n, Coordinacion y
Presupuesto)
FHIS-I Social Investment Fund Project
FHIS-I1 Second Social Investment Fund Project
SOE Statement of Expenditure
RUTA SOCIAL  Regional Unit for Technical Assistance in the Social Sectors
UNDP United Nations Development Programme (Programa de las Naciones Unidas para el Desarrollo)
UNESCO United Nations Education, Science and Culture Organization
UNHA Honduran National Autonomous University (Universidad Nacional Aut6noma de Honduras)
UNICEF United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund (Fondo de las Naciones Unidas para la Infancia)
UPNFM National Pedagogic University (Universidad Pedag6gica Nacional Francisco Morazan)
UMCE Unit for the Measurement of Education Quality
USAID United States Agency for International Development



HONDURAS
BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY  .........                           ......................  iii
I. ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL CONTEXT  ........                           ....................   I
H. THE PRIMARY EDUCATION SYSTEM   .......                           ....................  2
A. Overview   ..........................................   2
B. Issues in Primary Education  ........               .......................  4
Quality .......................................... 4
Efficiency ......................................... 8
Equity  ..........................................  11
C. Government Strategy for the Education Sector ....................                      13
D. Bank and IDA Support and Experience in the Social Sectors  ...               ........ 15
E. Lessons Learned from Past Operations ........................ 15
Lessons Learned from Honduran Projects ..................... 15
Bank-Wide Education Projects ............................ 16
F. Rationale for Bank Involvement ............................. 18
Im. THE PROJECT   .......................................... 19
A. Project Objectives ..................................... 19
B. Project Areas and Target Population .......................... 19
C. Project Components .................................... 19
D. Project Description   .................................... 20
Component A. Improving the Quality of Basic Education ...               ........ 20
Subcomponent A. 1. Training of primary and preprimary
teachers, supervisors and school principals  ...         ........ 20
Subcomponent A.2. Textbooks and Didactic Materials  ...             ..... 22
Subcomponent A.3. Bilingual Education  ................. 22
Subcomponent A.4. External Evaluation of Student Academic
Achievements ............................. 23
Subcomponent A.5. Improvement of Physical Infrastructure in
Rural Areas .............................. 24
Component B. Institutional Strengthening  .................... 25
This report is based on the findings of the appraisal mission that visited Honduras in August, 1994.
The mission wus composed of Mmes. /Messrs. Anna Sant'Anna (mission leader) (LA 2HR), Alfredo
Sarmiento, Maria Elena Anderson (Ruta Social); Johanna Filp, Josemar Rodrfguez, Carlos Benito,
and Carlos Chamorro (consultants). Juan Eduardo Garcla-Huidobro (consultant) participated in
earlier stages of project preparation; Rosaria Thoia (LA2HR) participated in post-appraisal stages.
Mmes. Claudia Otero and Marfa Colchao (LA22HR), contributed to the report at headquarters. Peer
reviewers are Donald Wnkler (LATAD) and Eleanor Schreiber (LA22HR). Messrs. Edilberto L.
Segura and Kye Vibo Lee are the Department Director and Division Chief, respectively, for this
operation.



- ii -
Subcomponent B. 1. Reorganization and Decentralization of the
MOE   ............  ..  ..  ...  ..  ..  ..  ..  ...  ..  .                              . 26
Subcomponent B.2. Teachers' Performance Incentives Program   . . . 28
Subcomponent B.3. Project Administration, Monitoring and
Evaluation  .......  .              .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     . 29
IV. PROJECT COST, PROCUREMENT, DISBURSEMENT, AND AUDITS ...... .   . 30
A.  Project Costs and Financing  .......  .                       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     . 30
B. Procurement ........................................ . 33
C.  Disbursements   .........  .                    ..  .  ..  .  .  ..  .  .  ..  .  ..  .  .  ..  .  .  ..  .  ..  .     .  35
D.  Accounts and Audits  ........  .                     .  ..  .  .  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  .  ..  .     .  36
V. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND SUPERVISION  .... .                                                  ......... .  .  .  .  .  .   . 36
A.  Project Implementation   ........  .                     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  36
Project Preparation    ........  .                 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  36
Project Monitoring  ........  .                  .  .  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  .     .  37
Annual Project Reviews .......  .                     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  37
Mid-Term  Review    ........  .                  .  .  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  .     .  37
B.  Project Supervision    ........  .                   .  ..  .  .  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  37
C.  Project Launch  Seminar   .......  .                     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  38
D.  Project Sustainability   ........  .                   .  .  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .     .  38
VI.  PROJECT  BENEFITS  AND  RISKS   .......  .                               .  .  .     .........  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     . 38
A.  Project Benefits   .........  .                    .  ..  .  .  .  ..  .  .  ..  .  .  ..  .  .  .  ..  .  .  ..  .  .    .  38
B.  Impact on Women   ........  ..  .                      .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .    .  39
C.  Environmental Impact ........  .                       .  .  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  .     .  39
D.  Project Risks   .........  ..  .                  ..  .  ..  .  ..  ..  .   .  ..  ..  .  ..  .  ..  .  ..  .  .     . 39
E.  Program  Objective Category  .......  .                       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     . 39
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  ..... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 40
ANNEXES ................................................. 43
MAPS - IBRD Nos. 26279R - 26281



HONDURAS
BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:         The Republic of Honduras
hnplementing
Agency:           The Ministry of Public Education (MOE).
Beneficiary:      Not applicable.
Poverty:          Program of Thrgeted Interventions. The project will support the
national policy of equitable access to education opportunities,
by channeling resources especially to rural and indigenous areas, thus
contributing to poverty reduction and development of human resources.
Amount:           SDR 20.4 million (US$30.0 million equivalent).
Terms:            Standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity, including 10 years of
grace.
Commitment        0.50% on undisbursed credit balances, beginning 60
Fee:              days after signing, less any waiver.
Financing         See para. 4.4.
Plan:
Net Present
Value:            Not applicable. An alternative economic analysis scenario which only
considers potential gains in the future earnings power of students yields
IRRs of 13.8% with a 5% student income differential, and 18.1% with
a 10% income differential. See Annex 17.
Maps:             IBRD Nos. 26279R and 26281



BASIC DATA SHEET
Honduras    Year
A.   General Country Data
GNP Per Capita (US$)                                    580        1993
Area (Thousand Square Kilometers)                      112.5       1994
Population Estimate (Millions)                           5.5       1994
Rural Population (% of Total)                           60.6       1994
Population Projection, Year 2000                        6.3        1994
B.    Social Indicators
Birth rate (per thousand)                               37.1       1994
Average Annual Rate of Population Growth (%)            3.0        1994
Total Fertility Rate                                    4.5        1994
Infant Mortality Rate (per 1,000 live births)           45.3       1994
Life Expectancy at Birth (years)                        67.6       1994
Adult Illiteracy Rate (% of persons 15 and over)        32.0       1992
C.    Education Statistics
Primary (Net)(Grades 1-6)(%)                            80.0       1992
Lower Secondary (Grades 7-9)( %)                        37.0       1992
Total Primary Enrollment (millions)                      1.0       1993
Primary School and Efficiency Data:
Number of Teachers (thousands)                        29.0       1993
Student/Teacher Ratio                                 34.0       1993
Incomplete Schools (% of total enrollment)             8.8        1993
Single Grade Schools (% of total enrollment)           0.4       1993
Repetition Rate (%)                                   28.0       1993
Dropout Rate (%)                                       4.9        1993
Completion Rate (%)                                   30.0       1993
Education Expenditure Data:
Total Public Education Spending (% of GDP)             4.1       1993
Public Education Spending (% of Central
Government Expenditures)                              15.2       1993
Public Primary Education Spending (% of
Public Education Expenditures Among all Levels)       47.3       1993
Sources:  MOE and Bank staff estimates, 1994; UNICEF, El Gasto Social en Honduras, 1993; and
SECPLAN Honduras: Proyecciones de Poblaci6n, 1992.



EDUCATION GLOSSARY
Completion rate         For six-year primary education, the ratio between the number of
students exiting grade 6 in a given year T and the number of
students entering grade I in year T-6, as a close approximation
of the percentage of students of a given cohort to complete six-
year primary school.
Dropout rate            Percentage of students who abandon the system without
completing the education cycle, e.g., primary school.
Educational attainment  Number of formal school years achieved by a student.
Educational achievement   Magnitude achievement in any subject area, generally measured
on the basis of national curriculum learning objectives.
Enrollment ratio         Ratio of total enrollment in a given school cycle (e.g., primary)
to the population in the corresponding age group.
Incomplete school       Primary school with fewer than the six official primary
education grades.
Net enrollment rate     Percentage of children of a given age group enrolled in their
corresponding grade level.
Promotion rate          Percentage of the students enrolled in a given grade who enroll
in the next higher grade the following year.
Repetition rate         Percentage of the students enrolled in a certain grade who are
not promoted to the next grade and who therefore enroll again
in the same grade the following year.






HONDURAS
BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL CONTEXT
1.1.  Although Honduras experienced some economic progress over the last two decades, per
capita GNP in 1994 remains low at an estimated US$580. One-third of the population of 5.5
million lives in extreme poverty and 80 percent of the poor live in rural areas. The promising
economic trends of 1991-92 were not sustained in 1993. As the elections approached, the fiscal
deficit, which was targeted to fall to 3.8 percent of GDP in 1993, reached over 10 percent. A
new Administration took office in January 1994, inheriting serious fiscal and balance of
payments problems. Inflationary pressure began to build up in 1993, and foreign exchange
reserves have now been depleted. The present Administration is committed to the resumption
of sustainable economic growth, through the implementation of a medium-term program that
aims to: (a) reduce the fiscal deficit; (b) reform the public sector by reducing its size and
increasing its efficiency; (c) restructure the social security system to eliminate the existing
financial deficit; (d) privatize selected public enterprises; (e) reduce the number of tax
exemptions, and (f) strengthen tax administration. At the same time, the Government intends
to maintain the present level of social expenditures in the face of fiscal austerity, and continue
its program  of poverty reduction and human resource development.  The two safety net
programs created in 1990, the Honduran Social Investment Fund (Fondo Hondurehlo de Inversi6n
Social - FHIS) and the Family Assistance Program (Programa de Asignaci6n Familiar - PRAF),
target the poorest and most vulnerable groups of the population, and are supported by IDA
Credits 2212-HO and 2401-HO for the FHIS-I and FMIS-II projects, approved in 1991 and 1992,
respectively. The PRAF nutrition program is further supported by IDA Credit 2452-HO,
approved in 1993 for a Nutrition and Health project. To complement these safety net programs,
the Government proposes to implement a broad range of policy reforms and investment
programs in health and education, in order to improve resource allocation, achieve greater
operational efficiency, enhance service quality, and ensure better targeting of public education
and health services to the poorest groups of the population. The Government has a clear
perception of social needs and is assigning high priority to the development of human resources
through investment in education, particularly at the primary level (paras. 2.21-2.22). In order
for macroeconomic reforms to be successful, the policies must promote a more equal distribution
of gains and opportunities in society at large. Through improved basic schooling, a more
capable labor force will develop, which will help to offset regional imbalances and make more
Hondurans active beneficiaries of development. In pursuit of this strategy, the Government of
Honduras asked for IDA support for a Basic Education Project in June 1993. IDA started
project preparation in July 1993 and appraised it in August 1994. This report analyzes and
supports the proposed Basic Education Project.
1.2.  Honduras' potential for economic growth is constrained by low levels of human capital
accumulation and widespread poverty. In 1992, the illiteracy rate for the adult population was
still at 32 percent, reaching over 42 percent in rural areas. The average level of educational
attainment of the population was only 3.9 years of schooling. These low indicators are due to
the small financial base available for public education, limited institutional capacity, and
inappropriate resource allocation within the education sector. As a result, the education system
is characterized by low internal efficiency and quality, albeit with fairly extensive coverage, and



high repetition and dropout rates especially at the primary level.  In recent years, public
spending on education reached 4 percent of GDP, which compares favorably to neighboring
countries of similar income. However, the share of education in total public expenditure
declined in real terms, from 21 percent in 1974 to 16 percent in 1995, notwithstanding large
increases in total public sector spending during this period. Within the education sector, the
share of spending on preprimary and primary education declined by 6 percent, from 54 percent
in 1980 to 47 percent in 1993, while secondary, technical and university education expenditures
increased in real terms. Primary school enrollment expanded rapidly in response to a population
growth rate of over 3.0 percent per year, public spending per student at preprimary and primary
levels declined by 20 percent, while administrative expenditures per student doubled, reflecting
a pattern of inefficient spending which aggravates the inadequacy of resources available for
education.
II. THE PRIMARY EDUCATION SYSTEM
A. Overview of Sectoral Organization and Achievements
2.1.   Honduras has made considerable progress in expanding access to education in recent
decades, particularly at the primary school level. Adult illiteracy decreased from 53 percent in
1961 to about 32 percent in 1992; access to primary school is now nearly universal; net
enrollment in primary schools is estimated at 80 percent in 1992; the number of students
attending primary schools tripled, from 319,381 to 990,352 over the 1970-93 period. The
system's capacity to retain students is also high--as the average primary student stays at school
for 6.7 years. By 1992, 14 percent of children aged 4-6 attended preprimary school, and an
additional 12 percent participated in non-formal preschool education programs; 80 percent of
children aged 7-12 attended primary school; and 32 percent of children aged 13-19 were enrolled
in secondary school, nearly three times as many as in 1981. Primary education is provided by
a network of 7,513 schools (95.6 percent public), and about 29,096 teachers, or an average of
34 students per teacher (Table 1). The proportion of primary students attending schools offering
all six grades of primary instruction has increased from 48 percent to 92 percent during the last
13 years. The percentage of students who complete primary school in six years grew from 27
percent in 1986 to 33 percent in 1992 (Annex 1).
Thble 1. Honduran School System - 1993
Number of Students                  Number
Total    Public  Age  Coverage      of    Number of
Enrollment  (%)  group    (%)    Teachers   Schools
Preschool
Formal 1'               63,449      77   4-6       13.4    2,024      1,021
Informal1'              55,173    N/A              11.5
Primary                990,352      96  7-12      80.0   29,096       7,513
Secondary 1'           274,324      56 13-19      32.0    9,847         589
Higher Education 2'       34,850      94 20-25        9.0    3,641          8
Total  1,418,148     89                    44,608       9,131
1'  1992 data.  2'  1987 data.



- 3 -
2.2.   The formal education system in Honduras is based on the 1982 Constitution, the 1966
Organic Education Law (Ley Orgdnica de Educaci6n), the Higher Education Law (Ley de
Educaci6n Superior) of 1989, and the Organic Law of the National Autonomous University of
Honduras (Ley Orgdnica de la Universidad Nacional Aut6noma de Honduras - UNAH). It
includes two to three-year preschool (pre-kinder, kinder, and preparatory grade), six years of
mandatory primary education, three years of basic secondary education, two to four optional
additional years of secondary education, and undergraduate and graduate higher education
programs. Of a total enrollment in 1993 of about 1.4 million students in all education levels,
over two-thirds were enrolled at the primary level (grades 1-6). The basic secondary education
leads to a diversified cycle of 2-3 years that presently offers 27 career tracks, although the
commerce and liberal arts baccalaureates account for more than half of the total enrollment.
Higher education lasts from three to six years, depending on the career pursued, and the
universities have an autonomous relationship with the Ministry of Education - MOE (Secretaria
de Educaci6n Publica). The public sector serves 89 percent of the students, mostly at the
primary level.
2.3.  The education attainment of Honduran women has reached levels similar to those of men.
There are at present no gender differences in the overall literacy rate, although older women are
less literate than older men, reflecting a bias in favor of boys in the early development of
primary education. Female enrollment now surpasses that of males at the preschool, secondary
and higher education levels. In primary education, the enrollment of boys is roughly equal to
that of girls.
2.4.  The MOE is the main public agency of the education sector, employing 37,600 teachers
and administrators and managing 78 percent of the public education budget. The MOE is
responsible for preschool, primary, secondary and adult education nationwide. The National
Council for Higher Education is the normative entity for higher education. There are six
universities and five higher education institutes. Public higher education facilities, the National
Autonomous University of Honduras (Universidad Nacional Aut6noma de Honduras - UNAH)
and the National Pedagogic University (Universidad Pedag6gica Nacional Francisco de Morazdn
- UPNFA), account for 94 percent of higher education enrollment; the remaining 6 percent of
students attend private universities.  Manpower training is under the responsibility of the
Professional Training Institute (Instituto Nacional de Formaci6n Prfesional - INFOP) which is
financed by a special payroll tax. The share of the private sector in the national educational
system is small but significant at the secondary level, where it accounts for 44 percent of
enrollment, and at the preschool level, where private enrollment is estimated to be 23 percent
of the total. Except in a few cases (of scholarships for secondary students and MOE support for
semi-official secondary schools) private schools receive no public subsidies!'.  In 1993,
transfers to the private sector represented only 1.6 percent of the education sector budget. The
MOE manages the educational system in a highly centralized fashion; departments and
municipalities have no formal responsibilities for public education.
2.5.  Public expenditures on education in Honduras are relatively high. The proportion of
GDP spent on education is higher than the international average, exceeding that of most Central
American countries, except Costa Rica and Panama. Over the last few decades, the share of
GDP spent on public education increased in real terms, from about 3.3 percent during 1974-79,
1' These subsidies are estimated as the equivalent of about US$120,000 per year in 1994.



- 4 -
to 3.7 percent in 1980-84, rising sharply to about 4.6 percent in 1985-80, then declining to an
average of about 4 percent during the 1990-93 period (Annex 2). Sector expenditures are
unequally distributed, favoring the urban areas at the expense of rural areas where most of the
poor live. The share of primary and secondary education declined by 6 percent during the 1980-
92 period, while administrative expenditures grew by 8 percent, and higher and technical
education expenditures rose by 3 percent. Although substantial cuts in administrative expenses
can be made, the education sector budget would have to increase in line with the projected
growth in GDP, to finance substantial improvements in the equity and quality of basic education
(para. 2.21).
B. Issues in Primary Education
2.6.   Despite recent educational achievements, key problems must still be addressed under
three principal headings: quality, efficiency, and equity.
Quality
2.7.   Low Educational Achievement. Although there is no nation-wide standardized academic
evaluation system in Honduras, data from school tests suggest that effective learning in school
is deficient. In 1990, a sample Spanish test for students in grades I and 3 showed that academic
achievement levels were very low: 36 for third grade students and 41 for first grade students,
out of a possible score of 100.Y Moreover, there is a considerable disparity in achievement
levels between students attending rural and urban schools.  A  sample external evaluation
conducted in 1990 reports average scores for first graders at rural multigrade schools to be 10
percent below those of students attending urban schools.2' These low educational achievement
levels are associated with deficiencies in the administration of the system that are reflected as
inadequate supervision (insufficient classroom time, poor teaching quality and teacher
absenteeism); insufficient didactic materials; overcrowded and dilapidated school facilities; and
inappropriate curricula. External factors associated with family poverty and lack of incentives
for community and parental involvement in school issues compound the problem.
Teachers' evaluations of student achievement levels are marred by lack of evaluation skills and
inadequate testing instruments, resulting in a considerable degree of arbitrariness in the grading
system.
2.8.   Poor Teaching Quality. The educational system lacks a permanent and systematic in-
service teacher's training program, therefore instruction is teacher-centered and of low quality,
emphasizing mechanical rules and memorization rather than student involvement.  Most
Honduran primary school teachers are graduates of special public teacher training schools
(Escuelas Normnaes), which give them  the required secondary-level teaching qualification.
Training provided by these schools is inadequate, however, due to the low quality of instruction
and obsolete curricula.  As a result, most teachers lack the theoretical background and
pedagogical skills needed to foster effective interaction with students, teach children effectively
' Results based on evaluations done by teacher of a sample of 1255 rural primary student. Harvard University,
Bridges Project. Estudio sobre Repitencia y Desercion en Honduras: Asistr y Aprender o Repetir y Desertar,
Mimeographed Report, Cambridge, MA: June 1991.
2' Secretarfa de Educaci6n Publica, Republica de Honduras. Infonne de la Aplicaci6n de Pruebas, Proyecto
Eficiencia de la Educacion Primaria, Tegucigalpa: 1992. Results are based on the external evaluation of 7,261
students, or the equivalent to I percent sample of the primary school population in 1990/91.



in the crucial lower grades, make the best use of textbooks and other instructional materials, and
identify and orient children with learning disabilities. These deficiencies are exacerbated by
inadequate in-service training programs, which currently cover too many topics with little
relevance to classroom teaching. Rural teachers are those most in need of training because of
their relative isolation, inexperience, lack of supervision, and the added difficulty of handling
multigrade teaching of children from  deprived communities.  Effective management of
multigrade classrooms (almost the rule in rural schools) is one of the principal ways to improve
teaching quality, requiring coordinated action between training, provision of educational
materials, and supervision. Poor socioeconomic conditions add to the learning difficulties of
children in rural communities, whose families have little or no educational background.
Teachers must learn how to deal with these situations on the job. The proposed project will
provide better designed and more comprehensive in-service teacher training, through a network
of 1,500 conveniently located Teacher Training Centers (Centros de Aprendizaje Docente -
C4Ds). The CADs have already been established but need strengthening through continuous
technical supervision with improved pedagogical inflection. The project will also support
improvements to pre-service training curricula at normal schools (paras. 3.7-3.10).
2.9.  Insufficient Classroom Time. Although the Organic Education Law defines the length
of the school year as 200 days, the legal school calendar is not respected in most schools.
Effective classroom time is limited to 3-4 hours per day, 110 days per year. Some schools are
frequently not in session due to teachers' absence, especially in rural areas. The loss is partly
due to administrative inefficiency: some 40 to 50 days of school are lost every year (25 percent
of the school year), due to long matriculation and examination periods, and poorly planned
teacher training schedules. The amount of time that teachers are actually available to interact
with students is further reduced by the shortage of teachers in rural areas. The average rural
school has only two teachers, compared to 12 teachers on average per urban school. Low
enrollment in many small rural schools does not justify additional teachers or classrooms, but
about 25 percent of rural multigrade schools have more than 60 students and only one teacher,
who is responsible for all grades in a single classroom. Nationwide, 62 percent of primary
school teachers teach more than one grade, and most of them lack the skills to teach in
multigrade conditions.  The proposed project will include measures to increase effective
classroom time by a minimum of 64 percent (from 110 to 180 days of instruction per year), and
reduce overcrowding and teacher shortages in rural areas by providing incentives to teachers and
by improving physical infrastructure in rural areas (paras. 3.16-3.17, 3.22).
2.10. Teacher Absenteeism, Misallocation and Lack of Incentives. Teacher absenteeism in
rural areas stems from: (a) difficult working and living conditions; (b) long commutes from
homes to schools; (c) excessive amount of time necessary (an average of three working days per
month) for teachers to cash their monthly checks; and (d) the lack of incentives (such as training
opportunities, performance rewards, or faster promotions). As a result, teacher absenteeism is
high, and students lose many class days each year. In addition, the turnover rate among rural
teachers is higher than in urban areas, leading to the assignment of inexperienced entry-level
teachers to the most crucial initial grades in difficult locations.  Difficulties are further
compounded by teacher hiring and assignment practices, inadequate admission tests, and frequent
reassignments from rural to urban areas, resulting in the overstaffing of many urban schools and
the understaffing of rural schools (the student/teacher ratio is 29 in urban areas and 40 in rural
areas). Teacher salary levels are adjusted uniformly, and there is no incentive for teachers to
excel in their performance. The proposed project will introduce a teachers' performance



improvement program for rural teachers who achieve significant improvements in student and
teacher attendance as well as community and parental involvement in school. This program will
grant incentives amounting to about 7 percent of the teacher's average annual salary, and will
start on a pilot basis in selected rural schools. Participation will be voluntary, and participating
teachers will be asked to promote and accept community monitoring of their school activities,
including attendance. Student attendance will be verified by MOE supervisors (para. 3.22).
2.11. Inadequate Supervision.   Teacher supervision is infrequent and limited to the
administrative inspection of school statistics. This has resulted in: (a) little or no feedback on
teacher performance; (b) no systematic follow-up on improvement in student achievements; (c)
weak control over teacher attendance; and (d) insufficient supervisory input for timely textbook
and materials distribution. The problem is especially acute in rural schools, which typically lack
a principal, have the least experienced teachers working in isolation, and are most in need of
supervision. The problem of inadequate supervision is largely due to insufficient number of
supervisors (the 1993 teacher/supervisor ratio was 101/1), lack of adequate in-service training
for supervisors, weak oversight by departmental offices, and difficult work conditions. The
number of schools allocated to each supervisor is too high (about 31), precluding frequent
supervision to all schools. Lack of budgetary allocations for transport costs further exacerbates
the problem, as supervisors must pay their own expenses. As a consequence, isolated rural
schools are mainly left unattended. At the district level, supervisors must borrow working space
at schools or other public buildings or work out of their own homes. The project will improve
and modernize the supervision system by hiring additional staff, revising technical-pedagogic
supervision norms, providing specific training for supervisors, financing travel costs and
vehicles, and strengthening supervision offices (paras. 3.7, 3.19-3.21).
2.12. Shortages of Library Books and Other Teaching Materials. Although Honduras now
provides 4 textbooks per student, per grade (Spanish, mathematics, sciences and social studies),
the system lacks complementary didactic materials such as library books, maps, posters, and
other school supplies, all of which are needed to increase educational achievement and
attainment. The lack of school library books is especially problematic in rural areas, since few
rural schoolchildren have access - at school or at home - to any reading material besides their
textbooks (textbooks are expected to last at least 3 years and are kept at school to minimize the
risk of loss or damage and, in some instances, to serve second-shift students). The lack of early
reading stimulation can retard children's progress in developing reading and writing skills. The
absence of additional educational materials is particularly serious among indigenous children who
often do not speak Spanish, have less qualified teachers, and have in some schools the lowest
education levels. When books are available, most teachers do not know how to use them. Tl
increase access to learning materials, the project will provide: (a) a small library for every
classroom (Biblioteca Bdsica Dr. Ramon Rosa); (b) sets of educational materials for classroom
and teacher use, including student and teacher guides, maps, posters, and classroom supplies;
and (c) bilingual textbooks for two of the largest non-Hispanic ethnic groups (the Gar(funa and
the Miskito); the needs of other ethnic groups will be met by the government under a parallel
program). Students will be able to borrow library books and take them home to share with
parents and siblings (para. 3.11-3.12).
2.13. Deficiencies in lextbook Production and Distribution. Honduras' small printing and
editorial industry requires that all textbooks be edited by the MOE and printed abroad, since
most local print shops lack capacity for large jobs that must be completed on a tight schedule



- 7 -
(improvements are observed though, as local firms have been awarded some textbook printing
contracts starting in 1992). Since 1987, textbooks have been produced by the MOE under the
USAID-financed Primary Education Efficiency Project.  Printing has been done through
international competitive bidding (ICB) and distribution from a central depot to the municipalities
was contracted to local transportation firms. Total production of textbooks has been impressive,
with over 5.3 million low-cost, well-designed and -illustrated textbooks being produced and
distributed nationwide. However, financing for textbooks is no longer available, and reprinting
is urgently needed, since some textbooks have already exceeded their usable life. Starting in
1996, when the Primary Education Efficiency Project is concluded, textbook production and
distribution may become a major problem. Measures must be taken in the near future to ensure
the sustainability of textbook production and distribution. Existing textbooks also need to be
revised and updated, and the distribution system requires improvements. Tl meet these needs,
the proposed project will: (a) provide for the revision and reprinting of existing textbooks; and
(b) organize a textbook distribution system ensuring timely delivery of textbooks by private
transportation firms from 3 strategically located warehouses to the seat of each municipality, and
mobilizing supervisors, municipal officials and parents to transport books from the seat of the
municipality to the schools (para. 3.12).
2.14. Inappropriate Curriculum. The primary school curriculum has not been revised in 28
years. In practice, the new student-centered textbooks, stressing basic skills in four subjects,
and utilizing appropriate gender language, have in fact reformed the curriculum. However,
there is still a need to integrate environmental, public health, and intercultural concerns into the
curriculum.   The proposed project will support a study to evaluate the quality and
appropriateness of the basic education curricula, leading to the corresponding revision of
textbooks, and will improve teachers' ability to implement curriculum reforms through training
(paras. 3.11-3.12, 3.24).
2.15. Overcrowded and Dilapidated Physical Facilities. A 1990 survey found that 55 percent
of primary schools lacked safe water, 30 percent did not have adequate sanitary facilities, and
85 percent lacked electricity. Moreover, an estimated 80 percent of the schools (about 6,000
schools) had fallen into disrepair due to lack of maintenance by the MOE. Since then, the
physical condition of schools has improved. During the 1990-1993 period, the FlIIS succeeded
in rehabilitating approximately 2,000 public primary schools (about 32 percent of the total in
need of repairs), several of them required total reconstruction.  The FHIS also provided
financing for school toilets and water supply, and for the construction of over 300,000 bi-
personal school desks. This program would be strengthened through improved standards and
planning, and continued, with IDA support, under a proposed Third Social Investment Fund
project. However, although a school maintenance manual was prepared by FlIRS in 1992,
appropriate maintenance arrangements are still not in place. In addition, 660 rural schools are
presently overcrowded. These schools enroll more than 60 students and offer six grades of
education in a single classroom.  An additional classroom is urgently needed to reduce
overcrowding. The proposed project will provide for: (a) construction and equipment of 290
classrooms in rural schools which are now overcrowded; and (b) the implementation of a
municipal school maintenance program, which would start with the schools that would be
expanded under the project (paras. 3.16-3.17). Following the completion of a school mapping
in 1996, and using its own resources, FEIS will build and equip at least 370 additional
classrooms in rural areas, and rehabilitate the remaining primary schools presently in need of
repairs.



- 8 -
2.16. Need for Greater Community Participation. Community participation in school-related
activities enhances the community's role in the improvement of academic performance, and
fosters a positive learning environment. Historically, municipalities and parent associations have
supported local schools, but many areas still lack sustained community participation. A 1993
study of municipal education expenditures shows that most municipalities are committed to
supporting primary education. Through Municipal Education Councils or School Committees,
about 89 percent of the municipalities provide some form of maintenance of school buildings,
78 percent pay salaries for auxiliary staff (such as custodians, cooks, preschool teachers, and
librarians), and more than half are involved in school construction, provision of school furniture,
and supply of school materials.4' The proposed project will further promote community
participation through: (a) enlisting the support of municipalities and local education committees
to stimulate improvement in teachers' attendance (para. 3.22); (b) involving communities in
school construction (para. 3.16); (c) transferring resources for school maintenance to
municipalities through contractual agreements (para. 3.17(c)); and (d) implementing promotion
campaigns among local authorities and communities, especially focused on early enrollment,
school attendance, and student achievement (para. 3.22).
2.17. Lack of Evaluation. Limited resources and technical capacity contribute to the difficulty
in monitoring and evaluating academic achievement and teaching standards across the system.
The MOE has undertaken external evaluations of primary student achievement on an
experimental basis, under the Primary Education Efficiency project financed by USAID. A set
of valuable achievement indicators has been developed and tested in the field. However,
evaluation capabilities need to be further developed based on the models of standard evaluation
tests, similar to those established in several Latin American countries. To carry out this activity,
an evaluation unit independent of the MOE needs to be created, with appropriate analytical
capacity; standard tests must be developed and applied to a representative sample of primary
students on an annual basis; and test results should be disseminated to teachers, parents, and the
general public. Without systematic evaluations and enhanced public awareness regarding the
importance of education quality, the selection of the best education investments and most
effective reforms is bound to be clouded by a dim understanding of the impacts brought about
by previous programs and policies.  The project will foster the capacity for sustainable
measurement of the quality of education by supporting: (a) the creation of an independent
evaluation unit in one of the public universities (UPNFM); (b) the administration of achievement
tests, on a yearly basis; and (c) the dissemination of information to the public about evaluation
results and determinants of academic achievement (paras. 3.15).
Efficiency
2.18. High Repetition Rates. Honduras faces the serious problem of high repetition rates-
a typical Latin American proxy for school failure - which result in a costly and inefficient
education system. The MOE estimates that primary school repetition rates were 11.4 percent
in 1992. Estimates made by the United Nations Education, Science and Culture Organization
(UNESCO) following student cohorts for a period of nine years, place nationwide repetition rates
it MOE-FHIS-Honduran Municipal Association (AMHON). Estudio de Casos Sobre la Participacion de las
Municipalidades en el Manteniniento Preventivo de la lnftaestructura Escolar. 1993.



- 9 -
at 28 percent in 1988, and first grade repetition rates at 46 percent.5' Using the UNESCO
estimates, the cost associated with grade repetition in 1992, is estimated to be nearly 28 percent
of the education sector budget, and more than half of primary education expenditures.§' The
problem is aggravated in rural areas, where repetition rates are reported to be 34 percent higher
than in urban areas.2' The Bridges study, carried out by Harvard University, found that
repetition is the most important cause of the high dropout rate. Most students who do not
complete school are repeaters who become too old to remain in school, e.g., 10 year old first
graders. Repeaters are likely to repeat grades more than once, indicating that the causes of their
failure are not properly addressed by merely repeating a grade. Among the most important
factors leading to high repetition rates are: low attendance rate; short school year and school
day; lack of textbooks and other teaching materials; inappropriate techniques for instruction in
multigrade schools; and lack of preprimary education.!' The project will aim to reduce grade
repetition rates by: (a) instituting a flexible promotion system based on academic modules rather
than grades; (b) increasing effective classroom time available to students, by improving teacher
and student attendance levels; and (c) improving the quality of instruction through teacher
training and improved educational materials (paras. 3.7-3.13, 3.22).
2.19. High Dropout Rates. The low internal efficiency of the primary education system is
also due to high dropout rates. Every year, about 44,000 children (or 4.9 percent of the total
enrollment in 1988) drop out of school, 77 percent of them before completing the third grade,
i.e., before achieving functional literacy. Again, there are wide disparities between urban and
rural areas; rural school dropouts account for over two-thirds of the total. Not all school
dropouts leave the system permanently. Data supplied by school principals suggest that many
students who drop out from primary school do so on a temporary basis.2' Rural students leave
school after 5 or 6 months of classes to work the harvest, returning in the following year to
repeat the same grade. This means that temporary dropout and repetition rates are part of the
same cycle of internal inefficiency. The problem is aggravated by the fact that almost half the
students who enroll in the first grade (45 percent) are 8 years old or older. As a result, their
risk of dropping out before achieving functional literacy is increased, since dropout rates rise
sharply from age 10 onwards. The proposed project will address this issue by: (a) introducing
more flexible promotion criteria, to allow temporary dropouts to re-enter school at the level
where they left off (as measured by academic modules completed), thus reducing the need to
repeat subjects already learned; (b) providing didactic materials in modular form, to facilitate
student re-entry; (c) adjusting the school calendar to take into account the harvest period in
agricultural regions; (d) improving the quality of teaching through the enhancement of teacher
S UNESCO/OREALC, Situaci6n Educativa de Am&ica Latina v el Caribe. 1980-1989. Santiago, Chile: 1992
(pp.289-301).
61 Mission Estimates of June 1994, based on the 1992 sector budget of US$123.1 million equivalent (in 1978 prices)
and primary education expenditures of US$58.7 million equivalent, or about US$119 per student-year. The number
of repeaters is estimated at 268.7 thousand. Thus, the cost of repeaters in the system is estimated at U$32 million,
or about 26 percent of public expenditures on education and 54.5 percent of primary education expenditures (Annex
3). Other estimates, using 1993 data, place the cost of repetition at the primary level at US$7 million per year
(USAID, 1993) and US$13 million (UNICEF, 1993).
7' UNIS/DGEC/SECPLAN/UNICEF/PNUD, La Educaci6n en Honduras: Perspectivas para el ailo 2000.
Tegucigalpa, 1994.
~' Harvard University, Bridges Project, on.cit. 1991.
2' UNESCO/OREALC (1992), op.cit. page 290.



- 10 -
skills, and strengthening the supervision process; and (e) encouraging parents to enroll children
in school at age 6, to maximize the years of schooling children may have before they reach the
age of high drop out risk (paras. 3.7-3.13, 3.22).
2.20. Low Completion Rates. The net effect of these high repetition and dropout rates is that
a low percentage of students completes the full six years of primary education. Although the
average primary student stays in school for 6.7 years, he or she completes only 4.5 grades. In
1988, only 36 percent of the students entering the first grade were likely to complete the sixth
grade, and it took an average of 10 years to graduate from primary school. MOE estimates that
only 34 percent of the 1987 cohort graduated in 1992. In rural areas, the proportion of students
who graduate in six years drops to an estimated 21 percent, partly because not all rural schools
offer six grades of instruction. Many of the factors responsible for low quality, such as an
insufficient supply of teachers, inadequate teacher training, teacher absenteeism, insufficient
didactic materials, and incomplete schools (paras. 2.8-2.15, 2.25) are responsible for the low
rate of efficiency.  Other factors include teachers with no knowledge of students' native
languages, and the lack of availability of didactic materials in native languages (para. 2.28).
Inefficiencies also reflect socioeconomic factors that affect the lives of children, such as
malnutrition and early entry into the labor force, both of which are common among rural
families. Research has shown that improving the quality of instructional inputs can increase
student learning, thereby increasing the efficiency of the system. The proposed project will
finance investments that aim to improve the efficiency of education through teacher training,
updated educational materials (including bilingual textbooks), and improved supervisory
strategies (paras. 3.7-3.13, 3.20-3.21).
2.21. Financial Constraints and Patterns of Education Spending. Both efficiency and
quality of the education system are directly affected by the limitation of financial resources.
Although sector allocations are relatively high by international standards, the patterns of
education spending have progressively reduced primary education expenditures, leading to
inadequate levels of spending per student. In 1992, public spending per primary student-year
was about US$119 equivalent, which is insufficient to meet the country's needs to modernize
its human capital stock, particularly since almost all is spent oni teachers' salaries. During the
1974-92 period, the education share of central government expenditures declined by about 6
percent (from 21 percent in 1974 to 15 percent in 1992, excluding investments made by the
FIUS).-' Since 1980, the MOE salary bill grew faster than the total sector budget, and so did
transfers to higher education. In 1993, salaries represented 65.6 percent of the education sector
budget and non-salary expenditures per student were extremely low. These trends, combined
with a rapid expansion of enrollment during the 1980s, have resulted in a 20 percent reduction
in the MOE non-salary expenditures per student for preschool and primary education over the
last 13 years (Annex 2).
2.22. Given the high priority assigned by the Government to education, the education sector
budget is expected to grow in real terms at the same rate as GDP growth. It is expected to hold
steady at the level of about 4 percent of GDP over the next five years, increasing from an
estimated US$135.6 million equivalent in 1993, to about US$167.8 million in 1999 (Annex 2).
The expected increase in the sector budget would be used to improve the quality and efficiency
"' Taking into account FHIS investments in education, sector spending is estimated at 18.4 percent of central
government spending during the 1990-92 period.



- 11 -
of primary education. The expenditure increases allocated to primary education, along with the
active policies adopted by the Government to improve primary education quality, are anticipated
to have a large beneficial impact on school achievement.
2.23. Inefficient Management of Resources at the MOE. The education budget shows an
increasing imbalance between investment and recurrent expenditures. Nearly 98 percent of
public spending on education now goes to recurrent costs (salaries and operating costs), up from
93 percent in 1980. Less than 2 percent is invested in school buildings, teacher training,
education materials, and classroom aids (Annex 2). In real terms, capital spending has declined
by 58 percent since 1980. FHIS reversed this trend by more than doubling capital expenditures
in education during the 1990-1993 period. In fact, FILS has played an important role in
protecting education investments from  salary increases in recent years.  Although FHIS
investments in education are expected to continue through the next decade, a more balanced
allocation of recurrent and investment expenditures needs to be achieved by the MOE. The
proposed project will support improved financial planning and yearly education expenditure
reviews to ensure that budget increases are allocated to primary education, and that the share
of the budget allocated to non-salary expenditures is increased (para. 5.2).
2.24. The MOE organizational structure and administrative procedures are not conducive to the
efficient management of education services. Administrative costs per student have more than
doubled over the last thirteen years, reaching 36 percent of per student costs in 1992. The
administrative structure is too large and excessively centralized, and of the 1,145 employees
working at the central office, less than 10 percent are technically qualified. There is one office
in each of Honduras' 18 departments, and 240 district offices to supervise primary education;
their services are limited by a lack of decision-making authority, inadequate staff, and a lack of
logistical support. The central office is a complex bureaucracy, which has grown in response
to ad hoc needs, with no concern for efficiency. It consists of the ministerial and two vice-
ministerial offices; five general directorates (comprising 38 technical departments and sections);
7 administrative support units; and 3 operational units for special programs. This structure is
marred by redundant units and functions, and by inadequate coordination. The information
available for sector planning and decision-making is incomplete and untimely. Administrative
procedures are costly and time consuming.  The sector's legal framework is complex,
contradictory, and burdened with excessive regulations. The proposed project will simplify the
administrative structure and reduce administrative expenses by about 29 percent, by supporting:
(a) the restructuring and decentralization of the MOE; (b) the upgrading and expansion of
management information systems; and (c) managerial training for staff and improved monitoring
and evaluation capacity (paras. 3.20-3.21, Annex 9).
Equity
2.25. Limited School Access. Although the net enrollment rate in primary education is
estimated at 80 percent, this nationwide figure disguises regional pockets of low matriculation.
More than one third of the rural primary schools are incomplete, i.e., they cover only the first
three or four grades of instruction. There are still 14,500 children with no access to primary
education at all, predominantly living in rural areas of extreme poverty and geographic isolation.
The proposed project will increase access to primary education for poor children living in the
most deprived and remote rural areas, particularly those children in indigenous areas, by



- 12 -
expanding overcrowded rural multigrade schools and providing for additional teachers (paras.
3.16-3.17).
2.26. Inequity in Public Expenditures for Education. The current regional allocation of
public resources for primary education is not guided by poverty considerations.  A  recent
analysis of the 18 departments, by poverty levels and education indicators, shows that: (a) the
poorer regions have lower primary education coverage and higher illiteracy rates, higher dropout
rates, and higher student/teacher ratios; (b) MOE's current expenditures per student/year are
about US$1 10 per student/year in the poorest departments, where the educational needs are
highest, compared to about US$131 per student year in the better-off departments; and (c)
FlHIS's investments in education have also been higher in the less poor departments.-" The
proposed project will help to correct this regressive allocation of resources by supporting, on
a priority basis, improvements in rural primary education where poverty is most widespread
(paras. 3.16-3.17).
2.27. Insufficient Preschool Education. Preschool education increases the return on primary
and secondary school investments. In 1992, formal preschool services were offered to about
63,500 children aged 4 to 6 years or 12.5 percent of the preschool age group, but only 18
percent in rural or indigenous areas. Budgetary constraints limit the capacity of the MOE to
expand coverage of formal primary education. Thus, to respond to the most pressing needs, in
1990 the MOE introduced an informal preschool program in rural areas - the Community
Centers for School Initiation (Centros Comunitarios para la Iniciaci6n Escolar - CCIE). This
program operates during summer vacations and offers 6 weeks of preschool instnrction to
children who are about to enter the first grade of primary school. The cost of this program is
low, about 95 percent less than the formal 10 month preschool program. The instructors are
volunteers from the community and students from Escuelas Normales. By 1992, enrollment in
CCIEs reached approximately 34,200 rural 4-6 year old children. The CCIEs are an extension
of a non-formal preschool program  started in 1979 in marginal urban areas - the Centers for
Non-Formal Preschool Education (Centros de Educacion Pre-escolar No Formnal - CEPENF).12'
Together, the CEPENF and the CCIE programs raised by 12 percent the net enrollment in
preschool education coverage in Honduras. The proposed project will support an expansion of
the CCIE program in rural areas where children have no access to formal preschool education
(para. 3.17(e)).
2.28. Lack of Bilingual Textbooks for Indigenous Groups. Approximately 7.2 percent
(about 65,500 children) of the school age population in Honduras are from ethnic groups whose
mother tongue is not Spanish but only an estimated 43,200 are currently enrolled in pre-primary
and primary schools. Minority ethnic groups receive no special attention within the educational
system, since there are no bilingual programs in public schools. Because of their linguistic and
cultural differences, indigenous children find themselves in a disadvantageous learning situation
..' World Bank. "Honduras - Country Economic Memorandum/Poverty Assessment". Report No. 13317-HO,
August 5, 1994.
'2' The Centers for Non-Formal Preschool Education (Centros tie Edtucaci6n Pre-escolar No Formal - CEPENF),
aim at preparing children aged 5.5 to 6.5 years of age to enroll in primary school. These centers operate during the
entire school year, with voluntary instructors from the community who are trained by the MOE. in 1992, a total of
228 CEPENFs enrolled 14,136 children. In addition to preparatory instruction, the CEPENFs provide students with
a daily snack consisting of a meal made of wheat, soy beans and milk. The program has been financed with
assistance from USAID and from UNICEF since 1979.



- 13 -
whenever they are exposed to books and other reading materials designed for use by Spanish-
speaking children. As a result, enrollment and academic achievement levels are low, and
illiteracy is high among indigenous young adults. Research shows that when instruction is
conducted in the native language of children in preschool and the early grades of primary school,
academic achievement in higher grades improves significantly. There are 8 indigenous groups
represented in the Honduran population, the largest being the Miskto and the Garffuna which,
together, cover about 60 percent of the indigenous population. These groups are organized in
a confederation, and have become active advocates of education reforms aimed at
institutionalizing bilingual and intercultural education in Honduras.  The Government is
supportive of these efforts, is committed to the introduction of bilingual education at the
preschool and primary levels, and supports indigenous efforts to raise the literacy rates of young
adults. The proposed project will support the production of primary schools textbooks and
reading materials written in the Miskito and Gar(funa languages, and will provide special training
for teachers working in schools with high enrollments of indigenous children (para. 3.13-3.14).
The bilingual education needs of the other six ethnic groups will be met by the Government
under a parallel program.
C. Government Strategy for the Education Sector
2.29. Through the 1980s the Government expanded coverage of public education services and
started improving the quality and efficiency of primary education, especially through the
provision of modern textbooks. Starting in 1986, with the Primary Education Efficiency Project
supported by USAID, primary education quality issues were addressed by the MOE on a national
scale. As a result, significant progress was made in textbook production and distribution, in-
service teacher training, external evaluation, and computerized information of primary education
statistics. MOE efforts to improve the efficiency of service delivery continued in the late 1980s,
with the Administration of Rural Primary Education Management Project (ADEPRIR), assisted
by the World Bank Loan 2804-HO of US$4.4 million, of August, 1987.  This project
highlighted the importance of bilingual education, active community involvement in the schools,
and the advantages of using local school networks to facilitate service administration in the rural
areas. Since the early 1980s, the MOE introduced innovative non-formal preschool programs
that have improved poor children's readiness to enter primary school, and have helped mobilize
community resources for preschool education. At the same time, Government efforts focused
on institutional reforms in the social sectors, and a preliminary diagnosis of the education sector
was prepared in the context of the Presidential Commission for the Modernization of the State
and further developed by the MOE. The challenge now is to bring the lessons learned from
these various experiences effectively into the classroom, so that students' academic achievement
is significantly improved.
2.30. In October 1994, the new Administration stated its commitment to providing quality basic
education for all as the first priority for the country's development and for the creation of a
more just and democratic society. Through the publication of the "Escuela Moraz6nica," the
Government called for a profound transformation in the content and management of basic public
education services, with emphasis on improving the quality and efficiency with which the MOE
delivers education services, and on promoting more active community involvement. The
Government has also expressed its commitment to increasing public resources for primary
education. Although large savings are expected to accrue in the future as a result of reduced
grade repetition rates, the Government recognizes the need to allocate more resources for basic



- 14 -
education during the 1995-1999 period to ensure that improvements are made on a national level,
and that additional resources are targeted to the poorest areas.
2.31. Quality of Education. The measures planned by the Government to improve the quality
of education place the student at the center of the education process and aim at improving
student's academic achievements. These measures include: (a) increasing the relevance of the
school curriculum by revising existing textbooks; (b) enforcing compliance with the school
calendar; (c) enhancing teachers' skills and enforcing technical criteria when hiring new
teachers; (d) introducing performance incentives for teachers, with community participation; (e)
introducing flexible grade promotion based on academic modules; (f) providing complementary
educational materials and classroom libraries, particularly in the poorest areas; (g) strengthening
supervision at the school level; (h) providing bilingual instruction in indigenous areas; (i)
expanding classrooms and teaching staff in the poorest rural areas where schools are currently
overcrowded; () establishing a system of independent evaluation of student achievement; and
(k) expanding coverage of preschool education in poor rural communities. These measures are
expected to raise the overall level of schooling in society, retain more students in the school
system, raise their academic achievement, and improve student flows from first grade to primary
school graduation.
2.32. Administrative Restructuring. Government measures to increase the MOE's efficiency
in delivering education services include: (a) restructuring the MOE central administration in
order to eliminate redundant units and functions, streamline administrative procedures, and
increase accountability throughout the system; (b) strengthening decentralized services, through:
(i) redefinition of departmental office functions; (ii) transfer of technical staff from the central
to the departmental offices; and (iii) provision of adequate office and logistical support for
education supervision in all departments; and (c) improving sector management through: (i)
revision of personnel policies, including recruitment and remuneration, and modernization of
personnel management systems; (ii) modernization of financial systems and controls; (iii)
establishment of efficient procurement and auditing procedures; (iv) strengthening sector
planning and budgeting; (v) development and implementation of management information
systems covering school operations, student flows, provision of education materials, personnel
and financial administration; and (vi) upgrading management staff through training.
2.33. Community Participation. To make national education more democratic and relevant
to social development, the Government is committed to promote community involvement in
various aspects of school life, drawing on the commitment of teachers, parents, students,
education authorities, and community members and leaders. New measures planned include:
(a) transferring the maintenance of primary schools to the Municipalities, with support from the
Honduran Association of Municipalities (Asociaci6n de Municipios de Honduras - AMIHON),
and parent-teacher associations; (b) mobilizing local communities and municipalities to help
teachers as well as monitor their attendance at schools; (c) relying on Municipalities for the
distribution of education materials to schools in their jurisdiction; and (d) informing parents and
community members of the academic progress of students on a regular basis, promoting early
enrollment and improving student attendance.
2.34. Increasing Education Resources. The Government is committed to increasing financial
resources for primary education by maintaining the level of education expenditures at 4 percent



- 15 -
of GDP during the 1995-1999 period, and allocating budget increments to improve the quality
and coverage of primary education (paras. 4.3).
D. Bank and IDA Support and Experience in the Social Sectors
2.35.  Bank assistance to the education sector in Honduras focused on improving the capacity
of the MOE to administer the educational system, plan and carry out investments, and administer
the rural primary school network. Through the ADEPRIR project (Loan 2804-HO) technical
assistance was provided for an evaluation of the organization of the MOE, for studies on
decentralization policies, and for staff training, leading to the restructuring measures which
would be implemented under the proposed project. This project also supported micro-planning
and the development of action plans for physical facilities, teacher training, and school
management and supervision in rural school districts at six departments. The recommended
actions are currently being carried out in two pilot school districts. The implementation of this
project was interrupted shortly after the loan became effective, when Honduras accumulated
arrears on its Bank and IDA debt, which caused all operations to be suspended for an 18-month
period between December 1988 and June 1990. The project was reactivated in 1991, but
inadequate management and a shortage of counterpart funds precluded significant progress until
1993. Under new management, the project's implementation problems have been largely
resolved, and its main objectives and targets are expected to be met by project completion in
June 1995.
2.36. IDA has also been actively involved in supporting the Government's poverty alleviation
efforts. In February 1991, an IDA credit of SDR 14.3 million was approved for the FHIS-I,
which was successfully completed in March 1994. Based on the positive results achieved under
FHIS-I, IDA approved a credit of SDR 7.1 million for the FHIS-ll in June 1992. The total cost
of the FHIS projects, in cofinancing with other donor agencies, is estimated at $98.4 million.
Implementation of the FIS-II project is proceeding well and completion is planned for June
1995. Further IDA assistance for FHIS was requested by the Govemment in 1994, as part of
its sustained poverty alleviation effort. Under the proposed third credit, FHIS would continue
to play an important role in channelling education investments to the poorest municipalities
(para. 2.23). IDA support for the Nutrition and Health Project (Cr. 2452-HO of SDR 17.8
million, approved in January 1993), helped expand access to targeted nutrition assistance
provided by PRAF to poor women and children in the poorest departments, and assisted the
Ministry of Health - MOH (Secretarfa de Salud Publica) in strengthening preventive health
services, and improving environmental health through rural water supply and sanitation.
E. Lessons Learned from Past Operations
2.37. Relevant lessons learned from the implementation of education projects in Honduras and
in other countries, are discussed in this section.
Lessons Learned from Honduran Projects
2.38. Experience with recent Bank-financed education projects in Honduras is limited to the
ADEPRIR project. As stated above (para. 2.35), the difficulties experienced in this project have
been primarily due to the hiatus created by the suspension of Bank operations shortly after loan
effectiveness, compounded by institutional weaknesses.  This project has demonstrated the



- 16 -
importance of ensuring project management continuity, mobilizing support for the project at the
highest levels of the MOE, and making adequate budget provisions for counterpart funds. These
lessons will be incorporated into the proposed project through the operations manual which
contains provisions for adequate budgeting and staffing. Through the FIS-I and FHIS-II
projects, valuable lessons were learned: (a) the FIBS has demonstrated the value of utilizing a
specialized agency to efficiently manage small and dispersed social infrastructure subprojects;
based on this experience, under the proposed project the MOE would contract FHIS for the
management of small scale classroom construction, provision of school furniture, and
rehabilitation of education offices in each department; (b) FIBS experience also shows that when
school maintenance is not ensured at the local level, preventive maintenance is lacking and even
urgent repairs are not carried out; to resolve this problem, the proposed project will support:
(i) the gradual transfer of primary school maintenance to the Municipalities, supported by
technical assistance and supervision; and (ii) more intensive participation of local communities
in every phase of school improvement subprojects and to ensure appropriate location, (d) design
and technical specifications for school buildings and furniture, subprojects financed through the
FIBS would have the prior approval of the MOE. The experience of the Nutrition and Health
project demonstrates that implementation difficulties ensue when several executing agencies are
involved in the project, increasing the complexity of coordinating project activities; under the
proposed project, the MOE would execute the project, contracting out civil works to FHIS and
external evaluation to UPNFM. Complex coordination mechanisms would not be necessary.
Project implementation experience in Honduras has also shown that start-up delays are often due
to limited experience on the part of the project coordinating team in working with World Bank
projects. For the proposed project, the project coordination team would receive specific training
on IDA legal, audit, procurement, and disbursement procedures at the project launch seminar
(para. 5.7).
Bank-Wide Education Projects
2.39. Project Design. Feedback from several education projects in Latin America indicates
that a proper policy framework and adequate institutional capacity are major factors in
determining the success of project implementation. The proposed project focuses on improving
the quality and efficiency of primary education on the basis of: (a) a clearly stated Government
policy framework; and (b) improvement of the institutional capacity of the MOE at the central
and departmental levels.
2.40. Project Management. When a project implementation unit is created separately from
the existing organizational units, existing units often miss the opportunity to acquire technical
expertise during the process of project implementation and to strengthen their institutional
capacity. Moreover, externally-financed projects and the overall national program can develop
simultaneously without proper synchronization. On the basis of such lessons, the proposed
project has been explicitly designed as an integral part of a national program (the Escuela
Morazdnica), and project activities would be implemented and supervised by improved MOE's
operational units, in coordination with a Project Coordination Unit (PCU).
2.41. Specific lessons learned from basic education projects in other countries that are
applicable to the proposed project, include:



- 17 -
(a) The importance of increasing education expenditures for the poorest regions and
compensatory efforts to promote higher student achievement.- Based on these positive
results, the proposed project would target investments in preschool and primary school
expansion to poor rural schools that are presently overcrowded, thereby reducing the
disparity in access to education between richer and poorer areas. These projects have
also demonstrated that teacher training needs to be reinforced with practical in-service
supervision. Under the proposed project, the teacher training courses will focus on
classroom performance, and follow-up technical assistance to the CADs will provide for
a more active role for supervisors (paras. 3.7-3.10).
(b) Financial incentives for teachers constitute an effective means to improve
performance. Incentive programs tend to function better with community cooperation
to help oversee teacher attendance, which in turn tends to increase parental commitment
to other aspects of school life, such as transportation of educational materials to the
school, the use of the classroom libraries, and school maintenance. Under the proposed
project, teacher incentives will be awarded to teachers who achieve significant
improvements in student's attendance and comply with the school calendar, based on
information provided by local communities and supervisors (para. 3.22).
(c) The importance of creating classroom libraries, to complement teachers' strategies,
stimulate students' interests and reading habits, expand the benefits of selected readings
to poor families, and support teachers' continuing education through the provision of
reference materials. The proposed project will provide classroom libraries, of about 20
carefully selected titles (two copies of each), for primary schools located in rural areas
and poor urban neighborhoods. These libraries will also contain reference books to
support teachers' classroom and community activities (pana. 3.11-3.12).
(d) The provision and use of instructional materials (such as paper, pencils, maps,
games, and globes) has contributed, in several projects, to more active learning in
schools, more cooperative classroom work, and more productive use of teachers' time
in the classroom, provided that teachers are adequately trained to use the materials. The
proposed project will provide instructional materials, and will train teachers how to
obtain the best educational results from these materials (paras. 3.7-3.12).
(e) High returns accrue from bilingual education, achieved by developing and producing
bilingual textbooks for schools serving a majority of non-Spanish speaking students,
providing specialized teacher training in bilingual instruction, and using a participatory
strategy for developing bilingual educational materials.  As a result, the learning
experience of indigenous students is enhanced and their academic achievement levels are
increased. Bilingual education programs tend to be more successful when they are
developed through close dialogue with indigenous leaders, teachers, scholars and parents.
The proposed project has incorporated this feature in the design and production of
textbooks and other instructional materials, and teacher training for the two largest ethnic
groups in Honduras (paras. 3.13-3.14).
3t Mexico - Primary Education Project (Programa para Abatir el Rezago Educativo - PARE), Ln. 3407-ME, 1991.



- 18 -
(f) Projects that have supported environmental education, show that it should be
promoted from the early years of a child's life, through the development of good health
and hygienic habits, consideration for the micro-environment (particularly the domestic
environment), and the formation of a positive attitude towards natural resources and
public facilities. The proposed project will develop and implement a teacher-training
module focused on environmental concerns, and devise methods to incorporate them into
the primary education curriculum.   It will also provide for textbook revision
incorporating environmental concerns (paras. 3.7-3.14).
(g) The Honduran Primary Education Efficiency project has shown that textbook
distribution is hampered in the absence of a reliable system to transport books from the
district offices (where they are delivered by private transportation firmns) to schools.
Accordingly, the proposed project will mobilize Municipalities, school supervisors, and
local communities to help transport education materials from the district office to each
school (para. 3.12).
(h) Although most student desks currently used in Honduras are bi-personal fixed benches
with attached writing surfaces, experience in various countries has shown that cooperative
classroom work is enhanced when students sit in small circles around hexagonal tables
that can be detached and rearranged according to the needs of specific classroom
activities. Hence the proposed project will develop new student desk models to meet this
pedagogic requirement and, at the same time, allow production by village carpenters
working under contract with the FHIIS (paras. 3.16-3.17).
F. Rationale for Bank Involvement
2.42. The proposed Basic Education Project is consistent with IDA's most recent Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Honduras, dated July 14, 1993, and discussed at the Board on
August 5, 1993, which focuses on the challenge faced by the Government to reduce the public
sector deficit, increase the efficiency of the public sector, promote sustainable economic growth,
and reduce the high incidence of poverty.-4 Low productivity of the labor force is one of the
fundamental causes of poverty, and it is partly the result of low access among the poor to basic
education and health services. To support deficit reduction and economic growth, IDA will help
the Government enhance the country's institutional capacity for the efficient allocation and use
of public resources, through expenditure restructuring and tax reform, and through the
implementation of policies that foster sustainable agricultural growth. IDA's involvement in the
proposed project will support the restructuring of the MOE and channeling of resources to basic
education, thus improving the efficiency of education sector spending. IDAs support for
targeted education improvements in rural and indigenous areas will assist Government's efforts
to reduce poverty, complementing the targeted social safety net programs of nutrition assistance
and small scale social infrastructure through PRAF and FHIS, supported by IDA credits 2401-
HO and 2452-HO. IDA's assistance for the institutional reforms contemplated in the proposed
project, will also facilitate the dissemination of administrative and technical innovations tested
under the ADEPRIR project (Ln. 2804-HO).
14' Chapter 1, Section D, "Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit," World Bank Report No. P-5923-HO.



- 19 -
2.43. In June of 1993, the Government requested IDA assistance for an education project that
would support priority improvements in primary education and sector management. This
proposal was made in the context of the Government's program for the modernization of the
state, the greater part of which would be supported by IDA through a proposed Public Sector
Management Reform project. The new Administration confirmed the Government's commitment
to the proposed project, and has involved the highest levels of education, planning, and financial
staff in project preparation. By supporting the proposed Basic Education Project, IDA assistance
will play a catalytic role in: (a) increasing investments in primary education, thus helping to
accumulate human capital, the lack of which is a serious constraint to growth; (b) addressing the
needs of the poor and contributing to a more equitable distribution of educational and economic
opportunities; and (c) improving the efficiency of scarce public sector resources. IDA assistance
for the proposed project will also help mobilize support from other donors for the improvement
of basic education, as the Government of Germany would allocate DM 20 million in parallel
financing through the German Credit Institute for Reconstruction (Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaujbau
- KJW) and approximately DM 1 million in technical assistance through the German Agency for
Technical Cooperation (Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit - G7Z).
l l . THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
3.1.  The objectives of the proposed project are to improve the quality of learning and student
performance, inspire better teaching, increase school attendance, and create more effective
learning conditions, thereby reducing student dropout and repetition rates and raising student's
academic achievements. The project also aims at strengthening the MOE's institutional capacity
to deliver basic education services at higher levels of efficiency and fiscal accountability, leading
to a reduction in administrative costs.
B. Project Areas and Target Population
3.2.  The proposed project will be implemented nationwide, but several interventions will be
targeted to poor rural communities and indigenous areas that are presently underserved. The
targeted activities comprise (i) expansion of preschool programs, (ii) improved access to primary
education through additional classrooms and teachers, (iii) bilingual education, and (iv) provision
of classroom libraries and complementary educational materials. Annex 3 describes the targeting
criteria that will be used.
3.3.  The project will cover all public primary schools, which enroll approximately one million
children, representing 95 percent of national primary school enrollment. 'Teacher training,
through the 1,500 existing CADs, would reach approximately 22,000 public primary teachers.
Special training programs would be developed for principals and supervisors of primary and
preprimary schools and for all 1,400 public preprimary teachers. Tb improve poor children's
readiness to enter primary school, coverage of community-run CCIEs would be expanded by 75
percent in poor rural communities, increasing rural preschool enrollment from 34,200 to about
60,000 children.



- 20 -
3.4.  In line with the Government's commitment to promote community involvement in various
aspects of school life (para. 2.33), the proposed project supports the participation of local
communities and Municipalities in (a) distribution of textbooks and didactic materials within each
Municipality (paras. 3. 11-3.12); (b) introduction of bilingual and intercultural education
programs in primary schools (paras.3.13-3.14); (c) school construction and maintenance (paras.
3.16-3.17); (d) provision of community-run preschool programs (para. 3.16 [e]); and (e) a pilot
incentive program to enhance the performance of teachers (para. 3.22).
C. Project Components
3.5.  The project has been organized into two major components, as follows:
A.    Improving the Quality of Basic Education (US$38.2 million or 72 percent of
total project costs including contingencies), to provide for: (a) training and assistance
to upgrade the skills of preprimary and primary teachers, principals and supervisors, and
improvements to pre-service teacher training and accreditation; (b) educational materials
including textbooks, didactic materials, classroom libraries, and improved distribution
facilities; (c) bilingual education in indigenous areas for the Gar(fina and Miskito
communities; (d) external evaluation of student's academic achievements; and (e)
infrastructure improvements for overcrowded rural schools, including additional teachers
and access to community-run preschool education in poor rural areas; and
B.    Institutional Strengthening (US$14.9 million or 28 percent of total project costs
including contingencies), to provide for: (a) technical assistance for the restructuring and
decentralization of the MOE, and improved supervision; (b) a pilot program of teacher's
performance incentives; and (c) project administration, monitoring and evaluation.
D. Project Description
Component A. Improving the Quality of Basic Education (US$38.2 million including
contingencies)
3.6.  The basic education quality improvement component will promote more effective teaching
by enhancing specific teaching skills through pre-service and in-service training programs, and
by introducing objective technical criteria for the hiring of new teachers. Improvements in the
quality of learning and student performance will be promoted by: the provision of textbooks,
teaching and learning materials, and books for classroom libraries; introduction of bilingual
education in indigenous areas; and the carrying out of external evaluation of students' academic
achievements, to inform teachers, students and parents of students' progress and provide the
MOE with objective criteria to evaluate primary education. More effective and equitable
learning conditions will be created in poor rural areas by expanding overcrowded primary
schools, mobilizing local resources to maintain school buildings in good condition, providing
additional teachers, and improving access for poor rural children to community-run preschool
education.
3.7.  Subcomponent A.1. Training of primary and preprimary teachers, supervisors and
school principals (US$2.4 million including contingencies). Both in-service and pre-service
training will be improved under the project. The in-service training program will consist of:



- 21 -
(a) technical assistance for the development of teacher training modules and evaluation of
outcomes; (b) production and distribution of training materials; (c) training seminars offering
specialized sessions to primary and pre-primary teachers (24 hours), supervisors (120 hours) and
principals (24 hours); (d) follow-up teacher training at the CADs, through 18 workshops per
year, held on Saturdays, with the participation of district supervisors; (e) funding for
approximately 50 CAD training subprojects per year, selected from nationwide proposals
submitted by the CADs; and (f) funding for transportation and meals of trainers and trainees,
and remuneration (equivalent to overtime pay) for trainers. Training seminars (jornadas) will
focus on pedagogic issues of general relevance as well as on the work plan for the school year.
Follow-up training at the CADs will be based on pre-designed training modules, three of which
have already been completed during project preparation. Training modules focused on classroom
management will be used to foster adequate use of education resources and skills to improve
teaching in multigrade situations. Presently, the predominant role of the CADs is to provide for
peer-support, exchange of ideas, and team work by teachers. Under the project, the CADs will
be strengthened, and their training role will be substantially expanded. Annex 4 describes the
contents and administrative arrangements of the training programs.
3.8.  Pre-service training of primary teachers at four of the 12 Escuelas Normales, will be
improved through: (i) curriculum evaluation and reform, (ii) introduction of a period of teaching
practice prior to graduation, (iii) provision of library books and learning materials, and (iv)
development and application of standardized tests. The remaining eight Escuelas Normales will
be converted to other education functions (as for example, second cycle secondary education)
during project implementation, to avoid a surplus in the supply of teachers.  Prior to
negotiations, the MOE presented a plan for the conversion of teacher-training schools,
satisfactory to IDA.
3.9.  Training activities will be carried out by the CAD unit of the MOE comprising about 10
experienced professionals. Training will be fully decentralized at department and district levels,
to allow trainees to attend courses at sites near their work place, minimizing travel time and
cost. For teachers working in the metropolitan area of Tegucigalpa, the training would take
place at the MOE's National Institute for Education Research and Training (Instituto Nacional
de Investigaci6n y Capacitaci6n Educativa - INICE), a fully equipped, ample facility recently
completed with financing from the Government of Japan. Training seminars would be carried
out by about 400 trainers, recruited from among supervisors, principals and high performance
teachers (maestros con eito), who have been trained during project preparation. During project
implementation the number of trainers will be expanded to about 650. Standard specifications
for training materials have been developed and tested during project preparation. Follow-up
training at CAD meetings will be attended by about 15-20 teachers and the district supervisor,
would take place twice a month at a conveniently located primary school (para. 2.8). A CAD
Bulletin will be published by the MOE to serve as a communication link to CADs (Annex 4).
During negotiations, agreements were reached (i) on a Training Plan for the first year of Project
implementation, satisfactory to IDA; and (ii) that Training Plans for the subsequent years of
Project implementation will be presented as part of the Project Implementation Plans, to be
reviewed during the Project Annual and Midterm Reviews (para. 7.1 (a)).
3.10. Beneficiaries of the implementation of the Training Plan will be all public primary
teachers (approximately 22,000, half of them working in multigrade schools); all public pre-
primary teachers (about 1,400); approximately 2,500 public primary school principals; about 600



- 22 -
school supervisors; and all professors of four Escuelas Normales. Training of all subgroups will
be carried out throughout the project period. Over the life of the project, each public primary
school teacher will receive an estimated 480 hours of additional training (120 course hours and
360 hours in CADs).
3.11. Subcomponent A.2. Textbooks and Didactic Materials (US$24.8 million including
contingencies). Building upon the achievements of the Primary Education Efficiency project
financed by USAID, this component aims at improving the quality of learning, increasing school
attendance, reducing student dropout and repetition rates, and raising academic achievement
levels of students. This would be accomplished through the provision of: (i) technical assistance
for the revision of existing primary school textbooks, student's and teacher's guides,
development of modular textbooks, field tests of new educational materials, and selection of
library books; (ii) textbooks and educational materials; (iii) complementary classroom supplies
for selected pre-primary and primary schools; (iv) small classroom libraries (Biblioteca Bdsica
Dr. Ram6n Rosa) for public primary and pre-primary schools; (v) non-durable educational
materials, such as student's exercise books for primary schools and CCIEs; (vi) warehousing
facilities and distribution of educational materials; (vii) financing for office equipment and
operating costs. IDA would finance non-durable education materials and operating costs on a
declining basis (Annex 5).
3.12. The MOE prepared a detailed plan for the production and distribution of approximately
5.4 million textbooks--comprising four textbooks per grade (Spanish, mathematics, natural
sciences, and social studies) for grades 1 through 6. The textbooks for grades 3 through 6 will
be edited in modular form (fasciculus), to foster autodidactic use by students in multigrade
classrooms. In addition, books for a total of about 22,000 classroom libraries will be procured
for primary and pre-primary public schools. Each classroom library will have 2 copies of about
20 titles plus reference books. For the distribution of textbooks and other education materials,
the MOE will contract private transportation firms to carry pre-packaged materials from three
warehouses, established under the Project, to the seat of each municipality.   Within
municipalities, distribution of materials to schools will be contracted by MOE with each
Municipal Corporation. In this work, Municipalities will receive assistance from MOE's district
supervisors and teacher-parents associations. The distribution plan ensures that new textbooks
will arrive at the schools before the usable life of existing textbooks expires. In December 1994,
MOE signed an Agreement with AMHON to promote municipal participation in the distribution
of education materials. MOE will start signing Agreements with each Municipality in the second
quarter of 1995, using a standard document satisfactory to IDA. In the event that a Municipality
fails to enter into such Agreement with MOE or does not comply with its obligations under the
Agreement, MOE will provide for alternative means for distribution of educational materials to
the schools. During negotiations, agreement mas reached on a model Municipal Education
Materials Distribution Agreement, satisfactory to IDA (7.1 (b)).
3.13. Subcomponent A.3. Bilingual Education (US$1.6 million including contingencies).
The objective of this subcomponent is to enhance the learning experience of indigenous students
and raise their academic achievement levels, by providing equitable access to better quality basic
education through the introduction of bilingual education at the primary school level. Starting
by the largest non-Spanish speaking ethnic groups, the Gartfuna and the MiskAto, the project will
provide for: (a) development of dictionaries, grammars, textbooks and student/teacher guides



- 23 -
for bilingual education, in collaboration with indigenous groups; (b) development and production
of teacher training materials and audio-visual teaching aids; (c) specialized training in bilingual
instruction for teachers and supervisors, through in-service and pre-service courses and seminars;
(d) technical assistance for operations research and evaluation studies; and (e) vehicles, office
equipment and operating expenses for the technical group responsible for coordinating the
National Program of Education for Indigenous Ethnic Groups (Programa Nacional de Educaci6n
para las Etnias Autoctonas de Honduras - PRONEEAH) which provides the institutional
framework within the MOE for the bilingual and multicultural education program.' ' IDA
would finance non-durable education materials and operating costs on a declining basis.
3.14. The proposed bilingual education program was developed through close dialogue with
indigenous leaders, teachers, scholars and parents, and its implementation will continue to rely
on ample consultation with autochthonous groups (Annex 6 and Map No.26279R). During
project preparation several activities were completed, including: (a) selection of primary teachers
for participation in the program, based on their experience in teaching Garifura and MisAito
children; (b) an introductory course for teachers and indigenous leaders on the objectives of the
program; and (c) a study on the levels of bilingual proficiency among Gar(funa and the Mishto
teachers and students. Systematic training of bilingual teachers will be carried out during project
implementation, as follows: (g) in the first year, course-modules for pre-service and in-service
teacher training will be developed; (h) in the second year, self-instruction teacher training
materials will be produced and field-tested, and a five-day seminar for pre-service and in-service
teachers will be carried out; (i) during years three through five of project implementation,
teacher training seminars will continue, with such modifications as warranted based the
experience of the previous years. A Normal School located in Trujillo, has been chosen as
locale for pre-service teacher training in bilingual education, taking advantage of its proximity
to several indigenous communities.  Scholarships and study tours for members of the
coordinating team will complement the training program.
3.15 Subcomponent A.4. External Evaluation of Student Academic Achievements (US$1.4
million including contingencies).  The objective of this subcomponent is to create the
institutional and technical capacity in Honduras for the external evaluation of academic
achievements of primary students. The system of external evaluation will test, each year, a
national representative sample of primary students on Spanish and mathematics, on a systematic
basis, and will be implemented by the Unit for the Measurement of Education Quality (Unidad
de Medici6n de la Calidad de la Educaci6n - UMCE), created at the UPNFM in December,
1994. Project funding will be provided for: (a) the staffing of the UMCE by specialized local
consultants; (b) technical assistance and training for the UMCE; and (b) equipment and operating
costs of the UTMCE. The project will also support the establishment of a small evaluation unit
in the MOE, to analyze the results of the external evaluation, disseminate results among
interested groups (such as government officials, educators, parents and students), and make
recommendations for adjustments to curriculum, textbook design, student promotion and teacher
training practices based on the analysis of student achievement tests.  IDA would finance
operating costs of this MOE unit on a declining basis. The UMCE will carry out the following
L5/   The PRONEEAH was created by Presidential Decree No. 0719 of August 3, 1994 and its operation by the
MOE is regulated by Ministerial Agreement.



- 24 -
specific activities: (i) design Spanish and mathematics achievement tests for grades 2 through
6 based on test items developed by the Primary Education Efficiency project, and develop a test
on civic values for grade 6; (ii) design and apply two surveys to obtain complementary
information for the analysis of academic achievement test results: one factors affecting the
quality of primary education and another on the availability of didactic materials and teacher
training programs; (iii) design a national representative the sample of primary students and
administer achievement tests to students according to a pre-established program and calendar;
(iv) process and analyze test results; and (v) prepare and present reports on test results to the
MOE every year. The calendar for the application of tests provides for testing students in
grades 3 and 6 in 1996; students in grades 2 and 4 grade in 1997; students in grades 3 and 4 in
1998; and students in grades 4 and 6 in 1999. This calendar allows one to follow specific
cohorts for evaluation purposes (Annex 7). During negotiations, agreement was reached on a
draft Agreement, satisfactory to IDA, to be entered into by MOE and UPNFM (para. 7.1 (c)).
As a condition of Effectiveness, the MOE will have presented evidence that the University
Agreement has been entered into by the parties hereto and the UMCE has been established
(para. 7.2 (a)).
3.16 Subcomponent A.5. Improvement of Physical Infrastructure in Rural Areas (US$8.0
million including contingencies). The objective of this subcomponent is to improve access and
quality of basic education for children living in the poorest rural communities. The MOE
determined the priorities for infrastructure improvements using the 1992 school census and
enrollment figures for the 1992-1994 period. These data show that 660 rural multigrade primary
schools served by a single teacher are overcrowded and in need of one additional classroom,
physical rehabilitation, school furniture and additional teaching staff. The information indicated
that students also lack access to preschool education, which further hampers their chances of
success at primary school. Furthermore, the need to update the school census became clear,
particularly to improve the allocation of teaching staff and determine more precisely the physical
rehabilitation needs of existing schools. Also evident was the need to ensure continuity in the
maintenance of school facilities. To test new school maintenance arrangements involving the
municipalities, the project will finance construction and equipping of only 290 classrooms in the
poorest rural communities. Other priority needs for physical improvement to primary schools,
will be carried out under FIlS regular education investment program, in accordance with
MOE's technical and location norms, and MOE's assurance of maintenance and availability of
teaching staff. During negotiations, agreement was reached that MOE will take measures to
ensure normative oversight over FHIS educational investments, conditioning such investment to
MOE's technical and location norms, assured maintenance, and teaching staff (para. 7.1 (d)).
3.17  Specifically, the activities to be financed under this subcomponent comprise:
(a) design and execution of a national school census of pre-primary, primary,
secondary and adult public education facilities, covering physical and location characteristics,
teaching and administrative personnel, and education materials in each facility.  During
negotiations, agreement was reached that the results of the School Census, carried out in
accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to IDA, will be presented to IDA, not later than
six months after the Effective Date (para. 7.1(e)).



- 25 -
(b) construction of 290 classrooms, rehabilitation and equipping of 290 rural schools
by FIlS, with community participation, under a service Agreement with the MOE. During
negotiations, agreement was reached that MOE will present to IDA the annual plan for
construction, rehabilitation and equipping of classrooms, as part of the Project Implementation
Plans, to be reviewed during the Project Annual and Midterm Reviews (para. 7.1 (f)). As a
condition of Effectiveness, the Government will present evidence that the FHIS Agreement has
been entered into by the parties thlereto (pam. 7.2 (b));
(c) maintenance of 290 rehabilitated schools by the corresponding Municipalities,
through Maintenance Agreements, satisfactory to IDA, to be entered into by MOE and selected
Municipalities. In the event that a Municipality fails to enter into such Agreement with MOE
or does not comply with its obligations under the Agreement, MOE will provide for alternative
means to ensure continuous school inaintenance. During negotiations, agreements were reached
that (i) Maintenance Agreements, satisfactory to IDA, will be entered into by MOE and selected
Municipalities, and (ii) if a Municipality fails in any way to comply with its obligations under
said Agreement, MOE will ensure the continuous maintenance of primary schools improved
under the Project by othler means (para. 7. 1 (g));
(d) allocation of 290 primary teachers to staff the new primary school classrooms.
During negotiations, agreement was reached that MOE will present the annual plan for
allocation of primary teachlers to new primary school classrooms, as part of the Project
Implementation Plans, to be reviewed during the Project Annual and Midterm Reviews (para. 7. 1
(h)); and,
(e) establishment of 1,200 additional CCIEs to provide preschool education in poor
rural communities, in collaboration with local communities.
3.18. Classroom construction will be carried out by FHIS according to technical and location
standards provided by MOE and will be financed by KfW. Likewise, FHIS will provide school
furniture according to MOE specifications. School maintenance norms have been developed by
MOE in collaboration with FHIS, and will be applied by the Municipalities. The participating
Municipalities will receive school maintenance funds from the MOE upon approval by the MOE
of Annual Maintenance Plans, and would agree to periodic inspections of the schools by the
MOE. MOE will ascertain compliance with maintenance norms by Municipalities through
periodic inspection visits. The appointment of new teachers would be contingent upon the
completion of the school census, in order to allow for the eventual reallocation of teachers from
other schools. IDA would finance teacher salaries and maintenance costs on a declining basis
(Annex 8).
Component B. Institutional Strengthening (US$14.9 million including contingencies)
3.19. The main purpose of the Institutional Strengthening component is to support the
Government's proposal to restructure and decentralize the MOE, strengthen supervision, and
develop the necessary managerial capacity at the ministry to sustain the provision of quality basic
education for all Hondurans at higher levels of efficiency and accountability. The policies and
activities supported under this component are an integral part of the overall Government program
of public sector reform, which would be supported by IDA through a proposed Public Sector



- 26 -
Management Reform project. The guidelines for the MOE institutional reforms have been
approved by the Presidential Commission for the Modernization of the State. The proposed
project will assist the implementation of these reforms and development activities, comprising:
(a) organizational restructuring, decentralization, and development of management capacity and
information systems of the MOE; (b) a pilot teacher incentives program to enhance the quality
of classroom teaching; and (c) project administration, monitoring and evaluation.
3.20. Subcomponent B.1.   Reorganization, Decentralization, and  Development of
Management Capacity and Information Systems of the MOE (US$11.0 million including
contingencies). This subcomponent aims at improving the efficiency of the MOE both at the
central and national levels. At the central level, itnproved efficiency will be achieved through
(a) simplifying and downsizing the MOE organizational structure, eliminating or consolidating
redundant units, functions and staff, and providing management and technical training for the
staff; (b) reforming employment and salary regimes, in conjunction with the national civil
servants' reform; and (c) streamlining administrative procedures through enhanced management
information systems and improving office technology.  At the national level, decentralized
services will be strengthened and expanded. The restructuring and decentralization process will
be phased, to allow for the preparation of operations manuals, staff training, and adjustments
and modifications to the normative framework during project implementation (Annex 9).
3.21. The institutional reforms to be carried out by a technical group responding to the
minister, would be supported by technical assistance and training provided under the project.
The main activities planned include:
(a) Reorganization of the ministry's central office by major functions, eliminating the
current area division by education level, and developing areas by technical functions (planning,
curricula, training, quality control). This will allow the elimination of redundancies and the
consolidation of the MOE's technical capacity. FIIS will provide for remodeling and expansion
of schools under the technical normns of MOE. A unique center for training will be conformned
to eliminate current duplication and dispersion of activities. The new organization will continue
to be headed by the Minister and two Vice-Ministers, but an Administrative Manager would be
added to the structure. The central office will retain policy and normative functions, while
operational functions will be decentralized at departmental level. The Minister will be assisted
by a General Secretariat, with legal and internal audit functions, and a Directorate of Planning
overseeing budgeting and management information systems. The Vice-Minister for Technical
Affairs will supervise two technical Directorates with nornative functions: Pedagogic Services
and Evaluation of the Quality of Education. The Vice-Minister for Educational Services will
supervise 18 Departmental Directorates of Education with operational functions and jurisdiction
over all levels of education within departments (para. 3.21 (c)). The Administrative Manager
will be responsible for the management of personnel, and physical and financial resources at the
central level, as well as for procurement functions of the MOE."' Prior to negotiations,
16/    Procurement activities have been decentralized from the National Procurement Agency (Proveeduria
General de la Reptiblica) to the various public entities, maintaining only normative functions at the central
office. Although the National Procurement L-aw (Ley de Contratacion del Estado) has not yet been
amended, the functional redefinition of the Proveeduria General de la Reptiblica was approved by Congress
(continued...)



- 27 -
satisfactory guidelines for the restructuring and decentralization of the MOE were provided to
IDA, as well as evidence that a technical group responsible for designing and implementing the
restructuring of the MOE has been established.
(b) Strengthening Decentralized Services at the 18 Departmental Directorates of
Education and 400 district offices. The new directorates will be responsible for technical
superiision and inspection, management of teachers and administrative personnel, liaison with
local communities, and coordination with Municipalities for distribution of textbooks and didactic
materials for the entire public school system. The MOE will transfer staff from the central to
departmental offices at no additional cost. School maintenance and cleaning services would be
gradually transferred to the local communities and the Municipalities. The process would
initially consider the Municipalities involved in the school expansion under the proposed project
(para. 3.17 (c)). The proposed project would strengthen decentralized services through: (i)
construction 13 departmental offices and rehabilitation of 5 departmental offices by FHIS; (ii)
provision of equipment and furniture for 18 departmental offices and for about 400 district
offices; (iii) procurement of 18 vehicles, one for each departmental office; (iv) maintenance of
departmental offices's facilities, vehicles and equipment; (v) expansion of pedagogic supervision
capacity by 100 additional district supervisors and improved employment and hiring practices;
and (vi) transport allowances for supervision visits. IDA will finance transport allowances,
maintenance and operating costs on a declining basis and will not finance severance pay. Prior
to negotiations, the MOE provided evidence of the access to land for the construction of 13
departmental offices.  As a condition for disbursement of funds for goods allocated to
Departmental Directorates of Education, the MOE would have appointed the 18 officers who will
manage such Departmental Directorates of Education (para. 7.3 (a)).
(c) Reform of Employment and Salary Regimes, aimed at reducing the number of
unnecessary positions by about 29 percent, rationalizing salary structures, and establishing
technical norms for personnel management, including performance evaluation. In support of
these reforms, the proposed project will provide technical assistance and equipment for the
design and operation of an integrated personnel database and for the preparation of personnel
manuals. During negotiations, agreement was reached that, not later than July 31, 1996,
evidence will be presented to IDA that the MOE has established a system, satisfactory to IDA,
for MOE's employment and salary administration (para. 7.1 (i)).
(d) Management Information Systems (MIS) will be improved through provision of
technical assistance, equipment and software to: (i) expand the educational statistics database to
all levels of education and to track the distribution of education materials; (ii) provide the
Planning Department with education indicators to systematize its monitoring functions; and (iii)
support the publication of statistical bulletins and annuals. As a condition of Effectiveness, MOE
will present evidence to IDA that a program, satisfactory to IDA, for the improvement of the
management information systems and the strengthening of the Planning Department of the MOE
has been adopted (para. 7.2 (c)).
6'(... continued)
amended, the functional redefinition of the Proveedurta General de la RepiTblica was approved by Congress
under the Ley de Reestructuraci6n de los Mecanismos de Ingreso y la Reducci6n del Gasto del Sector
Piiblico, published on October 28, 1994.



- 28 -
(e) Training for the MOE staff will be provided through: (i) 10 courses and 7 seminars;
(ii) 10 study tours, and (iii) 10 scholarships for specialization on educational policy analysis,
planning and budgeting, education services, and human resources management, benefitting
approximately 200 MOE staff. Training will be carried out throughout the life of the project
by universities in Honduras and abroad, under service contracts with the MOE.  The
effectiveness of the training program will be reviewed during the Project Annual and Midterm
Reviews.
3.22. Subcomponent B.2. Teachers' Performance Improvement Program (US$1.6 million
including contingencies). The objective of this program is to motivate teachers to improve their
classroom teaching performnance at primary schools. Teachers' performance will be measured
by: (a) teacher attendance, and (b) improvements in students' attendance. The program will be
targeted, on a pilot basis, to relatively isolated rural schools located in the poorest municipalities
and served by only one or two teachers. All teachers working at these schools will be eligible
to participate in the program, on a volunteer basis, provided they are recommended to the MOE
by the local community.  Participation of teachers in the program  will not exceed two
consecutive years, and an interval of at least one year will be required before teachers can re-
enter the program. Teachers' attendance criteria will require a minimum of 18 to 20 days of
classes per month, during the 10 months school-year. Teachers' attendance will be verified by
parents and supervisors. Student's attendance criteria will be measured annually in increments
of 20 percent, by district supervisors. Teachers who achieve these performance targets will
receive a grant equivalent to 7 percent of the average annual primary teacher's salary (or
approximately US$196 equivalent per year). Similar performance incentive programs operating
in other Latin American countries have proven effective at ensuring and increasing teachers'
accessibility in the classroom and improving teaching performance. In Honduras, studies have
shown that among other factors, students' academic achievements depend heavily on the number
of hours of classroom  teaching they receive.17'  The implementation of the Teachers'
Performance Improvement Program will be phased and will be reviewed during the Project
Annual and Midterm  Reviews.  Activities during the first project year will comprise: (i)
establishment of teachers' performance assessment criteria and targets; (ii) arrangements for
community participation; (iii) mechanisms for payment of grants to teachers; (iv) program trial
at 100 rural schools; and (v) program evaluation and adjustment. During the subsequent Project
years, the program will be expanded as follows: 500 schools in the second year, 1,200 schools
in the third year, 2,000 schools in the fourth year, and 3,000 schools in the fifth year. The
project will also support complementary measures by the MOE aimed at increasing classroom
time, including: limiting the annual matriculation period to 5 days in February; paying teachers'
salaries in the last Friday of each month, preferably through commercial banks; compressing in-
service teacher training periods to a few days a year and weekends; and disseminating the school
calendar among teachers and parents (Annex 10). In support of this program, the project will
finance teachers' incentives, community meetings and printing of school calendars; IDA will
finance teachers' incentives on a declining basis. As a condition of disbursement offunds for
teachers' incentives, the MOE will present to IDA, evidence that a Teachers' Perfornance
Improvement Program, satisfactory to IDA, has been initiated (para. 7.3 (b)).
17/    Harvard University, Bridges Project. op.cit. 1991.



- 29 -
3.23. Subcomponent B.3. Project Administration, Monitoring and Evaluation (US$2.3
million including contingencies). The administration of the project will be coordinated by a
PCU  created under the Vice-Minister for Technical Affairs of the MOE.  The PCU
responsibilities comprise: (a) coordination of the implementation of the project by MOE, FHIS,
UMCE, and the Municipal Corporations; (b) preparation of Project Implementation Plans; (c)
preparation of Project Implementation Reports; (d) processing of documentation for disbursement
of the IDA credit and other project funds and for procurement of goods and services; (e)
carrying out of procurement activities; (f) maintenance of records and separate accounts; (g)
management of project funds; and (h) monitoring the implementation and evaluating the impact
evaluation of the project. The PCU will be headed by a Project Director, assisted by an
Administrative Director, and would be organized in four main groups: Administration and
Finances, Procurement, Technical Group, and Institutional Group. An Operations Committee,
consisting of the Vice Minister for Technical Affairs, the Vice Minister for Educational
Services, the Director of Planning, the PCU Project Director and Administrative Director, will
be established and meet periodically for policy consultations and approval of the project's annual
work program. To ensure management consistency and continuity, a Project Operations Manual
will be adopted covering the financial, procurement, and personnel management procedures to
be used by the PCU, and standard bidding documents (SBDs) and contracts. The MOE will
ensure that the PCU is at all times staffed with full-time professionals satisfactory to IDA,
assisted by clerical staff in adequate numbers. The project will support the operations of the
PCU through the financing of technical assistance and consultants' services, office equipment,
operating costs, and audit services. IDA will finance operating costs on a declining basis
(Annex 11). As conditions of Effectiveness, the MOE will present evidence to IDA that: (i) the
Project Operational Manual, satisfactory to IDA, has been adopted; and (ii) the PCU has been
established (para. 7.2 (d)).
3.24. Monitoring and Evaluation.  To strengthen the MOE's project monitoring and
evaluation capacity, the proposed project would provide for additional technical assistance and
consultants' services to the PCU for operations research and small evaluation studies.
Approximately 10 small-scale studies are planned, two to be completed in each project year.
The evaluation studies would focus on: (i) use of educational materials by students and teachers,
including use of modular textbooks, and assessment of the distribution system for educational
materials; (ii) priorities and strategy for primary education curriculum reform; (iii) school
performance and factors explaining their success or failure; (iv) community participation in
preschool and primary education, with special emphasis on the role of the community in the
teacher incentives program; (v) pilot Teachers' Performance Improvement Program; (vi)
effectiveness of CADs in providing in-service teacher training, and their impact on improving
the quality of teaching; (vii) operations and impact of the CCIEs on students' performance in
primary school; and (viii) operations and impact of bilingual education on the academic
performance of Miskato and Garffuna students. In addition, the ex-ante economic evaluation of
the project will be repeated upon its completion. Project monitoring and impact indicators are
presented in Annex 12.  During negotiations, agreements were reached on the Project
Monitoring and Impact Evaluation Indicators, satisfactory to IDA, that provide the criteria to
monitor Project implementation and to evaluate its impact in the public education system (para.
7.1 (j)).



- 30 -
IV. PROJECT COST, PROCUREMENT, DISBURSEMENT, AND AUDITS
A. Project Costs and Financing
4.1   Project Costs. The total project cost, including physical and price contingencies, and
local taxes, is estimated at about US$53.1 million equivalent, of which an estimated US$24.7
million (46 percent) is in foreign exchange. Thxes amount to about US$4.6 million per year.
Investment costs are 52 percent of total baseline costs and incremental recurrent costs amount
to 48 percent of total baseline costs. Recurrent costs are usually higher in human resource
projects, particularly in the present case which emphasizes quality improvements rather than
expansion of infrastructure. Project costs are estimated at January 1995 prices and include
physical contingencies of 17 percent for civil works, 5 percent for textbooks, 3 percent for
equipment, vehicles and furniture, and 2 percent for maintenance. Price contingencies were
calculated at 1.5 percent for 1995, 1.8 percent for 1996, 2.4 percent for 1997, and 2.5 percent
for 1998 and 1999, according to the Bank Group's estimated Index of Unit Value of
Manufactured Exports, October 1994. These rates have been applied to local and foreign costs,
since Honduras has adopted a floating exchange rate system which results in periodic market
adjustments that tend to compensate for the difference between international inflation on a US
dollar base and local inflation rates.
4.2   Estimated construction costs for classrooms and office buildings are based on unit prices
per square meter, provided by FillS and derived from current contracts and unit costs for similar
standards of construction. Estimated costs for rehabilitation of office facilities are based on
preliminary engineering for a sample of departmental office buildings.  Estimated annual
preventive school maintenance costs are based on unit prices provided by FillS and derived from
current school repair contracts. Estimated costs of school furniture are based on unit prices
provided by FHIS and derived from current school furniture contracts. Estimated costs for
equipment, office furniture, vehicles, and educational materials are based on unit prices per item
obtained in recent international and local purchases. Estimates for technical assistance and
studies are based on current rates for local and foreign experts; and cost estimates for training,
salaries and operating costs are based on current costs of the MOE.  The table below
summarizes the estimated costs by component and Annex 13 provides detailed cost tables.



- 31 -
Project Cost Summary
Local    Foreign    Iotal
---US$ million---
Improving the Quality of Basic Education
Training of Teachers, Principals & Supervisors  2.1      0.2       2.3
Textbooks and Didactic Materials              6.0       17.2      23.2
Bilingual Education                           0.6        1.0       1.6
External Evaluation                           1.2        0.1       1.3
Infrastructure Improvements                   5.9        1.0       6.9
15.8      19.5      35.3
Institutional Strengthening
Reorganization & Decentralization of MOE      7.3        3.0      10.3
Teachers' Performance Improvement Program      1.5       0.0       1.5
Project Administration, Monitoring & Evaluation  1.6     0.5       2.1
10.4       3.5      13.9
BASE COST                                     26.2      23.0       49.2
Physical Contingencies                         0.7       0.5        1.2
Price Contingencies                            1.5        1.2       2.7
TOTAL PROJECT COST''                           28.4       24.7      53.1
4.3  Incremental Recurrent Costs.  Incremental recurrent costs include teacher and
supervisor's salaries, teacher incentives, non-durable didactic materials, travel allowances,
maintenance and operating costs. Over the project life, incremental recurrent costs generated
by the project are estimated to grow from US$0.6 million in the first project year, to US$6.3
million in the last year. Based on the 1994 MOE budget of about US$140.6 million and
projected budget increments of 4 percent per year during the 1995-1999 period, the impact of
these costs on the MOE budget would be 0.4 percent in 1995, 3.1 percent in 1996, 3.6 percent
in 1997, 3.7 percent in 1998, and 3.7 percent in 1999, thus remaining small and manageable.
IDA would finance incremental recurrent costs on a declining basis. On average, IDA financing
would represent 60 percent of salaries, incentives and operating costs; and 80 percent of didactic
materials for students. Thus, the additional MOE budgetary commitments required to cover
recurrent costs under the project, are estimated as follows (in 1995 US$ million):
1995     1996      1997     1998      1999
Government    0.0       0.0      1.7       1.8       3.6
IDA           0.6       4.7      3.9       1.8       0.8
Total         0.6       4.7      5.6       6.0       6.3
It Includes approximately $4.6 million in local taxes.



- 32 -
After project completion, recurrent costs generated by the project are estimated at US$6.3
million per year. Savings accruing to the MOE from lower administrative costs resulting from
organizational restructuring, and from increased efficiency of student flows in primary school,
are expected to fully compensate for higher incremental recurrent costs generated by the project
(Annex 2).
4.4 Project Financing. The proposed project will be financed by IDA, the Government of
Germany through KfW, and by the Government of Honduras. The proposed IDA credit of
US$30.0 million equivalent (SDR 20.4 million) would finance 62 percent of total project costs
net of taxes and duties.  The IDA credit will finance 64 percent of foreign exchange
expenditures and 50 percent of local expenditures. The KfW soft loan of US$13.3 million
equivalent (DM 20.0 million) will finance 27 percent of total project costs net of taxes and
duties, including 36 percent of foreign expenditures and 15 percent of local expenditures. The
amount of local cost financing by IDA is in line with other IDA credits for Honduras due to its
difficult fiscal situation, and the relatively low foreign exchange costs of education projects as
elsewhere. The IDA credit will be made to the Republic of Honduras, which will make the
funds available to the MOE for the execution of the project. The Government of Honduras will
finance US$9.8 million equivalent, or 18 percent of total project costs, including taxes and duties
estimated at US$4.6 million equivalent. During negotiations, agreements were reached that the
Government will provide assurances that: (a) financing from the KJW in the amount of DM 20. 0
million equivalent will be made available for the proposed project, (b) in the event that the KJW
loan agreement have failed to become effective by March 31, 1996, the Government will
establish to the satisfaction of IDA that adequate funds for the project are available from other
sources, on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA; and (c) as part of the Project
Implementation Plans, the Government will confirm the provision of counterpart funds required
for the project in each calendar year (para. 7.1 (k)).
Financing Plan
Local    Foreign     Total
US$ million
Government of Honduras                           9.8        0.0        9.8
IDA                                              14.3      15.7       30.0
Government of Germany (KfW)                      4.3        9.0       13.3
Total                                           28.4       24.7       53.1



- 33 -
B. Procurement
Table 3. PROCUREMENT METHODS BY CATEGORY
(US$ thousand)
Procurement Method!'
Non-Bank
Financed     Total
Category               ICB        LCB       Otherh'        E/
Civil Works                       0.0        0.0         0.0        5,774.9     5,774.9
Equipment and Vehicles          1,147.9     417.3       418.W'        0.0       1,983.8
(887.3)    (320.1)     (321.3)                 (1,528.7)
Furniture                         0.0       142.0       284.3s'       0.0        426.3
(99.6)     (199.1)                  (298.8)
Printing of Textbooks             0.0        0.0         0.0        6,441.9     6,441.9
Didactic Materials              17,228.2    820.6       200.C0      1,083.2    19,332.0
(13,044.8)   (492.4)    (181.6)                (13,718.8)
Technical Assistance, Studies, and  0.0      0.0       7,493.4        0.0       7,493.4
Training "                                             (7,493.4)                (7,493.4
Salaries, Incentives and Operating  0.0      0.0       11.600.8       0.0       11,600.8
Costs"                                                 (6,960.5)               (6,960.5)
Total                           18,376.2    1,379.9    19,997.0    13,300.0    53,053.1
(13,932.0)   (912.1)   (15,155.9)     (0.0)    (30,000.0)
a/ Figures in parentheses are amounts estimated to be financed by IDA.
F Non-ICB/LCB are aggregated as Other, including local shopping, direct contracting and hiring of
consultants.
E/ Co-financed in parallel by the Republic of Germany through the KfW.
d/ Didactic materials procured through local shopping, and proprietor books procured through
direct contracting.
e/ Local shopping and direct contracting.
" Consultants selected according to IDA Guidelines.
" Financed on a declining basis, not subject to procurement.
4.5    A  Procurement Unit to be established  in the MOE  will be responsible for all
procurement, except for civil works and school furniture, which will be procured by FHIS.
However, in view that this unit is new, it will receive technical support of a consultant
specialized in procurement, to be hired under the project. Procurement of civil works and
printing of textbooks, financed by KfW, would be carried under procedures satisfactory to KfW.
Procurement of school furniture will be done following procedures satisfactory to IDA.
Procurement of goods and consultant services will be done following procedures consistent with
IDA  guidelines.   For ICB, the MOE  would use the SBDs issued by IDA, with  such
modifications as agreed to by IDA to be necessary for the purpose of the project. For purposes
of bid evaluation under ICB, a margin of preference for local manufacturers would be applied,
in accordance with IDA guidelines. For Local Competitive Bidding (LCB), SBDs, to be agreed
with IDA, will be used. Table 3 shows estimated project costs by procurement methods.



- 34 -
4.6   Furniture. Procurement of school and office furniture would amount to approximately
US$0.4 million and would be procured by FIHIS and the MOE. Office furniture would be
procured by the MOE as follows: contracts valued between US$25,000 and US$150,000, up to
an aggregate amount of US$0.2 million, would be procured through LCB procedures acceptable
to IDA; contracts valued at less than US$25,000 would be awarded on the basis of comparison
of price quotations solicited from at least three suppliers, in an aggregate amount not to exceed
US$0. I million. In cases where it would not be possible to obtain competitive proposal, for
school furniture, contracts estimated to cost less than US$8,000 and up to an aggregate amount
of US$0.2 million, may be awarded through direct contracting by FHIS.
4.7   Equipment and Vehicles. Equipment and vehicles to be financed under the proposed
project, are estimated at US$2.0 million, and would be procured using ICB and LCB procedures
satisfactory to IDA. Vehicles would be procured in packages valued not less than US$150,000
through ICB. Office equipment would be grouped, to the extent possible, in bid packages valued
at US$150,000 or more, and procured through ICB. Packages of similar equipment (except
vehicles) valued between US$25,000 and US$150,000, up to an aggregate amount of US$0.4
million, would be procured through LCB procedures satisfactory to IDA.  Contracts for
miscellaneous equipment items valued less than US$25,000 would be awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations solicited from at least three suppliers, in an aggregate amount
not to exceed US$0.4 million.
4.8   Didactic Materials. Library books, didactic materials and local distribution services of
textbooks and didactic materials to be financed by IDA, amounting to about US$18.2 million,
would be procured through several procedures, including two-stage ICB, LCB, local shopping
and direct contracting.  Local distribution services will be contracted separately from the
acquisition of didactic materials, following LCB procedures and using bidding documents
satisfactory to IDA. Packages of didactic materials costing US$150,000 or more, would be
procured by ICB, totaling about US$17.2 million. Packages of didactic materials valued
between US$25,000 and US$150,000, up to an aggregate amount of about US$0.8 million, not
expected to attract foreign bidders, will be procured using LCB procedures satisfactory to IDA.
Library books will procured through two-stage ICB whereby the MOE defines the didactic
contents and technical specifications of the books and invites interested bidders to submit first,
unpriced technical proposals and book samples, which would be subject to technical and
commercial clarifications and adjustments; and second, to submit final technical proposals and
priced bids on the basis of amended bidding documents. Procurement of library books which
are proprietary and obtainable from only one source, will be done through direct contracting
with local and international publishers that hold the copyrights; the packages handled under this
method will not exceed an aggregate amount of US$0.2 million. In cases where authors hold
the copyright, publishers will enter into an agreement with the author, and procurement will be
done through direct contracting with the publisher. Since local experience with selection of titles
of library books in Honduras is limited, the MOE will be assisted in title-selection, under the
technical assistance component of the project.
4.9   Technical Assistance, Studies, and Training. Individual consultants and consulting
firms that will carry out technical assistance, studies, and training, amount to approximately
US$7.5 million, will be hired following IDA guidelines for consultants (August 1981) Bank
Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as



- 35 -
Executing Agency. During appraisal, the timetables for contracting the individual consultants
for technical assistance and training and for studies under the project, were reviewed and found
satisfactory. The appointment of consultants will be done using the Bank standard contract
documents for larger contracts, and standard documents to be agreed with IDA, for smaller
assignments.
4.10 Prior Review. Prior review will be required for all ICB, and for the first two contracts
for goods of each contract type (i.e. didactic materials and associated local distribution services,
office equipment, school and office furniture) procured under LCB for each year of the project.
Prior review will also be required for all packages of proprietary books valued at $25,000
equivalent or more, procured through direct contracting. Prior review of selection and hiring
of consultants by IDA, would not be required (a) for individual consultants, when the contract
is valued at less than US$25,000, and (b) for consulting firms, when the contract is valued at
less than $50,000. This exception does not apply to prior review of terms-of-reference and
assignments of critical natural or single source selection. All contracts not subject to prior
review would be reviewed by IDA, on a sample basis, during project supervision missions.
With the above procedures, IDA prior review would cover, in aggregate value, approximately
50 percent of IDA-financed contracts which, due to the decentralized nature of the project and
the large number of individual contracts of relatively small value, is considered acceptable.
C. Disbursements
4.11  The proposed project will be implemented over a period of five years and is expected to
be completed by June 30, 2000 and closed by December 31, 2000. The proceeds of the credit
will be disbursed during a five-year period against eligible expenditures net of all taxes and
duties, as follows: (a) goods other than non-durable didactic materials and associated local
distribution services for didactic materials, 100 percent of total expenditures; (b) consultants'
services, studies and training, 100 percent of total expenditures; (b) non-durable didactic
materials for students and associated local distribution services, 100 percent of total
expenditures until an aggregate amount of US$2.6 million is reached, thereafter at a rate of 80
percent of expenditures until an aggregated amount of US$7.2 million is reached, and at a rate
of 63 percent for the remainder; and (c) salaries, incentives and operating costs, (i) for
teachers' incentives, at 100 percent of expenditures until an aggregate amount of US$0.2 million
is reached, thereafter at a rate of 60 percent of expenditures until an aggregate amount of
US$1.0 million is reached, and at a rate of 25 percent for the remainder; (ii) for salaries and
operating costs, at 100 percent of expenditures until an aggregate amount of US$2.5 million is
reached, thereafter at a rate of 60 percent of expenditures until an aggregate amount of US$5.1
million is reached, and at a rate of 25 percent for the remainder. Retroactive financing of up
to US$1.0 million equivalent, corresponding to about 3.3 percent of the credit amount, may be
provided to help cover eligible start-up expenditures made after August 31, 1994 for consultants'
services (Annex 14).
4.12  Proceeds of the proposed credit will be disbursed against expenditures that would be
presented to IDA and fully documented for goods contracts of US$150,000 or more, single-
source book contracts valued at $25,000 equivalent or more, and for consultant contracts of
$25,000 or more for individuals and US$50,000 or more for firms, subject to prior review as
per para. 4.12.  Claims for expenditures under contracts below those amounts and other



- 36 -
expenditures not covered by a contract, such as salaries, incentives, training and operating costs,
would be disbursed against presentation of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs), for which the
supporting documentation would be retained by the MOE, for periodic inspection by IDA and
by external auditors. In order to facilitate project implementation, the Government will establish
a Special Account for the project in U.S. dollars at the Central Bank of Honduras (HCB). The
Special Account will have an Authorized Allocation of $1,800,000 to be withdrawn from the
Credit Account.  The Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to
$1,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by IDA, shall be equal to or exceed
the equivalent of $3,000,000. Payments out of the Special Account will made at the exchange
rate prevailing on the date of expenditure, pertain exclusively to eligible expenditures, and be
supported by the required documentation.
D. Accounts and Audits
4.13  The PCU will maintain records and separate accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance
with sound accounting practices, the operations, resources and expenditures of the project.
During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that the MOE will: (i) have the
records and accounts of the project for each fiscal year, including the Special Account, audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA, (ii) furnish IDA, not later than six months after the end of each year, a
certified copy of report of said auditors, and (iii) furnish IDA such other infonnation concerning
the records, accounts and audit reports as IDA may from time to time reasonably request (para.
7.1 (1)). For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit Account were
made on the basis of statements of expenditure, and for all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals were made from the Special Account, the MOE will provide access to the
independent auditors to all records, accounts and the supporting documentation necessary to
allow the timely performance of their audit obligations. The audit reports will include separate
opinions on the adequacy of the SOEs, the Special Account, and the procurement of proprietary
books.
V. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND SUPERVISION
A. Project Implementation
5.1   Project Preparation. The MOE has prepared the project through a technical group
under the coordination of the Vice-Minister for Technical Affairs, with technical support from
the Regional Unit for Technical Assistance in the Social Sectors (RUTA Social) and financing
from a Government of Japan grant, and from IBRD Loan 2804-HO. At the inception of project
preparation, valuable assistance was also provided by the Presidential Committee for the
Modernization of Education. High-level MOE authorities had direct participation in project
preparation, ensuring that the Government's strategy for the sector is reflected in the project
design. A regional seminar on education reform, organized by the World Bank Education
Development Institute (EDI) in April 1994, also helped prepare the project. The experience
gained by the MOE from the implementation of the Primary Education Efficiency and the
ADEPRIR projects were instrumental in helping prepare the project. A field verification of the



- 37 -
1992 primary school census ensured updated baseline information which was used in the
definition of project component. A study of municipal capacity to maintain school buildings,
carried out by the MOE, FIIS and the AMHON, helped specify how maintenance functions can
be decentralized. The results of the 1994 nutrition census, provided poverty indicators to help
target project interventions. Based on the review of technical and institutional components, the
appraisal mission considered that project preparation has been completed to an advanced state
of readiness for implementation.
5.2   Project Monitoring. Project implementation will be monitored by the PCU according
to process, budget and impact evaluation indicators satisfactory to IDA. The PCU will present
to IDA, not later than April 30 of each year, beginning in 1996, a Project Implementation
Report covering project implementation activities during the previous calendar year. Such report
will include, among other things, the following information on compliance with: (i) the Project
Operational Manual by MOE, UPNFM and FHIS; (ii) the Project Implementation Plan for the
year under review; and (iii) the Project Monitoring and Impact Evaluation Indicators. This
Project Implementation Report will be discussed during the Project Annual and Midterm
Reviews. The external evaluation of student academic achievements will be the principal basis
for evaluating the impact of the project (Annexes 7 and 12).
5.3   Annual Project Reviews. Annual Project Reviews will take place in July of each year,
starting in 1996 under the coordination of the PCU. Such reviews shall focus, among others,
on the following aspects of the project: (a) the Project Implementation Report (para. 5.2); and
(b) the proposed Project Implementation Plan for the following calendar year.  During
negotiations, agreements were reached that the MOE will conduct Annual Project Reviews, not
later than July 31 of each year, starting in 1996, focused on the Project Implementation Report
for the year under review, and the Project Implementation Plan for the following calendar year
(para. 7.1 (m)).
5.4   Project Midterm Review. A comprehensive mid-term review will be conducted in July
1997 with IDA, to assess project performance and initial impact, in light of project objectives,
in addition to review activities normally covered under Annual Project Reviews. The Project
Midterm Review will have a strong focus on the policies and institutional strengthening of the
public education sector (Annex 15). During negotiations, agreement was reached that MOE
would conduct, with IDA, a Project Midtern Review, not later than July 31, 1997, under terms
of reference satisfactory to IDA, to assess project performance and initial impact, with special
attention to education sector policies and institutional strengthening impacts of the Project (para.
7.1 (n)).
5.5   During negotiations, agreement was reached that, as part of the Project Annual and
Midterm Reviews, IDA may require that the MOE prepare an action plan, satisfactory to IDA,
to make adjustments in Project implementation. In the event that such request is made, the MOE
shall present such action plan to IDA not later than one month after the conclusion of the review
in question and thereafter carry out said plan with due diligence and efficiency (para. 7.1 (o)).



- 38 -
B. Project Supervision
5.6   The project will require close and intensive supervision, particularly in the early years.
IDA missions would visit a sample of school districts at least once a year during the first two
project years. Supervision requirements are estimated at about 20 weeks of headquarters staff
during the first and second project year, and at about 10 weeks of headquarters staff each year
thereafter. Local supervision on the part of the MOE and the FIBS will play an important role.
An overall project implementation schedule is presented in Annex 16.
C. Project haunch Seminar
5.7   To facilitate project start-up activities and familiarize the PCU staff with IDA legal,
audit, procurement, and disbursement requirements, a project launch seminar will be conducted
as early as possible after Effectiveness. During negotiations, agreement was reached that MOE
will conduct, jointly with IDA, a project launch seminar within two months of the Effective Date,
focused on: (i) review of the Project Implementation Plan and the Monitoring and Impact
Evaluation Indicators; and (ii) review of IDA procedures and requirements associated with
procurement, disbursements, and auditing (para. 7. 1 (p)).
D. Project Sustainability
5.8   Project Sustainability. To ensure appropriate operations of the facilities and programs
supported by the project after its completion, the MOE will prepare and present to IDA a Project
Sustainability Plan, which shall be discussed with IDA and thereafter efficiently carried out.
During negotiations, agreements were reached that the MOE would present to IDA, not later
than six months after the Closing Date, a plan for the future operation of the project, discuss
such plan with IDA, and thereafter carry out said plan with due diligence and efficiency, taking
into account IDA's comments (para. 7.1 (q)).
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Project Benefits
6.1   By raising children's cognitive achievement as well as their probability of completing the
primary education cycle by 10-20 percent, the main project benefits would consist of a higher
rate of human capital accumulation, contributing to economic development. Due to its emphasis
on rural areas and bilingual education, project benefits would also include a more equal
distribution of economic opportunities among Honduran children, especially for the poorest and
the underserved indigenous populations, and it would contribute to the Government's goal of
redressing inequity in primary education. The project would improve the efficiency of public
resource use by reducing repetition and dropout rates by about 10 percent, and by increasing the
amount of investments with high social rates of return. Teachers, supervisors and principals
would improve their productivity through systematic on-the-job training, and would contribute
to the quality and efficiency of the primary education system  nationwide.  Institutional
strengthening would contribute to a better allocation and increased productivity of human



- 39 -
resources within the MOE, a reduction of about 29 percent in administrative costs, and an
enhanced capacity to carry out, evaluate, and monitor educational policies and programs.
Altogether, about one million primary school children, over 26,000 pre-primary and primary
teachers, school directors and supervisors, and MOE managers would raise their human capital.
B. Impact on Women
6.2   Approximately half of the children who would benefit from an improved quality of
educational services would be girls; their access to higher levels of education and better work
opportunities would thus improve. Further benefits can also be expected, as research has shown
that increasing the education levels of women has a significant positive effect on the health status
and on the educational attainment of children, and also contributes to lower fertility. The impact
may be particularly significant for indigenous girls.
C. Environmental Impact
6.3   The proposed project is rated "C", because it would enhance environmental conservation
practices through the introduction of environmental themes in the primary school curricula and
teacher training program.
D. Project Risks
6.4   Project implementation may be delayed if the strengthening of the MOE institutional
capacity takes longer to achieve than anticipated. To mitigate this risk, the project would: (a)
provide technical assistance in the areas of planning, management information systems, and
evaluation; (b) utilize successful models and lessons learned under previous projects; and (c)
implement sector reforms supported by the proposed Public Sector management Reform project.
There is also a risk of inadequate provision of counterpart funds due to high budget deficits.
This risk would be minimized through savings accruing from the MOE institutional reform and
annual sector expenditure reviews.
E. Program Objective Category
6.5   The project falls under the Program Objective Category of poverty reduction and would
support a program of targeted interventions as part of the GOH's national policy of equitable
access to education opportunities, by channelling resources especially to rural and indigenous
areas, thus contributing to poverty reduction and development of human resources. The MiskAto
and Gar(funa indigenous communities were selected as priority for the introduction of bilingual
education based on the fact that they represent 60 percent of the indigenous school age children
in Honduras, as indicated by anthropological research carried out during project preparation
(Map IBRD 26279R). Single classroom multigrade rural schools, targeted for expansion, were
chosen based on the 1992 school map and enrollment figures for the 1992-1994 period that show
overcrowding of more than 60 children per teacher and classroom and a steady enrollment
growth trend over the past three years. Classroom libraries and didactic materials other than
textbooks, will be targeted to primary schools with one, two or three teachers, therefore
covering practically all rural primary schools and most schools located in poor urban
neighborhoods.



- 40 -
VII. AGREEMIEENrTS REACHED AND RECOMMIEENDATION
7.1   During negotiations, agreement was reached:
(a)   on a Training Plan for the first year of Project implementation, satisfactory to
IDA, and that Training Plans for the subsequent years of Project implementation
will be presented as part of the Project Implementation Plans, to be reviewed
during the Project Annual and Midterm Reviews (para. 3.9);
(b)   on a model Municipal Education Materials Distribution Agreement, satisfactory
to IDA (para. 3.12);
(c)   on a draft Agreement, satisfactory to IDA, to be entered into by MOE and
UPNFM (para. 3.15);
(d)   that MOE will take measures to ensure normative oversight over FHIS
educational investments, conditioning such investment to MOE's technical
and location norms, assured maintenance, and teaching staff (para. 3.16);
(e)   that MOE will present to IDA the results of the School Census, carried out in
accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to IDA, not later than six month
after the Effective Date (para. 3.17 (a));
(f)   that MOE will present to IDA the annual plan for construction, rehabilitation and
equipping of classrooms, as part of the Project Implementation Plans, to be
reviewed during the Project Annual and Midterm Reviews (para. 3.17 (b));
(g)   that Maintenance Agreements, satisfactory to IDA, will be entered into by MOE
and selected Municipalities, and, if a Municipality fails in any way to comply
with its obligations under said Agreement, MOE will ensure the continuous
maintenance of primary schools improved under the Project by other means (para.
3.17 (c));
(h)   that MOE will present to IDA the annual plan for allocation of primary teachers
to new school classrooms, as part of the Project Implementation Plans, to be
reviewed during the Project Annual and Midterm Reviews (para. 3.17 (d));
(i)   that MOE will present, not later than July 31, 1996, evidence that it has
established a system, satisfactory to IDA, for MOE's employment and salary
administration (para. 3.21 (c));
(j)   on the Project Monitoring and Impact Evaluation Indicators, satisfactory to IDA,
that provide the criteria to monitor Project implementation and to evaluate its
impact in the honduran public education system (para. 3.24);



- 41 -
(k)   that the Government will provide assurances that: (i) financing from the KfW in
the amount of DM 20.0 million equivalent will be made available for the
proposed project; (ii) in the event that the KfW loan agreement have failed to
become effective by March 31, 1996, the Government will establish to the
satisfaction of IDA that adequate funds for the project are available from other
sources, on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA; and (iii) as part of the
Project Implementation Plans, the Government will confirm the provision of
counterpart funds required for the project in each calendar year (para. 4.4);
(1)   that MOE will: (i) have the records and accounts of the project for each fiscal
year, including the Special Account, audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
IDA; (ii) furnish IDA, not later than six months after the end of each year, a
certified copy of report of said auditors; and (iii) furnish IDA such other
information concerning the records, accounts and audit reports as IDA may from
time to time reasonably request (para. 4.13);
(m)   that the MOE will conduct Annual Project Reviews, not later than July 31 of each
year, starting in 1996, focused on the Project Implementation Report for the year
under review, and the Project Implementation Plan for the following calendar
year (para. 5.3);
(n)   that MOE will conduct, with IDA, a Project Midterm Review, not later than July
31, 1997, under terms of reference satisfactory to IDA, to assess project
performance and initial impact, with special attention to education sector policies
and institutional strengthening impacts of the Project (para. 5.4);
(o)   that, as part of the Project Annual and Midterm Reviews, IDA may require that
the MOE prepare an action plan, satisfactory to IDA, to make adjustments in
Project implementation. In the event that such request is made, the MOE shall
present such action plan to IDA not later than one month after the conclusion of
the review in question and thereafter carry out said plan with due diligence and
efficiency (para. 5.5);
(p)   that MOE will conduct, jointly with IDA, a project launch seminar within two
months of the Effective Date, focused on:   (i) review  of the Project
Implementation Plan and the Monitoring and Impact Evaluation Indicators; and
(ii) review of IDA procedures and requirements associated with procurement,
disbursements, and auditing (para. 5.7); and,
(q)   that MOE would present to IDA, not later than six months after the Closing Date,
a plan for the future operation of the project, discuss such plan with IDA, and
thereafter carry out said plan with due diligence and efficiency, taking into
account IDA's comments (para. 5.8).



- 42 -
7.2   As conditions of credit effectiveness, the MOE will have:
(a)   presented evidence that the University Agreement has been entered into by the
parties hereto and the UMCE has been established (para. 3.15):
(b)   presented evidence that the FHIS Agreement has been entered into by the parties
thereto (para. 3.17 (b));
(c)   present evidence that a program, satisfactory to IDA, for the improvement of the
management information systems and the strengthening of the Planning
Department of the MOE has been adopted (para. 3.21 (d)); and
(d)   adopted a Project Operational Manual, satisfactory to IDA, and established the
PCU (para. 3.23).
7.3   As conditions of disbursement of Credit proceeds:
(a)   for the purchase of goods allocated to Departmental Directorates of Education,
the MOE will have appointed the 18 officers who will manage such Departmental
Directorates of Education (para. 3.21 (b)); and,
(b)   for payment of teachers' incentives, the MOE will present evidence that a
Teachers' Performance Improvement Program, satisfactory to IDA, has been
initiated (pam. 3.22).
7.4   Recommendation.  Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project would
constitute a suitable basis for an IDA credit of SDR 20.4 million (US$30.0 million equivalent)
to the Republic of Honduras, to be repaid on standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity,
including 10 years of grace. Retroactive financing of up to US$1.0 million equivalent would
be provided to help cover eligible start-up expenditures made on or after August 31, 1994.



HONDURAS
BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
ANNEXES
1.    Education Statistics
2.    Educational Sector Financing and Financial Impact of the Project
3.    Targeting Criteria
4.    Training of Teachers, Principals and Supervisors
5.    Textbooks and Didactic Materials
6.    Bilingual Education
7.    External Evaluation of Students' Academic Achievements
8.    Infrastructure Improvements
9.    Reorganization and Decentralization of the MOE
10.   Teacher Incentives
11.   Project Administration
12.   Project Performance Indicators
13.   Project Costs and Financing
14.   Project Disbursements
15.   Terms of Reference for Project Reviewers
16.   Project Implementation Schedule
17.   Economic Analysis
18.   List of Project Documents






-43 -                                    ANNEX I
EDUCATION STATISTICS
TABLE 1
BASIC INDICATORS
(most recent year)
Indicator                              Unit           Value            Year
Population
Size
1988 Census                                    millions              4.64
1994 Estimate                                  millions              5.46
Urban                                                     %                 39.42
Male                                                      %                 50.10
Indigen.                                                  %                  7.21
ss   s   s.s.s .... .....,..,.,,, ,.,,           .,'  s   :.s .s . :s
.......   ......... ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ . ....... ...........   ..,..... .........,... . ....c*.*....... . .***..,...-... ....
Primary Education
Enrollment (net)                                          %                  80.0           1992
Retention                                                 %                  96.7           1992
Repetition MOE Estimate                                   %                  11.3           1992
Repetition UNESCO Estimate                                %                     28          1988
Dropout                                                   %                    4.9          1988
Net Efficieny                                             %                     72          1988
Completion Rate                                           %                  33.5           1992
s                                      SS     s :      .....   >.:::,S s  sss  .s ss ,ss s , s ; {Ess sS s ss sss ......  .. .......... . . . . .................sss....ss.
Budgetary Indicators
%  of GDP spent on Education                      %                      4         1992
%  of Gov't budget spent on Ed.                   %                     15         1992
GNP PER CAPITA                                                 US$                   580          1993
Source:       UNICEF  (1994), MOE (1994) and UNESCO  (1992)



TABLE 2
INITIAL ENROLLMENT BY AREA, INSTITUTION AND GENDER (1980-1994)
YEAR    TOTAL    URBAN    RURAL    % RURAL   PUBLIC   PRIVATE    % PRIVATE   MALE   FEMALE    % FEMALE
9                                                                  ,,. ,   .  ;   .  . ... . ... . ....... . , . . .......... .......... ............ ............. , E .. , , ,., ..... . . ,. .. 9. g.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.   .   .   . . . . .
1980   601,337  249,420  351,917       58.5  569,330     32,007         5.3 303,175    290,162       48.3
1981   613,633  240,413  373,220       60.8  582,101     31,532         5.1 310,815    302,818       49.3
1982   671,780  274,055  397,725       59.2  633,395     38,385         5.7 340,220    331,560       49.4
1983   704,608  276,008  428,600       60.8  664,467     39,141         5.6 354,587    349,021       49.5
1984   736,902  277,427  459,475       62.4  699,494     37,408         5.1 370,894   366,008        49.7
1985   774,078  291,656  482,422       62.3  733,687    40,391          5.2 390,220    383,858       49.6
1986   810,412  305,824  504,588       62.3  767,444    42,968          5.3 409,078    401,334       49.5         P
1987   840,390  317,382  523,008       62.2  794,715     45,875         5.5 423,843    416,547       49.6
1988   863,313  342,846  520,467       60.3  816,999     46,314         5.4 435,551    427,762       49.5
1989   883,604  352,808  530,796       60.1   834,645    48,959         5.5 446,031    437,573       49.5
1990   889,346  358,429  530,917       59.7  838,204     51,142         5.8 448,010    441,336       49.6
1991   908,446  360,372  548,074       60.3  863,535     44,911         4.9 451,695    456,751       50.3
1992   959,466  377,921  581,545       60.6  907,641     51,825         5.4 483,089    476,377       49.7
1993   990,352  384,938  605,414       61.1   936,005    54,347         5.5 499,772    490,580       49.5       >
1994  1,008,176  418,733  589,443      58.5  953,724     54,459         5.4 509,001    499,175       49.5
z
Source; MOE



TABLE 3
PRIMARY EDUCATION SYSTEM SIZE AND RESOURCE RATIOS 1993
DEPARTMENT      POPULATION    NUMBER OF   ENROLLMENT   GROSS ENROLL.    NUMBER OF    NUMBER OF    STUD.TEACHER      STUD./CLASSROOM
7-12       TEACHERS                     RATE         SCHOOLS    CLASSROOMS         RATIO              RATIO
Atlantida               46,954       1,748       57,909        123               292         1,242        33                 47
Colon                   31,950       1,060       43,260        135               256           711        41                 61
Comayagua               50,095       1,766       54,915        110               531         1,415        31                 39
Copan                   45,355       1,140       40,277        89                406           866        35                 47
Cortez                 119,218       4,073      151,546        127               574         2,230        37                 68
Choluteca               59,197       1,686       67,973        115               556         1,549        40                 44
El Paraiso              51,319       1,496       51,843        101               543         1,332        35                 39
Francisco Morazan      144,253       5,911      170,633        118               858         4,052        29                 42
Gracias a Dios           7,337         356       10,454        142               106           276        29                 38
Intibuca                26,917         857       30,445        113               314           787        36                 39
Islas de la Bahia        3,953         254        5,044        128                43           164        20                 31
La Paz                  22,263         816       23,297        105               301           654        29                 36
Lempira                 36,982         922       38,609        104               460           845        42                 46
Ocotepeque              14,843         497       12,756        86                189           414        26                 31
Olancho                 60,113       1,862       69,001        115               709         1.741        37                 40
Santa Barbara           56,671       1,630       55,466        98                584         1,543        34                 36
Valle                   24,038       1,042       32,943        137               258           796        32                 41
Yoro                    66,542       1,980       79,684        120               533         1,489        40                 54    -
TOTAL             868,000      29,096      996,053        115             7,513        22,106        34                 45
Source: Population by SECPLAN/CELADE; Enrollment, Teachers , and Classrooms by MOE.                                                       b



TABLE 4
EFFICIENCY INDICATORS FOR PRIMARY EDUCATION BY DEPARTMENT (1993)
Department                                                                        Unit Cost Per
Ranked        Completion Rate        Dropout Rate       Repetition Rate a/      Student/Year
%         %                                %                  (US$)
Atlantida                       29.24                 4.72                  38.00             78.10
Colon                           15.51                 4.74                  58.98             74.09
Comayagua                       14.34                 7.28                  64.88             77.62
Copan                           30.27                 5.34                  42.76             57.21
Cortez                          29.49                 4.16                  37.35             65.97
Choluteca                       25.10                 6.63                  52.77             68.13                7
El Paraiso                      23.35                 4.19                  54.06             68.27
Francisco Morazan               29.89                 3.82                  37.19             82.81
Gracias a Dios                   6.64                 3.83                  59.56            136.62
Intibuca                        19.84                 5.21                  55.45             76.91
Islas de la Bahia               26.84                 2.75                  35.95            111.14             C
La Paz                          32.42                 3.87                  44.78             86.22
Lempira                         30.00                 3.14                  47.80             56.94
Ocotepeque                      36.78                 4.67                  37.83             81.63
Olancho                         26.26                 5.99                  47.17             66.53             Z
Santa Barbara                   26.30                 5.91                  40.73             63.71
Valle                           27.16                 4.29                  39.02            107.03             ;>
Yoro                            23.58                 5.67                  47.50             64.09              3
TOTAL                           30.00                 4.90                  28.00                               -X
Sources:MOE, UNICEF-PNUD (1993)
Note: Unit cost per student/year does not include administrative costs which are aproximately $US. 40
a/ In the first grade



TABLE 5
PRESENT ALLOCATION OF PUBLIC PRIMARY TEACHERS
IN URBAN AND RURAL AREAS (1992)
PRIMARY           NUMBER OF          STUDENTITEACHER           TOTAL GRADE          GRADE SECTIONS
DEPARTMENT          ENROLLMENT          TEACHERS                RATIO                  SECTIONS             PER TEACHER
URBAN    RURAL    URBAN       RURAL    URBAN          RURAL      URBAN       RURAL      URBAN      RURAL
Atlantida             21,358    33,448       712       898         30             37       686        2,256      0.96        2.51
Colon                   8,683    34,127      246       783         35             44       302        1,893      1.23        2.42
Comayagua             20,918    32,667       775       884         27             37       767        2,912      0.99        3.29
Copan                  12,661    27,327      329       780         38             35       309        2,286      0.94        2.93
Conez                  57,785    74,090    2,038      1,329        28             56     1,816        2,258      0.89        1.70
Choluteca              17,030    49,353      507      1,118        34             44       423        3,356      0.83        3.00
El Paraiso             13,324    38,305     466        999         29             38       405        3,901      0.87        3.90
Francisco Morazan     105,012    43,445    3,832      1,150        27             38     3,421        3,629      0.89        3.16
Gracias a Dios          1,028    9,426        97       251         11             38        94         643       0.97        2.56
Intibuca                6,518    23,866     246        596         26             40       225        1,638      0.92       2.75
Islas de la Bahia       1,492    2,730        72        90         21             30        65          194      0.90       2.16
La Paz                  5,987    17,035      302       499         20             34       354        1,650      1.17        3.31
Lempira                 6,096    32,513      185       737         33             44       205        2,398      1.11        3.25
Ocotepeque             4,510     8,197      212        277         21             30       201         910       0.95        3.29
Olancho                16,728    50,933      530      1,248        32             41       490        4,793      0.92        3.84
Santa Barbara          13,911    41,294     421       1,178        33             35       379        3,169      0.90       2.69
Valle                   6,919    25,836      250       769         28             34       212        1,558      0.85        2.03
Yoro                   26,207    50,949      639      1,195        41             43       731        3,577      1.14       2.99
TOTAL          346,167   595,541    11,859    14,781        29             40    11,085       43,021      0.93        2.91       Z
Source: MOE



TABLE 6
ENROLLMENT AND STUDENT TEACHER RATIO BY TYPE OF SCHOOL 1993
PRIMARY                  NUMBER OF                STUDENT/TEACHER              TOTAL GRADE                GRADE SECTIONS
DEPARTMENT             ENROLLMENT                  TEACHERS                     RATIO                     SECTIONS                  PER TEACHER
IComplete Complete  Sigle  Incomplete Complete  Single  Incomplete Complete   S   ngle  lDcomplete Complete  Single  Incomplete  Complete  Single
Grade                     Grade                        Grade                       Grade                       Grade
:                                                  :             .........................   ......     ............     .  ........................... ::'  .....   .,a .'........................................ :,
Atlantida           1.678    56,196      36       69     1,689       1      24.1      33.3    32.8      217     2,724       1       3.1       1.6     1.0
Colon               2,233    40,997      30       75       973       1      29.8      42.1    24.5      222     1,971       1       2.9       2.0     1.0
Comayagua           4,317    50,448     150      140     1,600       5      30.7      31.5    27.8      553     3,122       5       3.9       2.0     1.0
Copan              10,545    29,529     202      258       866       6      40.8      34,1    34.8    1,014     1,575       6       3-9       1.8      1 1
Cortez              4,790   146,721      35       96     4,027        1     49.7      36.4   27.2       353     3,718       3       3.7       0.9     2.1
Choluteca           1,788    66,169       15      51      1,629       1     35.3      40.6    14.4      178     3,600        1      3.5       2.2      1.0
ElParaiso           4,622    47,164      57      113      1,369       1     41.0      34.4    51.3      632     3,672        1      5.6       2.7      1.0
Francisco Morazan   7,927   162,624      82      293     6,076      12      27.0      26.8     6.7      801     6,243       7       2.7       1.0     0.6
Gracias a Dios        498      9,957      0       19       329       0      25.5      30.3     0.0       68       668       0       3.5       2.0     0.0
Intibuca            6,135    24,268      42      159       688        2     38.7      35.3    18,7      574     1,288       2       3.6       1.9      1.0
IslasdelaBahia        124      4,920      0       10       205       0      12.7      24.0     0.0       16       242       0       1.7       1.2     0.0
La Paz              2,580    20,689      28       87       733        1     29.6      28.2    23.6      375     1,627        1      4.3       2.2     0.9          1
Lempira            10,219    28,390       0      244       678       0      41.9      41.9     0.0    1,005     1,598       0       4.1       2.4     0.0
Ocotepeque          2,271    10,460      24       89       403        1     25.6      25.9    20.6      316       794        1      3.6       2.0     0.9
Obancho             6,208    61,242    1551      175      1,619     47      35.5      37.8    33.0      765     4.448      70       4.4       2.7      1.5
Santa Barbara       6,779    47,444    1243      192      1,373     39      35.4      34.6    31.5      864     2,652      32       4.5       1.9     0.8
VeJe                  517    32,427       0       18      1,014      0      29.4      32.0     0.0       49     1,721       0       2.8       1.7     0.0      a
Yoro               10,688    68,863     133      233     1,693       6      45.8      40.7    21.4    1,175     3,126       7       5.0       1.8     1.2
M  :m.f .S  Q
TOTAL         83,919   908,508   3628    2321    26,964       124      36.1      33.7    28.    9,177    4,789       138       4.0       1.7     1.1
Source: MOE
b-



-49 -                            ANNEX 2
EDUCATION SECTOR
FINANCING
EDUCATION SECTOR FINANCING AND FINANCIAL
IMPACT OF THE PROJECT
A. SECTOR FINANCING
1.    The evolution of the education sector expenditures in the past twenty years in relation
to the central government and to the gross domestic product (GDP), shows that Honduras has
decreased its efforts in the sector, and especially in primary education. Expenditure on
education has decreased as a share of GDP and of central government expenditure.
2.    Education constitutes a basic service that the state has been neglecting and now needs
to improve. With the present GDP growth perspective, of 3.5 to 4.0 percent per year during
the next 5 years, the country is expected to have sufficient capacity to expand public
expenditures on education and support the proposed Basic Education Project. However, it is
important to keep primary education as the highest priority, and improve the MOE's
management capacity.
3.    Over the past twenty years, the education share of the central government
expenditures has continually declined, from 21 percent in 1974 to 15 percent in 1992 and 16
percent in 1994. Non-salary expenditures per student for preschool and primary education,
decreased by 20 percent over the last 13 years, while administrative expenditures per student
doubled.
4.    Recurrent expenditures comprise an increasing share of total education expenditures,
accounting for 89 percent of the total in 1974, and reaching an estimated 97.9 percent in
1993. This rapid increase in the share of recurrent expenditures is mainly due to a rise in
teacher salaries and to larger transfers to public universities. Expenditure in public higher
education during the 1990's accounts for about 20 percent of the public education budget, or
approximately half of what the government spends in preschool and primary education. In
1992, the public sector unit cost per student per year was estimated at US$119 in primary
school, US$142 in secondary and technical school, and US$560 at the university level. Table
3 and 4 present the budget execution by classification in percentages and in thousands of
1978 Lempiras, respectively.
5.    The education budget growth trend over the last 13 years has been biased in favor of
post-secondary education. Pre-secondary education lost a 6 percent share of the sector
budget, and secondary education lost 7 percent. During the same period, technical and
university education experienced a 3 percent increase in their respective budget shares, and
administrative costs rose by 8 percent. Table 3 presents sector budget shares by levels of
education.



TABLE 1
EVOLUTION OF GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (GDP) AND MAIN VARABIABLES AS % OF GDP
YEAR            1973   1975   1977    1979       1981     1983    1985    1987    1989    1990    1991   1992 1/  1993 1/
GDP 2/                   8,520  8,271   9,440  12,353   12,751   12,457  13,543   14,464  15,785  15,800  16,314   17,232    17,862
TOTAL POPULATION 3/      2,681   2,864   3,064   3,284    3,530   3,801   4,075    4,343   4,608   4,745   4,886          5,029     5,173
TOTALPUBLICEXPEND.       22.20  29.90   31.72   27.34    30.04   34.07   33.15    32.01    32.30   33.33   31.56          33.83      0.00
TOTAL CENT.GOV. EXPEND.    14.80   18.70   19.90   19.30    21.90   25.70   26.60    26.30   27.00   28.20   25.60    26.20         27.00
INTERNALDEBT              9.64    9.47    9.45   10.46      14.28   24.42   24.32    25.85   28.49   27.62   19.64        16.71      0.00
EXTERNAL DEBT            17.27  23.17   26.66   26.70    32.52   39.63   47.03    46.03   44.72  113.65   76.55    76.40             0.00
EDUCATION CREDIT          0.49    0.82    1.13     1.07      1.02     1.17    1.34      1.20    1.41    3.21    1.53       1.42      0.00
MOE EXPENDITURE           2.76    3.67    3.40    2.92       3.45     3.97    4.39     4.79     4.61    4.15    3.80       4.01      4.10
GDP in 1991 Million of Lempiras
1/ Preliminary Figures
2/ Source: Department of Economic Studies, Honduras Central Bank (BCH), February 1994.
3/ Sources: World Bank, World Tables 1992 for population growth rates 1973-1987; SECPLAN/OIT/FNUAP. 'Proyecciones de Poblaci6n', September 1993,
for population growth rates during 1 988-1992 period.



TABLE 2
EVOLUTION OF MAIN VARABIABLES
(Thousands of 1991 Lempiras per Head)
YEAR                 1973     1975      1977      1979     1981     1983      1985      1987      1989     1990      1991    1992 1/  1993 1/
GDP 21                           3,178.09  2,887.91  3,081.09  3,781.65  3,612.14  3,277.36  3,323.44  3,330.33  3,425.54  3,329.86  3,338.93  3,426.44  3,452.78
TOTAL POPULATION 3/                2,681     2,864    3,064     3,284    3,530    3,801      4,075     4,343     4,608    4,745    4,886     5,029     5.173
TOTAL PUBLIC EXPENDITURE          705.61    863.37    977.25  1,028.58  1,085.18  1,116.72  1,101.63  1,065.95   1,106.36  1,109.74  1,053.89  1,159.26  0.00
TOTAL CENTRAL GOV. EXPENDITURE    471.41    539.50    613.60    725.26   789.88    843.52    885.17    874.63    924.74   937.44    853.91    897.08    931.48
INTERNALDEBT                      306.50   273.50    291.03    393.62   515.85   800.49    808.10    860.95    975.98   919.86    655.77    572.52      0.00
EXTERNAL DEBT                     549.01    669.16    821.52  1,004.53  1,174.67  1,298.80  1,563.14  1,532.91   1,531.98  3,784.22  2,556.02  2,617.69  0.00
EDUCATION CREDIT                  15.73    23.61     34.90     40.26    36.96    38.40     44.65     39.94     48.13   106.83     51.17    48.79      0.00
MOE EXPENDITURE                    87.85    105.91    104.90    109.93   124.59   130.00    145.88    159.64    158.08   138.27    126.73    137.46    141.57
1/ Preliminary Figures
2/ Source: Department of Economic Studies, Honduras Central Bank (BCH), February 1994.
3/ Sources: World Bank, World Tables 1992 for population growth rates 1973-1987; SECPLAN/OIT/FNUAP, 'Proyecciones de Poblaci6n', September 1993,
for population growth rates during 1988-92 period.
C-1



-52 -                                   ANNEX 2
EDUCATION SECTOR
FINANCING
TABLE 3
EDUCATION SECTOR BUDGET SHARES BY EDUCATION LEVEL
(In Percentages)
DescriptionNears     1975  1977  1979  1981   1983   1985  1987   1989  1990  1991   1992  1993
Central Administration      3.7    4.9    3.9    5.4    6.3    4.0    5.4    9.4    9.4   10.8   10.5   10.3
Primary                    50.0  46.7   52.0  49.0  46.6   44.9   46.6   48.6   49.9   48.3   47.7  47.3
Secondary                   9.7    8.4   15.6   15.6   12.0   13.6   12.0  11.9   12.0   11.7   11.1   17.5
Technical Vocational        0.0    6.2    0.0    2.3    4.2    5.3    7.6    5.4    5.1    5.3    5.4   0.0
Adult                       0.7    0.8    0.9    0.9    0.8    0.6    0.6    0.5    0.6    0.6    0.7    0.8
School Buildings 1/        11.3    7.3    3.7    2.6    4.2    7.5    5.1    2.4    1.6   2.1    2.8    1.6
Equipment                   0.9    0.7   2.1    0.6    0.4    0.3    0.3    0.3    0.3    0.4    0.6    0.4
Transfers                  19.3  20.1   21.8  23.6   25.5   23.8   22.4  21.5   21.1   20.8   21.2  22.1
Private Sector          4.4    3.7    3.2    5.0    3.0    3.9    1.6    1.3    1.1    1.2    1.2    1.6
Decent. Public Sector  14.7   16.2   18.5   18.5  22.5   19.8   20.8   20.0   19.7   19.5   19.9  20.4
U.N.A.H.               14.7   16.2   16.5   12.3   20.7   18.1   19.1   18.3   17.9   17.5   15.2   18.3
U.P.N.F.M.              0.0    0.0    2.0    1.8    1.8    1.7    1.7    1.6    1.8    2.0    2.1    2.1
Others                  0.0    0.0    0.0    4.4    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    2.6    0.0
Total Public Sector
Extenal Sector              0.2    0.2   0.1    0.1    0.0    0.1    0.0    0.2    0.3    0.1    0.1    0.1
Escuelas Normales 1/        3.7    1.3    0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0
Capital Transfers           0.7    3.6    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
TOTAL                     100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0
1/ Construction and Maintenance
Note: In 1993 Social Sscurity is Inlorduced.
Fuenta  Elaborado por rt grupo de marco fInanciero del proyacto con base en
Ejecuci6n presupuestaria pot clasificaci6n economica del gasto y nlveles educetivos
BUDGET SHARES BY EDUCATION LEVEL
60.0
50.0
40.0
30.0
20.0
1 0.0                                                                          ;
0.0
1974     1976      1978      1980     1982      1984      1986      1988     1990      1992
1--Primary -- Central Administration -   Secondary



- 53 -                              ANNEX 2
EDUCATION SECTOR
FINANCING
6.    Although the level of public spending in education in Honduras is inadequate to meet
the country's development requirements for modernizing its human capital stock, it is
comparable to public spending for education in neighboring countries. However, among
Central American countries, the share of GDP spent by Honduras on education exceeded
only that of Panama in 1989. The relevant figures are shown in the following tables:
TABLE 4
Country         Governrnent       Primary        Secondary         Higher
Expenditure-'       (%)             (%)              (%)
on Education
(%)
Costa Rica (1991)          19             43              23               34
El Salvador (1989)         14              82              6               12
Guatemala (1990)          20              54               18              28
Honduras (1992)            15              61              22               17
Nicaragua (1992)           18             57               8               35
Mexico (1991)              14              39              35              26
Panama (1992)              17             45               22              33
1       YGovernment Expenditures on education as percentage of total central government expenditure.
Source: World Bank.
TABLE 5
PUBLIC EXPENDITURE ON EDUCATION (1989)
AS PERCENTAGE OF GDP
Country                 Percentage
Costa Rica                             4.4
El Salvador                            2.0
Guatemala                              1.8
Honduras                               4.6
Nicaragua                              3.9
Mexico                                 3.8
Panama                                 6.2
Source: UNDP Humran Development Report, 1992.



- 54 -                            ANNEX 2
EDUCATION SECTOR
FINANCING
7.    Sector inefficiencies add a heavy burden to the public financing of education in
Honduras. In 1992, an estimated US$32 million, or 24 percent of the US$133.18 sector's
budget, was spent to cover the costs of grade repetition in primary school (assuming the
repetition rate of 28 percent, estimated for 1988). On average, this means that a primary
student spends 1.5 years to complete a single grade, and would require about 9 years to
complete 6 years of primary school. The MOE estimates that only 34 percent of the students
entering first grade graduate from primary school in six years, while a UNESCO study
(1992) estimates that only 12.5 percent of the students entering first grade in 1988 would
have graduated in 1993. Improvements in the quality of primary education and in the
MOE's administrative capacity, planned under the proposed project, are expected to reduce
inefficiencies associated with grade repetition by about 10% over the next decade.
TABLE 6
COST OF GRADE REPETITION IN PRIMARY EDUCATION, 1992
Average years spent in primary school                      6.7
Average years of primary school completed                  4.5
Average number of years repeated                           2.2
Number of repeaters                             268.7 thousand
Unit cost of primary education             US$119 student/year
Total spent on repeaters                     US$32 millionlyear
Source: UNESCO, 1992.
B. FINANCIAL IMPACT OF THE PROJECT
8.   Incremental Recurrent Expenditures. The estimated financial impact of the project
was calculated based on the following assumptions: (a) the real GDP growth rates was 3.70
in 1993 and 2.50 in 1994, and would increase to 3.50 in 1995, and to 4 percent from 1996
through 1999; (b) the share of the education budget would remain at about 4 percent of GDP
over the 1995-1999 period; (c) real increments to the education budget would be used to
finance improvements in primary education, while public expenditures on higher levels of
education, including transfers, would be kept constant in real terms. Based on these
assumptions, total project costs estimated at US$53.1 million, would account for about 7
percent of the education budget, on average, during the 1995-1999 period. Incremental
recurrent costs estimated at 23.2 million, generated by the project, would be covered by the
projected education sector budget increases of 4 percent per year, absorbing approximately
85 percent of the aggregate increase (estimated at US$27.2 million) during the 1995-1999
period. In 2000, after project completion, the incremental recurrent costs generated by the
project would account for about 3.4 percent of the sector budget and 94 percent of that
year's budget increment, as shown in the following table.



- 55 -                                                  ANNEX 2
EDUCATION SECTOR
FINANCING
TABLE 7
FINANCIAL IMPACT OF THE PROJECT ON THE MOE BUDGET
Prior to Project          Project Implementation                   After Project 3/
Years                  1993         1994          1995         1996          1997         1998          1999       Total       2000
Real GDP (LPS 1991)               17861.6       18522.5      18985.5       19650.0      20436.0      21253.5       22103.6                22987.8
Educ.Sect.Budget (L.M.)             732.4         759.4        778.4         805.7        837.9        871.4         906.2                   942.5
Educ.Sect.Budget($M)                 135.6        140.6        144.1         149.2        155.2         161.4        167.8                   174.5
Total Project Cost                                                5.5         18.0          13.4          8.4          7.7       53.1
Project Cost share of Sector                                     3.8          12.1          8.6           5.2          4.6
Budget % 1/ 2/
Sector Budget Increment (%)                         5.0          3.5           5.0          6.0           6.2          6.5                     6.7
Sector AccumlIncrement                                           8.5          13.6         19.5          25.7         32.2                    38.9
Project Incremental Costs                                        0.6           4.7          5.6           6.0          6.3                     6.3
(SM)
Project Incremental Coats as                                    17.1          92.2         93.3          96.8         98.4                    94.0
% of Sector Budget Incre.
As % of Accum.Increment                                          7.1          34.6         28.6          23.3         19.6                    16.2
11 In 1978 US dolla.
2/ Assuming that the education sctor budget would maintain its current 4 percent share of GDP during the 1995-1999 pcriod.
3/ After project completion and thereaftcr, incremental recurrcnt expcnditures generated by the projcct arc estimated at USS 5.6 million per year. Thcsc
incremcntal expenditures include: school maintenance (6.4%), incentives for teachers (17.6%), teachcr salarics (47.3%), supervisor salaries (7.8%),
classrooai supplics (11.3%) and operating costs for deccntralized services, preschool progran, M.IS. and cxtenal evaluation (9.6%).
9.    Expected Savings Resulting from Ouality Improvements under the Project. With the
introduction of flexible promotion of students, improved quality of instruction, and more
efficient management of education services by the MOE, under the proposed Basic Education
Project, primary school repetition rates would decline from 28 percent in 1988 to about 11
percent at project completion (1999), reaching about 8 percent by the year 2005. As a
result, the number of repeaters would be reduced from 268.7 thousand in 1988 to about 82
thousand in the 2005. Assuming the unit cost of primary education remain constant at
US$119 per student-year, the savings generated by more efficient student flows through
primary school would be about US$136.6 million per year by the year 2005. These savings
reflect about 2 percent absolute reduction in primary school enrollment over the next decade,
achieved without loss in net enrollment rates, due to fewer repeater students in the system.
During the 1995-1999 project implementation period, aggregate savings accruing to the
system are estimated at US$ 181.0 million, or more than two times of total project cost.
Having achieved these efficiency gains, the MOE would be able to finance the incremental
recurrent expenditures generated by the project even without an expansion of the education
sector budget. Table 8 presents the projected enrollment with and without project including
cost savings estimates and Table 9 presents projected enrollment in percentages.



TABLE 8
PROJECTED ENROLLMENT WITH AND WITHOUT PROJECT
Without Project                        With Project              Cost Savings 1/    Cumulative
Year    Enrollment     Repetition    Repetition    Enrollment    Repetition  Repetition    (US$)          (US$)
1995     1,201,310      246,074       20.48%     1,065,844    154,128      14.46%        10,958,200     10,958,200
1996     1,241,234      247,698       19.96%     1,080,258    145,322      13.45%        12,201,138     23,159,338
1997     1,269,798      243,187       19.15%     1,089,915    136,281      12.50%        12,740,997     35,900,335
1998     1,286,282      236,425       18.38Yo    1,091,109    127,258      11.66%        13,010,539     48,910,874
1999     1,294,607      228,745       17.67%     1,086,001    118,525      10.91%        13,135,919     62,046,793
2000     1,298,147      220,795       17.01%     1,078,S04    110,376      10.23%        13,159,687     75,206,480
2001     1,298,134      212,753       16.39%     1,071,733    102,938       9.60%        13,087,729     88,294,209
2002     1,297,256      203,561       15.69%     1,064,476     97,032       9.12%        12,696,102    100,990,312
2003     1.296,186      194,692       15.02%     1,057,444     91,635       8.67%        12,282,393    113,272,705
2004     1,295,440      186,260       14.38%     1,051,139     86,651       8.24%        11,871,498    125,144,202
2005     1,295,654      178,310       13.76%     1,045,376     82,048       7.85%        11.472,424    136,616,626
Note: Student cost for 1993 is US $119.18
I/ Cost Savings is the difference between repeters with project and repeters without project times the cost per student/year.
Source:MOE and World Bank
PROJECTED REPETITION                                      PROJECTED ENROLLMENT
250.000                                                 1,400,000
200,000                                                 1,200,000
1,000,000  ~2
1 50,000                                                  800,000
100,000                                                   600,000                                                      Q)
400,000
50,000                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~200,000
0 
1995    1997    1999   2001    2003    2005               1995    1 997    1 999    2001    2003    2005    -



- 57 -                                   ANNEX 2
EDUCATION SECTOR
FINANCING
TABLE 9
PROJECTED ENROLLMENT, REPETITION, AND DROPOUT RATES
WITH AND WITHOUT PROPOSED PROJECT (1995-2005)
(in percent)
ACTUAL           WITHOUT PROJECT (a)                WITH PROJECT (b)
GRADE                       1990         1995       2000       2005       1995       2000       2005
1    Repetition             46.0        43.0       40.0       35.0       30.0       20.0        15.0
Promotion              52.0        55.0       58.0      63.0        65.0       75.0       81.0
Dropout                 2.0         2.0        2.0       2.0         5.0        S.O         4.0
2    Repetition             20.6         17.5      14.5       11.5       14.0       12.0        10.0
Promotion              74.0        77.0      80.0       83.0        81.0       83.0       85.0
Dropout                 5.4         5.5        5.5       5.5         5.0        5.0         5.0
3    Repetition              17.6        14.6      11.6        8.6        12.0      10.0         8.0
Promotion              78.0        81.0       84.0      88.0        86.0       88.0       90.0
Dropout                 4.4         4.4        4.4       3.4         2.0        2.0         2.0
4    Repetition              14.3        12.0       8.0        5.0        8.0        6.0         5.0
Promotion              81.7        84.0       88.0      91.0        90.0       91.0       91.0
Dropout                 4.0         4.0        4.0       4.0         2.0        3.0         4.0
5    Repetition              11.2        10.0       5.0        4.0        6.0        5.0         4.0
Promotion              85.0        87.0       92.0      93.0        91.0       92.0       93.0
Dropout                 3.8         3.0        3.0       3.0         3.0        3.0         3.0
6    Repetition               1.2         0.S       0.8        0.8        8.0        8.0         8.0
vim cnriim ent               889,346   1,160,415  1,294,607  1,295,440  1,065,844  1,086,001   1,045,376
Population of 7-12 y.o.      816,640     894,252   971,177  1,041,589    894,252   971,177   1,041,589
Enrollment of 7-12 y.o       649,229     724,344   806,077   874,935    742,229   844,924    937,430
Gross Enrollment              108.9       129.8     133.3      124.4      119.2      111.8       100.4
Net Enrollment                 79.5        81.0      83.0       84.0       83.0       87.0        90.0
Notes:    (a) Assumes that 18% of new students will be 6 years of age and the remainder will be
7 years or more of age.
(b) Assumes that 23% of new students will be 6 years of age end the remainder will be
7 years or more of age.
Source:    MOE and Wolrd Bank



- 58 -                             ANNEX 3
TARGETING CRITERIA
TARGETING CRITERIA
1.    Although the proposed project would have national coverage, some interventions
would be priority-targeted to rural and indigenous areas, to promote more equitable access to
quality basic education for all Honduran children. The targeting criteria which would be
used to implement each of these project activities is described below,
2.    Pre-Service Teacher Training. The Government plans to correct the excessive
supply of primary teachers graduated from the 12 existing Escuelas Normales by specializing
4 Escuelas Normales in the education of primary teachers and converting the remaining 8
Escuelas Normales to other educational purposes. The 4 Escuelas Normales were selected
based on the following criteria: (i) extensive tradition and experience in the education of
primary teachers; (ii) larger and better infrastructure facilities; and (iii) accessible location
for the supply of teachers nationwide. In addition, one of the selected schools is strategically
located in Ocotepeque, and would be able to supply primary teachers to the poorest
departments of Copan, Lempira and Ocotepeque. The 4 Escuelas Normales selected are the
following: "Espana" in Danli; "Pedro Nufio" in Tegucigalpa; "Occidente" in La Esperanza;
and "Miguel Angel Chinchilla" in Ocotepeque. Under the proposed project, these schools
would benefit from the development and implementation of an improved curriculum,
enhanced library facilities and educational materials, and in-service training for professors.
3.    Textbooks and Didactic Materials. Textbooks, student and teacher guides would be
produced to supply all public primary schools. However, complementary educational
materials would be targeted, as follows:
(a) Educational Materials for Students. With the exception of exercise books for
first and second grade of primary school, which would be provided to all primary schools,
the provision of non-durable educational materials would be targeted to: (i) all public
preprimary schools; (ii) all CCIEs; and (iii) primary schools with only one or two teachers,
which tend to be located in rural areas and in low income urban neighborhoods; and,
(b) Classroom Libraries (Biblioteca Dr. Ram6n Rosa). Classroom libraries would
be provided for primary schools with one, two or three teachers, therefore covering
practically all rural primary schools and most schools located in poor urban neighborhoods.
In addition, all public preprimary schools will be provided with one library of smaller size.
4.    Bilingual Education. Although the Government plans to improve basic education for
all 8 indigenous groups at preprimary, primary and adult education levels, this subcomponent
would be targeted to improving primary education for the Garifuna and the Mishto ethnic
groups. Targeting is justified due to the fact that bilingual education represents a novelty in
the Honduran context and more experience needs to be gained. The choice of the MisAhto
and GariAfina as the target groups for the introduction of bilingual education was based on the
following criteria: (a) the Miskito and Garifuna ethnic groups comprise an estimated 60
percent of the indigenous school-age population, or approximately 24,000 children; (b) there
are approximately 400 teachers who already are bilingual either in Spanish and Miskto, or in
Spanish and Gar(ifuna languages; (c) successful pilot projects have been completed using
bilingual education with both ethnic groups; (d) some didactic materials are already prepared;
(e) the areas inhabited by these ethnic groups are already served with approximately 150



- 59 -                             ANNEX 3
TARGETING CRITERIA
public primary schools; and (f) the process of normalizing the Garfijna and the Miskito
languages is already advanced. In other words, the innovation of introducing bilingual
education in primary schools would start with the groups which offer the most preconditions
for suiccess. In parallel to the project, the Government would pursue studies and pilot
bilingual projects with the following remaining six ethnic groups: Lenca, Tolupan, Pech,
Tawahka, Chortf and Islefio (see MAP No. IBRD 26279R).
5.    Improvement of Physical Infrastructure in Rural Areas. Rural primary schools
were selected for improvements in physical infrastructure and allocation of additional
teachers based on the following criteria: (a) the school is currently served by only one
teacher; (b) student enrollment is 60 students or more and shows a growing trend over the
past 3 years; (c) the school site has enough land for the construction of an additional
classroom and is owned by the MOE; (d) the school operates at low efficiency levels, as
indicated by high student dropout and repetition rates; (e) the school is located at 45 minutes
walk or more from the nearest primary school; and (f) the school offers all six grades of
primary education. Although a total of 660 rural primary schools satisfy all the above
criteria, only 290 would be target under the proposed project in order to allow for the
introduction of an innovative municipal maintenance system. These 290 schools would be
those at the poorest municipalities, reflected in high levels of malnutrition, as measured by
the annual nutrition census of first grade primary school students. Physical improvements to
all other primary schools identified as priority by MOE, will be carried out under FIllS
regular education investment programs, in accordance with norms and criteria established by
MOE.
6.    Expansion of Informal Preschool Education. The CCIE program, which provides
community-run preschool education in rural areas, would be expanded in conjunction with
the implementation of the project. The criteria to select in which rural schools the new
CCIEs would be located are the following: (a) schools with more than 30 students in first
grade; and (b) schools located in areas characterized by high student dropout and repetition
rates in 1993. As the optimal size of a CCIE is 15 to 20 students, the largest rural schools
(e.g. those with 150 or more students in first grade) that meet the above criteria, would be
served by more than one CCIE. Based on analyses completed during project preparation, an
estimated 1,200 new CCIE would be established in selected priority rural schools.



- 60 -                             ANNEX 4
TRAINING
TRAISNIG OF TEACHERS, PRINCIPALS AND SUPERVISORS
1.    Objective. The main objective of the teacher training subcomponent is to enhance
the quality of classroom teaching by making teachers, principals and supervisors proficient in
managing the new educational resources to be provided under the project, by combining and
applying them in appropriate ways to respond to local needs, strengths, and interests.
2.    Preparation. The teacher training subcomponent was prepared by a group of
experienced MOE trainers and local consultants who benefitted from technical assistance
provided by a consulting firm (Education Development Center, Inc. (EDC)), with grant
financing from the Government of Japan. This technical assistance focused primarily (a)
identification of user characteristics, through a comprehensive needs assessment process; and
(b) the preparation of teacher training prototype packages, selected on the basis on their
immediate applicability to facilitate the transfers of teaching skills from CADs to the
classrooms. Two prototype packages would be ready for use by early 1995. The needs
assessment undertaken prior to the production of prototype materials was designed to identify
the optimal fit between teacher (user) print media preferences and teacher training material
characteristics. Included in the research design were focus groups, classroom observation,
teacher training observations, reading comprehension tests for teachers, and a series of
individual questionnaires. The product of this research is a comprehensive report detailing
characteristics and standards of future teacher training materials packages. Technical
assistance for teacher training will continue during the first year of project implementation.
The in-service and pre-service training activities which would be provided under the project
are described below.
3.    In-Service Training Activities. To assist the MOE in carrying out in-service training
of teachers, principals and supervisors, the proposed project would provide for: (i) technical
assistance for the development of teacher training packages, including criteria for evaluation
of outcomes; (ii) production and distribution of training materials; (iii) primary and
preprimary teacher training in three-days seminars (24 hours) per year, held at the
beginning of the school year at District Offices; and follow-up teacher training at the CADs,
with the participation of district supervisors, through 18 workshops held on Saturdays when
teachers are free from classroom teaching; (iv) training of supervisors through 3 five-day
seminars (a total of 120 hours) per year, held at the Departmental Offices; (v) training of
school principals in one three-day seminar (24 hours) per year, held at Departmental
Offices, in the beginning of the school year; (vi) funding for approximately 50 CAD training
subprojects per year, selected from nationwide proposals submitted by the CADs; and (vii)
funding for operating costs including transportation and meals of trainers and trainees, and
remuneration (equivalent to overtime pay) for trainers.
4.    Scope of In-Service Training for Teachers, Principals and Supervisors.
(a) Teacher Training would be provided to approximately 22,000 primary and 1,400
preprimary teachers through a 24 hour training seminar, in the beginning of the school year,
and CAD workshops twice a month, on Saturdays. The training program was designed to
fill areas of expertise not currently covered by the teacher-training curriculum of the
Escuelas Normales, but deemed critical to classroom teaching. Emphasis was placed on



- 61 -                           ANNEX 4
TRAINING
improving classroom management through adequate use of educational resources and
providing skills to improve teaching in multigrade situations. Training modules or packages
would include: (i) multigrade class teaching; (ii) reading, writing and mathematics; (iii) the
use of textbooks, classroom libraries and other educational materials; (iv) environmental
education; (v) the special needs of first and second grade students; (vi) the evaluation of
student academic achievements and flexible student promotion; and (vii) school governance,
parental and community involvement in educational activities. Training for preprimary
teachers, would focus on academic achievement targets for preprimary education,
management of student-centered, active-learning classroom environment, and use of teacher
guides and educational materials;
(b) CAD Training Subprojects would provide a demand-driven complementary
approach to teacher training which would be piloted under the project. The national network
of 1,500 CADs covers the entire country. A CAD is generally located at the larger primary
schools of each Educational District and congregates 15 to 20 teachers who work in nearby
schools. For purposes of peer support and informal training, teachers are asked to hold
CAD meetings about twice a month on Saturdays. To enhance the informal training
opportunity offered by this network, each CAD would be encouraged to present training
project proposals aimed at meeting the specific needs of the schools and teachers they serve.
CAD subprojects are expected to include topics such as organization of classroom libraries
(reading corners), visits of successful teachers from other parts of the country, production of
additional educational materials, and special school initiatives such as creation of a vegetable
garden. The MOE would prepare guidelines for the presentation of CAD project proposals
and disseminate them among teachers during the first project year. Proposal would have to
include a justification for the project (based on the needs of the schools and the
characteristics of the community served by the CAD), a description of the proposed
activities, costs, and benefits expected from the subproject. Each year, the MOE would
evaluate the proposals received and would approve the best for funding, giving preference to
subprojects presented by CADs serving rural schools with one or two teachers and not
exceeding a total of 250 CAD projects over the life of the project (Annex 12). The cost of a
CAD subproject was estimated at about Lps. 5,000 (US$625);
(c) CAD Bulletin. Given the large number of primary teachers and the geographic
dispersion of the primary schools where they teach, there is a need for establishing reliable
means of communication between the MOE and the teachers during the school year. A
communication channel would give teachers opportunity for exchanging education news,
updating information on availability of educational materials, and learning about successful
teaching experiences noted throughout the country. These communication needs would be
met under the proposed project, through the publication of a CAD bulletin produced by the
CAD Coordinating Unit at the MOE, taking advantage of the editing skills developed in
connection with textbook production. This new publication would be developed during the
first project year. Publication would start in the second project year, and would be gradually
expanded until it reaches 9 issues per year;
(d) Training for Supervisors would focus on providing guidance to teachers on
sound pedagogic principles and classroom management techniques, thereby shifting the focus
of supervision from administrative control to better teaching practices. District and



- 62 -                             ANNEX 4
TRAI1ING
Departmental supervisors (a total of approximately 413 supervisors in 1996 which increases
to about 658 in 1999), would attend three 40-hour seminars each year. The first 5-day
seminar, planned for January (before the school year starts), would focus on the preparation
of the teacher training seminar at the beginning of the school year, and on preparation of the
annual work supervision plan. The second and third seminars, planned for June and
October, would cover follow-up teacher training at the CADs, how to help teachers use the
training packages developed for CADs, and techniques to evaluate the results of teacher
training programs. Based on the initial experience during the first year of project
implementation, the MOE would revise the supervision manual, which describes the specific
functions of District and Departmental supervisors, including training functions;
(e) Training for Principals of Non-Multigrade Schools would benefit approximately
2,500 school principals who have no classroom teaching duties. Their functions combine
quality assurance of classroom teaching, school administration, and coordination of
educational activities with parents and the local community. These principals would be
required to attend a 24-hour training seminar per year focused on pedagogical counseling,
evaluation of teacher training results, and the development of CAD training programs for
non-multigrade schools, taking into account that CADs serving large urban primary schools
have special training needs. School principals who also work as classroom teachers would
not be required to attend this seminar, since they would have attended the teacher training
program described above.
5.    Administration of In-Service Training Activities. The CAD Administration Unit of
the MOE would be responsible for the overall planning and design of the training program
activities and materials, for carrying out evaluations of training results, and for ensuring
compliance with training schedules and adequate logistical support. During project
preparation, this Unit worked in close collaboration EDC, and would continue to do so
during the first project year. The Unit has competent staff and the capacity to carry out the
proposed training program. It has developed a detailed training plan for the first project
year, providing for the application of two newly developed training packages at the CADs.
Printed and audio-visual training materials are being developed at the CAD Unit, with
assistance from EDC. Trainers for annual seminars would recruited in November of each
year, among members of the CAD Unit, principals, supervisors, and primary teachers with
good performnance records (maestros con &ito). Approximately 400 hundred trainers would
be trained during the first project year and the number of trainees will be increased to 658
over the life of the project. Training sites would be the CADs, Departmental and District
Offices, and the facilities of INICE, in Tegucigalpa. The latter would be used only to train
teachers, principals and supervisors working in the metropolitan area of Tegucigalpa. No
additional physical infrastructure would be required for the implementation of the training
program.
6.    Pre-Service Training Activities. Improved formative training for future teachers
would be provided for future primary teachers at 4 Escuelas Normales, through: (a) technical
assistance for the evaluation and improvement of the teacher-training curriculum; (b)
financing for a period of teaching practice prior to graduation; (c) books and educational
materials to enhance libraries and teaching resources; (d) technical assistance for the
development and application of standardized admission and accreditation tests; and (e)
training of Escuelas Normales professors. The 4 Escuelas Normales selected for the
implementation of this program are specified in Annex 3.



- 63 -                             ANNEX 5
TEXTBOOKS
TEXTBOOKS AND DIDACTIC MATERIALS
1.    Objectives. The main goals of this subcomponent are to: (a) sustain the production
and timely distribution of good quality basic textbooks for the six primary education grades,
ensuring that new books are at the classrooms before the usable life of the current textbooks
expires; (b) improve upon the content and form of presentation of the existing textbooks, by
(i) transforming the 3rd and 4th grade textbooks into module textbooks similar to those now
available for 5th and 6th grades; and (ii) incorporating in the content of textbooks elements
of gender, environmental protection and development, ethnic and intercultural aspects of
Honduran culture, rural life styles and civil values; (c) complement the basic set of textbooks
with appropriate learning and teaching materials such as student guides, teacher guides,
student exercise books and a basic package of supplies for students enrolled in schools
serving the poorest communities; and (d) improve the access to books for students, teachers
and parents through the provision of classroom libraries at selected rural primary schools and
school libraries at preprimary schools. The preparation of this subcomponent and the
activities planned to achieve these objectives are described below.
2.    Preparation. The MOE technical group which prepared this subcomponent
coordinated closely with the Primary Education Efficiency project, to ensure the continuous
availability of textbooks at all primary schools. The plans of both project overlap. In 1995
and 1996 textbooks produced by the Primary Education Efficiency project will be distributed
to schools. Starting in 1996, the new textbooks produced under the proposed project would
start being distributed to schools to replace the old ones. The option of providing every
year, a book for each student that would be owned by them, which could be taken home and
shared with parents and siblings, was considered during project preparation and rejected
because of its high cost, and also because the objective of making written material more
accessible to students would be fulfilled by (i) the creation of classroom libraries, and (ii) the
inclusion of more written material in the students' exercise books. Cost considerations were
also a major factor in priority-targeting of classroom libraries and students materials to rural
schools, instead of all schools, as indicated in Annex 3. The implementation schedule for the
three main activities which would be undertaken under this subcomponent was been
prepared. These activities comprise: (a) revision of textbooks and didactic materials, (b)
printing, and (c) distribution.
3.    Revision of Textbooks. A team of experienced local consultants, comprising writers,
editors, illustrators, evaluators, technicians and library specialists was formed during project
preparation. The majority of the team members is expected to continue working in the PCU
during project implementation. Over the life of the project, the staff of this technical team
would total approximately 60 staff/years. The team would review all existing textbooks and
student guides and prepare complementary didactic materials. Textbook reviews would apply
to 4 textbooks per grade (mathematics, Spanish, social studies and science) and be based on
technical, logic, imagery and pedagogic content criteria. Textbooks for grades 3 and 4
would be re-written in modular form (fasciculos) to facilitate flexible student promotion by
academic module and self-instruction, in line with the format already used in grades 5 and 6.
All revisions of textbook content and presentation would be (i) preceded by a description of
specific objectives to be achieved through each text, (ii) field tested, (iii) adjusted, (iv)



- 64 -                            ANNEX 5
TEXTBOOKS
subject to final editing, and (v) complemented by detailed printing specifications. The
revision timetable is planned as follows:
(a) 1995:
modular textbooks for grade 3
modular textbooks for grade 4
revision of textbooks for grade 1
start revision of textbooks for grade 2
edit complementary learning and teaching materials for grades 1, 3 and 4
(b) 1996:
finalize revision of textbooks for grade 2
revision of modular textbooks for grade 5
revision of modular textbooks for grade 6
edit complementary learning and teaching materials for grades 2, 5 and 6
4.    Printing of Textbooks and Guides for Student and Teachers would be procured by
the PCU Procurement Unit, under procedures satisfactory to KfW, according to a
procurement schedule coinciding with the completion of printing specifications by the editing
team. Complementary contracts will provide for delivery of regional packages to three
regional warehouses, which would be established under the project. The schedule for
delivery at the warehouses would be, to the extent possible, November and December of
each year, to allow two months for final delivery to the schools prior to the start of the
school year. Procurement and delivery schedules, and actual arrival of materials at schools,
would be computerized as part of the improvements to be made in the MOE management
information systems. For a typical printing contract (e.g. modular textbooks for grade 4), an
estimated seven (7) months elapsed time should be provided from preparation of bidding
documents to the delivery of the printed materials. During the life of the project, over 5
million textbooks and guides would be produced, printed and distributed. Printing contract
quantities were estimated as follows:
TABLE 1
Printing of Textbooks and Guide for Student and Teachers   Quantities
(i) textbooks for grade 1 (4 per 308,000 students)               1,232,000
(ii) textbooks for grade 2 (4 per 267,383 students)              1,069,530
(iii) modular textbooks for grade 3 (4 per 223,250 students)      893,200
(iv) modular textbooks for grade 4 (4 per 207,900 students)       831,600
(v) modular textbooks for grade 5 (4 per 188,760 students)        755,040
(vi) modular textbooks for grade 6 (4 per 147,015 students)       588,060
Total:   5,369,430
5.    Distribution of Textbooks and Didactic Materials. To facilitate distribution of
educational materials to the schools, 3 warehouses would be established in rental facilities in
the following cities: (a) Tegucigalpa, covering the central region; (b) San Pedro Sula,
covering the Northwestern region; and (c) La Ceiba, covering the Northeastern region. The



- 65 -                            ANNEX 5
TEXTBOOKS
costs of the 3 warehouse facilities and staff are estimated at US$49,100 per year. Private
transportation firms will contracted by the MOE to transport the materials from the
warehouses to the seat of each municipality, where District Offices are located. Delivery to
the schools will be made by Municipal Corporations under contract with MOE, assisted by
district supervisors, teachers, and parents. An estimated two months would be allowed for
final delivery of materials from the warehouses to the schools. The experience of involving
parents and municipal authorities in the distribution of textbooks is new and needs to be
carefully prepared and monitored by the MOE.
6.    Classroom Libraries. To make books more accessible to students directly in the
classroom and give students borrowing privileges to take books home, the proposed project
would finance small classroom libraries (Biblioteca Btsica Dr. Ram6n Rosa) for primary
schools with one, two or three teachers, the majority of which are located in rural areas and
poor urban neighborhoods. Each classroom library would have about 20 titles, two copies of
each. In addition, each classroom library would have 3 reference books including
dictionaries and atlas. The selection of library books would be made by the educational
materials team with technical assistance from the specialized consultants. Three types of
classroom library would be developed by the team: Type A, for grades 1 and 2; Type B, for
grades 3 and 4; and Type C for grades 5 and 6. Books on various subjects would be
selected, with particular focus on environmental themes, Honduran and Central American
authors, and books on Honduran ethnic groups and culture. Libraries would also be
provided for preprimary schools, although only one per school and of smaller size. The
preprimary libraries would contain approximately 6 to 7 titles in 3 copies per title geared at
familiarizing young children with the written word. Primary and preprimary teachers would
be trained in the management of classroom libraries, and on how to use books to complement
textbook materials, as part of the teacher training program. The special procurement
procedures which would be used to procure library books are described in Section B of
Chapter 4.
7.    Other educational materials. The following complementary educational materials
would also be provided under this subcomponent: (a) supplies for primary students enrolled
at rural schools with one or two teachers; (b) exercise books for grades 1 and 2 covering
mathematics and Spanish; (c) didactic materials for the CCIEs; and (d) a basic package of
educational toys for preprimary schools costing an estimated US$7. 10 per package. The
procurement specifications for these materials would prepared by the MOE technical team for
educational materials.



- 66 -                            ANNEX 6
BILINGUAL EDUCATION
BILINGUAL EDUCATION
1.    Objectives. This subcomponent aims at (i) improving the quality of education offered
to Honduran indigenous children, starting with the MisAito and the Garnfuna ethnic groups,
through the institutionalization of bilingual and intercultural primary education, and (ii)
preparing for the expansion of the program to other indigenous groups, which will be carried
out by the Government under a parallel program.
2.    Preparation. The preparation of subcomponent was successfully completed through
ethnic-linguistic field research conducted by the MOE in collaboration with indigenous
leaders, scholars and teachers, and international technical assistance financed by the
ADEPRIR project. The team was able to identify critical elements for the introduction by
bilingual education in Honduras, by determining: (a) the number of potential indigenous
students; (b) the number of indigenous teachers, from each ethnic group, working in the
public school system; (c) enrollment of indigenous children, from each ethnic group, in
preprimary and primary school; (d) results of bilingual education pilot projects which were
implemented in Honduras; and (e) survey of the relevant bibliography and specialized
consulting services, including available bilingual educational materials. The location of each
ethnic group is shown in Map 26279R. Studies of the levels of linguistic ability of teachers
and children of each ethnic group, which requires a more detailed analysis of the type and
level of bilingual usage which prevails among ethnic groups and specific groups of
indigenous teachers and students are also under way. This research has started and would be
completed during the first year of the proposed project. A summary of the baseline data
collected is presented below:
TABLE 1
ETHNIC POPULATION ENROLLED IN PRI4ARY AND PREPRIMARY SCHOOLS
1994
Number of Schools                  Enrollment 1994
Ethnic Group   Preprimary    Primary      Preprimary     Primary        Total
Chorti                  0            14              0        1,068         1,068
Garifona               31            38          1,922       11,360        13,282
Islefno-Criollo        18            32            NA         1,507         1,507
Lenca                   0            57              0        5,444        5,444
Miskito                44            99          2,535       10,524        13,059
Pech                    0            14              0        1.507         1,507
Tawahka                 0             3              0         268           268
Tolupan                 0            38              0        2,571        2,571
Total         93           295           5,471      37,734        43,205
3.    Description. As indicated in Annex 3, priority activities under this subcomponent
focus on introducing bilingual and intercultural education in the primary schools serving the
Miskito and Garifuna ethnic groups, located in the Western region and the Northern coastal
region of Honduras, respectively. Specifically, the proposed project would provide for: (a)



- 67 -                            ANNEX 6
BILINGUAL EDUCATION
development and approval of a bilingual-intercultural primary education curriculum for the
Miskto and the Gar(fiina; (b) in-service training for primary teachers and supervisors,
including development and production of specialized training materials; (c) pre-service
training of bilingual-intercultural teachers at a selected Escuela Normal located in Trujillo, as
a specialized career track of primary teacher's education; (d) development, production and
printing of didactic materials in autochthonous languages and in Spanish; (e) vehicles and
boats to facilitate access to indigenous schools by supervisors; (f) technical assistance and
consultants' services; (g) office equipment; and (h) operating costs. IDA will finance
operating costs on a declining basis. A bilingual education group formed during project
preparation at the MOE, would continue to apply a participatory methodology in the
development and implementation of the program. Textbook design and use of visual aids
and innovative communication modalities, will be developed in collaboration with the
representatives from each ethnic group. Distribution of educational materials will require
special arrangements, given the remote location of some indigenous schools and the relatively
small size of each edition.
4.    Institutional Arrangements. During project preparation, the legal base and
institutional arrangements for the National Educational Program for Autochthonous Ethnic
Groups in Honduras (Programa Nacional de Educaci6n para las Etnias Aut6ctonas de
Honduras - PRONEEAH) was established, through Presidential Decree No. 0719 of August
3, 1994. In addition, the MOE has adopted the "Regulations" of PRONEEAH satisfactory to
IDA. The specific objectives of the PRONEEAH are to provide for:
(a) scientific and technical foundations for providing education in autochthonous
languages and in Spanish as a second language for the following Honduran ethnic
communities: (i) Chotf, Garifona, Islefio-Criolla, Lenca, Miskita, Pech, Tawahka,
Tolupan of the Montafia de La Flor, and Tolupan of Yoro;
(b) develop, implement and evaluate a bilingual-intercultural curriculum for these
ethnic communities;
(c) strengthen the culture of Honduran ethnic communities;
(d) develop and train human resources within each ethnic community to ensure the
satisfactory development of bilingual-intercultural education;
(e) systematize the use and application of autochthonous languages within each ethnic
community; and,
(f) promote research in the areas of education, linguistics, anthropology and history of
Honduras ethnic communities.
5.    Implementation. The implementation of the PRONEEAH will be organized with the
participation of a National Coordination Council, nine Regional Coordination Councils, one
Administrative and Support Unit, and one Unit for the Production of Didactic Materials.
The process of implementation of the PRONEEAH will be gradual and highly participatory.
The proposed project will support the pilot implementation of the program for the Gar(funa
and the Miskito ethnic communities, as indicated in para. 3 above. The PCU will establish



- 68 -                               ANNEX 6
BILINGUAL EDUCATION
operational links with PRONEEAH to ensure that the activities contemplated under this
subcomponent are carried out as planned. The planned activities prioritized for the first
project year comprise: (a) development, field test, and production of all educational
materials for bilingual teaching of mathematics and reading-writing in Miskito, Garffuna and
Spanish as a second language for primary school; (b) development, field test, and production
of all materials to train teachers and supervisors; (c) complementary linguistic studies; and
(d) trial implementation of the program in the first grade. The other planned activities will
be carried out during the subsequent project implementation years (Annex 12).
6.    For the implementation of the pre-service teacher training activities contemplated
under this subcomponent, the MOE has already selected one Escuela Nonmnl for the
introduction of bilingual-intercultural education specialization: the "Matilde C6rdova"
school, located in Trujillo, Department of Col6n.'
1.    See, "Reformulaci6n Plan de Formacion de Docentes" by J. Eloy Guzman. MOE: Tegucigalpa, November
1994.



-69 -                              ANNEX 7
EXTERNAL EVALUATION
EXTERNAL EVALUATION OF STUDENTS ACADEMIC ACHIEVEMENTS
1.    Background. Until 1989 Honduras had no experience of external evaluation of
students' academic achievements. Efforts to develop expertise in this area began at this time,
in the context of the Primary Education Efficiency project. External evaluation activities
aimed at measuring the impact of that project started with the definition of control and an
experimental areas, where a series of achievement indicators were measured in a sample of
schools. Even though the results of this initial experience were not fully satisfactory, it
provided MOE with valuable training in developing academic achievement indicators,
producing and applying tests to students, and analyzing test results. Thus, the creation of an
external unit for the evaluation of students' academic achievement, under the proposed
project, would build upon lessons learned from prior projects and would benefit from staff
already trained. l
2.    Objectives. The main objective of the external evaluation unit to be created under
the proposed project, is to provide Honduras with the capacity to evaluate the academic
achievements of primary students and assess the impact of project activities on these
achievements.
3.    Description. To achieve these objectives, the National Pedagogic University
(UPNFM) created a Unit for the Measurement of Education Quality (Unidad de Medici6n de
la Calidad de la Educaci6n - UMCE) which will carry out a national academic achievement
testing service for a sample of primary studies. The proposed project will support the
operation of UMCE by providing for: (a) technical assistance and consulting services; (b)
staff training; (c) office equipment; and (d) financing for test application. The work program
of the UMCE will consist of the following activities:
(i) design and application 2 surveys: Survey A, on factors affecting the quality of
primary education, as perceived by parents, teachers, principals and district
supervisors; and Survey B, on the availability and quality of educational materials and
of teacher training programs (as reflected in their classroom teaching practices), as
perceived by students, teachers and principals;
(ii) revision of existing achievement indicators and design new Spanish and
mathematics achievement tests for grades 2 through 6 of primary school;
(iii) development of a new national identity test for grade 6;
(iv) design of a national representative sample (of 20% of students per grade) for the
application of achievement tests to students in selected grades;
(v) application of achievements tests (Spanish and mathematics) to a 20 percent
sample of students in grades 2-6, according to a pre-established testing
implementation schedule; and,
1.    See "Sub-Componente de Evaluaci6n del Proyecto 'Mejoramiento de la Calidad de la Educacidn'"
by Elena G. de Martfnez. MOE, Tegucigalpa, June 1994.



- 70 -                              ANNEX 7
EXTERNAL EVALUATION
(vi) preparation of annual evaluation reports for the MOE and preparation of a
comparative evaluation report in the last year of project implementation, tracing
specific cohorts.
4.    During project appraisal, it was agreed that the MOE would be responsible for
disseminating test results obtained from the UJMCE, on a yearly basis. Dissemination
activities would aim at providing updated information on students academic achievements to
(a) administrators and MOE officials, (b) teachers, principals and supervisors, and (c) parents
and students. The proposed project would support dissemination activities by providing for
financing of communication activities and materials. During project preparation it was also
agreed that the MOE would create a small evaluation unit within the MOE, with normative
functions, to systematize the internal evaluations carried out by teachers, provide a linkage
with the UMCE, disseminate the results of the external evaluation and ensure that the results
of the external evaluation are properly used in curriculum and textbook revision, promotion
of students, teacher training, and other normative changes to primary education. This MOE
evaluation unit would be staffed by two people: one specialist in educational evaluation,
responsible for the normative aspects and for coordination, and a communications specialist,
responsible for preparing communication packages to disseminate the results of external
evaluations to various audiences nationwide.
5.    The External Evaluation Unit. The UMCE established at UPNFM will consist of a
technical group with expertise in the construction of academic achievements tests. The main
functions of the UMCE will be to: (a) design and apply achievement tests on mathematics
and Spanish to primary school students, and (b) process, analyze and report on the results of
the evaluation to the MOE every year. The UMCE will be staffed by 8 full-time
consultants: 5 high-level staff (the Coordinator, 2 education evaluation specialists, and 2
specialists in mathematics and Spanish tests), and 3 support staff. The professional staff will
be supported by part-time local consultants in the areas of data analysis, computerized test
diagram specialist, draftsman, and data processing specialists; and specialized local and
international consultants in the areas of test design, statistics, communications, and sample
design. Through the life of the project, approximately 500 staff/month of consultants'
services will be provided in support of the UMCE's activities.
6.    Technical assistance and training. During the first year of project implementation,
the staff of the UMCE will be trained by short-term international consultants and
participating study tours in two Latin American countries with successful external evaluation
programs, possibly Mexico and Chile. Training would be focused on the technical aspects of
the external evaluation of academic achievement, including: (i) testing instruments; (ii) test
examiners; (iii) data processing; (iv) data analysis; (v) dissemination of test results to parents
and teachers; and (vi) public information. In addition, through visits from short-term
international consultants, the UMCE will be provided with assistance at the critical stages in
the development of the external evaluation system.
7.    Program and Schedule of Activities:
(a) Design of Test Instruments. Approximately 13 achievement tests will be
designed, through: (i) the organization of seminars with primary teachers to learn about the
actual contents of Spanish and mathematics lessons taught in each primary grade, and



- 71 -                              ANNEX 7
EXTERNAL EVALUATION
selection of achievement test items based on this study; (ii) revision of existing tests items
and development of new tests; (iii) final Spanish and mathematics test designs for grades 3-6;
and (iv) design of civic values test for the 6th grade;
(b) Test Administration. Testing will be carried out during the month of October of
each year, throughout the project implementation period. The schedule for test
administration will be the following:
TABLE 1
Project Year              Grades to be Tested:
1996                        3 and 6
1997                        2 and 4
1998                        3 and 5
1999                        4 and 6
This testing schedule allows for the measurement of improvement in student academic
achievement through the monitoring of specific cohorts over time. Thus, the group of
students attending 3rd grade in 1996 will be evaluated in the 4th, 5th and 6th grades in
subsequent years; and, starting in 1997, a second cohort will be measured from 2nd through
4th grade. Test results will provide the most important indicator of the impact of the
proposed project. Tests will be administered to a 20 percent representative sample of the
primary student population and would involve the following activities: (i) preparation of a
test application manual; (ii) design of a national representative sample of 2nd through 6th
year students; (iii) selection of examiners among primary teachers; (iv) provision of training
for district supervisors to permit them to train examiners; and (v) administration of tests
nationwide, with the assistance of the district supervisors;
(c) Analysis of test results. The analysis of test results aims at identifying the
students' strengths and weaknesses in specific areas of the Spanish and mathematics
curriculum, and identifying teacher training needs. Two types of analyses will be performed
with appropriate computer programs: (i) assessment of the quality of test items, difficulty
levels and discriminatory power of test items, and overall reliability of the testing instrument;
(ii) evaluation of students' academic achievement levels. Data processing will be carried out
under contract with a local consulting firm, and data analysis will be done by the staff of the
UMCE;
(d) Dissemination of test results. The MOE will be responsible for this activity, and
will prepare test result dissemination modules, targeted to different audiences, including: (i)
administrators and MOE officials, (ii) teachers, principals and supervisors, and (iii) parents
and students. Dissemination modules will be perfected over time, as the MOE gains
experience in this activity. Short-term communications consultants and mass media programs
will be financed under the project in support of these dissemination activities. Student
achievement evaluation reports will be disseminated in the month of March of each year,
based on tests applied in October of the previous year.



- 72 -                             ANNEX 8
INFRASTRUCTURE IMPROVEMENTS
INFRASTRUCTURE IMPROVEMENTS
1.    Objectives. The main objective of this subcomponent is to redress the inequality in
the provision of basic education services in the poorest rural areas, by targeting
infrastructure improvements, school furniture, additional teachers, and expansion of
preschool education, to rural primary schools which are presently operating six grades of
primary education under very deficient conditions. These schools are characterized by: (a)
having only one classroom; (b) being overcrowded, due to enrollment of 60 or more students
of more students, shown to be growing steadily over the last 3 years; (c) lacking enough
teachers, as they function with only one teacher; (d) lacking adequate educational materials;
and (e) enrolling very poor students who have not had access to preschool education. The
specific location of these schools has been determnined by the MOE during project preparation
(see Targeting Criteria, Annex 3).
2.     Preparation. During project preparation, the following tasks were satisfactorily
completed: (a) list of target schools; (b) prototype designs for classroom construction; (c)
prototype designs for classroom furniture; (d) construction schedule to be followed by FHIS;
(e) assurances that land is available for school expansion at all target schools; and (f)
assurance that MOE has access to land at schools sites where construction will be carried out
during the first project year; (g) draft agreement between the MOE and FHIS for the
implementation of civil works and school furniture subprojects satisfactory to IDA; (h)
agreement on conditioning the carrying out by FHIS of infrastructure improvements upon
assurances by MOE of availability of teachers and adequate school maintenance
arrangements; (i) expansion plan for rural preschool education through the CCIEs; (j)
analysis of case studies of poor municipalities that shows willingness on the part of municipal
authorities to undertake the responsibility for school maintenance; and (k) a draft model
agreement between the MOE and the Municipal Corporation, institutionalizing the transfer of
school maintenance functions from the MOE to the Municipality satisfactory to IDA. During
niegotiations, the MOE presented the technical specifications for implementation of the school
census, drawing upon the experience in microplanning gained under the ADEPRIR project
satisfactory to IDA. The physical rehabilitation needs of the target schools would be
ascertained by the MOE as part of the detailed engineering for the expansion of each school.
It should be noted that although a total of 660 rural schools were identified. The project will
imrlprove 290 schools, shown to have the most urgent needs. The remaining primary schools
to be improved will be expanded and furnished with FHIS under Ff11S regular education
investment program, in accordance with norms and priorities established by MOE.
3.    Description. The proposed project will provide for: (a) consultants' services for
carrying out a comprehensive school census covering public facilities servicing all education
levels of education; (b) construction of 290 additional classrooms; (c) provision of student
and teacher desks and chairs; (d) allocation of one additional teacher per school; (e)
provision of preventive maintenance of school buildings; and (f) expanded access to
community-run preschool education through the CCIEs. Didactic materials for students at
the target schools will be provided under the textbooks and educational materials
subcomponent. IDA will finance maintenance, salaries, and other operating costs on a
declining basis.



- 73 -                             ANNEX 8
INFRASTRUCTURE I1PROVEMENTS
4.    Implementation. Implementation arrangements for classroom construction and
provision of school furniture, are specified in the MOE-FIS Agreement, which was
reviewed by IDA and proven satisfactory. Arrangements for the provision of preventive
maintenance services of schools by the Municipal Corporations, specified on a model
Agreement, will be tried out during the first project year in a few municipalities and revised,
before implementation in the remaining municipalities begins in the second project year. The
school census will be implemented by the MOE with assistance from experienced local and
international consultants. The MOE will also be responsible for allocating teachers, and
promoting the installation of the CCIEs by local communities, and would support each CCIE
with didactic materials, and training and travel allowances for voluntary preschool teachers.
The implementation schedule for the various activities is the following:
TABLE 1
Subcomponent Activities by Agency  1995    1996  1996  1997  1998  1999  Total
(i) School census/MOE           completed
(ii) Classroom construction/FHIS      70   120   100      0      0     0    290
(iii) Classroom furniture/FHIS:
student's desks/chairs             0   1400  2400  2000      0     0  5,800
teacher's desk/chair               0    70   120   100       0     0    290
(iv) School maintenance/Municipalities  0    70   190   290   290   290    290
(v) Allocation of teachers/MOE         0    70   120   100       0     0    290
(vi) Installation of CCIEs/MOE       300   300   300   300   300       0   1200
5.    The project will support an innovative municipal maintenance program for the
project schools. The maintenance arrangements proposed for the 290 target schools, will be
a pilot the for future expansion of a locally managed maintenance system countrywide. The
maintenance contract to be signed by the MOE and each Municipality, specifies that funds
would be transferred from the MOE to the Municipality, on an annual basis, provided the
Municipality meets specific conditions regarding (a) maintenance plan and budget; (b)
accountability in the management of funds; and (c) satisfactory maintenance performance.
The amount to be transferred would be fixed according to an estimated average unit cost of
US$300 per school per year (for infrastructure and furniture maintenance), and the number
and type of schools to be maintained by each Municipality. Each Municipality will ensure
that maintenance is carried out either by hiring the services of a local contractor or by
purchasing materials and carrying out the maintenance work themselves, with the help of the
community. Although more than 80 percent of the Honduran municipalities support primary
schools in one form or another, there is no previous local experience with systematic school
maintenance programs. Thus, the project will phase-in implementation of the maintenance
program in selected areas, to test mechanisms for transfer of maintenance funds to the
Municipalities and to monitor their performance. Based on the results of this maintenance
modality, the program will be expanded to cover the remaining schools improved by FIS.
The project would also finance the printing of a maintenance manual (already developed by
FEIS and MOE), which will be widely disseminated among Municipalities. The
maintenance manual will be promoted and explained by the MOE, through school supervision
visits. During these visits, MOE technicians will stress the importance of periodic school
and furniture maintenance, and train local officials in accounting and contracting practices



- 74 -                               ANNEX 8
INFRASTRUCTURE IMPROVEMENTS
satisfactory to IDA. IDA would finance school maintenance costs on a declining basis. The
school maintenance implementation schedule is the following:
TABLE 2
Activity                        Year
1.    Pilot test of institutional arrangements for
school maintenance by municipalities,
evaluation and revision                        1995
2.    Signing of maintenance agreements with
(number of municipalities):
70                                             1996
120                                           1997
170                                           1998
3.    Evaluation of municipal maintenance system      1999
6.    Allocation of Additional Teachers. A total of 290 additional primary teachers will
be allocated by MOE to serve at the expanded rural schools. Not all teachers will be new
hires, since some may be transferred from other schools. During project implementation,
teacher hiring procedures will be revised by the MOE, to ensure selection in accordance with
technical criteria and preference ranks for candidates living in the vicinity of the schools.
These procedures will apply to all new teachers, not only to those who would be hired under
the proposed project. IDA would finance teacher salaries on a declining basis.
7.    Preschool Education. The proposed project will expand in rural areas an existing
preschool program -- the Community Centers for School Initiation (Centros Comunitarios de
Iniciaci6n Escolar - CCIEs) -- which is community-run. This program aims at helping poor
rural children improve their performance in primary school, by providing access to school-
initiation training during a 6 week period of vacations, prior to the children's enrollment in
the first grade of primary school. The CCIEs have operated successfully since 1990, with
financial and technical assistance from UNICEF and USAID. In 1992, coverage reached
approximately 34,200 children, at CCIEs of 15-20 children. There are now 2,320 CCIEs in
operation. The organization of the CCIE relies on community initiative. Every child who is
pre-enrolled in the first grade to start in the next school year, is eligible to participate in
CCIE at his or her community at no cost to parents. Preschool instruction is provided at the
nearest primary school by volunteers recruited by the community, from among members of
the community itself or Escuela Normal students. The MOE supports the community
initiative by providing: (a) training for volunteers; (b) basic educational materials; and (c)
travel allowance for volunteers (the latter would be introduced under the proposed project).
The current unit cost of the CCIES, born by the public sector, is considered low at $5.00 per
student.' The CCIES are especially well suited for small rural communities where the
1.    Public unit cost of the program is equivalent to US$0.10 per student per day, or approximately 87
percent less than the current unit cost per primary student incurred by the MOE, estimated at US$0.80 per
day, assuming 150 days per year of effective classroom instruction.



-75-                               ANNEX 8
INFRASTRUCTURE IMPROVENIENTS
number of preschoolers entering first grade is too small to justify the establishment of a year-
round formal preprimary program. The impact of the CCIES on student performance in
primary school has been favorably evaluated by the MOE with assistance from UNICEF.
Children who participated in CCIEs were shown to be more ready and motivated for learning
during the early years of primary school. Parental participation in the CCIEs facilitates their
continued involvement in their children primary school education and motivates them to
enroll their children at an earlier age in primary school. The levels of academic achievement
of first grade students who attended CCIEs averaged 66 percent higher than non-participants,
and first grade dropout rates were 42 percent lower among CCIE participants, compared to
non-participants.2
8.    The selection criteria for establishing a new CCIE comprises: (i) evidence of pre-
enrollment in the first grade of at least 30 preschool-age children; (ii) poor primary school
performance, as measured by high repetition and dropout rates; (iii) location in rural
communities which are poor, as measured by the 1994 nutrition census; and (iv) existence of
a community organization capable and willing to operate a CCIE. To promote the
presentation of proposals for the creation of new CCIEs by local communities, the MOE will
launch every year a publicity and information campaign targeted to the priority rural
communities, starting with the communities served by the 290 primary schools which would
be expanded under the proposed project.
9.    The proposed project will support a 75 percent gradual expansion of the CCIE
program, from 34,200 to 60,000 preschool children per year, through: (a) the creation of
approximately 1,200 new CCIE in poor rural communities, at a rate of 300 new CCIE per
year during the first 4 years of project implementation; (b) non-durable educational materials
for students; (c) training for volunteer instructors; (d) office equipment for the MOE
preschool unit which coordinates the CCIE program; (e) transport allowances for CCIE
volunteer instructors; and (f) technical assistance for program evaluation. IDA would finance
non-durable educational materials and transport costs on a declining basis. Transport
allowances will amount to a lump sum of L.300 (US$32.00) for the 6-week program, per
volunteer. The additional transport expense will increase the unit cost of CCIE to about
US$7.00 per child, per year, and the number of trainees will be increased to 658 over the
life of the project. Training of student-volunteers will take place at the Escuelas Normales
during the months of October and November, while the training of community-volunteers
will be done by district supervisors at the corresponding MOE District Office, during the
month of November of each year. The program evaluation will consist of performance
assessment of a 20 percent sample of CCIE students, taken at the primary schools where they
attend classes, comparing academic achievements of children who participate in the CCIE
program with those in the same grade who had not participated. This evaluation would be
done annually through the life of the project, and a summary evaluation report will be
prepared in the last year of project implementation.
2.    MOE-UNICEF. La Experiencia de los Centros Comunitarios para la Iniciaci6n Escolar (CCIE):
Viabilidad Economica y Evaluacion Preliminar de los Resultados Alcanzados en dos atios de
Implementaci6n. Tegucigalpa, 1993.



- 76 -                             ANNEX 9
REORGANIZATION AND
DECENTRALIZATION OF THE MOE
REORGANIZATION AND DECENTRALIZATION OF THE MOE
1.    Objectives. The objective of this component is to improve the efficiency of MOE,
strengthen its management capacity, and rationalize the allocation of sector resources within
sound fiscal parameters. This process will be supported by the implementation of an
organizational restructuring plan, development of management information systems,
management training activities, and by the decentralization of specific educational functions
to departmental level. The organizational structure of the MOE will be restructured
according to major functions, in order to increase overall efficiency, eliminate functional
duplication, decentralize those services which are directly linked to the schools, and reduce
administrative costs. The restructuring process will give priority those measures that are
most relevant for achieving the quality improvements in basic education proposed under the
project (e.g. enforcing technical norms for hiring new teachers and supervisors) and those
aimed at reducing wastage of resources. The overall strategy for the restructuring, will
consist in replacing redundant staff by fewer and better paid staff and improved office
technology, while ensuring an overall reduction of administrative expenditures. These
objectives will also be supported by the proposed Public Sector Management Reform project.
2.    Benefits. The fiscal impact of the proposed restructuring of the MOE was estimated
based on the 1994 budget. The proposed measures are expected to result in an estimated 29
percent reduction in operating costs. This fiscal impact estimation takes into account the
following changes: (a) a reduction of approximately 872 positions at the central level,
largely through attrition; (b) an increase of 234 positions at the departmental level, largely
through transfers; and (c) average salary increases of approximately 50 percent for the staff
working at the Central Level (Table I and 2).
3.    Description. These objectives will be supported by the proposed project through the
provision of technical assistance and consultants' services for the implementation of the
restructuring plan (approximately 264 consultant/month); training for managerial staff; office
building construction and rehabilitation; office equipment; salaries for additional supervisory
staff; and operating costs associated with the implementation of the restructuring plan. IDA
will finance salaries and operating costs on a declining basis.
At the central level, improved efficiency will be achieved through (i) simplifying and
downsizing the MOE organizational structure, eliminating or consolidating redundant units,
functions and staff, and providing management and technical training for the staff; (ii)
reforming employment and salary regimes, in conjunction with the national civil servants'
reform; (iii) streamlining administrative procedures through enhanced management
information systems and improved office technology. The specific activities planned
comprise:
(a)   restructuring of the MOE into two Sub-Secretaries and one Administration
level. In addition, the Department Offices will be redefined in 18
Departmental Directorates of Education, one in each of the country's



- 77 -                            ANNEX 9
REORGANIZATION AND
DECENTRALIZATION OF THE MOE
departments. Their functions will include preprimary, primary and secondary
education. The Educational Services Sub-Secretary will support the
Departmental Directorates. The Technical Sub-Secretary will comprise the
following general directorates: (i) Teaching Services, and (ii) Evaluation of
Education Quality. The General Directorate of Teaching Services will
comprise the following Departments: Curriculum Development; Learning
Resources; and Teacher Training. The General Directorate of Evaluation of
Education Quality will comprise a Department of Measurement of Education
Quality. A new level, Administration, will be defined to comprise the
functions of General Administration, Human Resources, and Physical and
Financial Resources. In addition, the functions of school construction,
rehabilitation and maintenance, will be transferred respectively to FHIS (civil
works) and to the Municipal Corporations (maintenance), retaining at the MOE
only a small technical group capable of planning and designing standards to
guide education infrastructure investment.
(b)   reform of employment and salary regimes of teaching and administrative
staff, to: simplify salary scales, reducing the number of career grades;
improve ability to attract and retain competent staff through more competitive
salaries; eliminate redundant positions by attrition; increase accountability
through regular performance evaluations; and improve staff quality by
enforcing technical norms for hiring teaching and administrative staff;
(c)   simplification of administrative procedures by decentralizing review functions
from the legal office (Oficialfa Mayor) to the Departmental Directorates;
creating an efficient procurement unit; and simplifying financial management
procedures;
(d)   improvement of management information systems (MES) through design of
implementation of the following new MIS modules: education statistics
covering preprimary, secondary and adult education; personnel administration;
education materials procurement and distribution; educational performance
indicators; and decentralization of some MIS activities to Departmental offices.
In addition, funding will be provided to improve dissemination of education
information through the MOE Annual Report and statistical Bulletins;
(e)   strengthening educational supervision services through (i) implementation of a
supervision manual, (ii) design and application of admission tests for new
supervisors; (iii) creation of 100 additional supervisory positions, (iv)
regularization of the employment status of approximately 125 principals who
work as primary education supervisors, and (v) funding for transport expenses
associated with supervision visits;
(f)   improvement of physical infrastructure for decentralized services through: (i)
construction of 13 new Departmental offices; (ii) rehabilitation of 5



- 78 -                            ANNEX 9
REORGANIZATION AND
DECENTRALIZATION OF THE MOE
Departmental offices; (iii) provision of furniture and equipment for 18
Departmental and 400 District offices;
(g)   provision of training for management staff, through 17 courses and seminars,
study tours for 10 staff, and 10 one-year scholarships for post-graduate studies
abroad. A preliminary assessment of training needs identified three priority
areas: (i) primary education, including technical-pedagogical aspects of
educational reform, pedagogical counseling, environmental education,
production of educational materials, bilingual education, learning disabilities;
(ii) educational planning and policy analysis; and (iii) administration of human
resources.
4.    Implementation Strategy. A reorganization action plan will be completed during the
first project year. The action plan will provide a detailed description of the priority reforms,
a timetable for implementation, and a transition strategy for the four-year period of
implementation of the proposed reformns. The phased implementation of the plan facilitates
the preparation of operations manuals, staff training, and the approval of legal instruments.
Implementation will by managed by a technical group of public administration specialists at
the MOE central office, comprising local and international consultants. A first phase, of
approximately 6 months, will focus on detailed design and strategy for implementation of the
action plan including enabling legal instruments. Implementation will start in the second half
of the first project year and continue through project completion. An evaluation of the
impact of the reforms and the transition process will be carried out during the last year of
project implementation.



- 79 -                                    ANNEX 9
REORGANIZATION AND
DECENTRALIZATION OF THE MOE
Table 1
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
ALLOCATION OF PERSONNEL ACCORDING TO THE NEW
ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE
Level                       Description                  |            Positions
EXISTING STRUCTURE
Primary Education                                            321
Secondary Education                                          220
Adult Education                                              191
Administration of the MOE                                    449
Central Administration                         190
Planning Unit                                  104
School Construction                             76
INICE                                           79
Sub-Total                                                1181
In the Departments                                           108
Grand Total                                                 1289
PROPOSED STRUCTURE
1.      Secretariat
Minister's Office                                 30
Planning Directorate                              34
Internal Auditory                                 5
Sub-total                                                  69
H.      Sub-Secretaries
Technical Sub-Secretariat                         5
Educational Services Sub-Secretariat              14
Sub-total                                                  19
in.      General Directorates
Teaching Services                                 5
Evaluation of Education Quality                   8           13



- 80 -                                ANNEX 9
REORGANIZATION AND
DECENTRALIZATION OF THE MOE
Table 1 (Continued)
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
ALLOCATION OF PERSONNEL ACCORDING TO THE NEW
ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE
IV.      Administration
General Administration                             4
Human Resources                                   40
r________  Physical Plant and Finances                         43
Sub-total                                                  87
V.      Departments
Curriculum Development                            31
l________  Learning Resources                                  34
Teacher Training                                  38
Measurement of Education                          20
Sub-total                                                  121
Total in Tegucigalpa                                         309
VI.      In Geographic Departments
Existing Positions                               108
For Strengthening Education Districts            234
Sub-total                                                 342
GRAND TOTAL                                               651
PROPOSED REDUCTION IN POSMONS
In Tegucigalpa                                              -872
In the Departments                                           234
In Honduras                                                 -638
(Percentages)
In Tegucigalpa                                              -74%
In the Departments                                          217%
In Honduras                                                 -49%



- 81-                                     ANNEX 9
REORGANIZATION AND
DECENTRALIZATION OF THE MOE
Table 2
MNISTRY OF EDUCATION
EXPENSES IN HEADQUARTERS WITH AND WITHOUT ADJUSTMENTS
1994 in Lempiras (000)
Items                 Without      With Project                Fiscal
Project                                     Savings
L '000    US$ 000          %
Salary                        644,839.8        632,020.4     (12,819.4)   (1,393.4)     -61%
Salary-Central Level           21,040.6         8,221.2      (12,819.4)   (1,393.4)     -61%
Primary Education             5,904.7
Secondary Education           4,931.5
Adult Education               2,205.2
Administration of the MOE     7,999.2          3,125.5      (4,873.6)      (529.7)    -61%
Central Administration        3,408.8
Planning Unit                 1,980.1
School Construction           1,291.6
INICE                         1,318.7
Salary-Rest of the Country    623,799.2        623,799.2     0.0          0.0           0%
Services and Materials         31,438.1        27,039.4      (4,398.7)    (478.1)       -14%
Equipment and Machinery        6,738.2          6,738.2      0.0          0.0           0%
Construction **                24,501.2            0.0       (24,501.2)   (2,663.2)     -100%
Subsidies                        580.1           580.1       0.0          0.0           0%
Global Allocation             13,884.3          13,884.3     0.0          0.0           0%
Total Expenses                721,981.7        680,262.4     (41,719.3)   (4,534.7)     -6%
* Exchange Rate at June 1994 (US$=9.2 L)
** In the new budget, it is assumed that the Construction budget is transferred to the FHIS
Source: Secretaria do Educacion Public y Comisi6n de Modernizaci6n del Estado, Propuesta para la Reorganizaci6n
de Ia Secretaria de Educaci6n Publica y Modernizaci6n de su Gerencia, 1994.



- 82 -                            ANNEX 10
TEACHER INCENTIVES
TEACHER INCENTIVES
1.    Objectives. The main objective of the pilot teacher incentives program is to improve
the performance of primary teachers, especially in rural areas, by providing monetary
incentives attached to selected schools. In other Latin American countries similar incentive
programs have proven effective at ensuring and increasing teachers' accessibility in the
classroom. Moreover, previous studies have shown that Honduran students' academic
achievement improves as teachers' attendance improves.' Because there is no previous
experience with teacher performance incentive programs in Honduras, the project will only
implement a pilot program, phased through project implementation. The pilot will test
teacher performance criteria, mechanisms for payment of incentives, and community
participation in monitoring attendance of teachers.
2.    Description. The pilot teacher incentives program will be assigned to specific
schools, to ensure that if teachers leave their posts the target schools will retain the incentive
and incentives will not be construed as supplemental salary. The criteria for selecting the
schools will be: (a) located in very poor communities, as measured by the annual nutrition
census; (b) having only one or two teachers; (c) high repetition rates in the first three grades;
(d) located in remote areas (Annex 3). Participation by teachers in the program will be
voluntary and incentive payments will be conditional to: (i) minimal attendance of 196 days
per year (18 to 20 days per ;month over a 10 month period, on average); and (ii)
improvements in students' attendance. The incentives will be provided, on a pilot basis, to
relatively isolated rural schools located in the poorest municipalities and served by only one
or two teachers. All teachers working at these schools will be eligible to participate in the
program, on a volunteer basis. Teacher's attendance criteria will require a minimum of 18
to 20 days of classes per month, during the 10 months school-year. Attendance of
participating teachers will be verified by parents and supervisors. Student's attendance
criteria will be measured annually in increments of 20 percent by district supervisors.
Teachers who achieve these performance targets will receive the equivalent of one additional
monthly salary per year (or approximately US$196 equivalent per year). Similar incentive
programs operating in Chile and Mexico have proven effective at ensuring and increasing
teachers' accessibility in the classroom and improving teaching performance. In Honduras,
studies have shown that among other factors, students' academic achievements depend
heavily on the number of hours of classroom teaching they receive. Incentive payments will
be made quarterly and will correspond to the equivalent of US$195 per year, or
approximately 10 percent of the average teacher salary. Complementary activities to the
pilot teacher incentives program comprise: a. printing and distribution of school calendars;
b. scheduling of matriculation of students during the first 5 days of the school year; c.
payment of teachers salaries on the last Friday of each month, wherever possible through the
banking system; d. scheduling of teacher training activities during the first 3 days of the
second week in February, and on Saturdays throughout the school year; and e. promotion of
community participation through community meetings. IDA will finance teacher incentives
on a declining basis.
3.    Implementation. The implementation of the incentives program would be phased;
activities during the first project year would comprise: a. establishment of teacher's
1.    Harvard University, Bridges Project. op.cit. 1991.



- 83 -                          ANNEX 10
TEACHER INCENTIVES
performance assessment criteria and targets; b. arrangements for community participation; c.
mechanisms for payment of incentives; d. program trial at 100 rural schools; and e. program
evaluation and adjustment. Program expansion during subsequent project years would be as
follows: 500 schools in the second year, 1,200 schools in the third year, 2,000 schools in
the fourth year, and 3,000 schools in the fifth. The proposed project would also support
complementary measures by the MOE aimed at limiting matriculation to 5 days in February
of each year, paying teachers's salaries systematically in the last Friday of each month, and
using commercial banking facilities, to the extent feasible, for the payment of teachers
(Annex 10). In support of this program, the proposed project would finance teacher
incentives, community meetings and printing of school calendars. Priority activities, to be
completed in the first project year comprise: (a) selection of target schools; (b) preparation
and approval of teacher's performance eligibility criteria for the program; (c) operational
arrangements for the payment of incentives; and (d) promotion campaign in the communities
where the first 100 target schools are located. Following completion of these activities,
incentives would be provided to high performance teachers in selected schools as follows:
TABLE 1
Year      No. Schools    No. Teachers
1995              100              100
1996             500               600
1997             1200             1400
1998            2000              2200
1999            2500              3000
Because the majority of the rural schools which would be selected for the pilot program have
only one teacher, the number of beneficiary teachers is estimated at only slightly larger than
the number of schools.
4.    Evaluation. The pilot program would be evaluated during the third year of project
implementation and changes would be made to the program, if necessary (Annex 11).



- 84 -                           ANNEX 11
PROJECT ADMINISTRATION
PROJECT ADMINISTRATION, MONITORING AND EVALUATION
1.    Project Administration. The administration of the proposed project would be
coordinated by a PCU to be created under the Vice-Minister for Technical Affairs of the
MOE. The PCU responsibilities comprise: (i) coordination of the implementation of the
project by MOE, FIBS, UMCE, and the Municipal Corporations; (ii) preparation of bi-
annual progress reports and annual project reviews; (iii) processing of documentation for
disbursement of the IDA credit and other project funds and for procurement of goods and
services; (iv) carrying out of procurement activities; (v) maintenance of records and separate
accounts; and (vi) management of project funds; and (vii) evaluation of the impact of the
project. The PCU would be headed by a Project Director and an Administrative Director,
and would be organized in four main groups: Administration and Finances, Procurement,
Technical Group, and Institutional Group. An Operations Committee, consisting of the Vice
Minister for Technical Affairs, the Vice Minister for Educational Services, the Director of
Planning, the PCU Project Director and Administrative Director, would be established for
policy consultations and approval of the project's annual work program. To ensure
management consistency and continuity, a Project Operations Manual would be prepared
covering the financial, procurement, and personnel management procedures to be used by the
PCU, and standard bidding documents (SBDs) and contracts. The MOE would ensure that
the PCU is at all times staffed with full-time professionals satisfactory to IDA, assisted by
clerical staff in adequate numbers. The organization chart of the PCU in shown in the figure
below.
2.    The PCU would be granted special financial management authority to approve and
make payments, as well as procurement authority over all procurement under the project.
During negotiations, the MOE would present the specific mechanisms which would be used
for procurement of goods and services financed under the project and for the financial
management of the project, including flow of funds, cleared by the Ministry of Finance
(Secretarfa de Hacienda y Credito Pablico).
3.    The relationship between the PCU, FHIS, the EMCE and the Municipalities under the
proposed project would be governed by specific Agreements or Decrees celebrated between
the MOE and each of these entities. Draft agreements and decrees would be presented by
the MOE as conditions for negotiations.
4.    Monitoring and Evaluation. Key project implementation and impact indicators,
would be monitored by the PCU (Annex 12). The terms of reference for annual and mid-
term project reviews are summarized in Annex 15. In addition to these monitoring and
evaluation activities, the proposed project would strengthen the MOE monitoring and
evaluation capacity, through the PCU, by financing special evaluation studies. The
evaluation studies would be small-scale and carried out by local and international consultants,
at an average cost of about US$50,000 per study. A preliminary selection of topics, based
on an assessment of special evaluation requirements associated with innovative features of the
proposed project was made during project preparation. In some cases, the same topic is
studied twice, at the beginning and at the end of the project implementation period, to
evaluate changes that might have been caused by the project.



- 85 -                          ANNEX 11
PROJECT ADMNISTRATION
5.    The main objectives of the proposed small-scale evaluation studies are to: (a)
complement the information on academic achievements of student provided by the EMCE,
with qualitative impact analyses of key project activities; (b) help identify the need for
project design modifications during the implementation phase; and (c) help develop the
analytical capacity of the MOE to monitor and evaluate the performance of education projects
and programs, and determine their impact on student achievement and education efficiency.
Each year, the PCU would prepare terms of reference and consultant short lists for the
evaluation studies to be conducted in the following year, and present these to IDA for review
and approval. Interim and final results and conclusions of all studies, including
recommendations for follow-up action, would be discussed during the project's annual and
mid-term reviews, and made available to the MOE Department offices. The following small-
scale evaluation studies are planned:
TABLE 1
Study Topics           Schedule
Textbook Use                    1995, 1999
Curriculum Reform                    1995
School Performance                   1996
Community Participation         1996, 1998
Pilot Teacher Incentive Program      1997
Impact of CADs                       1997
Impact of CCIEs                      1998
Impact Bilingual Education           1998
6.    Upon completion of the proposed project, the monitoring and evaluation capacity built
during project implementation, would be incorporated in the Directorate General of Planning
and Evaluation.



HONDURAS - BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
PROJECT COORDINATION UNIT ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE
Vice-MinLister for 
lTechnical Affatrs|
:= ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:O
Operati_ olnc Directiveecto
Admirnistration                     T nIca                           Inu Ea                                   Exteral      1 
ad Finance    lSEvaluation Udnit   |
MOE OPERATIONAL DEPARTMENTS
Policy Directive
Execulive Authority                                                                                                2¢
__Support and CoordimLaion                                                                                          t*



- 87 -                                   ANNEX 12
PROJECT PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
PROJECT PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
I. IMPLEMENTATION TARGETS
Activities                    Unit       1995    1996    1997    1998    1999
A. Improving the Quality
of Basic Education
A.1 Teacher Training Programn:
Training for Trainers                        trainee    400      400      528      658     658
Multigrade Primary Teachers                  trainee   10500   10500   10500   11000   11000
Single grade Primary Teachers                trainee      0   11000   11000   11000   11000
Preprimary Teachers                          trainee      0    1400    1400    1400    1400
Primary School Principals                    trainee    2500    2500    2500    2500    2500
Supervisors                                 trainee     320     413      530      597     638
Professors (Escuelas Normales)               trainee     24       24       24       24      24
CCIE Volunteers                              trainee    2600    2900    3200    3500    3500
CAD Training Projects                       projects      0       75      100       50      25
A.2 Textbooks and Didactic Materials
Distribution of Didactic Materials:
Textbooks: Grade I                           million      0       1.2       0        0       0
Grade 2                              million       0        0      1.1       0        0
Grade 3                              million       0      0.9        0       0        0
Grade 4                              million       0        0      0.8       0        0
Grade 5                              million       0        0       0      0.2        0
Grade 6                              million       0        0        0     0.1        0
Primary Classroom Libraries                  library      0   10000    6000    3300          0
Preprimary School Libraries                  library    200      250      300        0       0
Student's Materials                         package    5600    5600    5600    5600    5600
CCIE Materials                              package    2600    2900    3200    3500    3500
Preprimary School Toys                      package       0      790        0        0       0
A.3 Bilingual Intercultural Education
Miskito and Garifona Languages                study        1
Curriculum Design                          complete        1
Linguistic/Anthropological/Historical         study        1       1        1        1
Teacher Training Curriculum                complete        1       0        0        0       0
Distribution Didactic Materials:           packages       2        0        0        0       0
Grades I and 2                      packages       0        2        0       0        0
Grade 3                             packages       0        0        2       0        0
Grade 4                             packages       0        0        0       2        0
Grade 5                             packages       0        0        0       0        2
Grade 6                              courses      25       23      33       33       0
Training Bilingual Teachers & Supervisors   courses       0        4        4        4       0
Training Escuela Nonnal Professors         complete       0         1       0        0       0
Design Academic Achievement Evaluation       grades       0        0      1, 2       3       4
Application Achievement Tests                                                                   l
A.4 External Evaluation
Application Achievement Tests Grades:         grade       0   3 & 6   2 & 4   3 & 5   4 & 6
A.5 Infrastructure Improvements
Classroom Expansion                       classroom      70      120      100        0       0
Classroom Furniture                       classroom       0       70      120      100       0
School Maintenance Agreements                signed       0       70      120      100       0
Teacher Appointments                         teacher      0       70      120      100       0
CCEE Program                              new CCIE      300      300      300     300        0



- 88 -                                    ANNEX 12
PROJECT PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
B. Institutional Strengthening                     Unit    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999
B.l MOE Reorganization & Decentralization
Reorganization Action Plan                  complete        I        0        0        0       0
Reorganization Implementation                process        0        1        1        1       0
Reorganization Evaluation                      study        0        0        0        0        1
Employment and Salary Regime Reform         complete        1        I        1        1
Decentralization of Functions               complete        I        0        0        0       0
Dept. Office Construction                      office       4        4        5        0       0
Dept. Office Rebabilitation                    office       0        3        2        0       0
Dept. Office Equipment                         office       0        4        7        7       0
District Office Equipment                      office       0      400        0        0       0
Appointment of Supervisors"                supervisor       0       50       67       67      41
Staff Training                                course        1        3        3        3       3
MIS System Design                           complete        I        0        0        0       0
MIS Annual Report and National Bulletin    publication      2        2        2        2       2
B.2 Pilot Teacher Incentives Program
Teacher Performance Assessment Criteria     complete        I        0        0        0       0
Distribution of School Calendars            complete        I        I        I        I        I
Payment of Teacher Incentives (cumulative)   teacher      100      600    1400    2200    3000
B.3 Project Administration, Monitoring and
Evaluation - Evaluation Studies:
Textbook Use                          study        I        0        0        0
Curriculum Reform                     study        I        0        0        0       0
School Performance                    study        0        1        0        0       0
Community Participation               study        0        1        0        0
Pilot Teacher Incentive Program       study        0        0        1        0       0
Impact of CADs                        study        0        0        1        0       0
Impact of CCIEs                       study        0        0        0        1       0
Impact Bilingual Education            study        0        0        0        1       0
Includes regularization of employment of principals acting as supervisors.
II. Project Impact Indicators
A. Impact on Learning
l.     Primary Students' Achievement Test Scores, measured by grade, gender, rural/urban
school location:
Academic Achievement Test Scores          1996        1997        1998         1999
Mathematics                                 _           _               I        _          1
Spanish                                    _         l             _          l _    _



- 89 -                            ANNEX 12
PROJECT PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
2.    Evolution of Achievement Test Scores for particular cohorts of primary students:
Year Mathematics and Spanish Scores
1996  3rd grade student
1997  4th grade student/2nd grade student
1998  5th grade student/3rd grade student
1999  6th grade student/4th grade student
3.    Achievements Test Scores of Bilingual Primary Students:
Academic Achievement Test Scores  1996     1997      1998       1999
Spanish                                              l                   i
Garifuna
Miskito
B. Impact on Increasing Classroom Time in
Primary Schools Teachers' Performance Inprovement Program
Schools with Program         Schools without Program
No. of Days per       1996   1997  1998  1999  1996  1997  1998  1999
Year:
Students' Attendance
Teachers' Attendance
C. Impact of Preschool2on Primary School Performance
1996     1997       1998      2000
Students with Preschool:
Mathematics Test Scores
Spanish Test Scores
Students without Preschool:
Mathematics Test Scores
Spanish Test Scores
2.    CCIE, CEPENF or Formal Pre-primary school programs.



- 90 -                            ANNEX 12
PROJECT PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
D. Internal Efficiency Impact on Student Flows in Primary School
Efficiency Impact Indicators    Base Line    1996     1997      1998      1999
Net Enrollment                       80.0%
Completion Rate                      (1992)
Repetition Rate (UNESCO)             33.5%
Dropout Rates by Grade               (1992)
28.0%
(1988)
4.9% (1988)          1         1 _         ___ _
2/ Impact indicators would be monitored by grade, and rural/urban school location.
E. Administrative Efficiency Impact
Base Line       1996        1997   |  1998         1999
Administrative
Budget of MOE:       L. 8.0 million                                    L. 3.1
(1994)                         _             million
Central-level       L. 21.0 million                                    L. 8.2
Salaries MOE:           (1994)                                         million
No. Schools
Supervision visits       N.A.
to Public Primary
Schools
F. Economic Analysis Impact
(Estimated Internal Rate of Return)
Ex-Ante                        Ex-Post
Considering Costs of:           Considering Costs of:
Improvement of          Quality of    Total Project    Quality of   Total Project
Income Earning        Education           Cost      Education      Costs
Power                   Component                    Component
With 10 % of Income      20.78%         18.13 %
Differential              16.18%        13.82 %
Source: Following the methodology described in Annex 17.



TABLE 1
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
%        % Total
IL. '000)                    (US$ '000)          Foreign    Base
Local    Foreign    Total    Local     Foreign    Total   Exchange  Costs
A. Improving Quality of Primary and Pre-school Education
1. Training of Teachers, Principals and Supervisors  19,584.7   1,708.1  21,292.8   2,128.8    185.6  2,314.4       8           5
2. Educational Material Resources
Textbooks and Didactic Materials                   55,278.9 158,309.1 213,588.0   6,008.6  17,207.5  23,216.1      74          47
Infrastructure Improvement                         53,984.2   9,433.1  63,417.2   5,867.8   1,025.3   6,893.2      15          14
Subtotal Educational Material Resources           109,263.1 167,742.2 277,005.2  11,876.4  18,232.8  30,109.3      61          61
3. Bilingual Education                              5,500.0   8,834.6  14,334.6    597.8    960.3   1,558.1        62           3
4. External Evaluation                             11,017.2    925.8  11,942.9   1,197.5    100.6   1,298.1          8          3
Subtotal Improving Quality of Primary and Pre-school Educatio 145,365.0 179,210.7 324,575.5  15,800.6  19,479.3  35,280.0  55  72
B. Institutional Strengthening
1. Reorganization of MOE and Decentralized Services  67,216.6  27,741.3  94,957.9   7,306.2   3,015.4  10,321.5    29          21     '0
2. Teacher Incentives                              13,490.0      27.6  13,517.6   1,466.3      3.0   1,469.3        0           3
3. Project Administration and M&E                  15,168.2   4,476.0  19,644.2   1,648.7    486.5   2,135.2       23           4
SubtotallnstitutionalStrengthening                 95,874.8  32,244.9 128,119.7  10,421.2   3,504.9  13,926.1      25          28
Total BASELINE COSTS                              241,239.8 211,455.6 452,695.3  26,221.7  22,984.3  49,206.0      47         100    3
Physical Contingencies                              6,241.5  4,442.2  10,683.7    678.4    482.9   1,161.3         42           2    0
Price Contingencies                                13,757.2  10,929.7  24,686.9   1,497.9   1,188.0   2,685.9      44           5
Total PROJECT COSTS                                         226,827.5 488,065.9  28,398.0  24,655.1  53,053.1      46
03
Q t



TABLE 2
EXPENDITURE ACCOUNTS BY COMPONENTS
(US$ '000)
Tran*ig of    Textbooks                                        ReorganIzatIon
Teachers,      and                                              of MOE and                 Project                 Physical
Prncipal/    Didactic    Infrastructure   Baigul    External    Decentralized    Teacher  Adminstration          Contingencies
Supvisor      Materls    brkprovement   Education   Evalution     Services    Incentives    end M&E      Total         %         Amount
1. hnveynt Costs
A. Cvii Works                                0.0          0.0       3,715.6         0.0        0.0         1,057.9        0.0           0.0   4,773.5          16.8        802.2
B. Equipment and Vehicles                   12.0         35.1           6.6       114.1       42.1         1,643.8        0.0          20.9    1,874.6          2.5         46.5
C. Furniture                                 4.0          1.8         213.4         0.0         0.0          177.1        0.0           0.0      396.3          2.8         11.0
D. Textbooks and Dkiatic Materil
Textbooks                                    0.0      5,804.9           0.0         0.0        0.0             0.0        0.0           0.0    5,804.9          5.0        290.2
Didactic Materials                          28.3      5,927.4           0.0       782.1        0.0             0.0        0.0           0.0    6,737.8          0.0          0.0
SsbtotalTextbooks ndDidaticMaterial         28.3    11,732.3            0.0       782.1        0.0             0.0        0.0           0.0  12,542.7           2.3        290.2
E. Techer Tanhing
Cowrses                                    869.4          0.0           0.0       201.0        0.0             0.0        0.0           0.0    1,070.4          0.0          0.0
Training Materials                         746.3          0.0           0.0         0.0         0.0            0.0        0.0           0.0      746.3          0.0          0.0
SubtotalTeactwhTrailng                   1,615.7          0.0           0.0       201.0         0.0            0.0        0.0           0.0    1,816.7          0.0          0.0
F. Technical Assistance
LocalTechnical Assistance                  384.7          0.0         545.3       164.1      419.0           564.1        0.0       1,331.2    3,408.5          0.0          0.0
Foreign Technical Assistance               150.0          0.0           0.0        40.0        30.0          840.0        0.0         290.5    1,350.5          0.0          0.0
Studies                                      0.0          0.0           0.0        67.3         0.0            0.0        0.0         485.1      552.4          0.0          0.0               I
SubtotalTecnticalAsscstasca                534.7          0.0         545.3       271.5      449.0         1,404.1        0.0       2,106.8    5,311.4          0.0          0.0               0
0. Managemet Staff Development                                                                                                                                                                 I)
Workshops and Seminars                       0.0          0.0           0.0         0.0        0.0           325.1        0.0           0.0      325.1          0.0          0.0
Study Tours                                  0.0          0.0           0.0       102.8       23.8             0.0        0.0           0.0      126.6          0.0          0.0
Subtotal Matagwnent Staff Development        0.0          0.0           0.0       102.8       23.8           325.1        0.0           0.0      451.6          0.0          0.0
H. Printing of Materials                     0.0          0.0           0.0         0.0        0.0            40.3        6.2           0.0       46.5          0.0          0.0
1. Public Information Campaigns              0.0          0.0           0.0         0.0       29.9           291.0        0.0           0.0      320.9          0.0          0.0            C)
Total investment Costs                   2,194.7    11,769.2        4,481.0     1,471.5      544.8         4,939.2        6.2       2,127.7   27,534.4          4.2      1,149.9
II. Recurrent Costs                      2,194.7                                                                                                                                             H
A. Didactic Materials for Students           0.0    10,753.7            0.0         0.0         0.0            0.0        0.0           0.0  10,753.7           0.0          0.0
8. Teacher Incentives                        0.0          0.0           0.0         0.0         0.0            0.0   1,427.6            0.0    1,427.6          0.0          0.0
C. lncentnres to Pre-school Tutors           0.0          0.0         513.3         0.0        0.0             0.0        0.0           0.0      513.3          0.0          0.0             CO
D. Saaries                                                                                                                                                                                   H)
Teacher Salaries                             0.0          0.0        1,424.4        0.0         0.0            0.0        0.0           0.0    1,424.4          0.0          0.0
Supervisor Salaries                          0.0          0.0           0.0         0.0         0.0        3,404,5        0.0           0.0    3,404.5          0.0          0.0
Subtotal Salaie                              0.0          0.0       1,424.4         0.0        0.0         3,404.5        0.0           0.0    4.828.8          0.0          0.0
E. Travel Aflowances and Per Diems         107.5          0.0          10.0         0.0         9.0        1,451.9        0.0           0.0    1,578.4          0.0          0.0
F. Operation end Maintenance                 3.2         14.1         463.4        51.0         3.5          399.1        0.0           7.5      941.9          1.2         11.4
G. Other Operating Costs                     8.9        679.1           1.0        35.7      740.8           126.8       35.5           0.0    1,627.8          0.0          0.0
Total Recurrent Costs                      119.6    11,446.9        2,412.2        86.6      753.4         5,382.3   1,463.1            7.5  21,671.7           0.1         11.4
Total 8ASELINE COSTS                     2,314.4    23.216.1        6,893.2     1,558.1    1,298.1        10,321.5   1,469.3        2,135.2   49,206.0          2.4      1,161.3
Physical Contingencies                       0.8       292.1          707.4         1.6         2.1          157.3        0.0           0.0    1,161.3          0.0          0.0
Price Contivgencies                        119.7      1,262.5         357.0        79.1       70.8           561.0      117.2         118.5    2,685.9          1.6         43.9             0
.        .. ..           .     .   .    .      ..a                 . . ..
Total PROJECT COSTS                      2,434.8    24,770.7        7,957.6     1,638.8    1,371.1        11,039.8   1,586.5        2,253.7  53,053.1           2.3      1,205.1
Taxes                                        7.2      2,671.8         995.6        93.6       45.5           736.0        0.4           5.3   4,555.5           4.4        199.2
Foreign Exchange                           188.8    18,387.1        1,247.7     1,010.9      105.5         3,199.7        3.2         512.2  24,655.2           2.0        501.8



TABLE 3
EXPENDITURE ACCOUNTS BY YEAR
(USS '000)
Base Cost                                    Foreign Exchange
1995     1996        1997       1998        1999       Total        %        Amount
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works                          1,194.7    1,889.3    1,689.5         0.0         0.0    4,773.5       23.8    1,134.3
B. Equipment and Vehicles                 361.2    1,315.4        99.0       99.0        0.0    1,874.6        64.9    1,217.4
C. Furniture                                5.8      228.6        88.3       73.6         0.0      396.3       29.5       117.0
D. Textbooks and Didactic Material
Textbooks                                 466.1     2,684.3    2,654.5        0.0         0.0    5,804.9       86.2    5,005.5
Didactic Materials                         79.8    4,887.0       987.4      640.5      143.1    6,737.8        78.0    5,253.1
Subtotal Textbooks and Didactic Material  546.0    7,571.3    3,641.9       640.5       143.1    12,542.7      81.8   10,258.6
E. Teacher Training
Courses                                   205.2      205.8       235.6      241.5       182.4    1,070.4        2.8        29.8
Training Materials                        116.0      155.7       171.8      167.5       135.4      746.3        0.5         3.8
SubtotalTeacherTraining                   321.1      361.5       407.3      408.9      317.8    1,816.7         1.8        33.5
F. Technical Assistance
Local Technical Assistance              1,218.8      600.2       553.2      531.2       505.3    3,408.5        0.0         0.0
Foreign Technical Assistance              654.1      194.1       194.1      174.1       134.1    1,350.5       94.8    1,280.0
Studies                                   144.2      107.1       107.1       97.0        97.0      552.4       51.5       284.7
Subtotal Technical Assistance           2,017.0      901.4       854.4      802.3       736.4    5,311.4       29.5     1,564.7
G. Management Staff Development                                                                                                          \
Workshops and Seminars                     84.1       87.2        53.3       50.2        50.2      325.1       69.4       225.7
Study Tours                                47.6       23.9        27.5       27.5        0.0       126.6       73.7        93.3
Subtotal Management Staff Development     131.7      111.0        80.9       77.8       50.2       451.6       70.6       319.0
H. Printing of Materials                   17.0        7.4         7.4        7.4         7.4       46.5       76.6        35.6          1
1. Public Information Campaigns            58.2       65.7        65.7       65.7       65.7       320.9       51.5       165.4        C0
Total Investment Costs                  4,652.7   12,451.5     6,934.4    2,175.2    1,320.6   27,534.4        53.9   14,845.6          ^
1. Recurrent Costs                                                                                                                     r3
A. Didactic Materials for Students          0.0    2,480.4    2,757.8    2,757.8    2,757.8    10,753.7        70.8    7,609.3          t
B. Teacher Incentives                      19.6      117.3       273.8      430.2      586.7    1,427.6         0.0         0.0         O
Incentives to Pre-school Tutors          85.2       95.0      104.8       113.9      114.5       513.3        0.0         0.0         3
D Salaries                                                                                                                             Ut
Teacher Salaries                            0.0      118.7       322.2      491.7      491.7    1,424.4         0.0         0.0
Supervisor Salaries                         0.0      763.1       880.5      880.5      880.5    3,404.5         0.0         0.0
Subtotal Salaries                           0.0      881.8    1,279.1      1,372.2    1,372.2    4,828.8        0.0         0.0
E. Travel Allowances and Per Diems        193.0      347.0       347.0      347.0      344.5     1,578.4       10.5       166.5
F. Operation and Maintenance               44.6      188.3       233.5      237.7       237.7      941.9       32.7       308.0
G. Other Operating Costs                  244.5      410.4       384.3      314.2       274.4    1,627.8        3.4        54.9
Total Recurrent Costs                     586.8    4,520.1     5,303.8    5,573.0    5,687.8   21,671.7        37.6    8,138.7
otal Baseline Costs                    5,239.5   16,971.7   12,238.2    7,748.2    7,008.4   49,206.0         46.7   22,984.3
Physical Contingencies                    231.4      489.7       425.9       11.5        2.8    1,161.3        41.6       482.9
Price Contingencies                        60.1      580.7       708.7      614.6      721.8    2,685.9        44.3    1,188.0
Total PROJECT COSTS                     5,531.1   18,041.8    13,373.0    8,374.3    7,733.0   53,053.1        46.5   24,655.1
Taxes                                     388.5    2,174.6     1,074.9      501.3      416.2    4,555.5         0.0         0.0
Foreign Exchange                        1,984.2   10,138.6    6,557.2     3,260.8    2,714.3   24,655.2         0.0         0.0



TABLE 4
PROJECT INVESTMENT AND RECURRENT COST SUMMARY
%       % Total
(L 000)                              (US$0ooo)                 Foreign     Base
Local    Foreign           Total        Local      Foreign      Total     Exchange     Costs
1. hnvestnt Cosu
A. Civ Works                                         33,480.6     10,435.6      43,916.2     3,639.2     1,134.3     4,773.5         24        10
8. Equpment d Vedices                                 6,046.1     11,200.5      17,246.7       657.2     1,217.4     1,874.6         65         4
C. Furniture                                          2,569.4      1,076.4       3,645.8       279.3       117.0       396.3         30          1
0. Textbook  nd Didactic Material
Textbooks                                             7,354.7     46,050.3      53,404.9       799.4     5,005.5     5,804.9         86         12
Didactic Materials                                   13,659.2     48,328.9      61,988.1     1,484.7     5,253.1     6,737.8         78        14
Subtotal  xtbooks and Diaci Matew                    21,013.9     94,379.2     115,393.0     2,284.1    10,258.6    12,542.7         82        25
E. Teachr TraIng
Courses                                               9,574.2        273.7       9,847.9     1,040.7        29.8     1,070.4          3         2
Training Mateials                                     6,831.6         34.5       6,866.1       742.6         3.8       746.3          1         2
SubtotalTeacher Tnahg                                16,405.7        308.2      16,714.0     1,783.2        33.5     1,816.7          2         4
F. Tedical Assatutc
Local Tedcncal Assistance                            31,358.6          0.0      31,358.6     3,408.5         0.0     3,408.5          0         7
ForaignTeclrcal Assistance                              648.8     11,776.0      12,424.8        70.5     1,280.0     1,350.5         95         3
Studies                                               2,462.7      2,619.2       5,081.9       267.7       284.7       552.4         52          1
Subtotal Tchnicld AssIstnce                          34,470.0     14,395.2      48,865.2     3,746.7     1,564.7     5,311.4         29        11
0. Mutagmnt Staff Devlopmet
Workshops w4d Snnws                                     914.3      2,076.4       2,990.7        99.4       225.7       325.1         69          1
Study Toura                                             305.8        858.5       1,164.3        33.2        93.3       126.6         74         0
Ssbtotal MengemantStaffDeopmnnt                       1.220.1      2,934.9       4,155.1       132.6       319.0       451.6         71          1
H. Printng of Mateiab                                   100.2        327.5         427.7        10.9        35.6        46.5         77         0
I. pubic Information Campgp                           1,430.7      1,521.7       2.952.4       155.5       165.4       320.9         52          1                  0
Totl lkwesnwntCosts                                 116,736.8    136,579.2     253,316.0    12,688.8    14,845.6    27,534.4         54        56                   1
N. Recuint Cost 
A. Didactic Materias for Students                    28,928.8     70,005.6      98,934.4     3,144.4     7,609.3    10,753.7         71        22                   H
B. Teachr Icentives                                  13,134.2                   13,134.2     1,427.6         0.0     1,427.6          0         3 
C. ncntives to Pr-chool Tutors                        4,722.8                    4,722.8       513.3         0.0       513.3          0         1                   0
D. Salaries                                                                                                                                                         c7
Teacher SSabries                                     13,104.2                   13,104.2     1,424.4         0.0     1,424.4          0         3                   U-
Supervisor Salaries                                  31,321.1                   31,321.1     3,404.5         0.0     3,404.5          0         7
Subtotal Salar"                                      44,425.4                   44,425.4     4,828.8         0.0     4,828.8          0        10
E. Travel Allowances and Per Diems                   12,989.6      1,531.8      14,521.4     1,411.9       166.5     1,578.4         11         3
F. Operation and Maintenance                          5,832.2      2,833.3       8,655.6       633.9       308.0       941.9         33         2
G. OtherOpertig Costs                                14,470.1        505.5      14,975.6     1,572,8        54.9     1,627.8          3         3
Total Recurrent Cosu                                124,503.1     74,876.2     199,379.3    13,532.9     8,138.7    21,671.7         38        44
Total BASELINECosts                                 241,239.8    211,455.4     452,695.3    26,221.7    22,984.3    49,206.0         47       100
Physical Conthigencis                                 6,241.5      4,442.2      10,683.7       678.4       482.9     1,161.2         42         2
PriceContes                                      13,757.2     10,929.7      24,686.9     1,497.9     1,188.0     2,685.9         44         5
_Total Projct Costs                                 261,238.5    226,827.4     488,065.9    28,398.0    24,655.1    53,053.1         46



TABLE 5
PROJECT COMPONENTS BY YEAR
(US$ 'OQO)
1995     1996       1997      1998      1999      Total
A. Improving Quality of Primary and Pre-school Education
1. Training of Teachers, Principals and Supervisors          596.7    475.3    436.6       419.0     386.9    2,314.4
2. Educational Material Resources
Textbooks and Didactic Materials                             666.5  10,060.8   6,348.0   3,325.6   2,815.2   23,216.1
Infrastructure Improvement                                  1,490.3   1,902.2   1,937.0    819.7     744.0    6,893.2
Subtotal Educational Material Resources                    2,156.8  11,963.0   8,285.0   4,145.3   3,559.2   30,109.3
3. Bilingual Education                                       374.3    313.5    381.8    298.7         189.7    1,558.1
4. External Evaluation                                       245.5    274.1      272.3    272.3    234.0    1,298.1
Subtotal Improving Quality of Primary and Pre-school Education  3,373.3  13,025.9   9,375.6   5,135.3   4,369.8   35,280.0
B. Institutional Strengthening
1. Reorganization of MOE and Decentralized Services        1,395.0   3,396.1   2,153.2   1,752.3   1,625.0   10,321.5
2. Teacher Incentives                                         21.5     120.9    280.5    441.8    604.7    1,469.3
3. Project Administration and M&E                            449.8    428.9    428.9    418.9    408.9    2,135.2
Subtotal Institutional Strengthening                       1,866.2   3,945.8   2,862.6   2,612.9   2,638.6   13,926.1
Total Baseline Costs                                       5,239.5  16,971.7  12,238.2   7,748.2   7,008.4   49,206.0
Physical Contingencies                                       231.4    489.7    425.9        11.5       2.8    1,161.3
Price Contingencies                                           60.1     580.7    708.7      614.6    721.8    2,685.9
Total Project Costs                                        5,531.1  18,041.8  13,373.0   8,374.3   7,733.0   53,053.1       -3
Taxes                                                        388.5   2,174.6   1,074.9     501.3    416.2    4,555.5        n
Foreign Exchange                                           1,984.2  10,138.6   6,557.2   3,260.8   2,714.3   24,655.1       C
C]A



ANNEX 13
- 96 - PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
TABLE 6
FINANCING PLAN i/
(US$ '000)
Local       Foreign      Total
overnment of Honduras                                 9,753.1         0.0     9,753.1
DA                                                    14,667.1    15,332.9    30,000.0
ovemment of Germany                                   3,977.8     9,322.2    13,300.0
otal                                                 28,398.0   24,655.1    53,053.1
I/ Totals may not add up due to rounding.
21 of which $4555.4 thousand correspond to local taxes
TABLE 7
DISBURSEMENT ACCOUNTS BY FINANCIER,i
(USS '000)
Government       IDA         KfW         Total
Amount       Amount    Amount    Amount
1 Civil Works                                                         0.0      5,774.9      5,774.9
. Equipment, vehicles and furniture                     582.7      1,827.5        0.0       2,410.2
. Textbook printing                                                            6,441.9      6,441.9
*Didactic Materials, and Local Distribution           2,231.6     4,524.3      1,083.2      7,839.1
.Teacher and Staff Training                               0.0      1,603.2                  1,603.2
. Technical Assistance, Studies, and Public Campaigns     0.0    5,890.1                    5,890.1
. Salaries, incentives, and operating costs           4,640.3     6,960.5                  11,600.8
Materials for studenta                                2,298.6    9,194.3                  11,492.9
total                                                  9,753.1   30,000.0    13,300.0       53,053.
i/ Totals may not add up due to rounding.



- 97 -                                  ANNEX  13
PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
TABLE 8
EXPENDITURE ACCOUNTS BY FINANCIERS 11
WUS$ 000)
Government    IDA        KfW       Total
Amount    Amount   Amount   Amount
1. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works                                1,133.8       0.0   4,641.1    5,774.9
B. Equipment and Vehicles                       455.1   1,528.7        0.0    1,983.8
C. Furniture                                    127.5     298.8        0.0      426.3
D. Textbooks and Didactic Material
Textbooks                                       302.5       0.0   6,047.7    6,350.2
Didactic Materials                              790.1   3,620.7   2,611.2    7,022.0
Subtotal Textbooks and Didactic Material      1,092.6   3,620.7   8,658.9   13,372.1
E. Teacher Training
Courses                                           0.0   1,130.6       0.0    1,130.6
Training Materials                                0.2     789.4        0.0      789.6
Subtotal Teacher Training                         0.2   1,920.0       0.0    1,920.2
F. Technical Assistance
Local Technical Assistance                        0.0   3,566.9        0.0    3,566.9
Foreign Technical Assistance                      0.0   1,402.6       0.0    1,402.6
Studies                                           0.0    581.2        0.0       581.2
Subtotal Technical Assistance                     0.0   5,550.8        0.0    5,550.8
G. Management Staff Development
Workshops and Seminars                            0.0    341.0         0.0      341.0
Study Tours                                       0.0    131.6        0.0       131.6
Subtotal Management Staff Development             0.0    472.6        0.0       472.6
H. Printing of Materials                          0.4      48.2       0.0        48.7
I. Public Information Campaigns                   0.0    339.4        0.0       339.4
Total Investment Costs                        2,809.6  13,779.2  13,300.0   29,888.8
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Didactic Materials for Students            2,298.6   9,194.3       0.0   11,492.9
B. Teacher Incentives                           616.6     924.9        0.0    1,541.5
C. Incentives to Pre-school Tutors              217.6     326.5        0.0      544.1
D. Salaries
Teacher salaries                                614.4     921.6        0.0    1,535.9
Supervisor salaries                           1,455.8   2,183.7       0.0    3,639.5
Subtotal salaries                             2,070.2   3,105.3        0.0    5,175.4
E. Travel Allowances and Per Diems              669.8   1,004.7        0.0    1,674.4
F. Operation and Maintenance                    406.9     610.3        0.0    1,017.2
G. Other Operating Costs                        663.9   1,054.9        0.0    1,718.8
Total Recurrent Costs                         6,943.5  16,220.8        0.0   23,164.3
1Total Disbursement                           9,753.1  30,000.0  13,300.0   53,053.1
1/ Totals may niot add up due to rounding.



TABLE 9
PROCUREMENT ACCOUNTS BY YEAR
(US$ '000)
1995      1996      1997      1998      1999      Total
1. Civil Works                               1,407.9   2,286.2   2,080.8       0.0       0.0    5,774.9
2. Equipment and Vehicles                      375.1   1,386.7    109.8    112.2         0.0    1,983.8
3. Furniture                                     6.2    238.8       97.9      83.4       0.0      426.3
4. Textbooks and Didactic Materials            727.0   8,908.1   6,299.2   3,360.2   3,356.9   22,651.6
5. Library Books                                 0.0   1,802.3    805.8    514.1         0.0    3,122.3
6. Technical Assistance, Studies and Training  2,438.7   1,326.6   1,305.7   1,281.2   1,141.2    7,493.4
7. Salaries, Incentives and Operating Costs    576.2   2,093.0   2,673.7   3,023.0   3,234.8   11,600.8        0
Total                                         5,531.1  18,041.8  13,373.0   8,374.3   7,733.0   53,053.1
0
cn
to
C) 



- 99 -                        ANNEX 14
PROJECT DISBURSEMENTS
TABLE 1
ESTIMATED CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ '000)
IDA FY       Amount       Cumulative      %         Balance of
Disbursed    Disbursements   of Total   Credit Amount
1996
Sep-30-1995            1.5 a/          1.5          5           28.5
Dec-31-1995             0.2            1.7          6           28.3
Mar-31-1996             0.8            2.5          8           27.5
Jun-30-1996              0.8           3.3         11           26.7
1997
Sep-30-1996              2.3           5.6         19           24.4
Dec-31-1996              2.3           7.8         26           22.2
Mar-31-1997              2.3          10.1         34           19.9
Jun-30-1997              2.3          12.4         41           17.6
1998
Sep-30-1997              1.5          13.8         46           16.2
Dec-31-1997              1.5          15.3         51           14.7
Mar-31-1998              1.5          16.7         56           13.3
Jun-30-1998              1.5          18.2         61           11.8
1999
Sep-30-1998              1.5          19.7         66           10.3
Dec-31-1998              1.5          21.2         71            8.8
Mar-31-1999              1.5          22.7         76            7.3
Jun-30-1999              1.5          24.2         81            5.8
2000
Sep-30-1999              1.4          25.6         85            4.4
Dec-31-1999              1.4          27.1         90            2.9
Mar-31-2000              1.3          28.5         95            1.5
Jun-30-2000              1.3          30.0        100            0.0
a/ Includes Special Account Deposit



- 100 -                         ANNEX 14
PROJECT DISBURSEMENTS
PROJECT DISBURSEMENTS
Table 2
Allocation of IDA Credit Proceeds
US$ '000      SDR '000
1. Goods including local distribution
but excluding non-durable didactic
materials                       5,700           3,880
2. Consultants' services, studies and
training                        6,700           4,560
3. Non-durable didactic materials,
including local distribution    9,200           6,250
4. Salaries, incentives, and operating
costs                           7,000           4,760
5. Unallocated                     1,400            950
Total         30,000          20,400



- 101 -                          ANNEX 15
TERMS OF REFERENCE
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR PROJECT REVIEWS
1.    Annual Project Review. The purpose of the annual review is to assess project
performance against specific objectives and targets, primarily through the analysis of two
documents: (a) the Project Implementation Report for the year under review; and (b) the
Project Implementation Plan for the next calendar year. Annual Project Reviews will take
place in July of each year.
2.   In preparation for the Annual Project Review, the PCU will prepare and present to
IDA, not later than April 30th of each year the following documents:
(c)         Project Implementation Report for the year under review, covering:
(i)         compliance by MOE, UPNFM and FILS with the Project Operations Manual;
(ii)        compliance with the covenants of the Development Credit Agreement;
(iii)       information pertaining to all Project Monitoring and Impact Evaluation
Indicators;
(iv)        status of procurement of goods and services;
(v)         status of implementation of each subcomponent of the Project; and,
(vi)        highlights of findings, lessons learned and problems pertaining to the technical,
institutional, administrative or financial implementation of the project.
(d)         Project Implementation Plan for the next calendar year, covering:
(i)         program of activities for each subcomponent of the Project;
(ii)        schedule of activities for each subcomponent of the Project;
(iii)       detailed teacher training plan;
(iv)        detailed plan for construction of additional classrooms, school maintenance,
and assignment of teachers to expanded primary schools; and,
(v)         detailed budget by source of funds and uses, for each quarter, specifying
counterpart funds requirements.
7.          Project Midterm Review. This review will be carried out not later than July
1997 and will have the participation of IDA. The focus of the Project Midterm Review is to
ascertain to what extent the project will achieve its development objectives. During such
review, special attention will be paid to the education sector policies related to the project
and the effectiveness of the institutional strengthening measures taken. The PCU will
prepare the same reports to the Project Midterm Review that it prepares for the Annual



- 102 -                          ANNEX 15
TERMS OF REFERENCE
Project Reviews. However, is special issues warrant more detailed analysis, the PCU will
carry out additional studies as needed.
8.          Modifications to Project Design and Implementation Plans. During the
Annual Project Reviews and the Project Midterm Review, there is opportunity for updating
project targets and discussing desirable changes in project design or implementation plans.
In this context, IDA may require that MOE prepare an action plan to make adjustments in
project implementation and present such plan for IDA review and approval within one month
following the completion of the Project Review. The MOE will incorporate the changes
agreed upon in the Project documents, including, the Project Operations Manual if
warranted.



1995         1         1996                    1997                    1998                   1999
ID    Task Name                                                                           02    03  4    02   0 Q3 I04   Q1   02   03   04   01   02   03   04   0-1  02   03   04
1    IMPROVE QUALITY OF BASIC EDUCATION
2        Training Teachers. Principals & Supervisors
3             Training of CCIES volunteers                                                                          _
4             Training Preprimary Teachers
5             Training Primary School Teachers
6             Training ot Schol Principals
7             Training of Supervisors
t        Textbooks and Didactic Materials
9             Design Texibooks
10            Design Classroom Libraries (CL)
11            Purchase and Distrib Teaching Materials
12        Bilingual Educatlon                                                                                                                                                                       O
13            Design Curriculum
14            Design Textbooks                            __
15           DDesign Training Plan                           __________                                                        _
1I6           Training of Teachers/Supervisors
17            Prod /Dislrib Teacher Manuals                            ,
1t            Prod /Distrib Student Guides
19        External Evaluation
20            Stalf Training                                                                                                                                                                    2
21            Design and Apply Survey
22            Prepare Application of Test                                                                                                                                                   t^
23            Testing ot Students                                   ______                                                                            _
Task                                     Summary                    _             Rolled Up Progress
Project                                Prog_es_RolledUp_Tas
Date: 12115/94                          Progress                                 Rolled Up Task
Mileslone                                Rolled Up Milestone /
Page I



1995                   1996                    1997                    1998                    1999
ID    TaskName                                             Ql   02   0i3   0           4    02   03   04   01   02   03   04   1         02   03       4   01    02   03   04
24             Report and Diffusion of Results
25        Infraestructure Improvements
26            School Census Design
27            Implementation of School Census
28            Classroom Expansion
29                 Review Classroom Expansion for 95
30                 Classroom Construction 95
31                 School Desk Production
32                 Review Classroom Expansion for 96
33                 Classroom Construction for 96
34                 School Desk Production
35                 Review Classroom Expansion for 97                                                                                                                                                       O
36                 Classroom Construction 97
37                 School Desk Production
38            Hiring of Teachers
39                 Selection Criteria
40                 Hiring of Teachers
41            Preventive School Maintenance
42                 Pilot Program
43                 Establish Maintenance Program
44   INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
45        MOE Reorganization and Decentralization
46            Reorganization Action Plan                        1fi; 
Task                  _         _        Summary             __                    Rolled Up Progress                                                                ;
Project                                 Progress                      Rolled          Up Task _.kZC
Milestone          *Roi ed Up Milestone
Page 2



1995                   1996                    1997                    1998                    1999
ID    TaskName                                             Q1   Q2   03   04   q1   02   Q3   04    1   02   03 I Q4 J1   0 Q2 I03 I Q4   Q1   0 Q2   03   04
47             Reorganization Implementation
48             Reorganization Evaluation
49             Employment & Salary Regime Reform
50             DecentralLzation of Functions              _
51            Dept Office Construction
52            Dept. Otrice Rehabilitation                                        __
53            Dept Office Equipment
54             District Otrice Equipment                   __ _
55             Appointment of Supervisors
56             Staff Training
57            MIS System Design
58            Intormation Dissemination     -
59        Pilot Teacher Incentives Program
60             Teacher Perlormance Assesment Criteria
61    Distribution of School Calendars                                 ___
62             Payment Teacher Incentives                  --
63        Monitoring and Evaluation
._ __           __       _ _      __      _                                                                                                                                              -
64             Evaluation Studies
65            Textbook Use
66            Textbook Use
67            Curriculum Reform
68            School Performance                           ___Q____
69             Community Participation
Task                                     Summary Rdled Up Progress
ProDect                                 Progress                                 Rolled Up Task
Milestone         *Rolled Up Milestone
Page 3



1995                    1961997                                           1998                     1999
ID    TaskName                                                01    0 2    03   04   01   02   Q3   Q4 I 01 I Q2 1 03    Q4   01   02   03   04                                3   04
70             Community Participation
71             Teacher Incentive Program
72             Impact on CADs                                 __
73             impact on CCIEs
74             Impact Bilingual Education                                                         _
75             Project Administration
76                  Establish PCU
77                  Project Launch Seminar                                  7117
78                 Annual Review                                                                     7115
79                  Mid Term Review                                                                                      *   7114
80                 Annual Review                                                                                                                       7120
81                 Annual Review                                                                                                                                                711S                               0
82                 Project Completion Report
C-
Task                                       Summary             _                      Rolled Up Progress
Dale                   1                 Progress                                   Rolled Up Task                                                                                                              CZ
Milestone                                  Rolled Up Milestone
Page 4



- 107 -                               ANNEX 17
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
ESTIMATED ECONOMIC RETURNS OF THE PROJECT3
A. Sources of Benefits
1.    The efficiency gains that will result from the implementation of the proposed Basic
Education Project include: (a) an increase in the future earning power of students who
received a basic education of higher quality; (b) a reduction in the fiscal cost of delivering
public education as the rate of repetition and dropout are reduced; and (c) a reduction in the
fiscal cost of delivering public education resulting from the decentralization of education
services and the reorganization of the MOE. The project will also generate distributional
gains as a result of its focus on improving the education of low income and rural students.
2.    The economic analysis presented here, provides estimates of only one type of
benefits, namely, improvement of the future earning power of students. The estimated
internal rates of return represent, therefore, a lower limit for the returns of the overall
project.
B. Benefits of Increased Earning Power
3.    The estimation of the increase in the future earning power of students exposed to the
project require two kinds of data: (d) the likely impact of the project on the academic
achievements of the students; and (e) the increase in earning power that results from higher
academic achievements. This kind of information does not exist yet for the proposed
Honduras Basic Education Project, since this is an ex-ante evaluation.
9.    To overcome the above limitation, two alternatives exist. First, specification of
conservative scenarios respecting the likely impact of the project on academic achievements;
and, second, projections of future earning increments by means of earning equations. In this
case, the future earning power of a student with an improved education is compared with the
future earning power of a student with that of one with the current education standards and
level of achievement. The income differential is an estimate of the benefits of the project.
10.   The definition of individuals with different levels of quality of education represents an
additional problem. Based on our empirical knowledge of Honduras, it was inferred that
students from low-income families receive, on average, a much lower quality education than
students from the middle and high income groups. It was decided then to estimate a different
earning function for each socio-economic group.
3.     The methodology used in this analysis by Prof. C. Benito of the Economics Department
of Sonoma State Univeristy (USA), is basically consistent with that used for an ex-ante
economic evaluation of a proposed Chile Secondary Education Project, currently under
consideration for World Bank financing. See, Salas, V., et al., "Evaluaci6n Economica
de la Educaci6n Media en Chile,' Universidad de Santiago de Chile, Departamento de
Economia, 1993.



- 108 -                             ANNEX 17
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
11.   Using 6,902 individual earners observations from the Honduras national household
survey for the year 1992,4 it was possible to estimate "Mincerian" earning functions for
three different socio-economic groups. The classification by socio-economic group depends
of the position of the individual within the deciles of the income distribution. A 62 percent
of the sample was integrated by workers within the lowest three deciles, or the lower 30
percent of income. Another 32 percent, was integrated by eamers within the intermediate
four deciles or 40 percent intemmediate income. The rest of the sample (6 percent)
comprised eamers from the top three deciles of the income distribution.
12.   The summary statistics for each socio-economic group is presented in Table 1. The
differences in monthly eamings are partially explained by differences in school achievements.
Another factor is the social position itself. Two students with the same level of schooling,
experience and gender, make different yearly incomes because of their socio-economic status.
For example, a worker with secondary education (12 years) and 10 years of experience,
makes on average L.4,187 per year if he belongs to the low-income group and L. 10,075 per
year if he belongs to the middle-income group. Since the socio-economic status has a large
influence on access to education, it can be asserted that such wage differential is largely, but
not exclusively, explained by education quality. If the individual belonged to a high-income
group, the eamings differential would be even larger because, in this case, other factors than
education quality are more relevant, like possession of productive assets and political power.
For the purpose of this evaluation it is assumed that the eamings differential between middle-
income and low-income workers is mainly due to access to different type of education.
TABLE 1
HONDURAS: SUIMMARY STATISTICS ON LABOR FORCE
INCOME, SCHOOLING, EXPERIENCE AND GENDER
1992
Socio-Economic Group
Variables
Low       Middle     High
Monthly Income (Lempiras)                     331       1007       4351
Schooling (years)                              4.3       6.9        6.8
On-the-job Experience (years)                  25         24         29
Males (%)                                      60         70         81
With Complete Basic Education (%)              29         24         14
With Complete Secondary Education (%)           6         28         21
With Complete Technical Education (%)           0          1
With Complete University Education (%)          0          6         38
ource: SECPLAN (1992) EPHP
Definitions:    Low income: 30% lower; Middle income: 40% intermediate; High income: 30% upper;
On-the-job experience: age minus schooling years, minus six.
4.    SECPLAN (1992) Encuesta Permanente de Hogares de Prop6sitos Muluiples (EPHPM).
Tegucigalpa, Honduras.



- 109 -                                 ANNEX 17
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
13.    The estimated earnings functions for each socio-economic group, based on these data,
are presented in Table 2. These functions were used to estimate the future flow of income of
a student from the low-income group and for the middle-income group, shown in Table 3.
Table 4 show the projected number of student beneficiaries of the project for the 1995-2005
period.
14.   The next step is to assess the likely impact of the project on the quality of education
of the beneficiaries. Taking a conservative position, it is assumed that only the benefits
pertaining to students from the low-income group are considered. Moreover, two
conservative scenarios about academic achievements are adopted: (a) the project will enable
students to increase their future earning power by 10 percent of the existing earning
differential; and (b) the project will only enable students to increase their future earning
power by only 5 percent of the existing earning differential.
TABLE 2
HONDURAS: REGRESSION RESULTS - DEPENDENT VARIABLE
MONTHLY INCOME, LEMPIRAS (IN)
1992
Socio-Economic Group
Variables
Low        Middle       High
Constant                                      4.9211       6.4086      7.8235
0.5976      0.3015      0.5158
Schooling (years)                             0.0664       0.0142      0.0087
0.0046      0.0033      0.0144
On-the-job Experience (years)                 0.0216       0.0164      0.0102
0.0020      0.0016      0.0095
On-the-job Experience'2                       -0.0003     -0.0002  -9.512E-05
2.9299E-05   2.6001E-05     0.0001
Sex (male = 1)                                0.2960       0.0965      0.1181
0.0189      0.0145      0.0687
Complete Basic Education (%)                  -0.0314     -0.0192     -0.0391
0.0242      0.0174      0.0907
Complete Secondary Education (%)              0.0361       0.0768      0.0505
0.0534      0.0287      0.1339
Complete Technical Education (%)                           0.1457     -0.0027
0.0717      0.2836
Complete University Education (%)                          0.3479      0.0064
0.0285      0.0732
R Squared                                     0.1356       0.1412      0.0216
No. of Observations                             4267         2246         389
Degrees of Freedom                              4260         2237         380
Source: Mission estimates, February 1995.



TABLE 3
HONDURAS: BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
PROJECTED FUTURE FLOWS OF INCOME FROM STUDENTS ATTENDING PRIMARY SCHOOL
_ Ful EFpIaeii Irnon  Year (Lempkm    Uno  In1 cm Nedof d md.
|  yeef  Age    Sd       %> &g  E4efiDlr;' LoW1l _w,        Ntdl tcu                    n owirne W Mddl kic. 
I        i        I        I n        a*c Ed. IS c d. Ed.  Basic Ed. I Seoond. Ed. 1      Group    Group
:1995 ''.;
.1996       5        0
:1997 .   6           1
.1998.~   7          2
1999        8        3
'2000        9        4
2001       10        5
2002       11        6
2003       12        7        1             2424              7907            98.00       ,40       28
2004       13        8        2             2475              8034            98.00'       41       28
2005       14        9        3             2525'  8159                       73.00       561      391
2006       15       10        4             2575              8283            73.00       572      396
2007       16       11        5             2624              8406            73-00'      583      402
2008       17       12        6        1    2672   i3868    8528    9477  73.00           779    2513
2009       18                 7        2    2720 W   3949    8648    9629  27.00'        2144    6902
2010       19                 8       3    2767    4029    8766    9n779  27.00          2183    7007
2011       20                 9       4    2813    4108    8882    9928  13.10'          2644    846B
2012       21                10       5    2858    4187    8997   10075  13.10           2688    8589
2013       22                11       6    2902    4264    9110   10220  13.10           2731    8710
2014       23                12       7    2945    4340    9220   10364  13.10..        2  4    8830
2015       24                13       8    2986    4415    9328   10506  13.10           2815    8948
2016       25                14       9    3027    4488    9434   10645   8.20'          3017    9575
2017       26               15       10    3066    4560    9538   10783   8.20          3058    9695
2018       27                16      11    3104    4630    9639   10918   8.20:         3098    9814            O
2019       28                17      12    3141    4699    9738   11050   8.20.         3137    9931 
2020       29                18      13    3176    4766    9833   11180   8.20          3174   10044
2021       30               19       14    3209    4830    9926   11307   6.00'         3287   10399
~2022      31                2ln     15    3241    4893   10016   11431   6.00          3322   10510
2023       32               21       16    3271    4953   10103   11553   6.00;         3355   10618
2024       33               22       17    3300    5012   10187   11671   6.00.         3387   10723
2025       34               23       18    3327    5068   10268   11785   6.00k         3417   10825
2026       35               24       19    3352    5121    10345   11897   5A.0.        3467   10994
2027       36               25       20    3375    5172   10419   12004   5.40'         3494   11090



TABLE 3 (CONTINUED)
HONDURAS: BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
PROJECTED FUTURE FLOWS OF INCOME FROM STUDENTS ATTENDING PRIMARY SCHOOL
IScolmg                    I  |Ful EnIoe Income per Yea (Lemp us)    Un(h1- Iromm Ne o
Year     Age    S dh.        E _nnos E _ena   I Low mide bicn  MiddlIncome brDuu  a Wol  jLaW n    Mkdie Inc.
liii    I Basic Ed.  Second. Ed. I Basic Ed. iSeoond.Ed. |      Gniup    Goup
2028       37                26       21     3396    5220    10489    12109   5.40         3519    11183
2029       38                27       22     3416     5266    10556    12209   5.40        3541    11273
2030       39                28       23     3433    5309    10620    12306   5.40         3562    11358
2031       40                29       24     3448     5348    10679   12398   5.40'        3581    11441
2032       41                30       25     3462     5385    10735    12487   5.40        3598    11519
2033       42                31       26     3473    5419    10787   12571   5.40          3612    11593
2034       43                32       27     3483     5450    10835    12652   5.40        3625    11664
2035       44                33       28     3490    5478    10880    12728   5.4C         3635    11730
2036       45                34       29     3495      5503    10920   12799   5.30        3647   11805
2037       46                35       30     3495    5524    10957    12868   5.3D         3653        11 K
2038       47                36       31     3499    5542    10989   12929   5.30          3657    11918
2039       48                37       32     3498    5557    11017    12986   5.30         3658    11967
2040       49                38       33     3495    5569    11041    13039   5.30'        3658    12013
2041       50                39       34     3490    5577    11061    13088   5.30         3655    12054
2042       51                40       35     3482    5582    11077    13131   5.30         3650    12090            -
2043       52                41       36     3473    5584    11088    13170   5.30         3643    12123
2044       53                42       37     3461      5582    11096    13204   5.30'      3634    12150
2045       54                43       38     3448    5577    11099    13233   5.30         3623    12173
2046       55                44       39     3432    5569    11098    13257   4.70         3632    12269
2047       56                45       40     3415     5557    11092    13275   4.70        3616    12283
2048       57                46       41     3396    5542    11083    13289   4.70         3599    12292
2049       58                47       42     3374     5524    11069    13298   4170        3579    12296           M
2050       59                48       43     3351     5502    11051    13302   4170        3557    12296           n
2051       60                49       44     3326    5477   11029    13300   4.70          3533    12292           0
2052       61                50       45     3299    5449    11003    13294   4.70'        3507    12282            4
2053       62                51       46     3270    5418    10973    13283   4.70'        3480    12268           0
2054       63                52       47     3240    5384    10938    13266   4.70'        3450    12249
2055       64                53       48     3208    5347    10900    13245   4.70         3419    12226
2056       65                54       49     3175      5307    10857    13213   8.80   3 24C  t1873
Soes:m Oem esfiwnaton    an esdmmted 'Micwi aaa*V funcbonI



- 112-                                    ANNEX 17
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
TABLE 4
HONDURAS - BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
ESTIMATED NUMBER OF STUDENT BENEFICIARIES
1995-2005
Total Projected       Low-Income        Enrollment of Low-
Year            Enrolment with        Population (%)      Income Students
Project       _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _
1995            1,065,844                 0.62              660,823
1996            1,080,258                 0.62              669,760
1997            1,089,915                 0.62              675,747
1998            1,091,109                 0.62              676,488
1999            1,086,001                 0.62              673,321
2000            1,078,804                  0.62             668,858
2001            1,071.733                 0.62              664,474
2002             1,064,476                 0.62             659,975
2003             1,057,444                 0.62             655,615
2004             1,051,139                 0.62             651,706
2005             1,045,376                 0.62             648,133
source: Mission estimates.



-113 -                                   ANNEX 17
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
C. Project Costs
15.    The proposed Basic Education Project has two major components: (a) improving the
quality of basic education; and (b) institutional strengthening of the MOE. For the purposes
of this evaluation, two cost scenarios were considered. In the first scenario, the project
achieves its academic goals with the education quality component net of bilingual education
(Table 5). In the second scenario, the project improves basic education quality with the
interaction of its two major components (Table 6).
TABLE 5
HONDURAS: BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
TOTAL PROJECT COST
(US$ '000)
Project Cost
Enrollment      Enroll-     Cost
ment       per
Year  Investment   Recurrent   Total    without     with    of Poor   Student
project    project   Students
1995       4,938         593    5,531   1201310   1065844   660823   8.370014
1996       13,369      4,673   18,042   1241234   1080258   669760   26.93771
1997       7,769       5,604   13,373   1269798   1089915   675747   19.78994
1998       2,357       6,018    8,374   1286282   1091109   676488   12.37909
1999        1,457      6,277    7,733   1294607   1086001   673321   11.48487
2000                   6,277    6,277   1298147   1078804   668858   9.383898
2001                   6,277    6,277   1298134   1071733   664474   9.445811
2002                   6,277    6,277   1297256   1064476   659975   9.510207



TABLE 6
HONDURAS: BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
PROJECT COST FOR QUALITY OF EDUCATION COMPONENT NET OF BILINGUAL EDUCATION
(US$ '000)
I                      _~~me,i       .        |1 . Ca                                           Tdas  | Eu'&t, L|   Soca  ISo    Cscaper
Y-e-w    Tdrawv  Educim ltiIradn    E4.YWl Subtcal    Tr&ft    EOXAN  Elww  bE,S                      N*z      "I1 Pn    Emmrk  Eocom    Swd
d Teae     u MagerMs    bin,    Eu~            d Teadrs  M             I   E                    Cd       Toa      %S    Studei(es
1996      580      534      1569      188     2861        24      165      316        62      568     3429  1065844      0.62 660.823       5 19
Me95      466     7756      1962      100    10284        24     2778      304       183     3289   13573  10o0258       0.62 669,760      20.27
1997      436     2749      1726      100     5011        25     3094      579       187     3886    8897  1089"5        0.62 675.747      13.17
1996      476      514       104      103     1197        26     3075      765       190     4056    5252 1091O109       0.62 676,488       7.76
1999      400                 21       82      503        26     3105      800       176     4107    4610  1086800       0.62 673,32        6.85
2000                                                                                         4107    4107  1078804       0.62 668,858       6.14
2D01                                                                                         4107    4107  1071733       0.62 664,474      6a18
2DU2                                                                                         4107    4107  1064476       0.62 659.975       6.22
t
00



ANNEX 17
- 115 -              ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
TABLE 7
HONDURAS: BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
PROJECTED FLOWS OF COSTS AND BENEFITS PER STUDENT
I     ~~Incorne Net of Urtempli.   ncome Diff!rrntlal    ICoss & 
I~~                   Ihel
Year  LoW Income Mliddle Inc. Linpiras    US    BofePl
I   I Group   lqrouDP
1 995                                       -5.19
1996                                       -20.27
1997                                       -13.17
1998                                        -7.76
1999                                        -5.85
2000                                        -6.14
2001                                        -6.18
2002                                        -6.22
2003       40      28      -12       (2)      (0)
2004       41       28      -12      (2)       (0)
2005     561      391      -170     (30)      (3)
2006      572     396    -175       (31)      (3)
2007     583      402    -180       (32)      (3)
2008      779    2513     1735      310       31
2009    2144    6902    4751        850       85
2010    2183    7007    4824        862       86
2011    2644    8466    5822   1,040         104
2012    2688    8589    5901    1,054        105
2013    2731     8710    5979   1,068        107
2014    2774    8830    6056   1,081         108
2015    2815     8948    6133   1,095        110
2016    3017    9575    6559   1.171         117
2017    3058    9696    6638   1,185         119
2018    3098    9814    6716   1,199         120
2019    3137    9931      6794   1,213       121
2020    3174   10044    6870   1,227         123
2021    3287   10399      7112   1,270       127
2022    3322   10510    7188   1,284         128
2023    3355   10618    7262   1,297         130
2024    3387   10723    7336   1,310         131
2025    3417   10825    7408   1,323         132
2026    3467   10994      7526   1,344       134
2027    3494    11090    7596   1,356        138
2028    3519   11183    7664   1,369         137
2029    3541    11273    7731    1,381       138
2030    3562   11358      7796   1,392       139
2031     3581    11441    7860   1.404       140
2032    3598    11519    7921    1,415       141
2033    3612   11593    7981    1,425        143
2034    3625    11664    8039   1,436        144
2035    3635   11730    8095   1,446         145
2036    3647   11805    8158   1,457         146
2037    3653   11864    8211    1,466        147
2038    3657   11918    8261    1,475        148
2039    3658   11967    8309   1.484         148
2040    3658   12013    8355   1,492         149
2041    3655   12054      8399   1.500       150



-116 -                               ANNEX 17
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
TABLE 7 (CONTIUED)
HONDURAS: BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
PROJECTED FLOWS OF COSTS AND BENEFITS PER STUDENT
Income Net or Unem    Income DIfferentlal  Cosum &
Year   Low Income MIdbde Inc.  Lempiras  US   Beneft
I  Group    Group              Dooars  of the PnX.
2042     3650    12090      8440    1,507       151
2043     3643    12123      8479    1,514       151
2044     3634    12150      8516    1,521       152
2045     3623    12173      8550    1,527       153
2048     3632    12269      8637    1,542       154
2047     3616    12283      8666    1,548       155
2048     3599    12292      8693    1,552       155
2049     3579    12296      8718    1,557       158
2050     3557    12296      8740    1,561       15I
2051     3533    12292      8759    1,564       156
2052     3507    12282      8775    1.567       157
2053     3480    12268      8789    1,569       157
2054     3450    12249      8799    1,571       157
2055     3419    12226      8807    1,573       157
2056     3240    11673      8433    1,506       151



-117-                               ANNEX 17
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
D. The Estimated Internal Rate of Return of the Project
16.   The future flow of costs and benefits for a typical beneficiary of the project is shown
in Table 7. Based on the scenarios for benefits and costs described in the preceding sections,
Table 8 presents the estimated internal rates of return for the proposed project. As it can be
seen, even using conservative assumptions, rate of return of the project is significantly above
the marginal efficiency of capital in Honduras. Also noteworthy is the fact that these are
real rates of return, net of the expected rate of inflation. Thus, the rate of return for the
project varies between 14 and 21 percent, depending on how conservative or optimistic are
the assumptions used.
TABLE 8
HONDURAS: BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
ESTIMATED INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN
Considering Costs of:
Improvement of Income Earning Power   Quality of Education
Component        Total Project Cost
With 10% of Income Differential            20.78%              18.13%
With 5% of Income Differential              16.18%             13.82%
Source: Mission estimates.
17.   The above estimates represent the lower limits for the internal rate of return (IRR) of
the proposed project. They do not include the returns due to savings in fiscal costs from
improved educational efficiency or from improved administrative efficiency.
18.   Following completion of the project, these IRR estimates will be repeated as part of
the project impact analysis.



-118-                            ANNEX 18
LIST OF PROJECT
DOCUMENTS
LIST OF DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILES
A. Studies and Reports on the Project
Ayuda Memoria, 1994, Misi6n Conjunta de la KfW, GTZ y Banco Mundial de Preparaci6n
del Proyecto de Mejoramiento de la Calidad de la Educaci6n.
Proyecto de Eficiencia de la Educaci6n Primaria USAID-MEP, 1994, Resumen Ejecutivo del
Componente de Informatica.
SEP, 1994, Consideraciones para la Segunda Fase del Sistema de Informaci6n del Nivel
B3sico.
Proyecto: Educaci6n Basica en Honduras: Componente: Plan de Capacitaci6n de los
Recursos Humanos de la Secretaria de Educaci6n Publica, 1994.
Proyecto: Educaci6n Basica en Honduras: Componente: Estructuraci6n de la Unidad
Coordinadora del Proyecto, 1994.
Josemar Rodrigues, 1993, Programa de Modernizaci6n de la Educaci6n: Estudio para la
Elaboraci6n del Plan de Reorganizaci6n de la SEP.
Josemar Rodrigues, 1993, Programa de Modernizaci6n de la Educaci6n: Fortalecimiento de
los Servicios Descentralizados de la SEP.
Proyecto de Mejoramiento de la Calidad de la Educacion en Honduras: Terminos de
Referencia para Complementaci6n de los Estudios de Elaboraci6n del Proyecto, 1994.
Comisi6n Presidencial de Modernizaci6n del Estado/UNESCO, Honduras, 1993, rpuesta
de Operacionalizaci6n del Programa de Modernizaci6n de la Educaci6n en Honduras.
SEP, 1994, Reformulaci6n del Proyecto Mejoramiento de la Educaci6n (1995-
1998),Honduras.
Sarmiento Alfredo, Honduras, 1993, Analisis del Impacto Financiero del Proyecto de
Educaci6n Basica.
Educational Development Center, 1994, Design of Teacher Training Activities for the
Honduras Basic Education Project, Report Prepared for the World Bank.



- 119-                            ANNEX 18
LIST OF PROJECT
DOCUMENTS
B. General Studies and Reports
UNESCO, Chile, 1992, Situaci6n Educativa de Am6rica Latina y el Caribe. 1980-1989.
UNESCO/UNICEF, Chili, 1993, L'education Prescolaire et Primaire en Amerique Latine et
dans les Caraibes.
UNICEF/SEP, Tegucigalpa, 1993, La experiencia de los Centros Comunitarios para la
Iniciaci6n Escolar (CCIE): Viabilidad Econ6mica y Evaluaci6n Preliminar de los Resultados
Alcanzados en dos anios de Implementaci6n.
UNICEF/PNUD/DGEC (UNIS), Tegucigalpa, 1993, El Gasto Social en Honduras y su
Prioridad Hacia el Desarrollo Humano.
UNICEF/PNUD/SECPLAN-DGEC (UNIS), Honduras, 1994, Desarrollo Humano. Infancia
y Juventud.
SECPLAN/OIT/FNUAP, Rub6n Hermnndez Cruz, 1992, Honduras: Proyecciones de
Poblaci6n por Sexo y Edad 1988-2050 Metodologia y Resultados.
Estudio sobre Repitencia y Deserci6n en Honduras: Asistir y Aprender o Repetir y Desertar,
Mimeographed Report, Cambridge, MA: June, 1991.
World Bank. "Honduras - Country Economic Memorandum/Poverty Assessment". Report
No.13317, 1994.
Secretarfa de Educaci6n Publica, Republica de Honduras. Informne de la Aplicaci6n de
Pruebas, Proyecto Eficiencia de la Educaci6n Primaria, Tegucigalpa, 1992.
MOE-FHIS-Honduran Municipal Association (AMHON). "Estudio de Casos Sobre la
Participaci6n de las Municipalidades en el Mantenimiento Preventivo de la Infraestructura
Escolar", 1993.
C. Other Documents
UNIS/DGEC/SECPLAN/UNICEF/PNUD, La Educaci6n en Honduras: Perspectivas para el
anio 2000. Tegucigalpa, 1994.
Mexico - Primary Education Project (Programa para Abatir el Rezago Educativo - PARE),
Ln. 3407-ME, 1991.






1   ;                         88   0     25    50    75   100 Kilo,,ete,s            86                                                     84'
. I ~I I I I
75       100M Ies                                                          HONDURAS
BELIZE                                                                                                                BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
I                                                                                                                               ETHNIC LANGUAGE GROUPS
I                                                               ROATAN,# 'E0*"
16    I                                                                                                                                                                               16'-
GUATEMALA                   - -
SAN PEDRO
-.     SULA 0
YORO G                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PUERTO
/   SANTA           ]          YORO@                                                                                            LEMPIRA
BARBARAG                                                                                                                                         *
SAP4TA ROSA
).        3 dE COPAN
JUTICALPA
-. A          ®~GRAC14
NUEVA                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~NICARAGUA
®OCOTEPEQUE         7jfCOMAYAGUA
AA
'14                                      A 7                *TEGUCIGALPA                    7 . 
I   -'              ~~~~~~~FRANC                                                       EHIGRUS              ESTIMATED PRIMARY
EL SALVADOR   -                                    V  FRAZ        YUSCARAN            /                              ETHNICGROUPS        SCHOOL POPULATION
j*-~**%-. _    '    '      '               |     |LENCA                  5,444
88     i                                                                                 TOLUPAN             2,571
I      ".      ®NACAOME                                                                 GARIFUNA            13,282
-IR   I-8-T-'2    78                    ,      -                                                              MISKITO            13,059
___                      ~~~~~~~~~8 ®CHOLUTECA.
MEXICTI-,  i8EUZE                                                                  RIVERS                                      PECH                 1,507
GUATFMALA,                                                       * ' E ,,:,9 A ,, _  v <  3   DEPARTMENT  CAPITALS           TAWAHKA               268
14    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ a--                                           -~ ~CHORTi                                                             1,068
_14I(ARAUUA                           {                               ._     14NATIONAL CAPITAL                  SLO
SALVAEDOR N,-GA                                                                                                          SE`C                6,006O             The b-o,-norc.1-or
DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES                                                               deaom,ntoe.n ond o,y oIher
31                      tOSTA RICA PANl                                         '     INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                    TOTAL = 43205           Td, Wo,I B- G-p -o
a,                          \                                                                                                                                               8gmenP a, Iho dqoI spols  of  K)
8,r   RK  8.     CO;L?AtBIS                                                  86                                                      84               encJo,semensn   or occepl8nce of  N
COLOMBIA                                                                                                                             -ho,ans
a..  I   I   I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~k7






j                            88v                                                 86°                                                  840
j                                                                                                                                      HONDURAS
I  BELIZE                                                                                                       BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
PRIMARY EDUCATION SYSTEM SIZE
!                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~43 
-16'   I                                                                                                                                                                       16°-
6.                                             57,909
1,748
151,546             1i292                             3,260
,O'  574                              256  1                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10,4541
./                                                                                                     L      i356
GUATEMALA,1                                                                                                                       106
< 40,277                                                                        LZ|.                                                              j.r'-w-
1,140                     '                                                                                                                   e
'8     406  *1869                                                                                                                  o\) ,    ~./
6             4         54915         170633                                                   ,
4: ,l1              _60                    531 , 766      3S8NICARAGUA
1 89~~~85*                                      5
TEGUCIGALPA
29                                                                    51843    .    _                   /1 A'
-  18  !,.,516 1 ,    4     9    6          J              N,            -             t' TOTALS (FOR THE COUNTRY)
EL SALVADOR                             '                          . _  ^s    j             o                        LENROLLMENT - NUMBER OF
EL SALVADOR    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*                                         4~~~   PRIMARY STUDENTS
To Son Salvador  88N 6   NUMBER OF TEACHERS
I    .| 32,943                                                                      NUMBER OF PRIMARY SCHOOLS
-18 ,--1-\t 7aD v_ 1 0258                     .67,973 ,
MEXICI-S  jBEUZE                             2I8           1,686   .
GdATEMi.A'                                              556   *                                              *    NATIONAL CAPITAL
GUATE ,....' HONDUIqS             -14.                                                                             DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES                         Th.e ooudonb.   co-,,
ELVADO                                                 0    25   50   75   1 00 Kilometers                     INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                            = p d. ..o
I           I 0                                                                                       on th,o rop do not
o                                                               I                                                                                                     Z The W Brld ook G>up   -
n _I0                 COSTA RICA PANAMA                         0        25        50        75       1M00 Miles                                                      ord og n -tihelego  W
o0                                                                                                                                                                                    _
~0                                                                                                                                                                           -.
o0' 16      02-      COLOMBIA                                                 b6o81doono



