Page  1
                                                              CONFORMED COPY
                                                       CREDIT NUMBER 2694-HO
                           Development Credit Agreement
                             (Basic Education Project)
                                      between
                               REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
                                        and
                       INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                Dated June 21, 1995
                                                       CREDIT NUMBER 2694-HO
                           DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
       AGREEMENT, dated June 21, 1995, between REPUBLIC OF
HONDURAS (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
       WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to
the feasibility and priority of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project;
       (B) the Borrower intends to contract from Kreditanstalt
fur Wiederaufbau (KfW), the German Credit Institute for
Reconstruction, a loan (the KfW Loan) in an amount equivalent
to $13,300,000 to assist in financing the Project on the terms
and conditions set forth in an agreement (the KfW Loan
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and KfW; and
       WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower
upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
       NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
Page  2
                                     ARTICLE I
                          General Conditions; Definitions
       Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement.
       Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
       (a)    "CCIEs" means Centros Comunitarios para la
Iniciacion Escolar, the Borrower's Community Centers for Initial
Education, established under the Borrower's program for the
induction of candidates to become students in the first grade
of the public primary schools;
       (b)    "Departments" means the political subdivisions
established within the Borrower's territory pursuant to article
294 of the Borrower's constitution;
       (c)    "Departmental Directorates of Education" means
the offices that will represent MOE in the 18 Departments;
       (d)    "FHIS" means Fondo Hondureno de Inversion Social,
the Borrower's Social Investment Fund established as a public
entity with juridical personality pursuant to Decree No 12-90,
whose duration was extended until March 2, 2002, by Decree No.
153-94 of December 24, 1994;
       (e)    "FHIS Agreement" means the agreement referred to
in Section 3.02 of this Agreement;
       (f)    "Modular Textbooks" means textbooks that are
published in several different booklets containing the
different units or chapters that are part of such textbooks,
and that are to be used for autodidactic purposes;
       (g)    "MOE" means Secretaria de Estado en el Despacho
de Educacion Publica, the Borrower's Ministry of Education;
       (h)    "PCU" means the Project coordination unit
referred to in Section 3.08 of this Agreement;
       (i)    "Project Monitoring and Impact Evaluation
Indicators" means the indicators, satisfactory to the Association,
referred to in Section 6.01 (a) (iii) of this Agreement that
provide the criteria to monitor Project implementation and to
evaluate the impact of the same in the Borrower's education system;
       (j)    "Project Implementation Plans" means the annual
plans, satisfactory to the Association, for the carrying out of
the Project activities during each of the calendar years until
the completion of the Project, such plans to include, inter
alia:
              (i)    the provision of counterpart funds; and
              (ii)   the carrying out of Parts A.1 (b) and A.5 (a)
                     of the Project;
       (k)    "Project Operational Manual" means the manual,
satisfactory to the Association,  referred to in Section 6.01
(a) (ii)  of this Agreement, which covers all the operational
aspects of the execution of the Project, including, inter alia,
model bidding documents, letters of invitation, accounting and
Page  3
auditing procedures, Project monitoring procedures, and
functions and responsibilities of PCU and PCU staff;
       (l)    "Special Account" means the account referred to
in Section 2.02 (b) (i) of this Agreement;
       (m)    "Teachers' Performance Improvement Program" means
the program, satisfactory to the Association, for the carrying out
of Part B.2 of the Project;
       (n)    "UMCE" means the unit  referred to in Section
3.08 of this Agreement;
       (o)    "University" means the Universidad Pedagogica
Nacional Francisco Morazan, the Borrower's university for
higher pedagogic education; and
       (p)    "University Agreement" means the agreement
referred to in Section 3.08 (b) of this Agreement.
                                    ARTICLE II
                                    The Credit
       Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to twenty million four hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 20,400,000).
       Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be
withdrawn from the Credit Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures
made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
       (b)    The Borrower, for the purposes of the Project,
may open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in the
Borrower's Central Bank (Banco Central de Honduras) on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into,
and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
       Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31,
2000, or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
       Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the
Association a commitment charge on the principal amount of the
Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by
the Association as of the June 30 of each year, but not to
exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per
annum.
       (b)    The commitment charge shall accrue:
              (i)    from the date sixty days after the date of
                     this Agreement (the accrual date) to the
                     respective dates on which amounts shall be
                     withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit
                     Account or cancelled; and
              (ii)   at the rate set as of June 30 immediately
                     preceding the accrual date or at such other
                     rates as may be set from time to time
                     thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.
                     The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall
                     be applied from the next payment date in that
Page  4
                     year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
       (c)    The commitment charge shall be paid:
              (i)    at such places as the Association shall
                     reasonably request;
              (ii)   without restrictions of any kind imposed by,
                     or in the territory of, the Borrower; and
              (iii)  in the currency specified in this
                     Agreement for the purposes of Section
                     4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
                     other eligible currency or currencies as
                     may from time to time be designated or
                     selected pursuant to the provisions of
                     that Section.
       Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
       Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each
year.
       Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c)
below, the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each March 15 and September
15 commencing September 15, 2005 and ending March 15, 2035.
Each installment to and including the installment payable on
March 15, 2015 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent
(2%) of such principal amount.
       (b)    Whenever:
              (i)    the Borrower's gross national product per
                     capita, as determined by the Association,
                     shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985
                     dollars for five consecutive years; and
              (ii)   the Bank shall consider the Borrower
                     creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association
                     may, subsequent to the review and approval
                     thereof by the Executive Directors of the
                     Association and after due consideration by
                     them of the development of the Borrower's
                     economy, modify the terms of repayment of
                     installments under paragraph (a) above by
                     requiring the Borrower to repay twice the
                     amount of each such installment not yet due
                     until the principal amount of the Credit shall
                     have been repaid. If so requested by the
                     Borrower, the Association may revise such
                     modification to include, in lieu of some or
                     all of the increase in the amounts of such
                     installments, the payment of interest at an
                     annual rate agreed with the Association on the
                     principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
                     outstanding from time to time, provided that,
                     in the judgment of the Association, such
                     revision shall not change the grant element
                     obtained under the above-mentioned repayment
                     modification.
       (c)    If, at any time after a modification of terms
pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines
that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated
significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the
Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to conform to
Page  5
the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a)
above.
       Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
                                    ARTICLE III
                             Execution of the Project
       Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end: (a) shall carry Parts A.1, A.2,
A.3, A.4, A.5 (b), (c) and (d), B.1 (a), (b) and (d), B.2 and
B.3 of the Project; and (b) shall cause FHIS to carry out Parts
A.5 (a) and B.1 (c) of the Project, all with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate economic,
financial, administrative, environmental, educational and
pedagogical practices and the provisions of the Project
Operational Manual and the Project Implementation Plans, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.
       Section 3.02. (a) For the purposes of Section 3.01 (b) (i)
above, the Borrower shall enter into an agreement with FHIS,
satisfactory to the Association, providing, inter alia, for:
              (i)    the provision to FHIS of the funds,
                     facilities, services and other resources
                     required to enable FHIS to carry out Parts A.5
                     (a) and B.1 (c) of the Project; and
              (ii)   the obligation of FHIS to carry out such Parts
                     of the Project in accordance with the terms
                     and conditions set forth in this Agreement,
                     including the obligation: (A) to  maintain
                     records and accounts pursuant to the
                     provisions of Section 4.01 of this Agreement
                     and (B) to carry out the obligations set forth
                     in Sections 9.03. 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07 of
                     the General Conditions (relating to insurance,
                     use of goods and services, plans and schedules,
                     records and reports and maintenance, respectively)
                     in respect of Parts A.5 (a) and B.1 (c) of the
                     Project.
       (b)    The Borrower shall exercise its rights and comply
with its obligations under the FHIS Agreement in such manner as
to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association,
and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not
amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce the FHIS Agreement or
any provision thereof.
       Section 3.03.  Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule
3 to this Agreement.
       Section 3.04. Without limitation to the provisions of
Section 9.06 (a) (iii) of the General Conditions, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association, not later than April 30 of
each year during the execution of the Project, beginning in
1996, a report of such scope and detail as the Association may
reasonably request on the implementation of the Project during
the previous calendar year, such report to include, inter alia,
information on compliance by the Borrower and FHIS with the:
              (i)    Project Operational Manual;
Page  6
              (ii)   Project Implementation Plan for the year under
                     review; and
              (iii)  Project Monitoring and Impact Evaluation
                     Indicators.
       Section 3.05. Without limitation to the provisions of
Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association:
       (a)    not later than six months after the Effective Date,
the results of the census presently being carried out by the
Borrower on the number, physical condition, teaching staff and
educational materials available in the Borrowerþs pre-primary,
primary and secondary schools and adult education facilities;
and
       (b)    not later than July 31, 1996, evidence that MOE has
established a system, satisfactory to the Association, for
MOEþs employment and salary administration.
       Section 3.06. (a) Without limitation to the provisions of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
              (i)    undertake annual reviews of Project
                     implementation with the Association, not later
                     than July 31 of each year during Project
                     implementation, beginning in 1996. Such
                     reviews shall focus, inter alia, on: (A) the
                     report referred to in Section 3.04 of this
                     Agreement; and (B) the proposed Project
                     Implementation Plan for the following calendar
                     year; and
              (ii)   undertake, as part of the 1997 annual review,
                     a Project implementation mid-term review with
                     the Association. During such mid-term review,
                     attention shall particularly focus upon the
                     policies and institutional strengthening of
                     the Borrower's education sector.
       (b)    As part of each such review, the Association may
require that the Borrower prepare an action plan, satisfactory
to the Association, to make adjustments in Project
implementation. The Borrower shall furnish such action plan to
the Association no later than one month after the conclusion of
the review in question and shall thereafter carry out such
action plan in accordance with its terms.
       Section 3.07. The Borrower shall:
       (a)    maintain and operate until the completion of the
Project a unit, within MOE, with functions and responsibilities
satisfactory to the Association, including, inter alia:
              (i)    administration, monitoring, evaluation and
                     coordination of the execution of the Project;
              (ii)   preparation of the reports referred to in
                     Section 3.04 of this Agreement;
              (iii)  processing of documentation required for
                     disbursement of Credit proceeds;
              (iv)   carrying out of procurement activities under
                     Parts A.1, A.2, A.3, A.4, A.5 (b), (c) and
                     (d), B.1 (a), (b) and (d), B.2 and B.3 of the
                     Project; and
              (v)    maintenance of the records and separate
                     accounts referred to in Section 4.01 (a) (i)
Page  7
                     of this Agreement; and
       (b)    ensure that PCU is at all times staffed with full-
time professionals with qualifications satisfactory to the
Association, assisted by clerical staff in adequate numbers.
       Section 3.08. (a) For the purposes of Part A.4 of the
Project, the Borrower shall cause the University to maintain
and operate until the completion of the Project a unit with
functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Association.
       (b)    For the purposes of (a) above, the Borrower shall
enter into an agreement, satisfactory to the Association, with
the University providing, inter alia, for the provision of
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
appropriate to enable the University to maintain and operate
UMCE.
       (c)    The Borrower shall exercise its rights and comply
with its obligations under the University Agreement in such
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association, and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce the
University Agreement or any provision thereof.
       Section 3.09.  Without limitation upon the provisions of
Article IX of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
       (a)    prepare and furnish to the Association not later than
six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the
Association, a plan, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, for the future operation
of the Project;
       (b)    afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to
exchange views with the Borrower on said plan; and
       (c)    thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence
and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices,
taking into account the Association's comments thereon.
                                    ARTICLE IV
                                Financial Covenants
       Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect
in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures of:
              (i)    the departments or agencies of the Borrower
                     responsible for carrying out Parts A.1, A.2,
                     A.3, A.4, A.5 (b), (c) and (d), B.1 (a), (b)
                     and (d), B.2 and B.3 of the Project, with
                     respect to such Parts of the Project; and
              (ii)   FHIS with respect to Parts A.5 (a) and B.1 (c)
                     of the Project.
       (b)    The Borrower shall:
              (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                     paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                     for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                     audited, in accordance with appropriate
                     auditing principles consistently applied, by
                     independent auditors acceptable to the
Page  8
                     Association;
              (ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as
                     available, but in any case not later than six
                     months after the end of each such year, a
                     certified copy of the report of such audit by
                     said auditors, of such scope and in such
                     detail as the Association shall have
                     reasonably requested; and
              (iii)  furnish to the Association such other
                     information concerning said records,
                     accounts and the audit thereof as the
                     Association shall from time to time
                     reasonably request.
       (c)    For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
              (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                     accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                     records and accounts reflecting such
                     expenditures;
              (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the
                     Association has received the audit report for
                     the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
                     from the Credit Account or payment out of the
                     Special Account was made, all records
                     (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
                     and other documents) evidencing such
                     expenditures;
              (iii)  enable the Association's representatives
                     to examine such records; and
              (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                     included in the annual audit referred to in
                     paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                     report of such audit contains a separate
                     opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                     statements of expenditure submitted during
                     such fiscal year, together with the procedures
                     and internal controls involved in their
                     preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                     related withdrawals.
                                     ARTICLE V
                            Remedies of the Association
       Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
       (a)    The KfW Loan Agreement shall have failed to become
effective by March 31, 1996, or such later date as the
Association may agree; provided, however, that the provisions
of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes
to the satisfaction of the Association that adequate funds for
the Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on
terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement;
       (b)    (i)    Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this
                     paragraph:
                     (A)  The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                     proceeds of the KfW Loan shall have been
                     suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or
                     in part, pursuant to the terms of the KfW Loan
Page  9
                     Agreement; or
                     (B)  the KfW Loan shall have become due and
                     payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
              (ii)   Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                     apply if the Borrower establishes to the
                     satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such
                     suspension, cancellation, termination or
                     prematuring is not caused by the failure of
                     the Borrower to perform any of its obligations
                     under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds
                     for the Project are available to the Borrower
                     from other sources on terms and conditions
                     consistent with the obligations of the
                     Borrower under this Agreement;
       (c)    FHIS or the University shall have failed to perform,
in a manner satisfactory to the Association, any of their
respective obligations under the FHIS Agreement or the
University Agreement; and
       (d)    the Borrower or any other authority having
jurisdiction shall have taken any action for the dissolution or
disestablishment of FHIS or the University.
       Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
       (a)    any event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of ninety days after notice thereof shall have been given by
the Association to the Borrower; and
       (b)    the event specified in paragraph  (b) (i) (B) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the
proviso in subparagraph (ii) of such paragraph (b).
                                    ARTICLE VI
                            Effective Date; Termination
       Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
       (a)    that the FHIS Agreement and the University Agreement
have been entered into by the parties thereto;
       (b)    that the Borrower has adopted:
              (i)    the Project Operational Manual;
              (ii)   the Project Implementation Plan for the first
                     year of the Project; and
              (iii)  a program, satisfactory to the Association, for
                     the carrying out of Part B.1 (b) of the Project;
                     and
       (c)    that PCU and UMCE have been established.
       Section 6.02. The date September 19, 1995 is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
                                    ARTICLE VII
                     Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Page  10
       Section 7.01. The Secretario de Estado en el Despacho de
Hacienda y Credito Publico of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
       Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
       For the Borrower:
              Secretaria de Estado en el Despacho de
              Hacienda y Credito Publico
              Tegucigalpa, M.D.C.
              Honduras
              Cable address:                     Telex:
                     HACIENDA                    1308
                     Tegucigalpa                 HACIENDA HO
       With copies to:
              Secretaria de Educacion Publica
              Comayaguela, M.D.C.
              Honduras
                                          Fax: (504) 37-4312
              For the Association:
              International Development
              Association
              1818 H Street, N.W.
              Washington, D.C. 20433
              United States of America
              Cable address:                     Telex:
                     INDEVAS                     248423 (RCA)
                     Washington, D.C.             82987 (FTCC)
                                                  64145 (WUI) or
                                                 197688 (TRT)
       IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
                     REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
                     By /s/ Roberto Flores Bermudez
                                                   Authorized Representative
                     INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                     By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
                                                     Regional Vice President
                                             Latin America and the Caribbean
                                    SCHEDULE 1
                     Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.     The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of
Page  11
the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage
of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                                     Amount
                                     of the                  % of
                                Credit Allocated         Expenditures
                                  (Expressed in             to be
      Category                   SDR Equivalent            Financed
(1)   Goods (other than non-
      durable didactic materials),
      including local freight:
      (a) under Part B.1 (d) of       480,000            100% of foreign
      the Project                                        expenditures and
                                                         100% of local
                                                         expenditures (ex-
                                                         factory cost)
      (b) under Part A.4 of the        40,000            100% of foreign
      Project                                            expenditures and
                                                         100% of local
                                                         expenditures (ex-
                                                         factory cost
      (c) under the other Parts     3,360,000            100% of foreign
      of the Project                                     expenditures and
                                                         100% of local
                                                         expenditures (ex-
                                                         factory cost)
(2)  Consultants' services,
     studies and training:
     (a) under Part A.4 of the        890,000            100%
      Project
     (b) under the other Parts      3,670,000            100%
      of the Project
(3)  Non-durable didactic           6,250,000            100% until
     materials, including local                          disbursements under
     freight                                             this Category shall
                                                         have reached an
                                                         aggregate amount
                                                         equivalent to
                                                         SDR1,770,000; 80%
                                                         until disbursements
                                                         under this Category
                                                         shall have reached
                                                         an aggregate amount
                                                         equivalent to
                                                         SDR4,890,000; and
                                                         63% thereafter
(4)  Salaries, incentives and
     operating costs:
     (a) under Part B.2 of the       1,020,000           100% until
         Project                                         disbursements
                                                         under this Category
                                                         shall have reached
                                                         an aggregate amount
                                                         equivalent to
                                                         SDR140,000; 60%
                                                         until disbursements
                                                         under this Category
                                                         shall have reached
                                                         an aggregate amount
                                                         equivalent to
                                                         SDR680,000; and 25%
                                                         thereafter
Page  12
     (b) under the other Parts        3,740,000          100% until
         of the Project                                  disbursements under
                                                         this Category shall
                                                         have reached an
                                                         aggregate amount
                                                         equivalent to
                                                         SDR1,700,000; 60%
                                                         until disbursements
                                                         under this Category
                                                         shall have reached
                                                         an aggregate amount
                                                         equivalent to
                                                         SDR3,470,000; and
                                                         25% thereafter
(5) Unallocated                        950,000
      TOTAL                         20,400,000
2.     For the purposes of this Schedule:
       (a)    the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower;
       (b)    the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower;
       (c)    the term "training" includes all the necessary inputs
for the training of teachers, supervisors, school directors or
other personnel of the MOE included under the Project,
production of training materials, rental of training
facilities, transportation and subsistence expenses of trainees
to the place where training is provided, scholarships and
fellowships for training courses to be provided in the
Borrowerþs territory or abroad, and study tours in the
Borrowerþs territory or abroad;
       (d)    the term "studies" includes research, data
collection, data analysis and expenditures associated with the
evaluation of tests for students and teachers;
       (e)    the term "non-durable didactic materials" includes
didactic materials that are consumed by students within one
year, including didactic materials used in the CCIEs, primary
student's exercise books and  school supplies;
       (f)    the term "salaries" means remuneration of permanent
MOE personnel hired under the Project, including teachers and
supervisors;
       (g)    the term "incentives" means financial bonus to be
provided to: (i) primary teachers who meet specific performance
criteria under the Teachersþ Performance Improvement Program,
not to exceed  7 percent of the teacher's average annual salary
paid by the Borrower in any given year; and (ii) volunteer
instructors of CCIEs, not to exceed the equivalent of $33 per
volunteer per year;
       (h)    the term "operating costs" means recurrent costs
associated with the implementation of the Project, including:
              (i)    maintenance of: (A) office equipment, vehicles
                     (including fuel, repairs and spare parts), (B)
                     school facilities of public primary schools
                     and facilities for the functioning of
                     Departmental  Directorates of Education at the
                     Borrower's 18 departments;
Page  13
              (ii)   insurance for equipment and vehicles procured
                     under the Project;
              (iii)  office utilities and communications
                     expenses associated with the functioning
                     of the PCU, other MOE's offices'serving
                     the Project and UMCE;
              (iv)   transportation allowance for supervision
                     visits;
              (v)    office materials;
              (vi)   security costs for warehouses or other
                     facilities established under the Project; and
              (vii)  costs associated with community meetings; and
       (i)    the term "local freight" includes packaging and
transportation costs  of educational materials from:
              (i)    the port of entry, in the case of foreign
                     goods; or
              (ii)   the suppliersþ premises, in the case of local
                     goods, to specific destinations within the
                     Borrower's territory.
3.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
       (a)    payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount
not to exceed SDR680,000, may be made on account of payments
made for expenditures before that date but after August 31,
1994;
       (b)    Category 1 (a) of the table included in paragraph 1
of this Schedule on account of payments for goods for the
Departmental Directorates of Education, unless the MOE has
appointed the officers that will manage such Departmental
Directorates of Education;
       (c)    Category 4 (a) of the table included in paragraph 1
of this  Schedule, unless the Borrower has initiated the
implementation of the Teachers' Performance Improvement
Program; and
       (d)    payments made under Parts A.5 (a) and B.1 (c) of the
Project.
4.     The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure
for expenditures made:
       (a)    in respect of Category 4 of the table in paragraph 1
of this Schedule; and
       (b)    for goods and consultantsþ services under contracts
costing less than the equivalent of:
              (i)    $150,000 in the case of contracts for goods
                     (other than those referred to in Part B.4 of
                     Section I of Schedule 3 of this Agreement);
              (ii)   $25,000 in the case of the books referred to
                     in Part B.4 of Section I of Schedule 3 to this
                     Agreement;
              (iii)  $50,000 in the case of consulting firms' services;
                     and
Page  14
              (iv)   $25,000 in the case of individual consultants'
                     services, all under such terms and conditions
                     as the Association shall specify by notice to
                     the Borrower. However, the provisions of
                     subparagraph (b) (i) above shall not apply to
                     the first two contracts for goods under Parts
                     B.1 (a), B.2 (a) and B.3 (a) of Section I of
                     Schedule 3 to this Agreement to be awarded
                     each year during Project implementation.
                                    SCHEDULE 2
                            Description of the Project
       The objectives of the Project are to:
       (a)    improve the academic achievement levels and reduce
the repetition rate of students enrolled in public primary
schools;
       (b)    provide bilingual education in public primary schools
that serve the Miskito and the Garifuna ethnic groups; and
       (c)    improve the management efficiency of MOE.
       The Project consists of the following parts, subject to
such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association
may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:       Basic Education Quality
1.     Provide technical assistance and educational materials to:
       (a)    strengthen pre-service teacher training for primary
teachers; and
       (b)    train in-service pre-primary and primary teachers,
school supervisors and school principals of MOE.
2.     (a)    Provide the Borrower with:
              (i)    technical assistance and equipment to: (A)
                     review existing primary school textbooks and
                     teacher's and student's guides therefor; and
                     (B) develop Modular Textbooks for primary
                     schools; and
              (ii)   warehouse facilities for educational
                     materials;
       (b)    print or procure textbooks, library books and other
educational materials for public pre-primary and primary
schools and for primary teacher training programs;
       (c)    distribute textbooks, library books and other
educational materials for public pre-primary and primary
schools and for primary teacher training programs; and
       (d)    carry out field tests for new educational materials
prepared under (a) (i) above.
3.     (a)    Provide the Borrower with technical assistance and
equipment to develop:
              (i)    dictionaries, grammar books, textbooks and
                     students and teachers' guides to provide
                     bilingual education in public primary schools
                     that serve the Miskito and the Garifuna ethnic
                     groups;
              (ii)   teachers training materials and audio-visual
Page  15
                     teaching aids to provide bilingual education
                     in public primary schools that serve the
                     Miskito and the Garifuna ethnic groups;
              (iii)  training programs in bilingual education
                     for primary school teachers and school
                     supervisors working in public primary
                     schools that serve the Miskito and the
                     Garifuna ethnic groups; and
              (iv)   a program for operations research and
                     evaluation of the activities referred to in
                     (a) (i) to (iii) above; and (b) strengthen the
                     Borrower's program for bilingual education of
                     ethnic groups through the provision of
                     vehicles and office equipment required for the                     
carrying out of its activities.
4.     Develop the Borrower's institutional and technical
capabilities for external evaluation of academic achievement of
students enrolled in public primary schools, through the
provision of technical assistance, equipment and operating
costs.
5.     (a)    Construct and equip approximately 290 additional
classrooms in the public primary schools and rehabilitate, as
needed, the existing facilities of such schools;
       (b)    provide maintenance for the public primary schools
with new classrooms or rehabilitated facilities;
       (c)    assign approximately 290 teachers therefor; and
       (d)    expand the CCIEs program, through the creation of
approximately 1200 additional CCIEs in poor rural communities.
Part B:   Institutional Strengthening
1.     (a)    Reorganize and decentralize MOE, through the
consolidation of existing units, and creation of new
administrative units, including, inter alia, the establishment
of the Departmental Directorates of Education;
       (b)    strengthen MOE's management capabilities and
information systems;
       (c)    construct or rehabilitate the facilities for the
Departmental Directorates of Education, as needed; and
       (d)    acquire office equipment and vehicles, as needed, for
the Departmental Directorates of Education.
2.     Design and carry out a pilot program to improve teacher's
classroom performance in public primary schools.
3.     Provide technical assistance and equipment for the
strengthening of PCU in the administration, monitoring and
evaluation of the Project, including the carrying out of
studies therefor.
                                       * * *
             The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2000.
                                    SCHEDULE 3
                       Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
Page  16
1.     Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines), and in
accordance with the following additional procedures:
       (a)    When contract award is delayed beyond the original
bid validity period, such period may be extended once, subject
to and in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.59 of
the Guidelines, by the minimum amount of time required to
complete the evaluation, obtain necessary approvals and
clearances and award the contract. The bid validity period may
be extended a second time only if the bidding documents or the
request for extension shall provide for appropriate adjustment
of the bid price to reflect changes in the cost of inputs for
the contract over the period of extension. Such an increase in
the bid price shall not be taken into account in the bid
evaluation. With respect to each contract made subject to the
Association's prior review, the Association's prior approval
will be required for:
              (i)    a first extension of the bid validity period
                     if the period of extension exceeds sixty days;
                     and
              (ii)   any subsequent extension of the bid validity
                     period.
       (b)    In the procurement of goods in accordance with Part
A of this Section, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard
bidding documents issued by the Association, with such
modifications thereto as the Association shall have agreed to
be necessary for the purposes of the Project. Where no relevant
standard bidding documents have been issued by the Association,
the Borrower shall use bidding documents based on other
internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the
Association.
2.     To the extent practicable, contracts for goods to be
procured under this Part A shall be grouped into bid packages
estimated to cost the equivalent of $150,000 or more.
Part B:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.     Didactic materials, estimated  to cost:
       (a)    the equivalent of $25,000 or more but less than the
equivalent of $150,000, per contract, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $800,000, may be procured under contracts awarded
on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association; and
       (b)    less than the equivalent of $25,000, per contract, up
to an aggregate amount equivalent to $200,000, may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible
under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable
to the Association.
2.     Office equipment, estimated  to cost:
       (a)    the equivalent of $25,000 or more but less than the
equivalent of $150,000, per contract, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $400,000, may be procured under contracts awarded
on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association; and
       (b)    less than the equivalent of $25,000, per contract, up
to an aggregate amount equivalent to $400,000, may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible
Page  17
under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable
to the Association.
3.     School and office furniture, estimated  to cost:
       (a)    the equivalent of $25,000 or more but less than the
equivalent of $150,000, per contract, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $200,000, may be procured under contracts awarded
on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association;
       (b)    less than the equivalent of $25,000, per contract, up
to an aggregate amount equivalent to $100,000, may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible
under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable
to the Association; and
       (c)    less than the equivalent of $8,000 per contract, up
to an aggregate amount equivalent to $200,000, and whenever it
shall not be possible to obtain a competitive proposal from
suppliers, may be purchased after direct negotiations in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
4.     Books that are of a proprietary nature and obtainable from
only one source up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$200,000, may be purchased after direct negotiations with
suppliers, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.
Part C:   Standard Bidding Documents
       All procurement of goods under Parts B.1 (a), B.2 (a) and
B.3 (a) of this Section shall be carried out using standard
bidding documents acceptable to the Association.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.     With respect to: (a) each contract to be awarded pursuant
to the provisions of Part A of this Section; and (b) the first
two contracts for goods under each of Parts B.1 (a), B.2 (a)
and B.3 (a) of this Section to be awarded each year during
Project implementation, the procedures set forth in paragraphs
2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.     The proposals, the information on the qualifications of
the suppliers of the goods and the draft contract for each good
to be procured under Part B.4 of this Section estimated to cost
the equivalent of $25,000 or more, per contract, shall be
submitted to the Association for its review. Two conformed
copies of such contract shall be furnished by the Borrower to
the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
delivery to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect to such
contract.
3.     With respect to each contract not governed by paragraphs
1 and 2 of this Part D, the procedures set forth in paragraphs
3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the
two conformed copies of the contract together with the other
information required to be furnished to the Association
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the
Association as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
4.     Where payments for the contracts referred to in paragraphs
1 and 2 above are to be made out of the Special Account, the
procedures referred to in such paragraphs shall be modified to
ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required
to be furnished to the Association shall be furnished to the
Page  18
Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of  such contract.
5.     The provisions of the preceding paragraph 3 shall not
apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
6.     The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.     In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the
Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants, whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the
Association in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For
complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such
consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract
for consultants' services issued by the Association, with such
modifications as shall have been agreed by the Association.
Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued
by the Association, the Borrower shall use other standard forms
agreed with the Association.
2.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultants Guidelines requiring
prior Association review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to:
       (a)    contracts for the employment of consulting firms
estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each; or
       (b)    contracts for the employment of individuals estimated
to cost less than $25,000 equivalent each. However, this
exception to prior Association review shall not apply to: (i)
the terms of reference for such contracts; (ii) single-source
selection of consulting firms; (iii) assignments of a critical
nature as reasonably determined by the Association; (iv)
amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms
raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above; or
(v) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual
consultants raising the contract value to $25,000 equivalent or
above.
Section III. Special Provisions
A.     In addition and without limitation to any other provisions
set forth in this Schedule or the Guidelines, the following
principles of procurement shall expressly govern all
procurement of goods referred to in Parts B.1 (a), B.2 (a) and
B.3 (a) of Section I of this Schedule:
1.     Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bid in
accordance with criteria set forth in the bidding documents,
and without taking into account, in the evaluation, the
financial cost of foreign exchange components.
2.     Foreign bidders shall not, as a condition for submitting
bids, be required to:
              (i)    be registered in Honduras;
              (ii)   have a representative in Honduras;
              (iii)  be associated with Honduran suppliers; and
Page  19
              (iv)   certify that, in their country of origin,
                     Honduran suppliers are allowed to participate
                     in competitive bidding procedures under equal
                     conditions with other bidders.
3.     Contracts shall not be divided for the sole purpose of
reducing contract amounts.
B.     In addition and without limitation to any other provisions
set forth in this Schedule or the Consultants Guidelines, the
following principles of procurement shall expressly govern all
procurement of consultants' services referred to in Section II
of this Schedule:
1.     Foreign consultants shall be permitted to participate in
the selection process even if there is availability of Honduran
consultants for the services being procured.
2.     Foreign consultants shall not be required to be registered
with Honduran associations or to be associated with Honduran
consulting firms as a condition for participating in any
selection process.
                                    SCHEDULE 4
                                  Special Account
1.     For the purposes of this Schedule:
       (a)    the term "eligible Categories" means categories (1)
to (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
       (b)    the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and
       (c)    the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $1,800,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit
Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that
unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to
$1,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions, shall be equal to or exceed the
equivalent of $3,000,000.
2.     Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.     After the Association has received evidence satisfactory
to it that the Special Account has been duly opened,
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as
follows:
       (a)    For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate
amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such
request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall
have requested.
Page  20
       (b)    (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                     Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                     requests for deposits into the Special Account
                     at such intervals as the Association shall
                     specify.
              (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                     the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                     the documents and other evidence required
                     pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for
                     the payment or payments in respect of which
                     replenishment is requested.  On the basis of
                     each such request, the Association shall, on
                     behalf of the Borrower,  withdraw from the
                     Credit Account and deposit into the Special
                     Account such amount as the Borrower shall have
                     requested and as shall have been shown by said
                     documents and other evidence to have been paid
                     out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
       All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association
from the Credit Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.     For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association
shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
       (a)    if, at any time, the Association shall have
determined that all further withdrawals should be made by the
Borrower directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
       (b)    if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Association, within the period of time specified in Section
4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for
the Special Account;
       (c)    if, at any time, the Association shall have notified
the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions; or
       (d)    once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.
       Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent
that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for
eligible expenditures.
Page  21
6.     (a)    If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for
an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the
evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall
so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible
or justified.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
       (b)    If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
       (c)    The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association,
refund to the Association all or any portion of the funds on
deposit in the Special Account.
       (d)    Refunds to the Association made pursuant to
paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be
credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this
Agreement, including the General Conditions.
