D)ocurnent of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
-   .4    /,
Report No. 12953 RU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
ENTERPRISE SUPPORT PROJECT
JUNE 1, 1994
j¾iel/.qi hiN^4:  h;J
Agriculture, Industry and Finance Division
Country Department III
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a resticted distibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Ruble (Rb)
EXCHANGE RATE: RUBLES PER US$
December 1991 =  170
December 1992 - 420
December 1993 - 1190
April     1994 = 1794
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND AsCRONYMS
BRU                 Bank Review Unit
CBR                 Central Bank of Russia
CIS                 Confederation ot Independent States
EBRD                European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ECA                 Export Credit Agency
ESP                 Enterprise Support Project
EU                  European Union
FIDP                Financial Institutions Development Project
FSU                 Former Soviet Union
GDP                 Gross Domestic Product
GKI                 State Committee for the Management of State Property
ICB                 International Competitive Bidding
ISB                 International Standards Bank
LIBOR               London Inter-Bank Offered Rate
LPC                 Local Privatization Center
MIC                 Military Industrial Complex
MOF                 Ministry of Finance
MPP                 Mass Privatization Prograrn
PB                  Participating Bank
PIAP                Privatization Implementation Assistance Project
PIU                  Project Implementation Unit
PSD                 Private Sector Development
PRP                 Privatization and Restructuring Program
REF                 Regional Enterprise Fund
RFSEC               Russian Federation Securities Exchange Commission
RPC                 Russian Privatization Center
SOE                 State Owned Enterprise
TA                  Technical Assistance
TCP                 Technical Cooperation Program
USAID               United States Agency for International Development
VLR                 Variable Lending Rate
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31



- ii -
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
RUSSIA
ENTERPRISE SUPPORT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT'
Table of Contents
Page
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ................................. iv
I.  INTRODUCTION                                    1
II. THE ENTERPRISE SECTOR                               ..2
A.    Structure and Problems of the Industrial Sector.                      2
B.  The Privatization Process .                                             6
C.    The Privatized Enterprises . .7........                               7
D.  Private Sector Development                       .9
E. Legal Framework .10
HIT. THE FINANCIAL SECTOR .11
A. Sector Framework .11
B. The Banking Sector .13
C. Capital Markets .14
IV.  BANK GROUP ASSISTANCE AND STRATEGY .                    ................. 15
A. Lessons of Experience .                                                 15
B.  Bank's Past Lending and Strategy .16
V. THE PROJECT   ..17
A.    The Government's Privatization & Restructuring Program .17
B.  Project Rationale and Objectives .17
1/ This report is based on the findings of an Appraisal Mission which visited Russia in March 1994.
The report has been prepared by Juergen Franz, Task Manager, with contributions from Stijn
Claessens, Qimiao Fan, Nils Fostvedt, Eric Manes, Philippe Roos and Harold Wackman.
Andrew Ewing and Millard Long were the peer reviewers. Michael Gould and Russell
Cheetham are the managing Division Chief and Department Director, respectively, for the
operation. The report was processed by Shirley Dy.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- iii -
C.    Detailed Project Description   ..........       ........... 18
1. Participating Banks. .  ...................  18
2. Credit Demand. .  .    .................  18
3. Terms and Conditions ..................... 19
D.    Project Cost and Financing Plan  ................. ....  21
VI.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS   .....                    .......... 22
A.    Bank Review Unit   .................................. 22
B.    Project Implementation Unit  ........         ............ 22
C.    Procurement and Disbursement .........          ........... 23
D.    Accounts and Audits .................... 25
E.    Supervision and Monitoring   ........         ............ 25
F.  Environmental Aspects .26
G.  Status ot Project Preparation .27
VII. BENEFTS AND RISKS .27
V-I. AGREEMDENTS REACHED AND RECOMMCENDATIONS .28
ANNE-XES
1.    The Privatization Program of the Russian Federation.
2.    The Goveronent's Privatization and Restructuring Program
3.    Selection of Commercial Banks
4.    Procedure for Accrediting Banks
5.    Accreditation Criteria
6.    Prudential Standards for Participating Banks
7.    Guidr'ines for Sub-loan/Project Evaluation
8.    Project Implementation Unit
9.    Supervision Plan
Documents and Data Available kn the Project File
1.    Newly Privatized Russian Enterprises - A Survey
2.    Russian Privatization Center - Policy Paper 2
3.    Russia - The Banking System in Transition
MAP
IBRD 25845



RUSSIAN FEDERATION
ENTERPRISE SUPPORT PROJECT
Laoan and Project Summa
Borrower:       Russian Federation (Ministry of Finance(MOF))
Benefciaries:    Private enterprises and Participating Commercial Banks (PBs)
Amount:         US$200 million equivalent
Terms:           17 years, including five years of grace, at the Bank's standaid variable interest
rate.
Terms:          The Government will blend Bank funds and a loan cofinanced by the European
Bank for Reconstruction and Development(EBRD), and on-lend them to PBs in
US dollars at an interest rate equivalent to a base rate of the MOF's weighted
average cost of the two loans plus 2.5% and rounded up to the nearest 0.5%
interval. The PBs will relend the funds to sub-borrowers in US dollars at a six-
month variable rate plus a spread to be determined by each commercial bank for
ea(h sub-borrower. The sub-borrowers will bear the foreign exchange risk. The
commercial banks will bear the full credit risk of their subloans. The subsidiary
loans to the commercial banks will have a maturity of 12 years, including two
years of grace. Subloans will have maturities of not less than one year and not
more than nine years, and grace periods of up to two years. The Government
will bear the cross currency and default risk on the subsidiary loans to the PBs.
The project provides term finance for capital investments and permanent working
capital to new private and newly privatized enterprises which will also have access
to equity financing, technical assistance, and export credit and guarantees under a
G-7 Program for Privatization and Restructuring. Term finance from the Bank
and EBRD will be intermediated through some 20-30 PBs, which are being
accredited under the Financial Institutions Development Project (FIDP). A
Project Implementation Unit (PIU) under the MOF will administer the project.
Benefits:       The project will assist a core group of commercial banks to initiate term lending
to private enterprises. The term finance, which will be combined with assistance
for the development of business plans, would be for incremental investments and
permanent working capital, helping some enterprises to achieve substantial
efficiency improvements as part of their restructuring efforts and others to expand
and to seize growth opportunities.
Risks:          The project faces substantial risks. One risk is the unstable macroeconomic
situation which makes lending and borrowing risky and which in some cases may
lead to resource allocation decisions based on financial signals that differ from
economic ones. Some degree of alleviation is provided by the fact that sub-loans



v 
are not likely to finance major new industrial facilities and equipment, but
incremental investments and working capital with relatively short gestation
periods. Larger investments will be reviewed by the Bank taking into account the
economic rate of return, and sectors with major price distortions would be
excluded. Another risk stems from institutional weaknesses. The private
commercial banks are new, sorae of them are relatively small, and are still
learning traditional commercial bank functions. Term financing will be an added
element of risk for them. Technical assistance and close supervision under the
FIDP will be provided to control this risk. There are also risks associated with
lack of loan demand and loan repayments. Regarding the former, the loan
amount has been conservatively estimated based on a carefully designed enterprise
survey and extensive interviews with the commercial banks. With respect to the
default risk, the commercial banks are very risk averse and have thus far
maintained acceptable collection rates.
Estimted Costs:
Local        Foreign      Total
-(US$ million) -- ---
Sub-Loan Equipmnent and Materials              29.6         266.4        296.0
Sub-Loan Consulting Services                     1.0          3.0          4.0
Total:                         36          269.4        300.0
Local        Foreign      Total
---------  (US$ million)
IBRD                                           20.4         179.6        200.0
EBRD                                            10.2         88.8        100.0
Total:                         30.6        269.4        300.0
Estimated Disbursements:
FY95  FY96 FY97 FY98  FY99  FY00
Annual                                   12     40   56    56    32        4
Cumulative                               12     52  108   164   196   200



I. INtRODUCTION
1.1      Following the collapse of the former Soviet Union in late 1991, the Russian Government
launched a broad program of economic reform to replace the remnants of the command economic
structure with a market-oriented economy based on private ownership. Considerable progress has
been made in the past two years: most prices have been liberalized, the exchange rate and interest
rates are now largely market determined, private property rights have been expanded, trading
monopolies have been eliminated, and a large number of state enterprises have been privatized.
However, reforms remain incomplete and inconsistent in several respects: agricultural and energy
prices remain below world market levels and subsidies have not yet been sufficiently reduced. The
resulting budgetary and quasi-fiscal deficits have led to high inflation, averaging about 20% per
month in 1993, O'though the monthly inflation rate has decelerated to about 11% for the first four
months of 1994..
1.2       One of the most jar reaching transformations has taken place in the enterprise sector,
where the Government has made dramatic progress in the area of privatization, especially with regard
to the Mass Privatization Program (MPP) for medium and large state enterprises. Speed of ownership
transfer to private shareholders was one of the key objectives of Russia's MPP, and the success of the
program has been outstanding in this respect: By March 1994, some 8,500 enterprises had been
privatized, representing about 40% of the total number of medium and large enterprises and about
40% of Russia's industrial work force. Also, more than one-third of the roughly 250,000 small scale
enterprises were privatized by the end of the first quarter of 1994. Close to a million private
businesses have been registered in Russia, mostly small new entries. Providing financial resources
for incremental capital investments and working capital to improve the efficiency in the newly
privatized enterprises and to help new private enterprises grow and expand is one of the challenges
faced by the Government.
1.3      In the financial sector, some 2,000 new commercial banks have been created since 1988,
taking over most of the commercial banking functions of the former state bank (Gosbank). In the
near to medium term the commercial banks are likely to play the key role in the transformation and
restructuring of the Russian economy. They will be the principal channel to transfer resources from
savers to investors, and will also be the main external control over managers of privatized enterprises,
apart from product market competition. Corporate governance through capital market institutions
will probably continue to be weak until controlling stakes in enterprises can be acquired by outside
investors. The central near-term role of the banks in the transformation process also entails
considerable risks: poor lending decisions and inadequate monitoring of borrowers could expose the
banks to substantial losses and could lead to systemic financial instability.
1.4      In July 1993, at their summit in Tokyo, the Russian Government and the G-7 group of
govermments outlined a Privatization and Restructuring Program (PRP) to support post-privatization
assistance. The PRP includes loan and grant resources from international financial institutions,
bilateral sources, and export credit agencies (ECA). Within the PRP framework, (i) loans to
enterprises are to be provided through commercial banks and the ECA; (ii) equity through regionally
based enterprise funds (REFs), and (iii) technical assistance to enterprises through regionally based
Local Privatization Centers (LPCs). The Bank Group has a substantial participation in the PRP: (i)
IBRD is providing loan finance and technical assistance through the proposed project, while



- 2 -
accrediting and strengthening commercial banks through its Financial Institutions Development Project
(FIDP); (ii) IFC is providing equity finance.
II. THE ENTERPRISE SECTOR
A. Structure and Problems of the Industrial Sector
2.1       At the end of 1991, state-owned enterprises (excluding leased enterprises) still accounted
for 77 percent of total employment in the Russian economy. The largest number of state-owned
enterprises (SOEs) is in the industrial sector which accounts for one-third of total employment (atout
21 million) and about 36 percent of GDP. The sector is dominated by manufacturing enterprises,
which account for over 80 percent of industrial employment. The basic structure of the
manufacturing sector is shown in Table 2.1. There are two aspects of this structure that make the
adjustment process especially difficult. First, the sector is dominated by large enterprises that often
are virtually monopolies within Russia, account for a very large share of employment in their
principal locations, and carry substantial social responsibilities. For civilian manufacturing alone,
there are over 2,800 large enterprises with over 1,000 workers, of which 113 are very large with
over 10,000 workers. In addition, there are nearly 4,000 enterprises in what is often referred to the
military-industrial complex (MIC), most of which are large or vety large. These enterprises present
special adjustment problems that are not addressed through the ongoing privatization process, and
information is often not available on the performance of these enterprises. Sectoral and size
distribution of these enterprises are therefore not shown in the table. A second problem is that the
structure of the enterprise sector is biased towards heavy and capital goods industries, particularly in
the case of the MIC, and away from light and consumer goods industries. As final demand shifts
toward consumer goods, a drastic reduction in the relative size of the heavy industries is an inevitable
outcome of Russia's ongoing restructuring process.
2.2       All of these enterprises, until recently, operated in an economy that had been largely
closed to international competition. Under Soviet central planning, enterprises were assigned
mandatory production targets and received most of their material inputs through administrative
allocations. Product prices were set by pricing authorities, while other government agencies
controlled the circulation of products from producers to users. Investment and working capital were
mostly financed by grants from the government budget or loans from the banking system, according
to government plans, and often without any effective repayment obligations. The primary objectives
of enterprises were to increase their production capacity, output and employment; there was little
emphasis on profitability, productivity or efficiency. E.aterprises were simply production units that
responded to the directives of supervisory government ministries.



- 3 -
Table 2.1: Structure of the Civilian Russian Manufacturing
Enterprise Sector
E : . ,. . ed_--T1-___ s.e                      E                                                                   .,L'i' 'T'ta  ' -mall--e-----r1*.O- r...... ......
Agriculture      1411       122            15             3    1551      84           42       54          32        212
Apparel           225       445           144             0     814      26          197      393           0       616
Chemicals         103       188           158             5     454       13          95      499          59        666
Construction       40        25             3             0      68      28           72       30           0        130
Electronics        37        100          118             3     258        5          48      340          39        432
Fabricated Metal   173      305            72             3     553      22          138      165         51        377
Food             4128      1587           140             3    5858     373          631      252          43       1298
Furniture         110       218            62             0     390       13          96      117           0        226
Ind M&E           190       474           399            26    1089      23          232    1039          506       1800
Instruments       117        95            69             1    282        9           48      199          11        267
Leather            64       123            73             0     260       8           56      163           0       226
Lumber            551      1105           199             0    1855      64          536      327           0        927
Mining            267       234           137            25     663      25          103      413         552       1092
Miscellaneous      96       217            43             0     356       12          93       67           0        171
Paper              38        62            57             0     157       4           ,7      153           0        185
Petroleum          20        35            25             2      82       3            18      80         29         130
PrimnaryMeital    35         54           116            20     225       4           27      395         405        831
Printing         1256       146            22             0    1424      38           55       36           0        130
Rubber             24        89            60             3     176       3           45      183          35        266
Services          430       515            65             1    1011      43          212      112          11        377
StoneC&O          642      1120           226             0    1988      76          511       37           0        624
Textle             84       241           272             4     601       10          132     659          45        845
Tobacco             3        22             3             0      28        2          94       34           0        130
Transport          32        173          128            13     346        4          86      390         502        982
Equipment
Transportation    238       572            84             1     895      24          265      183          15        487
Others              5         2             0             0       7       11          24        0           0         34
Total           10319      8269          2690           113  21391      925         3881    6321         2333      13461
NOTES: Small <200 employees, Medium 20')> employees <1,000,
Lage 1,000> employees < 10,000, Extra-large > 1000 employes
2.3           As a result, many Russian enterprises are now  uncompetitive by international standards,
and not well suited for operating in a market economy. They are severely overstaffed, and there has
been little regard for the efficient use of resources, particularly energy. A significant portion of their
technology, plants and equipment is likely to be obsolescent. Since planning was done in terms of
physical inputs and output, there was little regard for financial reporting and control, and no real
sales, marketing or strategic product development, functions which are crucial for the success of firms



- 4 -
in market economies. Moreover, many of these enterprises have traditionally provided their
employees and their families with a wide array of social services including housing, health care,
education, transportation, and cultural, recreational and sports facilities. Many of these services will
have to be shifted to government or private agencies for the enterprises to survive in a competitive
environment.
2.4       The recent trends in industrial output and employment are shown in Tpble2.2. Since
1990, industrial output has been declining, as a result of Russia's general economic problems, the
break-down in production relationships and disappearance of traditional markets caused by the break-
up of the USSR, Russia's inappropriate industrial structure, the lack of competitiveness in large parts
of the industrial structure, and the beginning of a restructuring process within Russian enterprises.
As a result, by the beginning of 1993, aggregate industrial output had fallen to about 70 percent of its
peak 1989 level. A further decline during 1993 suggests that by the end of that year industrial output
was little more than 60 percent of its 1989 level, although accurate end-of-year statistics are not yet
avmilable. The decline has so far affected all industrial sectors, although it is particularly severe in
some branches of heavy industry, especially in defense industries and machine-building. However,
industrial employment only fell by less than ten percent in the same period, and significant further
reductions must therefore be expected.
2.5       In spite of a significant decline in industrial output in the last few years, the Russian
economy has still a very large industrial sector in comparison with industrialized market economies,
and an under-developed service sector. During the transition towards a more appropriate structure,
further significant reductions in output and especially in employment will be necessary and inevitable.
Also, drastic changes in the sectoral structure of industry will be required. The Russian industrial
sector is still biased towards producer goods, especially machine building, while the consumer goods
industry is severely underdeveloped.- With further shifts in final demand towards more consumer
goods, the current structure will need to be significantly changed, and the MIC will need to be
reduced suibstantially. Finally, restructuring at the enterprise level will in many cases lead to
reductions in production and employment -as the enterprises consolidate and streamline their
operations.
2.6       While the industrial restruuring process is only at its beginning, since 1992 there has
been some noticeable progress in enterprise adjustment. In response to changes in demand, many
enterprises are adjusting gradually their output mix, reducing inventories and labor costs, and shifting
to a system of prepayments for their products. Most of the adjusting enterprises are as yet small and
medium-sized, often now privatized or in the process of privatization. Among the larger enterprises,
there is more resistance to change, and much of their adjustment so far is probably unsustainable,
based on very short planning horizons and conined rent-seeking behavior. While output mix and
volumes have started to adjust, restructuring involving downsizing, labor shedding and changes in the
intemal environment of the enterprises have not yet occurred on the necessary scale.



-5-
Table 2.2: Trends in Output and Employmeni
Industrial Output and Employment Indexes, 1981-1992
1989- 100                    -utpt                             Employment
1981                                          80.h                    101.7
1982                                         93..                     10°.6
1983                                         92.7                     102.6
1984                                          94.2                    102.6
1985                                          95.0                    103.0
1986                                          91.5                    103.0
1987                                          99.3                    102.6
1988                                         100.6                    101.7
1989                                         100.0                    100.0
1990                                          97.6                     97.9
1991                                          89.0                     95 
1992                                          74.7                     92.8
2.7         Restructuring will over some time involve drastic changes in the output structure,
technology, managerial skills, and the internal organization of the enterprises, which in turn will
require the reallocation of the factors of production. Successfrl restructuring will depend upon
clearly defined ownership, which will be a result of the privatization process, and on the development
of a conducive market environment which will promote competition and facilitate the allocation of
resources. Restructuring in line with changes in both domestic and international demand will only be
possible if enterprises are able to move and redeploy productive inputs and have access to the
appropriate and sufficier.t resources now that most of them no longer have access to Government
sponsored credit.. In the case of active restructuring involving new investments, the availability of
financing will be critical. The development of capital markets and of competitive commercial banks



- 6 -
is also essential for improving corporate govertnance of the enterprises. The Russian financial system,
while evolving rapidly, is still severely underdeveloped and tlhis, together with the macroeconomic
instability, limits the availability of financial resources to private enterprises, particularly the medium
term resources necessary to undertake incremental r, .ructuring of the enterprises.
2.8       The ability of the enterprises to undertake restructuring decisions is further hampered by
the extreme scarcity of requisite managerial and technical skills which are essential for operating in a
market economy. Many enterprises are still corntrolled by the same managers who were trained and
operated under central planning. Even when there are changes in owr.ership, mentality changes only
gradually, while existing manager*:ent skills are inadequate for managing enterprises in market
conditions. Most enterprises also lack adequate personnel for financial control, sales and marketing.
Extensive technical assistance will be required in order to assist the enterprises to reorient their
activities and to develop rapidly their managerial and competitive tools.
B. The Privatization Process
2.9       Russia's privatization program is the most ambitious attempted anywhere in the world,
and is unparalleled in its size, speed of implementation and complexity. The responsibility for the
program rests with the State Committee for the Management of State Property (GKI), with the
Russian Privatization Center (RPC) as its executive arm. RPC has received massive international
financial support, including from USAID and, in the future, through the Bank's Privatization
Implementation Assistance Project (PIAP), Loan 3546-RU, and a concomitant loan from EBRD, both
of which became effective last December. The background, composition and results so far of
Russia's privatization program are discussed in Annex 1.
2.10      Due to the size and complexity of the Russia economy, and also to GKI's limited formal
powers, the MPP for medium and large enterprises has been carried out in a highly decentralized
manner, and GKI has often relied more on leading by persuasion and example than on the
Government's formal authority. Also, the authorities deliberately chose from the beginning to
privatize to a large extent to insiders (managers and employees of the individual enterprises), who
have received powerful incentives to participate in the privatization process. In order to ensure some
outside ownership, and to provide the general population immediate benefits from the process, all
medium and large enterprises have to sell at least 29% of their shares for vouchers in general auctions
(regional or national, depending on the size of the enterprises). The Government is fully aware that
many of the privatized enterprises will be in need of substantial restr *cturing after their privatization.
2.11      The results so far of the l -vatization program have been impressive. As of end March
1994 (about 16 months after program inception) about 8,500 enterprises had passed through the
voucher auction process, with the number of auctions proceeding at the rate of some 600 - 700
enterprises per month. The 8,500 enterprises represented employment of about 9 million workers,
about 40 percent of Russia's industrial work force and more than 40% of the total number of medium
and large enterprises. Of the 146 million vouchers issued under the mass privatization program,
about 75 million had been collected (i.e., exchanged for shares and retired from circulation).
2.12      36 enterprises with end 1991 charter capital in excess of one billion rubles have been
auctioned, compared to 1,211 with charter capital of between one and two and a half million rubles.
This demonstrates that so far the relatively smaller enterprises have been moving fastest; however, a



-7 -
number of very large enterprises are now under preparation for privatization. In addition, in some
special sectors, such as petroleum, the enterprises are being corporatized and will sell some shares at
auctions, but with the state maintaining large shareholdings.
2.13      Small-scale privatization has proceeded in parallel with the privatization of medium-and
large enterprises, in a highly decentralized manner and with little control from GKI. As a result, the
statistics on this part of the privatization process are subject to some uncertainties. However,
tentatively GKI reports that about 80,000 entities (mostly retail and service establishments with up to
200 employees) had been sold as of early 1994, representing about 80 percent of the entities available
for privatization. However, other sources believe that there could be as many as 270,000 such
entities, in which case less than 33 percent have been privatized.
2.14      In addition to the perhaps 15,000 enterprises that are participating in the MPP, another
about 9,000 enterprises were leased to workers' collectives under old Soviet law, and most of these
collectives have now exercised their option to buy their enterprises. Not much information on these
enterprises is available; however, they appear to be on average somewhat smaller than the enterprises
under the MPP, and to have been generally privatized as closed joint-stock companies, where the
shares are not easily tradable. In these cases, the emergence of market-driven corporate governance
may be more difficult than in the case of the openly held joint-stock companies.
2.15      GKI expects to complete the MPP by mid 1994, at which time around 12,000 medium-
and large scale enterprises would have been privatized. Required follow-up activities thereafter, in
addition to post-privatization restructuring support, will be (i) to continue the privatization process
through cash auctions; (ii) to increase the rate of small scale privatization; (iii) to address the
privatization of the special sectors that have been exempted (fully or partly) from the general MPP;
and (iv) to develop an active secondary market in the shares of privatized enterprises without which
the MPP is unlikely to have the desired impact on improved corporate governance.
C.   The Privatized Enterprises
2.16      Several recent sources document the characteristics, problems and needs of medium and
large privatized firms in Russia. In addition, as part of FRP project preparation, e survey was carried
in October 1993 of privatized enterprises in the Moscow and Vladimir oblasts1l. The survey and the
other sources of information show that the actual private share of ownership of privatized firms is
high (close to 90 percent on average in the survey), and most companies are controlled by insiders,
with typically 15 to 20 percent of shares in the hands of managers, and often more than 50 percent
with the employees (other than managers). Voucher investment funds are estimated to hold about
10% of all shares. The former leasehold companies are owned almost exclusively by insiders, but
also seem somewhat more dynamic than MPP enterprises. They are eager to diversify and to find
reliable and solvent customers. It is likely that this is due to the fact that many good enterprises, with
motivated managers, were the quickest to take advantage of this possibility to become independent.
2.17      Nevertheless, whatever their origin, all privatized firms remain at the first stage of
existence as private entities, maintaining several characteristics of the former SOEs. First, most of
The Survey Report is available in project files.



R 8-
them are run by the same management teams as before the privatization. Further, despite some sales
of unwanted equipment, most firms have the same capital basis as before privatization, including
social assets (in most cases, the entire SOE was brought into the private company. without any sorting
out of the assets). Since privatization, the average number of workers has started to decline (by 5 to
10 percent), but most managers acknowledge that they have more workers than they really need (due
in part to low demand for their products) by on average 15 to 20 percent, according to the Moscow-
Vladimir sunrev
2.18      While restructuring is still at a very early stage, most managers consider the Russian
context as an additional factor requiring caution. Many of them are aware that they need to downsize
and/or diversify drastically important aspects of their operations, and that social assets represent a
serious problem, but they remain reluctant to take unpopular decisions, due to strong cultural
constraints, as well as implicit pressures from the workers-shareholders. In addition, the apparent
low level of competition in many Russian markets and the lack of legal recourse against bad debtors
contribute to reducing the perceived need to change and to restructure very quickly.
2.19      Within these broad generalizations, the picture of privatized enterprises is diverse: the
Moscow-Vladimir survey shows a significant minority of firms (nearly 30 percent) that apparently are
in good shape (with a stable or increasing output, and cash flow covering operating costs) and
reporting reasonable investment intentions (despite inadequate profits to finance them). These firms
tend to be manufacturers of finished goods (especially labor intensive ones) or suppliers of services.
A significant number of these companies have developed secondary products and activities (such as
trading or repair services for other manufacturers), and this trend is increasing, as more firms are
responding to market and profitability constraints by changing their mix of products, typically
switching towards more consumer-oriented goods. In this survey, eight percent were rated as weak
firms, based on an overall assessment plus declining production and with cash flow that did not cover
costs. Typically, these were firms with special adjustment problems (such as previous reliance on
markets in other FSU countries) and with managers that had not been able to adjust. Enterprises in
difficulty tend to be producers of intermediate goods, particularly suppliers to state enterprises, and
firms in construction-related activities. Most enterprises were rated as neither strong nor weak;
however, many of these firms are also faced with substantial problems.
2.20      The ability to locate solvent customers and extract payment from them is another
important key to sucoess. Late payments are still considered as an expensive and time consuming
problem by almost all firms, but trends are mixed: while a majority of privatized companies report no
change, or even payments slowing down, a significant minority (about one third) have been able to
improve their situation with respect to receivables, including through increased reliance on
prepayment or cash on delivery.
2.21      A significant minority of interviewed managers appear truly open and receptive to changes
and new ideas, external advice and assistance, while many others are not really aware of the issues
affecting their businesses, and are just making efforts to maintain the status quo and to deliver the
same products to the same customers. The first technical assistance priorities for privatized
enterprises are marketing, followed by technology and financial management. Managers unanimously
stress that ass.stance would be welcome, but should avoid abstraction and focus on practical
information.



-9 -
2.22      In terms of financial needs, obtaining a short-term loan is apparently not very difficult.
and these credits are widely used by privatized enterprises, mainly to pay for inputs and salaries. On
the other hand, very few firms have received medium or long-term loans from banks; banks extend
few term loans in view of the extremely short-term nature of their deposits and some managers are
also reluctant to pay current commercial interest rates (they appear to be risk averse in their approach
to taking on debt, and to be cautious vis-a-vis the banking system, which is reflected in the usually
very low debt to equity ratio of their companies). If available, most of these enterprises would be
interested in medium-term finance (typically 1-3 years). Demand for equity finance is more difficult
to assess with accuracy. Most managers do not yet understand clearly the consequences of such
financing, although many of them are calling for partners. At the same time, they seem reluctant to
dilute their control of the enterprises.
D. Pdivate Sector Development
2.23      The infant private sector in Russia faces a number of constraints which distort and delay
its development. Most importantly, general economic instability, the many disparities between
domestic and international prices, coupled with unclear and recently promulgated rules and
regulations, encourage entrepreneurs to focus on quick transactions rather than investments in
productive assets for the longer term. Also, both for privatized and new private enterprises, laws
and regulations are ambiguous or unstable, and the institutional capacity to implement and enforce
laws and regulations is uneven or nonexistent, while many facilities or services such as basic banking
services, telecommunications and transport facilities are poorly developed. The current situation
encourages discretionary interpretation of laws and regulations and promotes rent seeking activities.
Together with a reported strong upsurge in criminal activities towards private enterprises, these
factors lead to high transaction costs. Both privatized and new private entities also face problems
relating to taxation, absence of appropriate financing, and lack of contract enforcement. The lack of
access to adequate commercial real estate is another serious impediment for private firms. Most
commercial real estate is still under de jure control of various bodies of state administration or de
facto subject to control of public property administration policy because of the way ownership
distribution has been determined. Commercial entities with marketable commercial property tend to
be enterprises still operating as SOEs or only recently privatized. Also, real estate is a large and
valuable part of the assets of many of the privatized enterprises and a large proportion of such real
estate assets remains underutilized. As part of the restructuring process, divesture of real estate from
both state-owned and privatized enterprises will facilitate the development of the emerging private
sector.
2.24      In spite of these many problems, Russia's new private sector has displayed an encouraging
dynamism, as witnessed by the increased range of services provided to the market, and the growth of
the private sector has been considerable. Aggregate data on the private sector is still poor, but recent
estimates indicate that as much as 13 percent of Russia's GDP is generated by the non-state sector.
As of August 1993, the private sector's share of industrial employment was over 20 percent, and this
percentage is now growing rapidly as a result of the privatization process. As of February 1993
about 950,000 private businesses had been registered in Russia. Most of the growth in terms of
private sector units has come from Russia's privatization program, but there has also been a dramatic
increase in new private enterprises. Typically, the latter are small, and concentrated in retail trade
and other services. However, there are by now already some examples of new private entities of
more than 100 employees.



- 10-
2.25      Private sector development also requires a sound, competitive financial system. While
new ventures anywhere seldom rely on formal credit sources, the rate of survival and expansion of
viable businesses does depend greatly on credit availability and banking practices. Despite recent
improvements in the commercial banking system, the Russian financial sector is still ill-equipped to
meet the needs of the newly emerging private businesses for financial serices. Improving and
strengthening the newly emerging commercial banks is particularly important for private businesses
because under current conditions they find it not only difficult to obtain credits but are usually
charged much higher interest rates and service fees than their state-owned counterparts.
E.  Lmal Framework
2.26      Inadequate civil law foundations in the body of legislation remain one of the underlying
obstacles to greater reliability of enforcement of contracts and further development of commercial
transactions. Civil law relationships are currently governed by an amalgam of the 1964 Russian
Federation Civil Code and the 1991 Fundamental Principles of Civil Legislation of the USSR and the
Republics, pending enactment of a complete Russian Federation Civil Code. In the absence of a
modem civil law framework, the existing civil law is fraught with uncertainties and deficiencies,
particularly m the areas relating to financial instruments, capital transfers among privatte entities, debt
security, and intellectual property rights.
2.27      The emerging private sector places new pressures on the ability of courts and enforcement
agencies to deliver effective protections and remedies against infringement of rights. Adequate
recourse to courts, which acts as a strong reinforcement of the sanctity of contractual and property
rights in a market economy, is not readily available to banks and other creditors in Russia, due to the
incapacity of the existing legal infrastructure. The existing system of contractual enforcement is
generally deficient in terms of ease of access and effectiveness of available remedies. Therefore,
banks have developed a number of compensating commercial practices centered around (i) requiring
the routing of most of a firm's cash flow through the bank which provides up-to-date financial
information and potentially enables loan collection at the source; (ii) obtaining a seat on the financial
committee of the firms where all important financial decisions are made - this is done through
receiving in temporary trust at least 10% of the firm's shares; and (iii) various forms of collateral,
e.g. cash, goods, and buildings. While collection rates suggest that the system works, reports in the
press also indicate that some banks, if necessary, use other, more physical methods to collect loans.
Their personnel in turn is exposed to high personal risks: some twenty bankers were killed during
1993. As a result, the banks maintain large security forces and strict security systems for entry into
their buildings.
2.28      The privatization process has introduced a new regime of corporate governance applicable
to private firms. Shareholders and managers are not yet familiar with the principles of corporate
governance inherent in this regime, or with the respective rights concerning corporate procedures
such as shareholders' meetings, board action, charter amendments, and new issues of capital.
Although the Russian Government has sought to increase familiarity with the new corporate
governance regime, the absence of legal protection has hindered the regular observance of the
principles. GKI has been concerned with a variety of "post-privatization" industrial sector issues that
would address in part the weaknesses of the corporate governance regime. Recent GKI initiatives
include a presidential decree issued in March 1993 on Workers' Privatization Funds and a presidential



- 11 -
decree on Measures for Safeguarding the Rights of Shareholders. However, these measures are not
substitutes for a complete corporate governance regime. Irregularities are likely to remain in the
newly privatized enterprises for some time. Among the areas where persistent problems occur are: (i)
boards of directors often do not function within their prescribed limits; (ii) meetings of shareholders,
and the procedures used in such meetings, are irregular; and (iii) the liability of managers and
directors for malfeasance and breach of fiduciary duties is not well established in law.
2.29      The Bank has encouraged the Russian Government to pursue external assistance to
strengthen legal institutions. Some law-related grant assistance is being provided by official donors
and private organizations, including USAID and the American Bar Association's Central and East
European Law Initiative, for example, in the area of bankruptcy. To date this kind of assistance has
not been sufficient to achieve the necessary institutional reforms. The Bank has discussed the
possibility of a Legal Systems Reform Project, which would provide a more coordinated strategy for
legislative development and strengthening of legal institutions. However, given the reluctance of the
Russian Government to borrow for technical assistance and for non-revenue generating projects,
prospects for such a project are uncertain. Meanwhile, the Bank has sought to increase funding
available through administered grant funds and continues to pursue a dialogue with the principal legal
officials of the Government.
III. THE FINANCIAL SECTOR
A. Sector Framework
3.1       During the socialist period, the state bank (Gosbank) had wide responsibilities in money
supply, clearing and settlement, accounting and auditing, and public budget management. However,
Gosbank did not actively take part in resource allocation or risk taking. Its role was to serve as the
state's accounting and auditing arm. Five specialized banks carried out some of these tasks under the
general supervision of Gosbank (Promstroibank - industry, Agroprombank - agriculture,
Vnesheconombank - foreign trade, Jilsotsbank - iocal administration and services, and Sberbank -
household savings).
3.2      In 1990, the Russian parliament passed several laws, effectively challenging the power of
the USSR Gosbank within the Russian territory. The five state banks changed their legal status to
joint-stock banks and altered their function. Sberbank became a main source of financing the budget
deficit, Promstroibank transformed part of its branches into independent (oint stock) banks,
Vnesheconombank was split into two, Agroprombank became Rosselkhozbank and focused
exclusively on agriculture and the food industry, while Jilsotsbank transformed its branches into
independent banks and ceased to exist. New commercial banks were allowed to be established. As a
result, the state no longer possessed full control over most banks, and credit allocation stopped being
dependent solely on the plan. When the Union was dissolved in late 1991, Gosbank's operations
were taken over by the Central Bank of Russia (CBR), which was placed under the direct control of
the Parliament. It had lost a great deal of direct influence over the commercial banks, but kept its
regulatory and supervisory functions over the banking system. In this period, the number of banks
expanded rapidly. In 1990, 225 banks were registered, one year later there were approximately
1,000 banks, and in 1992 there were 1,600 banks. Presently, there are close to 2,000 banks
registered.



- 12 -
3.3       Until the liberalization of prices in early 1992, households (and, to some extent,
enterprises) held large involuntary savings balances in the form of savings accounts, current account
balances, or cash. Since many consumer goods were unavailable at prevailing prices, consumers had
little choice but to keep their savings in bank accounts. In early 1990, broad money (currency plus
deposits) was equivalent to 80 percent of annual GNP and represented a large monetary overhang i,
an economy dominated by price controls and supply shortages. In the face of this monetary
overhang, the liberalization of prices in January 1992 created an immediate fourfold increase in the
price level. In the aftermath of the price liberalization, the government was unable to control
spending adequately, or raise sufficient revenue through taxes. The result was a large government
budget deficit (16 percent of GNP), exacerbated by "extrabudgetary" spending, leading to a total
deficit of about 22 percent of GNP. Consequently, inflation accelerated from 8 percent per month
during 1991 to 19 percent per month during 1992 (32 percent per month, if the one-time price
adjustment is included), and 22 percent per month in 1993.
3.4       Two years of practically hyperinflationary conditions have had a marked impact on the
financial system. Credit (and deposits) expanded much less than the price level and this led to a
drastic contraction of money and credit in real terms: total domestic credit declined from 90 percent
of GNP in 1990 to only 14 percent in September 1993. Ruble M2 (currency and deposits) declined
from 80 percent to 11 percent of GNP. At the same time, currency substitution progressed rapidly as
enterprises shifted about one-half of their deposits into foreign exchange. Some observers have
mistaken this currency substitution deposits for capital flight. Foreign exchange deposits held by
Russian enterprises and banks abroad are still below "normal" levels in relation to foreign trade
volume.
3.5       The result of these developments has been a complete, if involuntary, restructuring of
claims. Debtors (enterprises and government) have been forgiven 90 percent of the value of debts
while creditors (households and enterprises) have taken the "hit". The result is very low financial
leverage of Russian enterprises and practically the only remaining claims are equity claims (share
capital) on enterprises.
3.6       Under the mass privatization program, workers, managers and other citizens have become
the de-facto owners of enterprises. Households as savers have lost their savings but are being
compensated by share certificates in the same enterprises. However, this has not happened on a one-
to-one basis. Workers and managers have generally gained in this swap of savings-for-shares, while
other groups (pensioners, government employees) have lost. For the banking sector this restructuring
of financial claims has also been beneficial: banks now have only small balance sheets and very few
non-performing loans. In Russia, total credits from banks to non-bank institutions were equivalent to
only 16 percent of GNP by July 1993. This is very different from other transition economies in
Eastern Europe where the non-performing portion of the loan portfolios which the commercial banks
inherited, was alone equivalent to about 10-25 percent GNP.



- 13 -
B. The Banking Sector
3.7       Banks dominate the financial system in Russia. The Government and the Bank carried out
in 1992-1993 a review of the banking systemY The associated report, which focusses on the next
three to five years, discusses reforms needed to enable the banking system to become more efficient
in performing its role in a market economy, specifically in the mobilization of financial savings, the
allocation of resources, and the processing of payments. The report also proposes a strategy for the
banking sector, which is built around (i) the phasing out of directed credit; (ii) iznproving the
soundness of commercial banks; (iii) the restructuring of large specialized banks; and (iv) financial
infrastructure reform.
3.8       New banks have proliferated over the last several years, and close to 2,000 banks were
licensed as of early 1994.  There are two main purposes for which banks have been established: (i)
to fund directed credit to SOEs (channel banks) or (ii) to manage the financial resources and needs of
a group of enterprises (agent banks). The former specialized banks and their spin-offs, principally
Promstroibank and Rosselkhozbank, have been the most significant channel banks. Most newly-
established banks (zero banks) are agent banks. The Sberbank differs from all other banks in that it
enjoys a quasi-monopoly on the raising of household deposits, which are fully guaranteed by the
Government.
3.9       Among the large number of new banks in Russia, there may be up to 100 leading
commercial banks that are evolving into real banking institutions. They are working on strengthening
their balance sheets and their banking skills, and some of them are also trying to reduce their single
borrower and connected party exposure. These banks are growing fast and are involved in profitable
and genuine banking activities: lending to the emerging private sector, lending for foreign trade, and
raising foreign currency deposits. Enterprises are the main shareholders in most commercial banks.
Hence, most banks are gradually becoming "private" as their shareholders are converted into joint
stock companies and privatized. Still, this ownership structure is worrisome as it helps perpetuate the
common practice of connected and insider lending. Another issue in the development of commercial
banks is the current reluctance to liberalize the regime for foreign banking presence. It is clear that
limiting this involvement is a serious impediment to the overall development system, and, among
other things, will slow down the rapid transfer of banking know-how.
3.10      There are also other weaknesses which require attention. Most of the banks surveyed,
even the better banks, have been working without clearly formulated strategic plans. Their
organization structures often have not been adjusted to reflect their rapid expansion into new activities
and products, and fail to address needs in some areas, while creating redundancies in others. In many
banks, credit management requires substantial strengthening, in particular with respect to the financial
and market analysis of loan applications. Financial management (accounting, assetAiability
management, planning and budgeting, internal control, and MIS) also are highly underdeveloped.
Marketing, branch management, human resources management, and training are other areas were
substantial improvements would be needed. Finally, for most banks, technology is at an early stage
of development, and banks that have already invested in new technologies have often done so without
first establishing an automation strategy.
1'    Russia - The Banking system in the Transition.



- 14 -
3.11      Over the short/medium-term the strategy for improving the soundness of commercial
banks is a gradual approach, proposed by the Bank as the International Standards Bank (ISB)
program, which would entice banks to improve their standards and submit to stricter supervision,
thereby being recognized as "better banks" which would enjoy a privileged relationship with the CBR
(in areas such as clearing, or refinancing), and would qualify as credible partners on international
financial markets. Initially, only a small number of banks would qualify, but it is expected that the
desire of other banks to qualify would lead to a continuous increase in the number of "better" banks,
and in their market share.
3.12      The ISB program has four primary objectives: (i) to progressively raise the soundness of
the Russia;l banking system; (ii) to progressively improve allocative efficiency in the Russian
economy by increasing the portion of bank credit that is allocated on the basis of arms-length
transactions, rather than through current widespread "insider" transactions involving the bank and its
owners; (iii) to improve the ability of the public to differentiate "good" banks from "bad" banks; and
(iv) to provide Russia with a group of banks that would form the core of the banking system of the
future. It is important to note that, while the ISB standards are consistent with western banking
standards, they constitute a streamlined framework which would enable the CBR to regulate the most
essential banking functions first. The ratios pertaining to these standards will be gradually tightened
to reach internationally acceptable levels over a number of years.
3.13      Preparing banks to operate in a market environment prompts the need for introducing
completely different methods for managing banks, marketing and delivering banking services,
controlling risk, ensuring banks' financial viability and performance, and carrying out basic banking
operations. These require comprehensive institutional develonment programs, and extensive in-house
and external training and retraining programs. For a core group of banks, these aspects are
addressed by the FIDP.
C.  Capital Markets
3.14      Securities markets have started to develop in the wake of enterprise privatization,
including the creation of a number of other exchanges and of investment funds. A limited number of
non-bank financial institutions (pension funds, insurance companies) have also been established.
Several hundred investment (voucher) funds are currently operating in Russia. They are organized as
mutual funds, issuing their shares against vouchers which are then used in privatization auctions to
purchase enterprise shares. The trading volume of the several regional stock exchanges is low, and
their technical capabilities are limited.
3.15      A key priority is to develop an active secondary market in the shares of privatized
enterprises. Work is under way on several aspects of such a share trading system, including
development of registrars and depositories for the shares. Another priority is to create the broad legal
and institutional framework for capital markets. Steps that have been taken or are being taken
include: (i) the Russian Federation Security and Exchange Commission (RFSEC) has been founded;
(ii) a comprehensive Securities Law, including a defined role and authority for the RFSEC, is under
preparation; (iii) a decree on Rules for Joint Stock Companies is under preparation, addressing among
other things shareholder registration and shareholder voting arrangements; and (iv) a draft Joint Stock
Company Law, using these rules as a basis, is being prepared.
qu



- 15 -
IV. BANK GROUP ASSISTANCE AND STRATEGY
A.   Lessons of Experience
4.1       In a number of reforming countries in Central and Eastern Europe, severe difficulties
have been experienced in the disbursement of credit lines, due primarily to an economic environment
that deters enterprises and banks from borrowing and lending term resources at market rates. Thnese
problems are also present in Russia. Therefore credit demand has been carefully confirmed both with
the candidate participating banks and with a sample of enterprises, and the size of the ESP has been
conservatively estimated. 'i'he discussions with banks and enterprises have indicated that projects with
plausible viability do exist, despite the macroeconomic environment. For example, several energy
efficiency projects in exporting firms were mentioned, combining an investment with high return and
short gestation characteristics with the ability to bear the foreign exchange risk that would be
associated with borrowing under the ESP.
4.2       By working through the most competent of the emerging private commnercial banks, the
ESP reflects a double lesson of experience: First, these banks work on a fully commercial basis with
the objective to maximize their profits. Second, they are already engaged in short-term domestic and
foreign currency lending and hence term lending under the ESP is incremental to their other activities
rather than being their main business. This allows them to better diversify the high risk associated
with term lending than classical development finance companies which had most of their assets in
term loans. The fact that the banks conduct with their clients a broad range of business to which ESP
sub-lending will be added, helps them to monitor enterprise performance and to maintain high loan
recovery rates.
4.3       Under the ESP and in conjunction with the FIDP, efforts to ensure the quality of
intermedhition focuses on the broad operational strengthening of each participating bank and the
compliance with agreed prudential criteria, rather than on sub-loan rules and conditions which have
only a limited impact on the soundness of each bank but might well make the transaction costs of the
ESP onerous to banks and enterprises. Also, the 12-year term of the subsidiary loans allows the
banks to manage the ESP liabilities as second tier capital.
4.4       Sub-loans to enterprises are expected to have maturities of 1-3 years and are expected to
be made for incremental capital investments with short gestation periods and permanent working
capital. This is in line with enterprise restructuring experience elsewhere. In addition, mediumn term
lending is desirable because it allows the banks to begin tern lending at the relatively lower risk end.
Experience indicates that restructuring enterprises require not only access to finance but also technical
assistance. Under the G-7 program, into which the ESP is integrated, technical assistance resources
will be available to enterprises. A further supplement provided by the G-7 program is equity finance.
4.5       Experience elsewhere suggests the importance of social considerations in enterprise
restructuring. The principal vehicles for addressing the social dimensions of the privatization and
restructuring processes would be the Bank's proposed Community Support Project, which is under
preparation outside the ESP, and the Bank's existing Employment Services Project. Finally, the
Bank's limited operational experience in Russia demonstrates the need for strong implementing
capacity and a very substantial implementing effort from the Bank. The ESP project design and
implementation plan take these lessons into full account.



- 16-
capacity and a very substantial implementing effort from the Bank. The ESP project design and
implementation plan take these lessons into full account.
B. Bank's Past Lendin! and Strategy
4.6       The existing Privatization Implementation Assistance Project (PIAP), supports the rapid
privatization program currently underway in Russia. IFC has provided advisory services for both
small-scale privatization and the MPP, assistance in developing an equity market, and assistance to a
pilot program for land privatization in Nizhny Novgorod. The Bank's Foreign Investment Aavisory
Service has provided advice on foreign investment aspects, while the Economic Development Institute
has been training significant numbers of privatization personnel and managers of privatized
enterprises. In the financial sector the Bank has provided advice on banking legislation supervision
accounting under its TCP program. The Bank has also carried out a review of the banking sector.
IFC has provided advice for capital market development and has invested in one of the commercial
banks and a country fund. In the social sector, the Employment Services and Social Protection
Project is beginning to create a framework for addressing the social dimensions of enterprise reform.
4.7       The most recent Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Russia was discussed with the
Board on May 19, 1994 in the context of the FIDP. At that time, the Bank recommended an
Intermediate Case lending program on the order of $1-1.5 billion annually (not including quick-
disbursing lending). The proposed project was included as one of the operations under the
Intermediate Case program. As described in the CAS, one of the major objectives for the Bank's
involvement in Russia is to support the development of a market-oriented economy based on private
sector initiatives. The proposed project provides an overall framework for assistance to the private
sector by external financing agencies that can make a valuable contribution to supporting the growth
of the private sector in Russia. The Bank has taken a leadership role in mobilizing support for this
framework by other donors, thereby contributing to the objective stated in the CAS of establishing the
Bank as a trusted adviser to the Government. The proposed project is therefore fully consistent with
the Bank's strategy for assistance to Russia. It is also integrated into and supplemented by a broad G-
7 program of post-privatization assistance to enterprises in the form of loans, equity, and technical
assistance. The Bank is also managing a US$36 million grant from Japan, which finances start-up
work for the ESP and the FIDP, including the accreditation of banks.
4.8       The recently approved FIDP seeks to increase the quantity and improve the quality of
banking services, promote banking stability, and contribute to a more efficient mobilization of
financial resources and aliocation of bank credit (including any bank lending financed by the Bank or
other international sources). The immediate goal is to strengthen a core group of banks which will:
(i) set higher banking standards and create a dynamic for improving the quality of banking activities
in Russia; (ii) provide the basis for a private clearance system opelating at the federal level; and (iii)
qualify as onlenders of Bank and other international lines of credit. The FIDP contains: (i) a
commercial banking component, consisting of institutional strengthening programs and systems
modernization and automation programs for the PB; (ii) a bank supervision component, consisting
primarily of the development of onsite supervisory capabilities and legal assistance for the CBR; and
(iii) a bank accounting component which will support the modernization of accounting and auditing
standards and practices. The FIDP is closely linked to the proposed pr.Ject, providing the framework
for the accreditation, the institutional strengthening, and the supervision of the commercial banks that



- 17 
will participate in the ESP. The FIDP would be followed in FY95 by a Russian Payment System
Loan directed at strengthening the clearing and settlement systems.
4.9       A proposed Export Development and Finance Project would address policy reform,
institution building and a credit line for pre-shipment export credit. A proposed Management and
Finance Training Project will address human resource formation in these areas. A proposed
Community Support Project would help oblasts and municipalities deal with the social effects of
enterprise restructuring. Last, the broad macro framework for structural adjustment is being
addressed in the context of the Second Rehabilitation Loan.
V. THE PROJECT
A. The Government's Privatization and Restructurin iProgram (PRP)
5.1       The primary objective of the PRP is to support the restructuring of privatized Russian
enterprises, one of the two enterprise groups on which the ESP focuses. Many recently privatized
enterprises have begun to restructure their operations and to improve productivity to meet the needs
of a market economy. However, most of the enterprises require at least modest amounts of technical
assistance, working capital and/or limited capital investment. The PRP has a regional focus because
it cannot provide full coverage throughout the Russian Federation: in initially 10 regions (each
covering one or several oblasts), PBs and ECAs, REFs, and LPCs will provide loan finance, equity
finance, and technical assistance, respectively. In these regions, enterprises will have access to a full
menu of support. While formal linkages among the institutions are not envisaged, it is expected that
a number of such linkages will emerge on a case-by-case basis, driven by enterprises which require
simultaneous access to several types of support. For example, a prospective sub-borrower of a PB
may require technical assistance to prepare a business plan and/or to prepare a sub-project proposal.
In both cases, the enterprise could approach the LPC in its region and obtain either direct assistance
or at least referral to appropriate sources of expertise. In another example, the equity investment that
an enterprise is negotiating with a REF may need to be supplemented by loan finance to realize
realize certain objectives. In this case the enterprise and the REF can turn to one of the PBs for a
sub-loan. These relationships will be more complicated in other regions where the PBs will be
represented but where there are no REFs and LPCs. In such cases the PBs or the enterprises will
have to identify other sources of technical assistance. This problem will diminish over time as more
REFs and LPCs are established. Annex 2 presents details of the PRP, including financial support
from the G-7 governments and international financial institutions.
B. Project Rationale and Objectives
5.2       Rationale. The proposed project is designed to provide term finance to new private and
newly privatized enterprises which would also have access to equity financing from REFs and
technical assistance from LPCs under the PRP. It thus helps ensure that private enterprises have
access to the technical and financial services needed to expand and to grow, and/or to restructure to
become competitive. An adjusting and adapting private sector will validate the enterprise reforms
carried out to date; a failure to do so would discredit the reform effort in the enterprise sector,
including privatization.



- 18 -
5.3       Obiective. The objective of the proposed project is:
(a) to provide presently unavailable market-based, medium-term finance to private
enterprises for incremental capital investments and permanent working capital; and
(b) to assist a core group of commercial banks in initiating term lending to private
enterprises
C.   Detailed Project Description
1. Participating Banks (PBs)
5.4       Twenty private candidate PBs have been selected during a multi-stage selection process
carried out since mid-1993 in the context of the FIDP preparation in close collaboration with the
Russian authorities and with the support from a number of donors. The process involved (i) brief
familiarization visits to about 30 banks to develop an up-to-date assessment of the condition of a
cross-section of commercial banks; (ii) preparing an objective selection methodology; (iii) screening
the some 2000 Russian banks to select those which would be diagnosed more intensively; (iv)
conducting diagnostic reviews of 45 banks; and (v) selecting 20 candidate banks. Annex-3 presents
detaiis of the screening and selection process. Additional banks meeting the selection criteria could
be accredited during project implementation, but in order to retain manageability, it is intended to
allow participation by at most 35 banks. Annex 4 summarizes the accreditation procedure, Annex 5
the accreditation criteria and the performance monitoring of the PB; and Annex 6 the prudential
standards that PB will have to meet.
5.5       The 20 PB candidates are in 9 cities spanning the Russian Federation: four in St.
Petersburg, six in Moscow, one in Togliatti, two in Ekaterinburg, one in Tyumen, one in Omsk, two
in Kemerovo, one in Khabarovsk, and two in Vladivostok. Through their branch networks, these
banks serve all major economic areas of the country (the map attached to this report illustrates the
distribution of PBs' head offices and branch networks). The regional representation is consistent with
the geographic pattern of REFs and LPCs that are being established under the PRP in some 10 areas
of Western and Southern Russia, Siberia, the Urals and the Far East.
5.6       Among the 20 private banks is a mixture of "zero" banks (new banks) and "spin-offs"
from former state specialized banks. The twenty banks also vary widely in size, from several of the
largest Russian commercial banks, to relatively small banks. The aggregate capitalization of the
candidate PB is about US$700 million on the basis of June 1993 data. Under the FIDP, the PBs will
be twinned with foreign banks. As of end March 1994, already about 20 foreign banks had expressed
strong interest in twinning with Russian banks.
2. Credit Demand
5.8       Credit demand at the enterprise level has been assessed through a recent survey of
privatized enterprises. Most of the companies have access to short-term working capital finance from
commercial banks, but very few to loans longer than 12 months. Many enterprises expressed interest
in medium-term (2-3 years), hard currency, investment loans. At the same time, near-term issues



- 19 -
including day-today survival in an unstable macroeconomic environment, and sorting out profitable
from unprofitable product lines, were equally high priorities for a majority of the firms.
5.9       Credit demand by commercial banks has been assessed through two detailed rounds of
interviews with II of the 20 candidate PBs, representing approximately 75% of the aggregate capital
of the PBs. These banks have expressed a strong interest in the project and are ready to complete the
preparation of a number of sub-projects as soon as they have been accredited. An approximate
analysis of loan demand and type of project indicates a diversity of projects, including a variety of
manufacturing projects, and some oil and gas investments, with the latter limited by sub-loan size.
less than full privatization, and concern about high receivables in the oil and gas sectors.
5.10      The total estimated demand from these 11 banks in the first year is about US$310 million.
This suggests that the proposed ESP lending of US$300 will be taken up. There is upside potential
from the other 9 candidate banks as well as from additional banks that may be accredited. On the
other hand, it is not easy to predict the rate at which the banks will be accredited, nor the quality and
number of initial projects they will propose. Macroeconomic and political uncertainties also need to
be considered. An early follow-up operation would be considered if needed.
3. Terms and Conditions
5.11      During negotiations, agreement has been reached on the terms and conditions for the line
of credit through the PB as follows:
(a)    Sub-Borrowers. Eligible sub-borrowers will be legally separate civilian enterprises
with at least 75% private ownership, audited accounts or accounts approved by the tax
authorities, and a satisfactory business plan.
(b)    Sub-Prjects.
(i)   The acquisition of land, refinancing of existing obligations, and tobacco
related investments will not be eligible for financing.
(ii)   Sub-projects will have to comply with the environmental standards of the
national environmental protections agencies and standards acceptable to the
Bank.
(c)    Sub-Loans.
(i)  Sub-loans will be made for productive investment and incremental working
capital in  dustry and services.
(ii)  Sub-loans for real estate development may be made hi pilot areas and
according to criteria and procedures acceptable to the Bank. It was agreed
that Government will provide these to the Bank by December 31, 1994.
(iii)  Sub-loans will be evaluated in accordance with the PB's normal project and
credit evaluation procedures, but will also cover the evaluation aspects set out



- 20 -
in Annex 7. The sub-loan review will be supplemented by a review of the
business plan of the enterprise. PBs will be provided with a checklist for
business plans which they may use for guidance.
(iv)  Sub-Loans will be in US Dollars. The foreign exchange risk will be borne
by the sub borrower. Sub-loan pricing will be determined by the PB who
will be free to set their lending rates in response to market conditions. Sub-
loan maturity will not be less than 1 year and not more than 9 years, and the
grace period will not exceed two years.
(v)  The sub-loan amount will not exceed $ 10 million unless otherwise agreed by
the Bank.
(d)    Sub-Loan Review. PBs will be required to submit to the Bank for approval the
following sub-loans, which are estimated to rep esent about 50% of the total loan
amount and number of all sub-loans:
(i)   The first two sub-loan appraisals of each PB.
(ii)   Sub-loans above US$ 5 million or greater than 10% of a bank's capital or
greater than 20% of the bank's capital if the sub-loan cofinances an equity
investment by a REF.
(iii)   Sub-loans financing real estate development.
(e)    Subsidiary Loans. Only commercial banks which have been audited and accredited
under FIDP procedures would be allowed to participate in the credit line. PBs will
also undertake, under the FIDP, an institutional strengthening program and
demonstrate achievement of agreed milestones of prudential standards and
performance improvement. Accreditation of at least 4 banks would be a condition of
effectiveness. Government would make subsidiary loans to PBs under the following
main terms and conditions:
(i)   Funds will be available on a first come first serve basis, up to 100% of each
bank's capital.
(ii)   The currency will be US Dollars. The interest rate charged will be equal to
the base rate of the weighted average cost of funds to the Government-' plus
2.I %. The base rate will be adjusted semi-annually and the subsidiary
interest rate will be adjusted as required by the above formula. A
commitment fee of 0.33% p.a. will be charged on the balance of undisbursed
commitments to individual banks, averaging commitment fees by IBRD
The base rate is calculated according to the following formula: (2/3)[World Bank VLRj +
(1/3)[LEBOR + 1%]



- 21 -
(0.25%) and EBRD (0.5%). At present this would imply a rate of around
9% p.a.
(iii)  A signing fee of US$25,000 would be payable at the time of signing of the
subsidiary loan agreement and would count against interest charges incurred
under the agreement.
(iv)  The subsidiary loan term would be for 12 years, including a grace period of
two years. A premium of 0.125% would be charged on amounts prepaid.
The PB would be required to commit to utilizing the liquidity that arises from
the mis-matching of the terms of the subsidiary loans and those of the sub-
loans to the enterprises for financing further loans to eligible enterprises for
eligible purposes. During negotiations it was agreed that any reflows to the
Government would only be used either to service the EBRDI/IBRD) loans or
for relending to the PBs under the terms of the ESP. Government has
agreed to establish a separate account for the reflows.
(v)  The commitment period for subsidiary loans under the credit line would be 3
years, and the disbursement period 5 years, both from IBRD/EBRD loan
effectiveness. This is consistent with the Bank wide disbursement profile for
financial intermediation operations.
D. Project Cost and fm gncin Plan
5.12         vProect Cost. The cost of the proposed project is estimated at US$300 million
equivalent and is summarized in Table 5.1 below.
Tab-e 5.1: Project Cost
omponent                                 Local           Foreign           Toal
-(S$ million)       --
Sub-Loan Equipment and Materials           29.6            266.4           296.0
Sub-Loan Consulting Services                1.0              3.0             4.0
Total:                                30.6           3269.4              .0
5.13      Financing Plan.  The Bank's loan of US$200 million would be made as a currency pool
loan at the Bank's standard variable interest rate. The EBRD portion of US$100 milli,n would be
provided in TJS dollars at a margin of 1 % above LIBOR. Government would blend EBRD and Bank
funds and onlend them in US dollar at a variable interest rate equal to the average cost of EBRD and
IBRD funds, plus a margin of 2.5% rounded to the nearest 0.5% interval. The margin would be
expected to cover (i) the Government's cross currency risk, (ii) the default risk on the subsidiary
loans to the PB; and (iii) loan administration by the Project Implementation Unit (PIU). Cofinancing
by EBRD and the Bank will be done on a joint basis. Detailed discussions between EBRD and the
Bank have taken place regarding disbursement documentation, procurement requirements, and special
account arrangements. These agreements will be documented in a colenders agreement. 11



- 22 -
fUlfillment of all conditions precedent to the EBRD loan other than those related to the effectiveness
of the Bank's loan agreement is a condition of Loan Effectiveness. The PIU, which would serve
both the FIDP and ESP, is being established under and would be financed under the FIDP with
resources from EBRD (US$4 million), Japanese Grant funds (US$2 million) and the Bank's FIDP
loan (US$1.5 million). Effectiv,eness of the FIDP is a condition of Loan Effectiveness . Project
financing is summarized in Table 5.2 below.
Table 5.2: Financing Plan
Financing Sources                        Local           Foreign           Local
-(---~(US$ million)---
IBRD                                       20.4            179.6           200.0
EBRD                                       10.2             89.8            100 0
Total:                                30 6              9.4            300.0
VI.  PROJECT IMPIM          ATION ARRANGEMENTS
A.  Bank Reviei Unit
6.1       Only commercial banks which have been audited and accredited under the FIDP would be
allowed to participate in the ESP. Additional banks may be accredited during the project
implementation period; the accreditation status of a bank may also be temporarily suspended or
permanently revoked. A Bank Review Unit (BRU), established under the FIDP, staffed with senior
bankers and reporting to the Minister of Finance and the Governor of the Central Bank of Russia,
will monitor the performance of the banks and advise on matters of bank accreditation and
deaccreditation. Accreditation decisions for existing and prospective PBs as well as requesting non-
performing PBs to take corrective actions, will be made by the Minister of Finance and the Governor
of the Central Bank of Russia.
B. Proiect Implementation Unit
6.2.      Implementation of the proposed project will be administered by the PIU, reporting to the
Minister of Finance or his appointee. The PIU's function will be strictly administrative and
unintrusive or the business of the PB. Given the close interrelationship between the ESP and the
FIDP, the PIU will serve both projects.
6.3       The general responsibilities of the PIU, relative to the ESP, will include: (i) the
administration of subsidiary loan agreements on behalf of the Ministry of Finance; (ii) providing
assistance, and proactive advice to PBsand sub-borrowers on all aspects of the line of credit, including
terms and conditions, procurement, disbursement, and environment; (iii) actively promoting and
marketing the line of credit to enterprises; (iv) submitting to IBRD/EBRD those sub-loan proposals
req*iring their prior approval; (v) monitoring, on an ex-post basis, the eligibility of sub-loans below
the free limit; (vi) carrying out periodic analyses of the subsidiary loans and associated sub-loan



- 23 -
portfolios; and (vii) reporting to Goverrnent and IBRD/EBRD, and preparing the Project Completion
Report for the ESP.
6.4       The PIU will be established as an agent of the Government and as such will have the
power to administer the implementation on behalf of the Government. Subsidiary loan agreements
will be signed by the Minister of Finance. Under the authority of the Head of the PIU, who has been
appointed, the PIU will consist of five sections, i.e. credit, procurement, accounting/disbursement,
banking, and banking technology. The credit section serves the ESP, the procurement and accounting
sections both the ESP and FIDP, and the banking and banking technology sections the FIDP. The
sections will be managed respectively by a credit specialist, procurement officer, disbursement
officer, a banking specialist, and a bank technology specialist. The credit section will be staffed with
the section manager, two credit assistants and one support staff. The procurement section will have
four professional staff, as will the accounting and disbursement section. Overall staffing of the PIU,
including the section managers, will include about twelve higher level staff, four assistant level staff,
and eight support level staff. Terms of reference for the credit, procurement, and
accounting/disbursement sections are shown in Annex 8.
6.5       The PIU activities will be carried out by a consulting firm supplemented by contract
services in the areas of procurement, legal accounting, and auditing. The Ministry of Finance will be
the contractual party for the consulting services. The head of the PIU, assisted by two higher level
staff, will be responsible for overseeing and managing the consulting contracts. Signature of the PIU
consultfing contract is a condition of Loan Effectiveness.
6.6       Reports. The PIU will report quarterly on the performance of the credit line, including
(i) sub-loan commitments and disbursements; (ii) subsidiary k an and subloan portfolio performance
for the period; (iii) a report on sample sub-loans reviewed inoicating compliance with subloan
eligibility criteria. Commercial banks will be required to report to the PIU, providing the information
needed for the PIU to comply with its reporting requiremeists. Sub-loan credit files, including
procurement documentation will be available on demand for PIU inspection. A project completion
report will be provided by the PIU to the Bank not later than six month after the closing date.
C. Prcurem-ent and Disbursement
6.7       Procurement. Procurement will be undertaken by the enterprises themselves with advice
as necessary from the PBs and the PIU. Procurement procedures under the proposed project would
be those established for financial intermediation operations under the Bank's procurement guidelines.
Goods costing less than US$250,000 equivalent will be procured based on 3 quotations in accordance
with Bank guidelines. Goods costing between US$250,000 and US$4 million equivalent will be
procured through international shopping on the basis of at least three competitive quotations obtained
from suppliers in three eligible countries. Full ICB will be required for goods above US$4 million
except in cases where goods are available from a limited number of qualified suppliers, in which case
limited international bidding procedures will be used. The Bank's Standard Bidding Documents
would be used for all ICB procurement. Prior Bank review is anticipated for (i) the first two
contracts financed by each commercial bank, and (ii) all ICB procurement. Consultant services will
be procured in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactorv to the Bank on the basis of the
Bank's guidelines for consultants. Contracts for consultant services valued at greater than



- 24 -
US$250,000, and single-source consulting contracts will be subject to the Bank's prior review and
approval. Other consulting contracts will be subject to the Bank's ex-post review.
6.8       Disbursements. Bank funds will be used to finance (i) the fixed assets and permanent
working capital needs of enterprises; and (ii) the cost of preparing feasibility and other studies
relevant to subprojects to be financed. Neither existing obligations nor the purchase of land will be
financed. The Bank will disburse sub-loans pari passu with EBRD on a 2:1 ratio: (i) 67% of foreign
expenditure of the CIF cost of imported goods, materials and feasibility studies and (ii) 47% of local
expenditure for goods, materials, and feasibility studies.
6.9    Applications will be fully documented for: (i) the first two disbursement transactions of each
PB; and (ii) all ICB contracts. The required documentation will include copies of the contract,
invoices, and any other documents as might be requested.
6.10      Applications for payments will be made on the basis of Statements of Expendiiure for all
disbursement transactions regarding sub-loans except (i) the first two transactions for each PB; (ii)
transactions relating to ICB procured goods; and (iii) consulting services above US$250,000. The
Statements of Expenditure will provide the following information: name of PB, amount of sub-loan,
amount previously claimed, amount presently claimed, reference to the sub-loan file, type of
expenditure (capital goods, working capital, services), and method of payment (special account, direct
payment, special commitment, reimbursement).
6.11      The PBs will have the primary responsibility for maintaining credit files with complete
documentation on the use of loan proceeds for all sub-loans. The credit fies will be available for
inspection by IBRD/EBRD missions. The PIU will also collect and keep copies of relevant sub-loan
documentation. The commitment period for the line of credit would end on December 31, 1997 and
the disbursement period on December 31, 1999. The closing date for the loan would be June 30,
2000, consistent with the standard disbursement profile for a financial intermediation operation.
6.12      Special Account. To facilitate the disbursement of funds, a Special Account will be
established. The account will be maintained in a commercial bank selected by the Government and
acceptable to the Bank. The commercial bank will be selected on the basis of competitive bidding.
Selection criteria for participation in the bids are: (i) the bank must be financially sound as indicated
by audited financial statements; (ii) the bank would have a significant foreign correspondence network
covering all major currencies; (iii) the bank would have a reasonable capacity and experience for
issuing letters of credit, for making direct foreign payments and other international transactions; (iv)
the bank should be capable of performing a wide range of local banking services, including cash
payments, transfers to other domestic banks, issuance of debit notes, application of conversion rates
from foreign currencies and maintenance of adequate accounts for the Special Account; (v) the bank
should preferably be a member of SWIFT (Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial
Telecommunications) and should routinely use or plan to use this facility to expedite payment
transfers; (vi) the bank should be willing to issue a Comfort Letter to assure that amounts deposited in
the Special Account will not be set off or otherwise seized or attached; (vii) the bank would be
willing to maintain adequate accounts as required by the Bank, provide monthly bank statements to
the Bank and the PIU, and any other information considered necessary. Copies of all transactions
would be routinely submitted to the PIU. The initial deposit to the Special Account will be based on
project expenditures expected to be paid through the Special Account, with a maximum amount equal



- 25 -
to about three months of average project expenditures to be financed by the Bank, currently estimated
at US$8 million. The account will be opened in the name of the Borrower and will be administered
by the PIU which will send requests to the Bank for replenishment of the Special Account. These
requests will be accompanied by detailed monthly bank statements of the Special Account and with all
other required documentation.
D. Accounts and Audits
6.13      Accounts. The Borrower will have the responsibility for the appropriate accounting of the
funds provided by the Bank under the loan, for reporting on the use of these funds, and for ensuring
that audits of the financial statements or reports are submitted to the Bank. The PIU, on behalf of the
Borrower, will establish an appropriate accounting system to provide information on the proper
receipt and use of funds in accordance with the Loan Agreement. This system should ensure timely
and accurate accounting of all transactions under the loan and clear presentation of financial
information.
6.14      Commercial banks would maintain accounts for sub-loans including supporting
procurement and disbursement documents, which, together with the special account, would be audited
annually by external auditors acceptable to the Bank.
6.15      Audits. Audit reports for the PIU and each commercial bank will be submitted to the
Bank no later than three months after the close of a financial year. The commercial bank audits will
include a certification that the commercial bank is in compliance with the provisions of the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement. Enterprises, as part of their sub-project documentation, will have to provide
audited accounts or accounts which have been approved by the tax authorities.
E. SupXflvison and Monitoring
6.16      Supervision will be undertaken jointly with EBRD. The project supervision plan is shown
in Annex 9. The plan includes the schedule for Bank supervision missions, the skill mix required,
staff week input and cost. An average of 3 supervision missions per year are planned. Staff week
inputs would be 40 and 25 in FY95 and 96 respectively, including 9 staff weeks for sub-loan review.
A start-up mission is planned for July 1994 and a project launch seminar for September 1994. A
mid-term review is planned for early 1996.
6.17      The Bank's monitoring will be at two levels: (i) the participating banks; and (ii) sub-
loans. Monitoring of the PBs will focus on (i) the accreditation of PBs; (ii) financial performance of
the PB and compliance with agreed prudential standards; and (iii) performance under subsidiary loans
(commitments, disbursements, debt service). Monitoring of institutional development of the PBs will
take place under the FIDP. Sub-loans will be monitored with respect to (i) sub-loans submitted; (ii)
sub-loans approved; (iii) commitments and disbursements under each sub-loan; and (iv) sub-loan
recovery rate.



-26 -
F.  Enviwonmetal As"ects
6.18      An Environmental Requirements and Procedures Mawual will set out the standards to be
met by sub-borrowers and commercial banks along the following lines:
(a)    Sub-Project Screening Categories. The three categories are defined below and reflect
increasing levels of potential impact (I=lowest, Ul=highest) on the environment:
(i)  Catgoy I. These are sub-projects whose environmental impact is expected to be
negligible and which require no environmental analysis. The sub-projects may
however require the incorporation of environmental improvements in the project
design through modifications based on recommendations proposed by the the
respective Local Environment Committee under whose jurisdiction the enterprise
operates.
(ii) Category II. These are sub-projects which may include some of the environmentally
sensitive attributes referred to under Category III below but on a much smaller scale
with a localized area of impact. These projects will require an environmental analysis
specifying how the project will meet national/regional environmental standardsA, and -
within these standards - minimize any negative environmental impact. These would
also include projects in which an analysis could identify significant positive
environmental improvements which could be achieved through small, inexpensive
design modifications.
(iii)  Category I. These are sub-projects which have one or more of the following
attributes: (i) impact on pollution discharges likely to cause air, water, and/or soil
degradation of sufficient magnitude to pose threats to human health, national
ecosystems or economic activities; (ii) extraction, consumption, conversion/diversion
or disturbance of substantial amounts of a natural resource, e.g. forest, river, wetland,
groundwater; (iii) large-scale physical disturbance of site and/or surroundings; (iv)
activities located in or near sensitive or valuable ecosystems; and (v) hazardous
materials in more than incidental quantities, and hazardous working conditions. A full
environmental impact analysis would be required for these projects.
(b)    Sub-Proiect Environmental Review.
(i) Sub-Borrower (Enterprise). The sub-borrower will be responsible for carrying out
any environmental analysis and for confirming that the proposed sub-project complies
with national/regional environmental guidelines, including public participation as
stipulated by law. It would be the responsibility of the sub-borrower to obtain
clearance from the Local Environment Committee.
In cases where Russian standards exceed international ones, it would be sufficient that subprojects
comply with international norms with a reasonable timetable established for meeting Russian
standards.



- 27 -
(ii) PBs. The banks will be responsible for environmental classification of sub-projects,
and ensuring that each sub-loan proposal includes an evaluation of its environmental
impact and clearance documentation from the Local Environment Committee. The
PBs will also be responsible for monitoring that environmental remedies agreed under
a sub-loan are indeed carried out. In order to meet the manual's requirements and to
handle the environmental aspects of loan portfolio development and review, the PBs
will need to have adequate expertise at their disposition. The PBs may externally
contract such expertise and/or they may hire permanent specialist staff.
(iii) PIU. The PIU will be responsible for (i) the distribution and explanation of the
environmental manual to the PBs; (ii) monitoring of sub-loans including verification
that the banks have categorized each subloan and that the analysis required under the
environmental manual has been carried out. As part of its regular reporting, the PIU
will indicate the environmental categories of all sub-loans. The PIU will have
environmental expertise at its disposal to provide guidance and advice to commercial
banks.
(iv)  IBRD/EBRD. They will review environmental aspects within the parameters of their
normal ex-ante sub-loan review. Other sub-loans will be reviewed on an ex-post basis
as part of project supervision.
(v) Local Environment Committee. These committees, which are Russia's local
environmental agencies, will be responsible for issuing permits to enterprises;
reviewing sub-project submissions for clearances and environment analyses,
assessments, and audits; overall monitoring of industry compliance with emissions and
effluent standards; and collection of fees and fines.
G.  Sta   of P;rojed Perion.
6.19      The General Manager of the PIU has been appointed. The letter of invitation for the
main PIU contract has been issued. A first group of seven commercial banks has been audited under
the FIDP, the twinning process for four has begun, and the first accreditations are expected in June.
Audits for the second group have begun in early May with audit reports expected during June and
accreditations beginning in August. The environmental manual has been completed. A project start-
up mission is planned for July 1994.
VIH. BENEFITS AND RISKS
7.1       Benefits. The project will assist a core group of commercial banks to initiate term
lending to private enterprises. The term finance, which will be combined with assistance for the
development of business plans, will normally be for relatively small incremental investments and
permanent working capital, helping some enterprises to achieve substantial efficiency improvements as
part of their restructuring efforts and others to expand and to seize growth opportunities.
7.2       Risks. The project faces substantial risks. One risk is the unstable macroeconomic
situation which makes lending and borrowing riskier and which in some cases may lead to resource



- 28 -
allocation decisions based on financial signals which differ from economic ones. Some degree of
alleviation is provided by the fact that sub-loans are not likely to finance major new industrial
facilities and equipment, but rather relatively small incremental investments and working capital with
relatively short gestation periods. Larger sub-loans will be reviewed by the Bank, taking into account
the economic rate of return. Sectors with major price distortions would be excluded. Another risk
stems from institutional weaknesses. The private commercial banks are new, some of them are
relatively small, and all are still learning traditional commercial bank functions. Term financing
would be an added element of risk for them. Technical assistance and close supervision under the
FIDP would be provided to control this risk. There are also risks associated with lack of loan
demand and loan repayments. Regarding the former, the loan amount has been conservatively
estimated based on a carefully designed enterprise survey and extensive interviews commercial banks.
With respect to the default risk, the commercial banks are very risk averse and have thus far
maintained their high collection rates.
VIII. AGREEMEITS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.1       Agreements and conditions would be as follows:
(a) During negotiations, agreement was reached on the detailed terms and conditions for
the line of credit (para. 5.1 1), including for subsidiary loans, sub-loans, sub-project
eligibility, appraisal and review, lending for real estate development, and the
treatment of reflows to Government.
(b) Prior to Loan Effectiveness:
(i)   at least 4 banks accredited (para. 5.11 (e));
(ii)   EBRD loan conditions met, other than those related to the effectiveness
of the Bank's loan agreement (para. 5.13);
(iii)   FIDP loan effective (para. 5.13);
(iv)    consulting contract for PIU signed (para 6.5).
8.2       The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan to the the Russian
Federation in the amount of US$200 million at the standard variable interest rate for multi-currency
loans for a period of 17 years, including a grace period of five years.



- 29 -
ANNE I
Page 1 of 5
RUSSIA
ENTERPRISE SUPPORT PROJECT
The Privatization Program of the Russian Ederation
Introduction
1.    The program centers around a mass privatization scheme for some 25,000 medium and large
industrial SOEs, including agro-industrial enterprises and certain types of specialized farms. It also
comprises the privatization of some of the 1,000 largest and most complex enterprises, as well as the
privatization of more than 200,000 small manufacturing, retail, and service businesses under mostly
regional and municipal ownership. Its design is based on a simple and consistent framework for first
corporatizing and then privatizing large numbers of firms while providing a degree of widespread
ownership through the use of vouchers.
Legal Framework
2.    The original legal foundation for the program was the Law on Privatization of State and
Municipal Enterprises of July 3, 1991 (also known as the 1992 privatization program). It provided for
the establishment of the State Committee for the Management of State Property (GKI) and the regional
and local State Property Management Committees (MKIs), answerable to GKI. Under the umbrella of
this law, a large number of subsidiary regulations, rules and determinations have been issued by
Presidential edicts, Government decrees and regulations of GXI or other agencies. There were also
Property Funds that operated outside the governmental apparatus, being accountable solely to the
parliamentary bodies that created them. The Statute of the Federal Property Fund (FPF) was approved by
the Supreme Soviet under the Law on the Russian Pederal Property Fund of July 3, 1991. The FPF was
responsible fo- the ownership and control of federal property to be privatized under the privatization
program, acting as shareholder and seller of such property.
3.    In light of the sweeping nature of the legal changes required in Russia to fully accommodate a
market economy, it is not surprising that there were inconsistencies and inadequacies in the legal
framework for privatization. One problem in this regard was the separate reporting structure of the MKIs
and the property funds. However, in November 1993 President Yeltsin issued a decree that subordinated
the property funds to GKI, thus removing a major formal dichotomy in the privatization apparats.
Also, in December 1993 President Yeltsin passed a comprehensive decree known as the 1994
Privatization Program, which sets important additional privatization objectives (such as to complete the
privatization of the majority of small privatization objects), but also reinforced previous policy limitations
on the privatization of several important sectors such as mineral resources. Nonetheless, taken overall, the
present laws concerning privatization represent an acceptable level of adequacy to support the
privatization program, as has been demonstrated by the impressive progress so far.
Institutional Framework
4.    The Privatization Law assigns to the GKI the task of conceiving and managing the privatization
program, and bringing enterprises through the process of corporatation. The task of selling the



- 30 -
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
enterprises and distributing the proceeds to the stipulated parties is assigned to one of the Property Funds,
but GKI has in practice been the driving force behind the process. Due to the vastness of Russia, the
privatization process has necessarily been decentralized, with important roles for sub-national
governments and local arrangements in determining the details of transactions. MKIs and Regional
Property Funds exist in all of the 90 oblasts and 20 municipalities that make up the Russian Federation;
they have been striking specific and localized agreements to divide their work.
5.    GKI is directing the privatization process through the Russian Privatization Center (RPC), which
was set up in the context of the preparation of the Bank's Privatization Implementation Assistance Project
(PIAP), Loan 3546-RU. RPC has a staff (February 1994) of 45, and is expected to reach a maximum
staff strength of about 80. However, RPC has been able to work through a large number of consultants
from experienced international consulting firms, largely financed by USAID, and has in this way been
able to have an impact out of all proportion to its own staff strength.
Enterprises Subject to Privatization
6.    The Government has divided its universe of state owned enterprises into three categories: small,
medium and large. A small enterprise has a book value of fixed capital of less than 10 million Rubles
(1992), or less than 200 employees; a medium one - up to 50 million Rubles, or 1,000 employees; and a
Iarge one - more than 50 million Rubles, or more than 1,000 employees. About 90,000 small-scale
objects are subject to the small-scale privatization program. Medium sized companies are part of the
mass privatization program, but were not subject to mandatory corporatization before privatization,
although they could elect to do so. Large enterprises were subject to mandatory corporatization. As of
October 1993, there were close to 14,000 medium and large enterprises subject to privatization under the
voucher privatization program. Reportedly, about 280 of these are so-called "very large enterprises" with
over 10,000 employees or book value in excess of 150 million rubles (1992).
7.    Under the 1994 privatization program, privatization is prohibited for a broad range of enterprises,
including mineral, forest and water resources, railroads, and enterprises for the extraction of precious
stones. Another list of enterprises is privatizable only by a decision of the Government of the Russian
Federation, including enterprises and associations of the fuel and energy complex, enterprises of sea and
air transport of federal importance, and commercial banks. For such enterprises (and also other
especially large and important entities), privatization will in practice be determined on a case-by-case
basis, and many privatizations are likely to be only partial for the time being. Most of Russia's defence
industries (often now producing primarily for civilian markets) are also excluded from full privatization.
8.    Objects and enterprises subject to mandatory privatization under the 1994 program include
wholesale and retail objects and enterprises, construction and constructions materials entities, entities
involved in "commerce, the food-services industry, and basic services of the population", hotels, and
automobile transport.
9.    Mass Privatization of Large Enterprises. Following corporatization, large firms must begin the
process of selecting, and launching, a privatization process, from among three pre-determined options.
The two main ones, representing 99% of all privatizations, are described below. This aspect of the
program is largely decentralized. Preparatory work and submissions to reviewing authorities are mainly
the responsibility of the large enterprises themselves.



- 31 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3 of S
(a)  Option 1. Workers in enterprises are given, gratis, 25% of the shares, subject to a value
cap; i.e., the value of the shares given to any individual may not exceed 20 minimum
monthly salaries. These shares are non-voting. Managers are given the opportunity to
purchase up to 5% of the stock at par, which will be based on historical accounting, or
Tbook' value (also subject to a value cap). Workers are given the opportunity to purchase
10% of shares - over and above the 25% distributed free -- at a 30% discount from book
value, with 20% down and payment in installments over 3 years, again subject to a value
cap. The state initially holds the balance of 60-70%, divided between voting and non-
voting shares. The state's voting shares cannot exceed 20% of all shares. An enterprise
choosing option one must submit to Government a proposal on how the remaining shares
are to be divested.
(b)  Option 2. Employees (workers and managers) may purchase 51% of shares, at the price of
170% of book value. In this option no free transfer or concessionary prices are offered,
nor are any special credit arrangements offered; payment in full is required within 90 days.
However, vouchers may be used here, as in the other options. This option must be
approved by a 2/3 majority of the workers' collective. When exercised, this option, and
this one alone, produces immediate majority privatization of the firm.
10.   Mass Privatization of Medium Enterprises. Medium enterprises not converted into joint stock
companies (in which case they privatize under the same options as the large companies) will be sold either
to external purchasers, or be divested through internal buyouts. If one-third or more of the workers
participate in an internal buyout, they will receive up to a 30% discount from the face value, and they can
pay in instailments over three years. In an internal buyout, the workers may receive from 10 to 30% of
the proceeds, if the sale is to non-employees. Once again, this is subject to a value cap.
11.   Privatization of Small Scale Enterprises. Small-scale enterprises were typically owned by
municipal and regional government, which are the institutions ultimately responsible for their
privatization. Normally the small enterprises have been sold through competitive auctions and tenders
carried out by the MKIs and the Regional Property Funds, with large regional variances in attitude and
speed of privatization.
12    Vouchers. The Government introduced a nation-wide voucher scheme in late 1992. Unitary
vouchers were issued throughout Russia with the announced intention of subsequent tranches. Vouchers
were denominated in rubles, each with a face value of 10,000 rubles. Their expiration date was
originally December 31, 1993, but this has been extended to June 30, 1994. Distribution to Russian
citizens (one each) took place on the basis of registers prepared by regional committees established by
GKI using housing authority records. Vouchers were immediately tradable. To facilitate trading, speed
of divestiture, and diversify risk, investment funds have been licensed and serve as financial
intermediaries in the privatization process. These funds must exchange not less than 50% of their stock
for vouchers and invest at least 50% of their funds in the securities of enterprises to be privatized, but
cannot buy more than 10% of the stock of an enterprise to be privatized. Vouchers can also be used by
workers to buy their shares directly.



- 32 -
ANNE I
Page 4 of S
Privatization Results
13.   Overall Trends and Statistics. In terms of speed and quantity of enterprises privatized, the
privatization record is nothing less than impressive: of the approximately 14,000 medium and large-scale
enterprises undergoing privatization in Russia's voucher auction program, as at the end of March 1994,
about 8,500 enterprises had passed through the voucher auction process, with the number of voucher
auctions proceeding at the rate of some 600 to 700 enterprises per month. This represents over 80 billion
rubles of charter capital sold in enterprises which employ approximately 8.6 million workers, or
approximately 40% third of Russia's industrial work force. Distribution of shares typically occurs as
follows:
(a)  Although a Presidential Decree requires that 29 percent of each enterprise's shares are to be
sold by way of voucher auction, on average this figure typically so far reaches only 20 to
22 percent.
(b)  Prior to the voucher auction, the majority of shares are typically purchased by management
and workers. As of July 1, 1993, 77.8 percent of enterprises were corporatized according
to Option 2 and 21.0 percent by Option 1. This trend appears to be continuing. Under
Option 2, workers and management may purchase 51 percent of shares at 1.7 times book
value. The fact that values are not indexed to inflation and fear of control passing to
outsiders may help explain why this option is exercised so frequently.
(c)  After the voucher auction process is complete, an additional 5 percent of the shares sold by
voucher auction are sold by way of cash auction, to pay for auction expenses (i.e. slightly
more than 1 percent of enterprise shares).
(d)  After the voucher auction, up to 20 percent, or more of the shares in many organizations
remain in the hands of the oblast Property Funds, or in the hands of GKI for the larger
companies. The divestiture of these shares is being encouraged by RPC.
(e)  Of the 146 million vouchers issued under Russian's mass privatization program,
approximately 50 million had been collected (e.g., exchanged for shares and retired from
circulation) as of December, 1993.
14.   GKI is directing the privatization process through the RPC, which is managing this process with a
core staff in Moscow of only 45 people; the process is highly decentralized to the 88 oblasts. While
RPC's target of completing voucher auctions on all 14,000 enterprises may not be fully met by June 30,
1994, it should at least be nearing completion.
15    The AU Russia Auction Center. Most enterprises are auctioned at the oblast (i.e., regional)
level. RPC has recently established an All FRussia Auction Center, which has succeeded in auctioning
approximately 7 major firms (book value in excess of 500 million rubles) per week on a national level.
The Center will play a key role in auctioning some of Russia's major enterprises that are scheduled for
auction in this year.



- 33 -
ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 5
16    Corporate Governance and Secondary Markets. One of the key ingredients to the success of
privatization will be the emergence of active secondary markets. Currently, the majority of the 8,500
recently privatized companies do not have functioning share registries. Partly because shares cannot be
traded unless registered, workers tend to consider shares an enhancement to their job security, rather than
as an investment. Although efforts are under way to improve registration systems, and a Presidential
Decree dated October 26, 1993 mandates an independent third party registry for all enterprises with over
1,000 employees, major gaps remain to be remedied before Russia's secondary markets become healthy:
primarily backroom operations such as depository, clearing and settlement systems. Secondary markets
would also be enhanced by an electronic bulletin board trading system (such as an over the counter
system, similar to NASDAQ in the US, which electronically links buyers and sellers of shares). These
measures would permit stronger corporate governance groups to emerge, forcing companies to obey
market forces and restructure. A securities exchange commission for the Russian Federation to provide a
regulatory framework for secondary markets has also been created.
17    "Leased" Enterprises. In addition to the 14,000 enterprises that are undergoing the voucher
auction process, there are approximately 9,000 medium- and large-scale enterprises which were leased by
workers' collectives under old Soviet law, where the workers' collective has exercised an option to
purchase shares under the old lease. These companies are typically held by way of non-tradable shares in
"closed" joint stock companies.
18.   Small-Scale Privatization.  GKI reports 57,720 small-scale objects (mostly retail and service
establishments) sold as of the end of September 1993, rep; esenting 61 percent of objects available for
privatization. When calculating the percentage, other sources believe that there are many more small-
scale enterprises (approx. 270,000) than within GI;'s stati.tics in which case less than 25 percent of
small-scale objects have been privatized. Auctions have baen used as the method of privatization in less
than 20 percent of objects, the majority being 'insider' buyouts based on book value.
19.   Donor Support. Several donors have been active in their assistance to RPC. In particular,
USAID has deployed large amounts of grant funding. Their support includes funding the operating
budget of RPC, public relations, voucher auction centers and projects promoting the emergence of
secondary markets. Estimates for possible USAID assistance in the coming year are for US$100 million
or more. The European Union has provided some assistance, and the Treuhand (of Germany) is likely to
provide technical assistance as well. In addition, the privatization technical assistance loans from the
Bank and EBRD for a total of about $130 million became effective in December 1993.



- 34 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 4
RIVSIA
ENTERPRISE SUPPORT PROJECT
THE GOVERNMENT'S PRIVATIZATION AND RESTRUCTURING PROGRAM
Equity Investment
1.    Regional Enterprise Funds (REFs) are proposed to be set up in at least ten regions of Russia.
The funds will invest on a fully commercial basis in private enterprises (including in particular the
newly privatized enterprises). No Government financial involvement is contemplated and the
Government will not participate in the investment decisions.
2.    The REFs will be established in various regional centres of Russia, with each REF covering
as its principal investment area the surrounding two or three oblasts. A percentage of their resources
may be invested elsewhere in Russia, in order to permit some geographical (and industrial)
diversification. The location of the funds will be chosen by the respective international supporters, in
agreement with the donors of grant financing and with the Government. A number of these regions
have already been selected, and the remaining locations will be decided during 1994.
3.    Individual funds are likely to have somewhat different investment profiles, depending on the
business opportunities in their regions and the preferences of the different promoters. However, in
general the funds are expected to have a capital of about $ 30 million available for investments, with
an additional $ 20 million in grant funds that would be utilized for operational expenses and for
enterprise technical assistance. The latter will serve two purposes: First, the 'success rate' of the
funds will be low, requiring the review of a large number of potential projects before an investment is
actually made. In many cases, the funds will have to draw on outside skills. Second, the object
enterprises will need assistance and close supervision during the period of the investments.
4.    On average, the funds are expected to invest in around 25 enterprises, holding their
investment for about seven years. The funds will exit from the investments (hopefully with a
substantial profit) through sales to strategic investors and on the secondary capital markets. However,
at present there is only very modest hiterest among international investors for taking equity stakes in
Russian enterprises due to the many uncertainties in the country, and the domestic capital market is
still in its infancy. While these conditions are expected to change considerably over the next few
years, it is expected that many investments will also include put arrangements.
5.    The REFs are being promoted primarily by EBRD, IFC, and the US Government, although
some funds may also be set up by other bilateral donors. The US has allocated $100 million for this
activity (investment funds and technical assistance activities cormbined). It is currently intended to
spread these resources over two funds, which would operate in different geographical areas, but
probably as one legal identity. IFC is considering to set up a REF in Nizhny Novgorod with a capital
of US$40 million (US$20 million from IFC; US$20 million co1inancing). EBRD intends to provide
the investment portion for its funds out of its own resources, without a Government guarantee.
However, in view of the expected large costs of operating in Russia, it is believed that substantial



- 35 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 4
grant resources will be required for operating expenses and technical assistance as mentioned above.
Tentatively, such resources have so far been mobilized from USAID and the European Union (EU),
while discussions are also under way with Germany, Japan and Italy. EBRD expects to be able to
mobilize grant funds for at least five funds over the next 18 months, and perhaps for as many as eight
funds. Both EBRD's investment funds and the associated grant resources are likely to be paid in in
several tranches.
6.    The fund managers for the first EBRD fund in Smolensk have already been selected, and
there has also been good progress towards the establishment of a fund in the Urals with EU financing
for technical assistance and a fund in St. Petersburg with German financing. Other funds are in
preparation for Western Siberia, and for a region to the northeast of Moscow. Discussions are also
under way for additional funds in the European and Far Eastern parts of Russia. Therefore, it is
expected that about four funds could be operational by mid-1994, and ten funds by mid 1995.
7.     Within the Russian Government, RPC will be responsible for contacts and liaison with the
promoters of the different funds, as well as with the funds themselves once they are operational, and
may o ve some operational and practical support to the establishment of the funds. However, neither
the promoters nor the funds themselves need to obtain the formal approval of RPC for any decisions,
except for the initial iocation of the funds.
Technical Assistance
S.    This component will provide (i) decenitralized technical assistance to a large number of
enterprises, and (ii) in-depth assistance extended through a central organization to a limited number of
enterprises. Under the principal management of RPC, the decentralized assistance will be provided
through Local Privatization Centers (LPCs) that will be established in at least ten regions. An
Enterprise Restructuring Advisory Committee (inter alia with Bank participation) has been established
by RPC. This committee will meet every other month to review with RPC's management the various
post-privatization programs and provide strategic guidance.
9.    As of end March 1994, the first three LPCs were established: (i) The Mid-Russian
Privatization Center in Vladimir, covering the Vladimir, Yaroslavl and Ivanovo oblasts; (ii) the
Privatization Center of St. Petersburg and Leningradskaya oblast, headquartered in St. Petersburg
(this LPC may possibly also cover in the future some other oblasts); (iii) the Southern Russian
Privatization Center in Stavropol, covering the Rostov Oblast and the Krasnodar and Stavropol krai.
RPC is working actively on the establishment of the other seven initial LPCs, under a firm timetable
with the establishment of two more LPCs by June 1994 and the remaining five by the end of the year.
By not later than November 30, 1994, there will be detailed operational and financing plans for 1995
for all LPCs.
10.   Each LPC will have a Russian manager, with deputy managers that will be located in each
region covered by the LPCs. These managers as well as more junior professional staff (a total of
about 8 - 10 per LPC, with possibilities for later increases) have already been recruited for the three
LPCs established so far. In addition, each LPC will also receive thorough operational assistance from
an expeienced international consulting firm, who have also been contracted for the first three LPCs.
It is expected that each consulting firm will place an average of two international consultants with



- 36 -
ANNEX2
Page 3 of 4
each LPC on a full-time basis for the first few years; in addition, they will make other experts
available on a part-time basis to help carry out specific programs. Under their terms of reference, the
consultants will develop and implement rapidly technical assistance programs for enterprises in the
respective regions, within the guidelines provided by RPC. The detailed methodology for the LPC
assistance programs is likely to differ somewhat from region to region based on local conditions as
well as the initiatives of the individual consulting firms. In some regions, the LPCs will work closely
with separate technical assistance centers that will be established by bilateral donors.
11.   The LPCs are expected to provide assistance to a broad range of privatized and private
enterprises, but with special focus on assistance in obtaining financing from PBs and REFs that
participate in the Privatization and Restructuring Program, including for the preparation of
appropriate business plans. The resident LPC staff and consultants will be able to assist enterprises in
this regard. In addition, they can mobilize assistance through RPC from consultants financed by
various donors as well as under the Bank's Privatization Implementation Assistance Project.
12.   RPC will also carry out a limited number of restructurings centrally. An initial analysis of a
number of enterprises has been carried out in this regard with bilateral assistance, and international
consultants are being recruited to carry out up to ten in-depth restructuring cases. RPC will follow
these closely in order to be able to draw appropriate lessons for wider dissemination, but will also
take care not to over-burden its still narrow restructuring staff with too many such cases.
Export Loans and Guarantees
13.   ECAs would provide loan finance and guarantees either directly to enterprises or through
fnancial intermediaries. Loans and guarantees potentially available from ECAs under the G-7
program could be up to $ 1 billion, but ECA activities in Russia continue to be limited by serious
operating constraints. It is uncertain when and to what extent these constraints can be overcome and
hence when ECAs can become significant suppliers of term finance for enterprise investments.
Indicative Financing Plan
14.   The current indicative financing for the program is summarized below; as the program
evolves, additional financing is likely to become available:



- 37 -
ANNEX-2
Page 4 of 4
(a)    Loan Finance:      IBRD         $      200   million
EBRD         $     100   million
Total  $     300   million
(b)   Equity Finance:     IFC          $       20   million
EBRD         $      125   million
EU           $       50   million
G-7          $     200   million
Total: $     395   million
(c)   TA FSnance:         EU           $       30   million
G-7          $      75   million
Total: $     105    million
(d)   Export Credit:      ECA          Up to $ 1 billion



- 38 -
ANNEX 3
Page I of 3
RUSSIA
ENTERPRISE SUPPORT PROJECT
Selection of Participating Banks
1.    The selection of banks for technical assistance (TA) and for on-lending has been conducted
through five main steps taken during May through October 1993: (i) brief familiarization visits to
about 30 banks in several regions during late May and early June to develop an up-to-date sense of
the condition of a cross-section of commercial banks; (ii) preparing an objective selection
methodology; (iii) screening the universe of banks to select those which would be diagnosed more
intensively; (iv) conducting diagnostic reviews of 45 banks in July, September, and October; and (v)
preliminarily selecting 20 candidate banks in mid-October. Provision has been made in the FIDP
project for adding more banks to the program at a later stage (project costs have been sized for 36
banks, based on an average cost for a typical institutional development and systems modernization
program).
Familiarization Visits
2.    Familiarization visits were made to about 30 banks in the Northwest, Central, Volga, Urals,
and Siberian regions in late May and early June by several World Bank teams. The purpose of the
visits was to develop an up-to-date understanding of the state and pace of evolution, the current
condition, and the development plans of a cross-section of Russian commercial banks to serve as a
practical basis for planning concrete actions for strengthening the commercial banking sector.
Selection Methodology
3.    Based on these findings, and the findings of prior missions, a selection methodology was
developed, focused on objectively identifying 20-30 "good" banks in major economic centers which:
(i) could benefit from technical assistance and serve as models for other banks in their regions, and
thus lead the way in strengthening the commercial banking sector, and/or (ii) could serve as effective
on-lenders of funds from the World Bank and other international financial institutions. The
methodology was developed by banking experts and honed through numerous discussions as well as a
full "test run" of the methodology with six Russian banks in four cities in July.
4.    The selection methodology comprises several elements: (i) a basic approach for screening the
universe of banks to identify the best candidates for more intensive individual diagnostic reviews; (ii)
a detailed request for a range of financial, credit, automation, banking process, and other information
to be provided by individual banks to the diagnostic team prior to the diagnostic review (DR); (iii)
interview guides elaborating a series of key questions to be asked regarding the bank's strategy,
governance structure, organization, skill needs, credit management, financial management, and
computer technology; (iv) analytical and data presentation formats; (v) a "scorecard" for rating each
bank in terms of about 50 criteria regarding their appropriateness for technical assistance and/or on-



- 39 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 3
lending; (vi) a diagnostic work plan and team member selection criteria; (vii) examples of the
required scope, depth and quality of required diagnostic results; and (viii) a package of materials for a
two-day briefing of diagnostic team members.
Screening
5.    The universe of close to 2,000 commercial banks was screened in a series ot steps to identify
the specific banks which would be individually analyzed: (i) seven major economic regions were first
identified, consisting of the Northwest, Central, Volga, South, Urals, Siberia, and the Far East; (ii)
within these regions 28 major oblasts were selected based on size of manufacturing output,
population, number of banks with foreign exchange licenses, and the existence of free economic
zones; (iii) within each of these oblasts, an average of five banks were selected-more in the larger
centers, less in the smaller centers-based mainly on size; (iv) for the 145 banks so selected, and on
the basis of data provided by the CBR, 43 banks were selected, based on several criteria-size of
capital, adequacy of capital, profitability, breadth of ownership, volume and quality of lending, and
high reliance on market-based funding.
Diagnostic Reviews
6.    A three-day diagnostic review of each of the 43 banks was conducted by a team of three to
four banking experts, each of whom took responsibility for one or two of the following areas: strategy
and organization, credit, financial management and technology. The review teams completed their
reviews by preparing, and discussing with each bank's management, a report outlining the team's
main findings and conclusions regarding the bank's priority development needs. Individual team
members also provided ad hoc counsel to managers during their discussions of the bank's activities
and results.
Selection Criteria
7.    The criteria for selecting a bank for TA and for taking the next step in the qualification
process-which is the conduct of a thorough international audit-were as follows: (i) the quality of the
credit portfolio and the lending process; (ii) the level of capital adequacy; (iii) the liquidity of the
bank and its competitiveness in market-sourcing of funds; (iv) the level of earnings and profitability;
(v) the soundness of the governance structure of the bank and the degree of autonomy of its top
management; (vi) the soundness of its strategy; (vii) whether or not an international audit had been
conducted or was planned; (viii) the quality of its credit risk assessment process and staff; (ix) the
quality of its project appraisal process and skills; (x) the adequacy of controls; and (xi) the adequacy
of credit portfolio management. In addition, several broader criteria were applied: (i) relative size in
toe region; (ii) degree of competitiveness; (iii) a strong focus on the private sector; (iv) evidence of
active self-development; (v) minimal concentration of ownership; (vi) minimal lending to large
shareholders; (vii) the capabilities of senior management; (viii) active lending, including hard
currency lending; and (ix) the need for technical assistance.



- 40 
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 3
Preliminary Selection
8.    After completion of all the DRs, 20 banks were preselected, which best met the pre-
determined TA and on-lending criteria. The 20 banks are in nine cities across the Russian
Federation: four in St. Petersburg, six in Moscow, one in Togliatti, two in Ekaterinburg, one in
Tyumen, one in Oimsk, two in Kemerovo, one in Khabarovsk, and two in Vladivostok.



ANNEX 4
Page I of 2
RUSSIA
ENTERPRISE SUPPORT PRO.JWCJT
P-roce-dure for Accrediting Blanks,
1.    Identifying Bank Candidates
(a)    Twenty bank candidates were identified based oi a bank selection process conducted
during September and October 1993.
(b)    Subsequently, the World Bank/EBRD worked with lie MoF and CBR to select an
additional 25-30 banks for diagnostic reviews.
(c)    MoF and CBR may independently nominate additional banks tor consideration.
(d)    Banks can independently apply for consideration.
(e)    Additional bank candidates will be screened by the World Bank/EBRD to assess the
likelihood that they can meet the accreditation criteria witlhin the required time frame.
2.    Conducting Diagnostic Reviews
(a)    A full diagnostic review will be conducted in each selected candidate bank.
(b)    Based on the results of the diagnostic reviews, the World Bank/EBRD will determine
whether or not the bank qualifies for proceeding in the accreditation process i.e., to move
to the stage of having an on-lending audit conducted.
3.    Conducting On-lending Audits
(a)    A full on-lending audit will be conducted in each selected bank by an international
auditing firm.
(b)    The audits, inter alia, will measure and verify each bank's degree of conformance with
the accreditation criteria.
4.    Making the Accreditation Decision
(a)    The audit results will be reviewed by the Bank Review Unit, which will (i) advise the
MoF and CBR on whether or not to accredit the bank, and (ii) design a corrective action
program for the bank to follow, if necessary, to justify the accreditation or to become
accredited at a later time.
(b)    The Government will formally issue appropriate decisions on accreditation upon the
recommendation of the MoF, and after receiving a notice of "no objection" from the



- 42 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 2
World Bank/EBRD. In practice, the MoF will obtain the prior consent of the CBR and
the concurrence of any other concerned agencies.
(c)    The PIU will communicate the Government's decision and the corrective action program
to the concerned bank, and monitor with the assistance of the Bank Review Unit the
compliance of the bank with the terms of the corrective action program.



- 43 -
ANNEX L
Page 1 of 7
RUSSIA
ENTERPRISE SUPPORT PROJECT
Accreditation Criteria and Monitoring of the Performance of PBs
A. Accreditation Criteria
I1.    Participating Banks in the program will be required to meet and maintain conformance with
eligibility criteria established by the Government, and the Bank/EBRD. All PBs will be required to
meet the prudential standards described in Annex 6. Additional eligibility criteria would include:
General Actions
* Agreeing to and implementing n institutional development plan and time-table
acceptable to the Government and World Bank/EBRD.
O     Agreeing to and implementing an automation plan and time-table acceptable to the
Government and World Bank/EBRD.
O     Undergoing an annual audit conducted by an international auditing firm in accordance
with international accounting and auditing principles.
e     Submitting to the PIU monthly financial statements prepared in accordance with the
August 1993 CBR Instruction, BAFS and IAS 29 on inflation; submitting annually to
the PIU forecast financial statements for three fiscal years prepared according to the
same principles as the quarterly statements.
*     Complying with all CBR instructions and requirements.
Capital Adequacy
*     Maintaining a total capital to risk-adjusted assets ratio of 4 percent in 1994 and
reaching a total capital to risk-adjusted assets ratio of 8 percent by 1998, applying
risk-weightings specified in Annex 6.
*     Maintaining minimum equity capital of US$ 5 million, equivalent.
*     Realistically provisioning for possible loan losses in accordance with CBR instructions
and international standards.
Profitability
O     Demonstrating financial solvency and profitability as measured by net income
(adjusted for inflation and loan loss provisions in accordance with international
accounting standards) providing a positive return on assets during the previous two
years.



- 44 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 7
Quality of Lending Protess and Loan Portfolio
o      Limiting maximum exposure to a single borrower and its connected parties to 50
percent of equity capital in 1994; and then to 35 percent in 1995 and 25 percent in
1996.
o      Limiting maximnuin aggregate large exposures (defined as any credit and off-balance
sheet exposures to a single party exceeding 10 percent of bank's equity capital) to 12
times equity capital in 1994; and subsequently toi 10 times in 1995 and 8 times in
1996.
o      Maintaining single loans to shareholders/directors at less than 30 percent of capital
and the aggregate total of such loans at 100 percent of capital in 1994; these
percentages would subsequently decrease according to the schedule in Annex 5 to 10
percent and 20 percent by 1998.
O      Maintaining a loan portfolio, exclusive of working capital financing, of which (i) no
more than 20 percent has been rescheduled and (ii) less than 5 percent has been
rescheduled more than once.
v      Actively engaging in lending.
a      Maintaining a total collection rate (total amount c' current and overdue principal and
interest collected as a percentage of current and overdue amounts due in the year,
calculated before loan reschedulings) greater than 85 percent.
o      Limiting the remaining principal value of loans in arrears to 8 percent of the total
portfolio and the remaining principal value of loans in arrears for a period exceeding
12 months to 2 percent of the total portfolio.
°      Maintaining a minimum 1: 1 ratio between loan loss provisions and the sum of
doubtful and loss assets, where "doubtful assets" are those where collection or
liquidation in full is highly improbably and "loss assets" are those considered
uncollectible.
0      Maintaining an interest rate structure reflecting a satisfactory assessment and
monitoring of risk and return.
Q      Demonstrating a satisfactory set of policies and practices for assessing the
environmental effects of projects it finances.
Resouce Mobilization and Liquidity
Sourcing no more than 10 percent of loan funds from directed government credits.



- 45 -
ANNEX S
Page 3 of 7
0>    Maintaining a non-inter-bank loans to non-inter-bank deposits ratio of less than 80
percent.
Managerial Autonomy
e     Demonstrating substantial managerial autonomy to the satisfaction of the international
auditors, the World Bank, EBRD, MoF, and the CBR through:
- sources of funds,
- legal and ownership structure,
- composition of and locus of authority for appointment of Board of
Directors,
- management and staff selection and promotion policies and practices,
- loan approval procedures (equal treatment of shareholders and non-
shareholders and the absence of shareholders on the credit committee).
Management Effectiveness
o     Demonstrating adequate policies, procedures, and performance in the following
functional areas in the view of the intermational auditors, the World Bank, EBRD, the
MoF, and CBR:
- market strategy
- organizational structure
- credit
- financial management (asset-liability management, foreign exchange,
accounting)
- planning and budgeting
- internal audit
- management information systems
- training
Private Sector Orientation
e     Demonstrate a significant level of lending to the private sector.
e     Demonstrate significant share ownership by private sector.
Exceptions
2.    Banks not meeting one or several of the above criteria may still be accredited for participation
in the project in the event that they agree with the World Bank, EBRD and the MoF on a plan of
action for addressing their deficiencies and an explicit set of targets for monitoring their progress in
meeting the accreditation standards.



- 46 -
ANNE_X5
Page 4 of 7
Additional Banks
3.    The MoF, in consultation with the CBR, will be responsible for screening and qualifying
additional banks applying to participate in the program. Since the program, as presently envisaged,
is open to up to 36 PBs, 16 banks beyond those initially recommended could be included. Additional
banks must demonstrate that they meet the selection criteria described in Annex 3. They must
submit to a diagnostic review and an external audit by an international firm. Information obtained
during these two phases will provide the basis for the decision made by the MoF.
B. Reporting and Monitoring of PBs' Performance
4.    Monthly financial returns, as well as quarterly progress reports and annual external audit
reports will be sent by each PB to the PIU. The PIU, which is responsible for the collection of these
returns and reports, will forward them promptly to the BRU. The PIU will seek explanations and
report to the BRU in cases when a PB fails to send its returns and report on time. The BRU will
evaluate PB's conformance with eligibility criteria on the basis of reports and information prepared by
the PB. The BRU will submit its findings and recommendations to the MoF, the CBR, the World
Bank, and the EBRD each of whom must approve these recommendations. The MoP, the CBR, the
World Bank, and the EBRD, retain the right to request additional information on a PB and to make
the final decision regarding a PB's qualification for the program. Proposed remedies in case of non-
performance are developed in Section C below.
5.    The format for returns and reports will be further developed during project implementation.
The proposed format for the monthly return is detailed below:
Definitions of Selected Terns
Exposures. Exposures include all transactions, both on and off a bank's balance
sheet, that expose the bank to potential loss.
Off balance sheet exposures. Exposures, such as guarantees, that expose the bank to
potential loss, but are not reflected on the bank's balance sheet.
Related party. A party that has an ownership or control relationship with the party
having the exposure, or whose financial soundness is subject to the same basic factors
(for example, the profitability of a jointly owned company).
Connected party. A connected party would include a manager or director of the
bank, or any entity that owns or controls more than 10 percent of the bank's stock.
Doub#l assets. Assets held by a bank where collection or liquidation in full is
highly improbable.
Loss assets. Assets held by a bank that are considered uncollectible.



- 47 -
ANNEX s
Page 5 of 7
Directed Government Credits. Credits allocated according to t} e Government's
special decision.
Working captial financing. For each borrower, working capital financing is defined
as credit equivalent to 90 days of sales.
OECD countries. OECD countries include: Australia; Austria; Belgium; Canada;
Denmark; Finland; France; Germany; Greece; Iceland; Ireland; Italy; Japan;
Luxembourg; Netherlands; New Zealand; Norway; Portugal; Spain; Sweden;
Switzerland; Turkey; United Kingdom; and United States.
Data Relating to Capital Adequacy
-  Anount of total assets
- Amount of off balance sheet exposures
- Amount of cash, claims on the Government of the Russian Federation, and
deposits at the Central Bank of Russia
- Amount of claims on banks in OECD countries
- Amount of claims on banks in non-OECD countries
- Amount of equity capital
Data Reling to Exposures to a Single Party and Large Exposures
- List all exposures to a single party (and parties related to that single party) that
exceed 10 percent of the bank's equity capital
Name of single party           Amount of exposure
Data Relating to Exposures to Connected Paties
- List all exposures to a connected party (and parties related to that connected party)
irrespective of the amount of the exposure
Name of connected party        Amount of exposure
Information Relating to Transactions with Connected Parties
- List all exposures to connected parties that were not made on commercial (or larms-
length") terms
Name of connected party        Amount of exposure



- 48 -
ANNEX 5
Page 6 of 7
Data Reling to Quality of the Lending Process and Loan Portfolio
- Amount of total loans
- Amount of loans that have been rescheduled
- Amount of loans that have been rescheduled more than once
- Amount of current and overdue principal and interest that was collected during the
reporting period
- Amount of current and overdue principal and irnterest that was collected during the
reporting period, calculated before loan reschedulings
- Amount of loans that are in arrears
- Amount of loans that are in arrears for a period exceeding 12 months
- Amount of the loan loss provisions
- Amount of doubtful assets
- Amount of loss assets
Data Relating to Profjtability
- Net income during previous two years
Data Reltng to Real Lending Rates
- Current interest rates charged to highest quality borrowers on short-term loans
Data Relating to Resource Mobiization and Liquidity
- Amount of outstanding loans that were funded from directed government credits
- Amount of loans other than interbank loans
- Amount of deposits other than interbank deposits
C. Proposed Remnedies for Non-Performing Banks
6.    From time to time, individual participating banks may fall out of compliance with one or
more of the accreditation standards. When this happens, the case must be considered by the Minister
of Finance and the Governor of the Central Bank or their appointees (rask Force), with the assistance
of the Bank Review Unit, which will make a recommendation to the Task Force.
7.    Non-compliance by a participating bank can be handled in one of three ways of increasing
severity:
(i) The Task Force will enter into an agreement with the participating bank to return
to compliance within a specified time period. During this period, the non-
conforming bank would continue to receive disbursements from the program as
originally scheduled.



- 49 -
ANNEX 
Page 7 of 7
(ii)  The Task Force could enter into an agreement with the participating bank to
return to compliance within a specif_J period, but would suspend the bank from
receiving any further disbursements until the bank returns to full compliance.
(iii)  The Task Force could remove the non-conforming bank from the program and
require the bank to make full reimbursement.
8.    In choosing among these three options in individual cases, the Task Force must use a great
deal of discretion. The Task Force must simultaneously maintain a disciplined program, but avoid
actions that would be viewed as arbitrary and capricious. In making decisions, the Task Force should
give primary weight to the following considerations:
(i) The number of accreditation requirements in which the bank is not in compliance.
(ii)  The degree to which the bank is out of compliance with the requirement(s).
(iii)  The relative importance of the requirement(s) in which the bank is not in
compliance. For example, non-compliance with respect to the capital adequacy
requirement or limitations on connected lending would be viewed as particularly
serious.
(iv)   The bank's past history of compliance with the requirements.
9.    In all cases in which a bank falls out of compliance with accreditation requirements, but is not
removed from the program (options 1 and 2 above), the Task Force would have authority to require
any special reports from the bank needed by the Task Force to monitor the bank's performance.



- 50 -
Page I of 4
RUSSIA
ENTERPRISE SUPPORT PROJECT
Proposed Prudential Standards
For Participating Banks
Proposed Standards and Schedule for Introduction
1.    The proposed standards will concern: (i) capital adequacy; (ii) exposure to a single party; (iii)
exposure to a single connected party; and (iv) aggregate exposure to connected parties. The standard
would be gradually introduced over the coming years. PBs will be committing themselves to
meetings these standards according to schedules attached to the participating agreements that they will
sign with the MoF.
Definition of Selected Terms
Exposures. Exposures include all transactions, both on and off a bank's balance
sheet, that expose the bank to potential loss.
Off balance sheet exposures. Exposures, such as guarantees, that expose the bank to
potential loss, but are not reflected on the bank's balance sheet.
Related party. A party that has an ownership or control relationship with the party
having the exposure, or whose financial soundness is subject to the same basic
features (for example, the profitability of a jointly owned company).
Gonnected party. A connected party would include a manager or director of the
bank, or any entity that owns or controls more than 10 percent of the bank's stock.
Doubfid assets. Assets held by a bank where collection or liquidation without loss is
highly improbable.
Loss assets. Assets held by a bank that are considered uncollectible.
OECD countries. OECD countries include: Australia; Austria; Belgium; Canada;
Denmark; Finland; France; Germany; Greece; Iceland; Ireland; Italy; Japan;
Luxembourg; Netherlands; New Zealand; Norway; Portugal; Spain; Sweden;
Switzerland; Turkey; United Kingdom; and United States.
CapiW Adequacy
2.    The schedule for meeting the minimum capital adequacy ratio would be as follows:



- 51 -
Annex 6
Page 2 of 4
Year End            Minimum Equity Capital to Risk Weighted Assets
and Off-Balance Sheet Items
1994                            4 percent
1995                            5 percent
1996                            6 percent
1997                            7 percent
1998                            8 percent
3.    Risk weights per class of asset would be the following:
Class of Asset                                 Risk Weights
Cash, Claims on the Government of the
Russian Federation, and Deposits at Central
Bank of Russia                                                0 percent
Claims on Banks in OECD Countries                            10 percent
Claims on Banks in Russia and non-OECD
Countries                                                    50 percent
All Other Assets and Off Balance Sheet
Items                                                       100 percent
4.    The above risk weights are designed to capture the major types of assets that should be risk
weighted, but avoid getting involved in a complex formulation.
Exposure to a Singk Patty
5.    Exposure to a single party would be decreased as follows:
Year End                   Maximnum Exposure to a Single Parny
as a Percent of a Bank's Equity Capital
1994                                  50 percent
1995                                  35 percent
1996                                  25 percent
6.    This limitation would apply to the aggregate of a bank's exposure to a single party and all
partles related to that single pary. Also, the single exposure limitation would apply to both
extensions of credit and off balance sheet exposures.



- 52 -
A&nnex6
Page 3 of 4
7.    The limitation for year end 1994 would be more restrictive than the present single exposure
limit in the Central Bank's regulation because: (1) the existing limitation varies from 50 to 100
percent of bank capital, depending on the status of the bank involved; and (2) the present regulation
does not include parties that are related to the borrower.
8.    It will be necessary to develop a precise definition for "related parties" for later use. It should
be noted that auditors in future years almost surely will have difficulty tracing "relatedness", given
current information available in Russia. However, 'relatedness" cannot be ignored without great risk
that the single exposure limitations (and the connected lending limitations) will be circumvented by
many borrowers who might create subsidiaries or holding companies to increase their borrowing
capacity from a given bank.
Aggregate Large Exposures
9.    A large exposure is defined as any credit and off balance sheet exposure to a single party or
parties related to the single party that exceeds 10 percent of the bank's equity capital. PBs would
have to reduce their aggregate large exposure ratio as follows:
Year End                         Maximum Aggregate Large Exposures
as a Multiple of a Bank's Equity Capital
1994                                          12 times
1995                                          10 times
1996                                          8 times
Etposwv to Sngle Connected Pany
10.   Limits for PBs would be as follows:
Year End                       Maximun Exposure to a Single
Connected Parry as a Percent
of a Bank's Equity Capital
1994                                    30 percent
1995                                    25 percent
1996                                    20 percent
1997                                    15 percent
1998                                    10 percent
11.   An additional requirement would be that all of a bank's lending and off-balance sheet
exposure to connected parties would have to be on commercid temns.
12.   The above quantitative limitation would apply to the aggregate of a bank's exposure to a
single connected party and all parties that are related to that single party. Moreover, the limitation
would apply to both extensions of credit and off-balance sheet exposures.



- 53 -
Annex 6
Page 4 of 4
Aggregate Exposure to Connected PanYes
13.   Given widespread connected lending that now pervades the Russian banking system, the limits
set out below may be binding on many banks. However, it should not be unduly burdensome on
those banks that were created to serve the banking needs of the public, as opposed to the interests of
their owners. Limits would be the following:
Year end                               Maximum Aggregate Exposure to
Connected Parties as a Percent
of a Batk's Equity Capital
1994                                           100 percent
1995                                           80 percent
1996                                           60 percent
1997                                           40 percent
1998                                           20 percent



- 54 -
AINNEX 7
Page I of 3
RUSSIA
ENTERPRISE SUPPORT PROIECT
Guidelines for Sub-Loan/Project Evaluation
Introduction
1.    Participating commercial banks (PBs) will enter into subloan agreements with sub-borrowers
utilizing their own resources and the blended proceeds of the IBRD and EBRD loans. The
agreements will be in accordance with the project/specific sub-loan terms and conditions and prudent
banking practices. Sub-loans may be provided for capital investments and incremental permanent
working capital. Loans will be provided for the purchase of assets in any type of business, but not
for refinancing existing obligations, land purchase, or for producing tobacco-related products, military
products or arms, or illegal drugs, or for nuclear plants or equipment.
2.    Sub-loans must be evaluated in accordance with the participating bank's normal project-credit
evaluation procedure, but must also follow the guidelines set out below which imply that a business
plan lists. Subloan borrowers must be legally separate civilian enterprises with at least 75 percent
private ownership.
Project Evaluation Guidelines
3.    Project/sub-loan evaluations should cover the following areas (formats may very between
banks and projects, but these substantive areas should be included):
(a)    Project
(i)   Description of project facilities, capacities, technology used, projected outputs,
location, infrastructural requirements (power, water, transport, etc.), raw
material and other input requirements.
(ii) Description of feasibility and other studies used as basis for project
preparation and design.
(b)    The Borrower
(i)   Description of history and scope of operations of borrowing enterprise, nature
of business, location(s), plant facilities, work force, production history,
constraints, organizational structure (including Board of Directors and senior
managers), structure of shareholding (with description of major shareholders),
managerial evaluation, credit history, and any key issues/problems of the
business or its management.



- 55 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 3
(c)    Project Cost
(i)   Summary and details of project costs by component, with breakdown by
foreign and ruble costs (with dollar equivalent at current exchange rates), w.th
appropriate price and physical contingencies, incremental working capital
requirements, interest during construction.
(ii)   Bases and assumptions for cost estimates (feasibility studies, engineering,
budget/supplier quotations, date of base estimates, etc.).
(d)    Market Analysis
(i)   Analysis of markets for outputs of the project and the borrowers, with
projections of future market demand and share of the borrower, selling prices,
with resulting sales volume and value.
(ii)   Competitive analysis, with strengths and weaknesses of major competitors
(domestic and imports), and comparative advantages and risks for the project
and the borrower.
(iii)   Analysis of borrower's marketing strategies, pricing policies, distribution
channels.
(e)    Flnancial Analysis
(i)   Analysis of costs of production, with assumptions for future cost changes
(particularly for energy where relevant)
(ii)   Projection of future annual production costs, revenues (based on market
analysis), and profits (before and after taxes).
(iii)   Calculating of financial internal rate of return (FIRR) on investment (using
discounted streams of annual cash operating and capital costs and revenues, in
constant US$ terms, for life of the project).
(iv)   Sensitivity analysis (resulting FIRR with varying assumptions concerning
major risk factors affecting revenues and costs).
7he Borrower
(v)   Analysis of past financial performance of the borrowing enterprise (balance
sheets, profit and loss statements, cash flows) with appropriate ratios (debt to
equity, current ratio, debt service coverage, dividend payouts).



- 56 -
ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 3
(vi)   Project;ons of future financial cash flow performance with appropriate ratio
analysis, and assumptions underlying projects, including inflation and price
changes over time (forecasts should be in US$ equivalents).
(t)    Financing Plan
7he -Priae
(i)   Quantifications of funds to be provided by source (banks, shareholders, cash
flow) to finance project investment costs.
(ii)   Assessment of firmness and status of financing sources.
The Borrower
(iii)   Summary of borrower's sources and applications of funds for term of loan and
assessment of firmness of various sources, with analysis of any issues.
(g)    Procurement and Project Management
(i) Description of main packages of goods and services to be procured, with
assessment of contracting arrangements, methods of bidding (commercial bids
from local and foreign suppliers, sole-source procurement, international
competitive bidding etc.), likely sources of supply.
(ii)   Arrangements for project management (assessment of borroweres project
management capabilities, nature of organization and responsibilities, use of
consultants).
(h)    Environmental Aspects
(i)   Description of any enviromnental impacts of the projects and remedial
measures required or envisaged.
(i)    Technical Assistance
(i)   Description of any technical assistance required or envisaged for the project
and the borrower, and likely sources of this assistance (for project
implementation, business plan, technical certification, marketing, production
assistance, etc.).
G)    Loan Recommendation
(i)   Proposed amount, terms (interest rate, repayment schedule, other fees), and
conditions (actions required) of loan.
(ii)   Description of any loan guarantee/security arrangements.



- 57 -
ANNIEX $
Page 1 of 3
RUSSIA
ENTERPRISE SUPPORT PROJECT
Prfject Imolmnentation Unil
Terms of Reference for the Credit Operations, Procurement, Accounting/Disbursement Sections
Credit Operations
1.    The Credit Operations Section will be responsible for all matters dealing with the development
and administration of Subsidiary Loan Agreements between the MOF and the PB and the monitoring
of PB sub-projects. The Section will also be responsible for promoting the line of credit answering
specific questions from PBs, monitoring compliance with eligibility criteria, including environmental
criteria, and supporting the Bank Review Unit (BRU) and the World BankIEBRD supervision
missions. Accounting and procurement for the credit line will take place in the Accounting and
Procurement Sections of the PIU, respectively.
2.    Specifically, the Credit Operations Section will:
o     Negotiate and prepare Subsidiary Loan Agreements for MOF - PB signatures;
o     administer Subsidiary Loan Agreements - including collaborating with PBs regarding
committed/undisbursed balances, posting of principal increments, setting current
interest rates, and processing and recording PB repayments of principal and interest
back to the MOF;
e     refer to IBRD/EBRD those sub-projects requiring prior review;
*     promote the line of credit to PBs and sub-borrowers;
*     monitor the consistency of sub-loans with ERP criteria;
*     monitor environmental compliance of sub-projects based on the environmental
procedures manual;
*     analyze and consolidate sub-loan portfolio management reporting, including arrears;
*     analyze and consolidate subsidiary loan portfolio management reporting;
*     promote links bnween PBs and co-financiers.



- 58 -
Page 2 of 3
Procurement
3.     While the PBs and sub-borrowers will be responsible for the procurement of all goods and
services under the Loan , the PIU will provide information on guidelines and procedures, and assist
with document preparation and the provision of technical support on a case by case basis. In addition
to its role of serving the project beneficiaries, the Procurement Section of the PIU will assist the PBs
and sub-borrowers in transmitting procurement packages to the appropriate institution for World
Bank/EBRD "No Objection" letters.
4.     Specifically, the Procurement Section will:
0      Set up project procurement system and basic operations manual, including essential
steps for different procurement modes: Local/International Shopping, and ICB
actions;
o      provide or help arrange advice or technical support, as needed, for PBs and major
sub-borrower market searches, solicitations, procurement/contracting and/or inspection
and other logistics management actions;
e      support procurement activities by establishing a "hot line" for general questions and
case by case problems;
e      develop and implement training for project beneficiaries in basic procurement
practices;
o      outline a procurement plan and develop documentation packages for PIU solicitations
and purchases of goods and services, (e.g., special technical services,
office/operations equipment, accounting/audit support, staffing contracts, office
facilities, transport);
*      carry out procurement for PIU purchases;
o      prepare and transmit procurement packages to World Bank/EBRD for all required "no
objection" letters on behalf of PBs.
5.     The Procurement Section activities will be organized and carried out by foreign and local
professionals with experience in World Bank procurement procedures, and familiarity with potential
contractors and suppliers. In addition to the procurement manager, the Section will have two
specialists capable of providing direct assistance to individual project beneficiaries. Database and
information systems will be installed and maintained by an accounting services contract.
Accounting/Disbursement
6.     The Accounting Section of the PIU will be responsible for the maintenance of, and reporting
on project accounts, the disbursement of funds under the Loan, the preparation of withdrawal
applications and the collection of documents. The Accounting Section will provide periodic reporting



- 59 -
AN~NEX 8
Page 3 of 3
on disbursement performance of the project and will arrange for regular audits of project accounts. A
contract for accounting services, supervised by the Accounting Section, will set up project accounting,
information, reporting and control systems.
7.    Specifically, the Accounting Section of the PIU will:
*      Establish Special Accounts according to World Bank and EBRD criteria and
procedures;
e      contract with all Accounting Firm to set up project accounts, accounting system,
documentation controls, and data bases covering financial, technical and procurement
information;
o     work with the selected Accounting Firm in maintaining databases, implementing
project accounts, disbursement, collection and internal accounting system, records
management system and an MIS system;
o      nmake disbursements and payments to PBs and suppliers/contractors and arrange for
periodic replenishment of Special Account(s);
o     collect repayments of subsidiary loans;
*      arrange for audit of PIU and all project accounts by acceptable audit firm; and
o     report, as required, on project disbursement and collection performanice.
8.    The Accounting Section will be organized and managed by foreign and local plfessionals
with extensive experience in accounting for project management. In addition to managing the project
accounts, disbursements and collections, the Section will contract with an accounting firm to establish
the project accounting system, provide control and monitoring mechanisms and train PIU staff in the
use of the accounting system. The Section will also arrange for the project accounts to be audited on
a regular basis. The Section will be assisted by a disbursement specialist and an accounting assistant.



- 60 -
ANEX 9
Page 1 of 2
RUSSIA
ENTERPRISE SUPPORT PROJECT
Supervision Plan
Staff
Skills                Week            Cost
FY    Activity                   Requirements              Input          Ws
95    Missions
7/94  (Launch)            Finance                     10             80
Enterprise Reform
Environment
Procurement
Disbursement
10/94                     Finance                      6             48
Enterprise Reform
Procurement
2/95                      Finance                      6             48
Enterprise Reform
Environment
6/95                      Finance                      6             48
Procurement
Enterprise Reform
Sub-Loan Review
20    Sub-Loans           Finance                     12              36
Technical
96    Missions
10/95                     Finance                      4             32
Procurement
2/96 (Mid-Term Review)    Finance                      8             72
Procurement
Environment
Enterprise Reform
6/96                      TBD                          4             32
SubLoan Review
15 Sub-Loans              Finance                      9              27
Technical



- 61 -
ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 2
97    Missions
10/96                      TBD                           4              32
2/97                       TBD                           4              32
6/97                       TBD                           4              32
Sub-Loan Review
13 Sub-Loans               Finance                       9              27
Technical
98    Mission
10/97                      TBD                           4              32
2/98                       TBD                           4              32
6/98                      TBD                            4              32
99    Missions
1/99                      TBD                            4             32
6/99                       TBD                           4              32
00    Missions
11/99 (Completion)         TBD                           8              64



IBRD 25845
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
ENTERPRISE SUPPORT PROJECT
AK?-: Oc-'           .,.. o,t- $                                         Lion of prv,eeresed candidate bonWs' headoquater                              -!
Ob..sis,kbratsor.spoblistontainingbranchesofprescreened-cndidatebonk.
Oblans, krai, or republic boundaries
AOnonaroous obtest, okrug, or republi boundaries'
:                        N~~~~~~foraieg,s                                                  ,,                       Internationall boundaries                                                                       \E
.-.Io.eh  -,o9    -;.g, Th.r    ,                                                              ¶ =   Inldut  roushfulas of A Midtdyptai. Kh boi-Cheeri, anlhma  F,d-aSKio.-os   84
lou~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s
r cn~
g.E      >          ''-                                 .      ,_r>  _                                                                                                               8
, ~  ~    ~     1 __ '.                                                                                                                                                              b-7                     79       ,._>--.
75 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~8 
19r 8 sc / g slV < r / 83
.                                                                                                                              87-
1                        1i 23                                         67
1  13  6*>C   ~~12      14;                                                                          76t  t 
i-21                   $
30    ---  19     28  -4      25  ~'56
33        36    40      ~                                                                                                                                  48
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                                                                            \
1,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~A                                                                                                                   S.-.--eersree=;o fpDedoniif  oisrshrbenhifl19
21ac                48      41e                -'s b51 obat rigbn  ln*s sr^st   /nre fths  n ir nn
ol~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o 
48  4 ublicofKom i                                      (11 38,Kvers ' .olaGb:aslWi 36.Pe n zenskoiooblost 51  Mon  7A.O ,,                                                                  , 78,Republi8OA.o
5,Aumasaiobos!j                      1,ul47o -43-37--.  :K,;                                              60 A053Krgnsaaolat                          7i. r  funkAurkiabls
--                   useatee 0 20~~~~~~~~5 40050
6,VoWogodskaia ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~___________                                                                                                                     Theso'sst  22,o- dn,uen,:asaai  enda:n8yestwk,  bG     5.O>    r!krs  ^';     .                        7.Kmhtki   oblos ato,'
1  49    3                                                                                      Ova                                            69~~~~~~~~40         5-6ssouu.oorcOeooTewdokuas
9.Arkongoloskoioaboblot                 17. KObvskr;a ab' -  -2               31. Vo'go;ezoskoaR abbot1           49.  outnoou A     knu                 70 Agnsi BuytW                      824 Jowimski  Dolnou  Neoflokst
3.Rpbi  fK lo19, Pmbrskcotsai abbost                                           35. Republic of Marii-EIo           52. Republic o,f Basbortston  6                                   5        76. Es-eklilskila  Is .n autonomous oknug83 ..,:. ,;,. ........!o
5. Murrrrnstoioaobbot   1271. To.Is&ooci'reuob ic                              437.Ch Sa:A  Rep.bk a8Ur6aRe:'.                                             1.-4;c. 0 5.  ugosai  bls  67      784. Aurotkalaabbto mus
12&Vobogoskaia allost                    22. ViodIm  Norokuja at) s 'I        443. Sca:ovsnobltaa   Republic-      594. Or,rons-c. k   ac   22 Us'Orynki8rytki                                8. Kacctki ab. ..      t
13,5 Kalzhkao oblost47                  23. Elgoasbuvulta   ob'ast            45 3. KRepubislt a Tklroiu (S       55. Rpub'aka l of      'cti680-Krai autonomous okra8.rugB txloc k< 
&1LnKintrodskoiaoblMost (18              2. Reursoblcof hvsl                   40. eUlbo,ovsio,o alMs              56. Kami-Prmyskoiobls!4                69.K  SICfsifiskoi alost 51!                ~ -'RpolctoSah    {J, 2
15.PMskovskaoiaoblast                    26 3.RL publskicofoblostI             42. Nrtp-Osdiet  Reublitc A         657 SovosidborsKauia ls '              74. ReublaicofuKokosio               83, '. - i    . csa  cL-¾
16. Morscow City (30)                    32. Tombovskoaiobbosti                48. Rostovskaiaobi lost (4)         63. Omoskjoialoblst (151                                                    89. os]gsh 6.-public t1,
7ltl4f4   e                         rt    F



