Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
TF 025285
Japanese Grant Agreement
(Enterprise Support Projects)
between
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
on its own behalf and as Administrator
of Grant Funds provided by JAPAN
Dated May 2, 1995
TF 025285
JAPANESE GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 2, 1995, between RUSSIAN FEDERATION (the Recipient) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT, acting on its own behalf (the 
Bank) and as Administrator (the Administrator) of grant funds provided by JAPAN 
(Japan).
WHEREAS (A) pursuant to a letter agreement dated July 30, 1990 (the Framework 
Agreement) between Japan and the Bank and International Development Association (the 
Association), Japan has requested the Bank and the Association, and the Bank and the 
Association have agreed, to administer grant funds to be made available by Japan for 
the financing of certain programs and projects supported by the Bank and the 
Association, as the case may be, in accordance with the provisions of such Framework 
Agreement;
(B)
the Recipient has adopted certain interrelated measures aimed at 
improving the environment for restructuring of privatized enterprises on the territory 
of the Recipient (the Privatization and Restructuring Program) and has requested the 
Bank's assistance in connection with the elaboration and implementation thereof;
(C) 
the Bank, having considered such request and the economic benefits likely 
to accrue to the Recipient in the implementation of the Privatization and 
Restructuring Program, has discussed with the authorities of the Recipient an 
appropriate framework for undertaking the analytical, technical and advisory work 
Page  2
required in connection therewith through a cooperative structured program, consisting 
of specific technical assistance and institutional development projects;
(D) 
pursuant to a letter dated December 9, 1993, the Ministry of Finance of 
Japan has agreed on behalf of Japan, in accordance with paragraph 1.2 (f) of the 
Framework Agreement, to make available to the Recipient, out of the grant funds 
referred to in Recital (A) of this Preamble, a special allocation (the Special 
Allocation) in the amount of thirty-six million dollars ($36,000,000), which is 
intended to finance the cost of carrying out the various technical assistance 
activities referred to in such letter, relating to the implementation of the 
Privatization and Restructuring Program, within the framework of the cooperative 
program referred to in Recital (C) of this Preamble; 
(E) 
the Recipient and the Administrator have agreed upon a specific program 
for the utilization of grant funds to be provided by Japan, whereby a portion of the 
Special Allocation would be set apart and utilized, on the terms and conditions 
hereinafter set forth, as a self-standing grant (the Grant) to support a program of 
technical assistance (the Technical Assistance Program, as described further 
hereinafter in Section 2.01 and in Schedule 1 to this Agreement) relating to 
activities pursuant to the establishment and development of an institutional base for 
the Privatization and Restructuring Program, together with preparation of related 
lending projects involving enterprise restructuring;
(F) 
the Recipient has requested the Bank to act as its executing agency in 
carrying out the Technical Assistance Program; and
(G) 
the Bank has agreed to carry out the Technical Assistance Program on the 
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions 
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the Recitals to this Agreement have the 
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the 
following meanings:
(a)
"Dollars" and the sign "$" mean dollars in the currency of the United 
States of America; and
(b)
"Consultants" include individual consultants as well as consulting firms 
that provide any of the experts referred to in Section 2.02.
ARTICLE II
Technical Assistance Program
Section 2.01. The Technical Assistance Program shall consist of specifically 
defined management and technical assistance services within the framework of the 
cooperative program referred to in Recital (C) of the Preamble to this Agreement, for 
which the Recipient wishes to obtain analytical, technical and advisory services 
subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Activities under the Technical Assistance Program shall be 
undertaken by consultants (the Consultants) who shall, as far as practicable, include 
Consultants with expertise in the following areas:
(a)
enterprise restructuring; 
(b)
large scale privatization transactions; and
(c)
general management consulting.
Section 2.03. The Consultants are expected to commence their services on March 
1, 1995 and to provide a total of 48 person-months of service between that time and 
December 31, 1996. 
ARTICLE III
Page  3
Responsibilities of the Bank
and the Administrator
Section 3.01. The portion of the Special Allocation provided by Japan which 
shall be made available for the support of the Technical Assistance Program under the 
Grant pursuant hereto shall be in the amount of one million dollars ($1,000,000).
Section 3.02. The Administrator shall utilize the proceeds of the Grant to 
finance the following expenditures in connection with the services of the Consultants:
(a)
remuneration, per diem and other allowances;
(b)
international and local travel expenses;
(c)
out-of-pocket expenses, including communications and reports, incurred by 
the Consultants in foreign and local currency in the performance of their services; 
and
(d)
related equipment and materials.
Section 3.03. The Bank shall make reasonable efforts to secure the services of 
the Consultants.
Section 3.04. The recruitment, engagement and supervision of the Consultants 
shall be the responsibility solely of the Bank and shall be done according to the 
Bank's applicable procedures.
ARTICLE IV
Responsibilities of the Recipient
Section 4.01. The Recipient shall cooperate with the Administrator, the Bank and 
the Consultants to ensure that the Technical Assistance Program is carried out 
promptly and effectively and, for this purpose, shall issue appropriate instructions 
to its officials, agents and representatives.
Section 4.02. The Recipient shall:
(a)
make arrangements for all personnel of the Consultants assigned to any 
activity under the Technical Assistance Program (other than nationals of the Recipient 
or permanent residents of the Recipient's territories) and all dependents of such 
personnel promptly to be provided with any necessary entry and exit visas, residence 
and work permits, exchange documents and travel documents required for their stay in 
the Recipient's territories during the duration of such activity;
(b)
facilitate clearance through its customs of any equipment, materials and 
supplies required for such activity and any personal effects of the personnel of the 
Consultants assigned to such activity (other than nationals of the Recipient or 
permanent residents of the Recipient's territories) and the dependents of such 
personnel;
(c)
permit the Consultants to bring into, and withdraw from, the Recipient's 
territories reasonable amounts of foreign currency for purposes related to such 
activity;
(d)
permit the personnel of the Consultants assigned to such activity (other 
than nationals of the Recipient or permanent residents of the Recipient's territories) 
and the dependents of such personnel to bring into, and withdraw from, the Recipient's 
territories reasonable amounts of foreign currency for their personal use; and
(e)
exempt the Consultants and the personnel of the Consultants assigned to 
such activity from (or the Recipient shall pay on behalf of the Consultants and such 
personnel) any taxes, duties, fees, levies and other impositions imposed under the 
laws and regulations in effect in the Recipient's territories on the Consultants and 
such personnel in respect of:
(i)
any payments whatsoever made to the Consultants and such personnel 
(other than nationals of the Recipient or permanent residents of 
the Recipient's territories) in connection with the carrying out 
of any activity under the Technical Assistance Program;
     (ii)
any equipment, materials and supplies brought into the Recipient's 
Page  4
territories by the Consultants for the purpose of carrying out any 
activity under the Technical Assistance Program and which, after 
having been brought into such territories, will be subsequently 
withdrawn therefrom by them;
    (iii)
any equipment, material and supplies brought into the Recipient's 
territories by the Consultants for the purpose of carrying out any 
activity under the Technical Assistance Program and which will be 
consumed therein or become the property of the Recipient; and
     (iv)
any property brought into the Recipient's territories by the 
Consultants or such personnel (other than nationals of the 
Recipient or permanent residents of the Recipient's territories) 
or the dependents of such personnel for their personal use and 
which will be consumed therein or subsequently withdrawn therefrom 
by them upon their respective departure from the Recipient's 
territories, provided that the Consultants, such personnel and 
their dependents shall follow the usual customs procedures of the 
Recipient in importing property into the Recipient's territories.
Section 4.03. The Recipient shall be responsible for dealing with any claims 
arising out of, or resulting from, the Technical Assistance Program that may be 
brought by third parties against the Administrator or the Bank. The Recipient shall 
indemnify the Administrator and the Bank against any costs, claims, damages or 
liabilities arising out of, or resulting from, any acts or omissions in connection 
with the Technical Assistance Program, except those resulting from the gross 
negligence or willful misconduct of the Administrator or the Bank, as the case may be.
Section 4.04. For purposes of carrying out the Technical Assistance Program, the 
Recipient shall make available to the Consultants, free of charge, the services, 
facilities and equipment set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 4.05. The Recipient shall make available to the Consultants, free of 
charge, such counterpart personnel to be selected by the Recipient, with the advice of 
the Administrator and the Consultants, as are set forth in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE V
Reports and Other Matters
Section 5.01. The Recipient, the Bank and the Administrator shall, from time to 
time, at the request of any party, exchange views on the Technical Assistance Program 
and consult on any reports prepared by the Consultants and the implementation of any 
recommendations made in those reports.
Section 5.02. The Bank and the Administrator may use any reports prepared by the 
Consultants for any purpose that the Bank or the Administrator, as the case may be, 
may consider appropriate but those reports may not be made public except by agreement 
between the Recipient, the Bank and the Administrator.
ARTICLE VI
Enforceability of Agreement; Failure
to Exercise Rights; Arbitration
Section 6.01. The rights and obligations of the Bank, the Administrator and the 
Recipient under this Agreement shall be valid and enforceable in accordance with their 
terms notwithstanding the law of any State or political subdivision thereof to the 
contrary. Neither the Bank nor the Administrator nor the Recipient shall be entitled 
in any proceeding under this Article to assert any claim that any provision of this 
Agreement is invalid or unenforceable because of any provision of the Articles of 
Agreement of the Bank.
Section 6.02. No delay in exercising, or omission to exercise, any right, power 
or remedy accruing to any party under this Agreement upon any default shall impair any 
such right, power or remedy or be construed to be a waiver thereof or an acquiescence 
in such default. No action of such party in respect of any default, or any 
acquiescence by it in any default, shall affect or impair any right, power or remedy 
of such party in respect of any other or subsequent default.
Section 6.03. (a) Any controversy between the parties to this Agreement, and any 
Page  5
claim by any such party against any other such party arising under this Agreement 
which has not been settled by agreement of the parties shall be submitted to 
arbitration by an Arbitral Tribunal as hereinafter provided.
(b)
The parties to such arbitration shall be the Bank and the Administrator 
on the one side and the Recipient on the other side.
(c)
The Arbitral Tribunal shall consist of three arbitrators appointed as 
follows: one arbitrator shall be appointed jointly by the Bank and the Administrator; 
a second arbitrator shall be appointed by the Recipient; and the third arbitrator 
(hereinafter sometimes called the Umpire) shall be appointed by agreement of the 
parties or, if they shall not agree, by the President of the International Court of 
Justice or, failing appointment by said President, by the Secretary-General of the 
United Nations. If either side shall fail to appoint an arbitrator, such arbitrator 
shall be appointed by the Umpire. In case any arbitrator appointed in accordance with 
this Section shall resign, die or become unable to act, a successor arbitrator shall 
be appointed in the same manner as herein prescribed for the appointment of the 
original arbitrator and such successor shall have all the powers and duties of such 
original arbitrator.
(d)
An arbitration proceeding may be instituted under this Section upon 
notice by the party instituting such proceeding to the other party. Such notice shall 
contain a statement setting forth the nature of the controversy or claim to be 
submitted to arbitration, the nature of the relief sought and the name of the 
arbitrator appointed by the party instituting such proceeding. Within thirty days 
after such notice, the other party shall notify to the party instituting the 
proceeding the name of the arbitrator appointed by such other party.
(e)
If within sixty days after the notice instituting the arbitration 
proceeding, the parties shall not have agreed upon an Umpire, any party may request 
the appointment of an Umpire as provided in paragraph (c) of this Section.
(f)
The Arbitral Tribunal shall convene at such time and place as shall be 
fixed by the Umpire. Thereafter, the Arbitral Tribunal shall determine where and when 
it shall sit.
(g)
The Arbitral Tribunal shall decide all questions relating to its 
competence and shall, subject to the provisions of this Section and except as the 
parties shall otherwise agree, determine its procedure. All decisions of the Arbitral 
Tribunal shall be by majority vote.
(h)
The Arbitral Tribunal shall afford to all parties a fair hearing and 
shall render its award in writing. Such award may be rendered by default. An award 
signed by a majority of the Arbitral Tribunal shall constitute the award of such 
Tribunal. A signed counterpart of the award shall be transmitted to each party. Any 
such award rendered in accordance with the provisions of this Section shall be final 
and binding upon the parties to this Agreement. Each party shall abide by and comply 
with any such award rendered by the Arbitral Tribunal in accordance with the 
provisions of this Section.
(i)
The parties shall fix the amount of the remuneration of the arbitrators 
and such other persons as shall be required for the conduct of the arbitration 
proceedings. If the parties shall not agree on such amount before the Arbitral 
Tribunal shall convene, the Arbitral Tribunal shall fix such amount as shall be 
reasonable under the circumstances. The Bank, the Administrator and the Recipient 
shall each defray its own expenses in the arbitration proceedings. The costs of the 
Arbitral Tribunal shall be divided between and borne equally by the Bank and the 
Administrator on the one side and the Recipient on the other. Any question concerning 
the division of the costs of the Arbitral Tribunal or the procedure for payment of 
such costs shall be determined by the Arbitral Tribunal.
(j)
The provisions of arbitration set forth in this Section shall be in lieu 
of any other procedure for the settlement of controversies between the parties to this 
Agreement or of any claim by any such party against any other such party arising 
thereunder.
(k)
If, within thirty days after counterparts of the award shall have been 
delivered to the parties, the award shall not be complied with, any party may: (i) 
enter judgment upon, or institute a proceeding to enforce, the award in any court of 
competent jurisdiction against any other party; (ii) enforce such judgment by 
execution; or (iii) pursue any other appropriate remedy against such other party for 
the enforcement of the award and the provisions of this Agreement. Notwithstanding the 
Page  6
foregoing, this Section shall not authorize any entry of judgment or enforcement of 
the award against any party that is a member of the Bank except as such procedure may 
be available otherwise than by reason of the provisions of this Section.
(l)
Service of any notice or process in connection with any proceeding under 
this Section or in connection with any proceeding to enforce any award rendered 
pursuant to this Section shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed 
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, 
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted 
to be given or made at such party's address specified in this Agreement or at such 
other address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such 
notice or making such request. The parties to this Agreement waive any and all other 
requirements for the service of any such notice or process.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date, Suspension
and Termination
Section 7.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon its execution by the 
parties.
Section 7.02. The Recipient may at any time request the Bank and the 
Administrator in writing to terminate the Technical Assistance Program or any activity 
thereunder. Whether or not the Recipient has made such a request, the Administrator 
may at any time suspend or, after consultation with the Recipient, terminate the right 
of the Recipient to receive Grant funds for the Technical Assistance Program in 
general, or in respect of any activity thereunder, if any of the following 
circumstances shall have occurred and be continuing:
(a)
The Recipient shall have failed to make payment of principal or interest 
or any other amount due to the Bank or the Association: (i) under any loan or 
guarantee agreement between the Recipient and the Bank, or (ii) under any development 
credit agreement between the Recipient and the Association, or (iii) in consequence of 
any guarantee or other financial obligation of any kind extended by the Bank to any 
third party with the agreement of the Recipient.
(b)
The Recipient shall have failed to perform any obligation under this 
Agreement.
(c)
The Bank or the Association shall have suspended in whole or in part the 
right of the Recipient to make withdrawals under any loan agreement with the Bank or 
any development credit agreement with the Association because of a failure by the 
Recipient to perform any of its obligations under such agreement or any guarantee 
agreement with the Bank.
(d)
Any event shall have arisen that, in the opinion of the Bank or the 
Administrator, as the case may be, interferes or threatens to interfere with: (i) the 
successful implementation of the Technical Assistance Program, or of any activity 
thereunder; (ii) the accomplishment of the purposes of the Technical Assistance 
Program; or (iii) the execution of the Technical Assistance Program in accordance with 
the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
(e)
The Recipient: (i) shall have been suspended from membership in or ceased 
to be a member of the Bank or (ii) shall have ceased to be a member of the 
International Monetary Fund.
(f)
A representation made by the Recipient in or pursuant to this Agreement, 
or any statement furnished in connection therewith, and intended to be relied upon by 
the Administrator in making the Grant, shall have been incorrect in any material 
respect.
Section 7.03. If the Technical Assistance Program is suspended or terminated, 
the Recipient and the Administrator shall consult with each other concerning any 
further action that may be necessary or desirable.
Section 7.04. The Administrator is not an agent of or trustee for the Recipient 
and shall not have any fiduciary relationship with the Recipient. The Recipient shall 
have no right to any portion of the Grant that is not expended by the Administrator 
pursuant to this Agreement.
ARTICLE VIII
Page  7
Representation
Section 8.01. All communications with respect to this Agreement shall be 
addressed as follows:
For the Recipient:
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Ul. Ilyinka, 9
Moscow, Russia
Telex:
112008
For the Administrator and the Bank:
Mr. Yukon Huang, Director
Europe and Central Asia Region
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names as 
of the day and year first above written.
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
By /s/ Andrei Vavilov
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
  AND DEVELOPMENT
on its own behalf and as Administrator
of the Grant
By /s/ Yukon Huang
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Description of Technical Assistance Program
The objective of the Technical Assistance Program shall be to facilitate 
preparation by the Government of the Recipient of  appropriate development projects 
suitable for financing by the Bank, with a view to addressing specific identified 
needs for restructuring of enterprises operating in the territory of the Recipient.
The Technical Assistance Program consists of providing assistance to the Chief 
Executive Officer (CEO) of the Russian Privatization Center in formulating, developing 
Page  8
and implementing programs for the privatization and post-privatization restructuring 
of Russian enterprises, and in developing other programs and activities to strengthen 
Russia's market economy framework in support of privatized enterprises. The activities 
will include, but not be limited to, assistance to the CEO in managing the relations 
with donors of financing for privatization and post-privatization activities and in 
coordinating and supervising the activities of consultants financed by such donors; 
provided, however, that no such assistance shall include responsibility for executing 
specific activities or expenditures financed under the loan between the Russian 
Federation and the Bank dated May 15, 1993 (Loan No. 3546-RU (Privatization 
Implementation Assistance Project)), as the same may be amended from time to time, or 
under any other Bank loans to, or guaranteed by, the Recipient, or in connection with 
any projects executed by the Bank. Without limitation on the foregoing, the 
Consultants shall not act in any supervisory or managerial capacity in respect of the 
procurement of goods and services financed under any such loan or project, nor in 
respect of the utilization thereof.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of Services, Facilities, Equipment
and Counterpart Personnel to Be Made Available
by the Recipient
For purposes of Sections 4.04 and 4.05 of this Agreement, the Recipient shall 
make available to the Consultants, inter alia, suitable office space and meeting rooms 
with appropriate capacity to handle communications, including telephone, facsimile and 
telex equipment, as well as appropriate counterpart personnel and secretarial and 
translation/interpretation services as necessary for the efficient operation of the 
Consultants, as well as access on a best-efforts basis to appropriate policy-making 
officials of the Recipient.
