Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3763 RU
                              Loan Agreement
                       (Enterprise Support Project)
                                  between
                            RUSSIAN FEDERATION
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                         Dated September 27, 1994
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3763 RU
                              LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated September 27, 1994, between RUSSIAN FEDERATION (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the
Bank).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility
and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
      (B)   the Borrower has adopted certain interrelated measures,
including, inter alia, a program (the Financial Institutions Development
Program) to support the institutional development of various participating
banks in the territory of the Borrower, such measures being aimed at
improving the environment for private investment and commercial finance in
the territory of the Borrower; strengthening the capacity of selected banks
(the Participating Financial Intermediaries, as hereinafter defined) to
function effectively as intermediaries of financial resources, including
under international development projects; and facilitating improvements in
the quality and efficiency of the services which may be provided by such
Participating Financial Intermediaries to private or privatized enterprises
in the territory of the Borrower;
      (C)   by agreement (the FIDP Loan Agreement) between the Borrower and
the Bank dated June 22, 1994, the Borrower has contracted from the Bank a
Page  2
loan (the Financial Institutions Development Project Loan) in an amount of
two hundred million dollars ($200,000,000) equivalent to assist in financing
the Financial Institutions Development Program;
      (D)   the Borrower intends to contract from the European Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) a loan (the EBRD Loan) in an amount
of $100,000,000 to assist in financing the Project on the terms and
conditions set forth in an agreement (the EBRD Loan Agreement) to be entered
into between the Borrower and EBRD;
      (E)   EBRD and the Bank intend to enter into an agreement (the Co-
Lenders' Agreement) providing for arrangements whereby EBRD and the Bank
would process jointly applications for withdrawal relating to certain
expenditures under the Project and the Bank would make available certain
portions of the Loan, together with similar proceeds of the EBRD Loan to be
made available by EBRD, for the financing of such expenditures on a pari
passu basis, and regulating certain other matters of common interest in
connection with such financing; and
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions
set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set
forth in Schedule 8 to this Agreement (the General Conditions) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth, and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Participating Financial Intermediary" means any financial
institution in the territory of the Borrower which shall have been: (i) duly
accredited under the Financial Institutions Development Program in
accordance with the applicable criteria therefor; and (ii) accepted for
participation in the Project pursuant to Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement;
      (b)   "Sub-borrower" means an enterprise to which a Participating
Financial Intermediary proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan;
      (c)   "Qualifying Investment" means any project of restructuring of,
investment in, or a commercial activity undertaken by, an enterprise
satisfying the criteria set forth in paragraphs 4 and 5 of Section I of
Schedule 6 to this Agreement, other than projects, investments, or
activities excluded pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 2 of such
Section I.
      (d)   "Sub-project" means a Qualifying Investment which is intended
to be carried out by a Sub-borrower utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-loan;
      (e)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02
(b) of this Agreement;
      (f)   "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by a
Participating Financial Intermediary out of the enterprise credit facility
to be established pursuant to the Project, for purposes of financing a
Qualifying Investment;
      (g)   "Accreditation Criteria" means the criteria to be applied under
Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement for the selection of Participating
Financial Intermediaries, or the criteria in accordance with which the
continued eligibility of such Participating Financial Intermediaries for
participation in the Project shall be determined under the corresponding
provisions of Subsidiary Loan Agreements entered into by such Participating
Page  3
Financial Intermediaries in compliance with paragraph 2 (b) of Part B of
Section II of Schedule 7 to this Agreement, as the case may be;
      (h)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" and "Subsidiary Loan" mean,
respectively, any agreement entered into between the Borrower and a
Participating Financial Intermediary pursuant to paragraph (b) of Section
3.02 of this Agreement, and any loan made pursuant to a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement;
      (i)   "MOF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance;
      (j)   "CBR" means the Central Bank of Russia, established and
operating pursuant to the Borrower's Law on the Russian Federation Central
Bank (Bank of Russia) dated December 2, 1990, as the same may be amended
from time to time;
      (k)   "PIU" means the unit referred to in Section 3.04 of this
Agreement;
      (l)   "Regional Enterprise Fund" means any equity fund established
under the Privatization and Restructuring Program; and
      (m)   "Privatization and Restructuring Program" means the program
referred to in Decree No. 1045 of the Council of Ministers of the Borrower
dated October 11, 1993.
                                ARTICLE II
                                 The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various
currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of
two hundred million dollars ($200,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of
the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the
date of such withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made)
by a Sub-borrower to meet the reasonable cost of the goods and services
which are (i) required for the Sub-project in respect of which the
withdrawal from the Loan Account is requested, and (ii) eligible for
financing out of a Sub-loan.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection
against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of,
the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000, or such later
date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate
for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus one-half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank
shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
respect of such Semester.
Page  4
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the
                  date immediately preceding each date specified in Section
                  2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with the Interest
                  Period in which this Agreement is signed.
           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
                  percentage per annum, of the outstanding borrowings of
                  the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, excluding such
                  borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated
                  to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which
                  may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as provided in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section.
          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the second six
                  months of a calendar year.
      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months'
notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section
shall be amended to read as follows:
                  "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
            amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time,
            at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified
            Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, plus
            one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates
            specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall
            pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during
            the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."
                  "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
            Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
            Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."
                  "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a
            calendar year."
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the
Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3
to this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this
end, shall carry out the Project through the Participating Financial
Intermediaries with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate financial, economic and administrative standards and practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
      Section 3.02. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01,
and except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall, for purposes of carrying out the Project:
      (a)   solicit and approve proposals from candidate banks to
participate in the Project, in accordance with the eligibility criteria and
procedures set forth in Section I of Schedule 7 to this Agreement;
      (b)   in the case of each such Participating Financial Intermediary,
cause an agreement to be entered into between MOF, acting as agent of the
Page  5
Borrower, and the Participating Financial Intermediary (the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement), providing for the participation of such Participating Financial
Intermediary in the enterprise credit facility to be established pursuant
to the Project, and setting forth the terms and conditions under which the
corresponding amounts of credit thereunder shall be made available to such
Participating Financial Intermediary for the financing of Sub-projects,
which shall include without limitation the terms and conditions set forth
in Schedule 7 to this Agreement;
      (c)   relend to each such Participating Financial Intermediary the
corresponding amounts, including the portions of the proceeds of the Loan
and the EBRD Loan to be made available in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 1 of Part B of Section II of Schedule 7 to this Agreement, to
which such Participating Financial Intermediary may be entitled in
accordance with the provisions of its respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
      (d)   coordinate the overall execution of the Project and monitor the
carrying out by the Participating Financial Intermediaries of their
respective Subsidiary Loan Agreements in accordance with policies and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank;
      (e)   take or cause to be taken all action necessary or appropriate
to enable the Participating Financial Intermediaries to perform in
accordance with the provisions of their respective Subsidiary Loan
Agreements all the obligations of the Participating Financial Intermediaries
therein set forth, and not take or permit to be taken any action which would
prevent or interfere with such performance; and
      (f)   exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan Agreements in such
manner as to protect the interests of the Bank and the Borrower and to
accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any such Agreement or any
provision thereof.
      Section 3.03. For purposes of the efficient carrying out of the
Project and ensuring the effective supervision of the execution of the Sub-
projects, and without limitation on the provisions of Sections 3.01 and 3.02
of this Agreement, the Borrower shall cause an agreement to be entered into
between MOF and CBR concerning the carrying out by MOF of responsibilities
connected with supervision of the performance of the Participating Financial
Intermediaries in respect of their adherence to the Accreditation Criteria,
in any areas which might be concerned with banking supervision requirements
generally applicable to such banks under the laws and regulations of the
Borrower, and concerning other matters satisfactory to the Bank.
      Section 3.04. In order to facilitate the efficient carrying out of the
Project, the Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain during the
execution of the Project, with membership, staff and other resources and
under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, a Project Implementation
Unit (PIU) to be responsible for the day to day coordination of the
execution of the Project.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained
procedures and records adequate to monitor and record the progress of the
Project and of each Sub-project (including its cost and the benefits to be
derived from it) and to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices the operations and financial condition of the Participating
Financial Intermediaries.
      Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records referred to in Section 4.01 of this
                  Agreement, accounts and financial statements (balance
                  sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
                  statements) and records and accounts for the Special
                  Account for each fiscal year audited in accordance with
                  sound auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
Page  6
           (ii)   furnish to the Bank, as soon as available but in any case
                  not later than six months after the end of each such
                  year: (A) certified copies of said financial statements
                  for such year as so audited, and (B) the report of such
                  audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                  as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the
                  said records, accounts and financial statements and the
                  audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.
      (b)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the
Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain, in accordance with Section 4.01 of this
                  Agreement, records and accounts reflecting such
                  expenditures;
           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank has
                  received the audit report for the fiscal year in which
                  the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all
                  records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
                  other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
          (iii)   enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
                  records; and
           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are included in the
                  annual audit referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section
                  and that the report of such audit contains a separate
                  opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together
                  with the procedures and internal controls involved in
                  their preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                  related withdrawals.
      Section 4.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall, in respect of any repayments of principal and interest to be made by
the Participating Financial Intermediaries under their respective Subsidiary
Loans:
      (a)   open, by the date on which it shall receive the first such
repayment, and thereafter maintain, in a bank acceptable to the Bank, a
separate account, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank; and
      (b)   upon receipt of each such repayment, credit the same to the said
separate account. All amounts to be so credited shall be utilized, to the
extent they are not yet required to meet the Borrower's repayment
obligations under this Agreement or the EBRD Loan Agreement, exclusively to
finance, through the Participating Financial Intermediaries, other
Qualifying Investments on similar terms and conditions as those applicable
to the Sub-loans made out of the respective portions of the Subsidiary Loans
so repaid and credited to the said separate account.
                                 ARTICLE V
                           Remedies of the Bank
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   that the Accreditation Criteria or the Financial Institutions
Development Program shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed
or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the operations or the
financial condition of the Participating Financial Intermediaries or their
ability to carry out the Project or to perform any of their obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreements;
      (b)   (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
Page  7
                  (A)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
                        of any loan or grant made to the Borrower for the
                        financing of the Project shall have been suspended,
                        cancelled or terminated in whole or in part,
                        pursuant to terms therefor, or
                  (B)   any such loan shall have become due and payable
                        prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
            (ii)  Subparagraph (i) this paragraph shall not apply if the
                  Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank
                  that:
                  (A)   such suspension, cancellation, termination or
                        prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
                        Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
                        such agreement; and
                  (B)   adequate funds for the Project are available to the
                        Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions
                        consistent with the obligations of the Borrower;
                        and
      (c)   the Agreement referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement
shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to
affect materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower, the
Participating Financial Intermediaries, MOF, or the PIU to carry out the
Project or to perform any of their obligations under this Agreement or the
Subsidiary Loan Agreements.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   that any of the events specified in paragraph (a) or (c) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur; or
      (b)   that the event specified in subparagraphs (b) (i) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of sub-paragraph
(b) (ii) of that Section.
                                ARTICLE VI
                        Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   at least four Participating Financial Intermediaries accredited
under the Financial Institutions Development Program have been selected for
participation in the Project pursuant to Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement;
      (b)   all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the EBRD Loan
Agreement have been fulfilled, other than those related to the effectiveness
of this agreement;
      (c)   the Financial Institutions Development Project Loan has been
declared effective; and
      (d)   a contract has been concluded with consultants to provide
technical services related to project implementation, including in
particular assistance to the PIU in the carrying out of the activities
referred to in Section 3.04 of this Agreement,  acceptable to the Bank.
      Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VII
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Page  8
      Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance or the Deputy Minister of
Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance
            Ul. Ilyinka, 9
            103097 Moscow
            Russian Federation
                                          Telex:
                                            112008
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.
                        RUSSIAN FEDERATION
                        By /s/ Oleg Soskovets
                        Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                        By /s/ Wilfried Thalwitz
                        Regional Vice President
                        Europe and Central Asia
                                SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to
each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed
in each Category:
                              Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
Page  9
(1)  Sub-loans                200,000,000       67% of foreign
     (equipment,                                expenditures,
     materials, and                             67% of local
     consultants'                               expenditures
     services)                                  (ex-factory cost)
                                                and 47% of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally
                               ___________
      TOTAL                    200,000,000
                               ===========
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods and services
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
and
    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the
Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also
that of another country from the territory of which the goods and services
are supplied, expenditures in such currency for such goods or services shall
be deemed to be "foreign expenditures".
3.        Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
    (a)   any Sub-loan made by any Participating Financial Intermediary
unless: (i) the Bank shall have communicated to the Borrower its acceptance
of the evidence, required to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Part
B of Section II of Schedule 7 of this Agreement, that the corresponding
Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed, and is legally binding upon,
the Borrower and such Participating Financial Intermediary; and (ii) the
Sub-loan has been made in accordance with the procedures and on the terms
and conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 6 to this Agreement; and
    (b)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement.
4.  The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for
goods not exceeding $4,000,000 equivalent, and for consultants' services not
exceeding $250,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the Bank
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The objective of the Project is to increase liquidity and strengthen
institutional capacity for the financing and carrying out of specific
investments, enterprise restructuring and development projects in the
territory of the Borrower, in order to assist the further orientation of
private and privatized enterprises towards a market-based corporate and
commercial finance system.
     Subject to such modifications thereof, as the Bank and the Borrower may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives, the Project
consists of the establishment and operation of a credit facility for the
financing, through the provision of loans, including Sub-loans, of
Qualifying Private Investments to be made or carried out by private
enterprises within the territory of the Borrower.
                                   * * *
    The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1999.
Page  10
                                SCHEDULE 3
                           Amortization Schedule
                                    Payment of Principal
    Date Payment Due               (expressed in dollars)*
On each February 15 and August 15
    beginning February 15, 2000
    through February 15, 2011            8,335,000
And on August 15, 2011                   8,295,000
_____________________________
*   The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as
    of the respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections
    3.04 and 4.03.
                          Premiums on Prepayment
    Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium
payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid
shall be the percentage specified for the applicable time of prepayment
below:
    Time of Prepayment                         Premium
                                   The interest rate (expressed
                                   as a percentage per annum)
                                   applicable to the Loan on
                                   the day of prepayment
                                   multiplied by:
Not more than three years                      0.18
    before maturity
More than three years but                      0.35
    not more than six years
    before maturity
More than six years but                        0.65
    not more than 11 years
    before maturity
Page  11
More than 11 years but not                     0.88
    more than 15 years
    before maturity
More than 15 years before                      1.00
    maturity
                                SCHEDULE 4
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
    Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods shall be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
    (a)   For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in
paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is
delayed beyond the original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid
price will be increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed
correction factors acceptable to the Bank, one to be applied to all foreign
currency components and the other to the local currency component of the bid
price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the bid
evaluation.
    (b)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part A, the
relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Bank shall be used, with
such modifications thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for
the purposes of the Project.  Where no relevant standard bidding documents
have been issued by the Bank, bidding documents shall be used, based on
other internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the Bank.
Part B:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.        Items or groups of items estimated to cost the equivalent of
$4,000,000 or less per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers from at least three different countries eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
2.  Items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of
$250,000 or less per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Bank.
Part C:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.        Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
    (a)   With respect to: (i) the first two contracts for goods to be
financed by each Participating Financial Intermediary under the Project; and
(ii) each contract for goods or services estimated to cost the equivalent
of $4,000,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract
are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished
to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special
Account in respect of such contract.
    (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Account, said procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to
Page  12
paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
    (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply
to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be made on the basis of
statements of expenditure.
2.        The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.  The qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
of consultants employed by the Sub-borrowers in order to assist such Sub-
borrowers in preparing and implementing Sub-projects shall be satisfactory
to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the
Consultants' Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such
consultants shall be employed under contracts using the standard form of
contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such
modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant
standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall
cause other standard forms agreed with the Bank to be used.
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultants' Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to
contracts estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent each. However,
said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to (a) single-source
selection of consulting firms, (b) assignments of a critical nature, as
reasonably determined by the Bank, or (c) amendments to contracts raising
the contract value to $250,000 equivalent or above.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                              Special Account
1.        For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Category (1) set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for Sub-projects and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to
the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement, provided, however, that notwithstanding the provisions of
paragraph 2 (b) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, payments for expenditures
to be financed out of the proceeds of free-limit Sub-loans may be made out
of the Special Account before the Bank shall have authorized withdrawals
from the Loan Account in respect thereof. Such expenditures, however, shall
qualify as eligible expenditures only if the Bank shall subsequently
authorize such withdrawals; and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$8,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.        Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.        After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall
be made as follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which
do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Page  13
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the
                Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall
                specify.
         (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence
                required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank
                shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
                Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as
                the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been
                shown by said documents and other evidence to have been
                paid out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
    All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.        For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such
payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.        Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special
Account:
    (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account
in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
    (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.
    Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall
follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.        (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expen- diture or in
an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was
not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as
the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the
Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of
such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
    (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
    (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c)
Page  14
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions
of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
                                SCHEDULE 6
                   Eligibility, Approval Procedures and
                Principal Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans
Section I.      Eligibility and Approval Procedures
1.  For the purposes of this Agreement, a "free-limit Sub-loan" means any
Sub-loan other than:
    (a)   the first two Sub-loans made by any Participating Financial
Intermediary provided that, in the case of each of such Sub-loans, the
application and information submitted by such Participating Financial
Intermediary pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Section shall have been
considered satisfactory to the Bank upon its review thereof;
    (b)   a Sub-loan made in an amount greater than any of: (i) $5,000,000;
(ii) 10 percent of the capital of such Participating Financial Intermediary;
or (iii) 20 percent of the capital of such Participating Financial
Intermediary if the Sub-project is being cofinanced by a Regional Enterprise
Fund; or
    (c)   a Sub-loan proposed to be made for the financing of any real
estate development project.
2.        No expenditures for goods or services required for a Sub-project
shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the enterprise credit
facility established pursuant to the Project:
    (a)   unless the Sub-loan for such Sub-project:
          (i)   shall have been approved by the Bank, and such expenditures
                shall have been made not earlier than ninety days prior to
                the date on which the Bank shall have received the
                application and information required under paragraph 3 (a)
                of this Section in respect of such Sub-loan; or
         (ii)   shall be a free-limit Sub-loan for which the Bank has
                authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account, and such
                expenditures shall have been made not earlier than ninety
                days prior to the date on which the Bank shall have
                received the request and information required under
                paragraph 3 (c) of this Section in respect of such
                free-limit Sub-loan;
    (b)   to finance the acquisition of any interest in land;
    (c)   to finance any Sub-project which is a real estate development
project unless the criteria and procedures referred to in paragraph 3 (b)
of this Section have been issued;
    (d)   to finance any investment in military or tobacco industries; or
    (e)   to refinance any existing obligations of the Sub-borrower.
3.        (a)   When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit
Sub-loan) to the Bank for approval, the Participating Financial Intermediary
making the Sub-loan shall furnish to the Bank, through the PIU, an
application, in form satisfactory to the Bank, together with: (i) a
description of the Sub-borrower, including a business plan which shall have
been duly approved or adopted by such Sub-borrower by all necessary action
in accordance with its statutes; (ii) an appraisal of the Sub-project,
including a description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Sub-loan, and, if such Sub-project is a real estate
development project, evidence that such appraisal has been carried out and
such Sub-project approved in accordance with the specific criteria and
procedures referred to in paragraph 3 (b) of this Section; (iii) the
proposed terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, including the schedule of
Page  15
amortization therefor; and (iv) such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request.
    (b)   Any Sub-loan proposed to be made for the financing of a Sub-
project which is a real estate development project shall be eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the enterprise credit facility established
pursuant to the Project only in pilot areas agreed between the Borrower and
the Bank and upon appraisal and processing of such proposed Sub-project in
accordance with such specific criteria and procedures applicable to such
Sub-projects, as shall have been issued by the Borrower for such purposes,
provided that such criteria and procedures are acceptable to the Bank.
    (c)   Each request by a Participating Financial Intermediary for
authorization to make withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of a
free-limit Sub-loan shall contain: (i) a summary description of the Sub-
borrower and the Sub-project, including a description of the expenditures
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Sub-loan, and (ii) the
terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization
therefor.
    (d)   Applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions of
paragraphs 3 (a), (b) and (c) of this Section shall be presented to the Bank
not later than December 31, 1997.
4.  Sub-loans shall be made to Sub-borrowers who each shall have established
to the satisfaction of the Participating Financial Intermediary making the
Sub-loan that: (i) it is a private or privatized enterprise; and (ii) it is
creditworthy, and has a satisfactory financial structure and the
organization, management, staff and financial and other resources required
for the efficient carrying out of its operations, including the carrying out
of the Sub-project. An enterprise shall be considered "private" or
"privatized" for the purposes hereof where: (i) such enterprise is not
directly or indirectly controlled by the Borrower or a political or
administrative subdivision thereof, by any agency of the Borrower or any
subdivision thereof, or by any regional, local or other governmental body;
and (ii) the total shareholding or other equity interests of the Borrower
or any such subdivision, agency or governmental body in such enterprise does
not exceed twenty-five percent.
5.  Sub-loans shall be made for Sub-projects which are each determined, on
the basis of an appraisal carried out in accordance with guidelines
satisfactory to the Bank, to be:
    (a)   consistent with the Sub-borrower's business plan, such business
plan to be sufficiently detailed and comprehensive in scope and adequately
presented in accordance with paragraph 3 (a) of this Section;
    (b)   technically feasible and economically, financially and
commercially viable;
    (c)   designed with appropriate health and safety standards; and
    (d)   in compliance with all requirements pertaining to environmental
protection applicable under the laws and regulations of the Borrower.
Section II.  Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans
      The provisions of this Section shall apply for the purposes of sub-
paragraph 2 (c) (i) of Part B of Section II of Schedule 7 to this Agreement.
1.  The principal amount of each Sub-loan shall: (a) be denominated and be
the equivalent in Dollars (determined as of the date or respective dates of
withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment out of the Special Account) of
the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn or paid out on account
of goods or services financed out of the proceeds of the Sub-loan for the
Sub-project; and (b) not exceed the equivalent of $10 million, unless
otherwise agreed by the Bank.
2.  Each Sub-loan shall be: (a) charged interest, on the principal amount
thereof withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at such a rate as may
be determined by the Participating Financial Intermediary making such Sub-
Page  16
loan on the basis of its assessment of market conditions and risk
management; and (b) made for a period, as determined by such Participating
Financial Intermediary in accordance with prevailing commercial practices,
which shall be for a minimum of one year and a maximum of nine years,
inclusive of a maximum grace period of two years.
3.        Sub-loans shall be made on terms whereby the Participating
Financial Intermediary shall obtain, by written contract with the Sub-
borrower or by other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect its
interests and those of the Bank and the Borrower, including the right to:
    (a)   require the Sub-borrower to carry out and operate the Sub-project
with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical,
financial and commercial standards and to maintain adequate records;
    (b)   require: (i) that the goods and services to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and (ii) that such goods and services shall
be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Sub-project;
    (c)   inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank or
the PIU if the Bank or the PIU shall so request, the goods and the sites,
works, plants and construction included in the Sub-project, the operation
thereof, and any relevant records and documents;
    (d)   require that: (i) the Sub-borrower shall take out and maintain
with responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such
amounts, as shall be consistent with sound business practice; and (ii)
without any limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance shall cover
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the place of use or
installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a currency
freely usable by the Sub-borrower to replace or repair such goods;
    (e)   obtain all such information as the Bank or the Borrower shall
reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the administration,
operations and financial condition of the Sub-borrower and to the benefits
to be derived from the Sub-project;
    (f)   require the Sub-borrower to implement its business plan referred
to in sub-paragraph 3 (a) (i) of Section I of this Schedule; and
    (g)   suspend or terminate the right of the Sub-borrower to the use of
the proceeds of the Sub-loan upon failure by such Sub-borrower to perform
its obligations under its contract with the Participating Financial
Intermediary.
                                SCHEDULE 7
              Eligibility and Procedures for the Selection of
                  Participating Financial Intermediaries;
            Terms and Conditions of Subsidiary Loan Agreements
Section I.  Eligibility and Selection Procedures
1.  A Subsidiary Loan Agreement may be entered into with a financial
institution, duly established and operating under the laws of the Borrower,
in regard to which the Borrower shall have determined, and the Bank shall
have agreed, that such financial institution:
    (a)   qualifies under the Financial Institutions Development Program,
having accepted all conditions for participation therein;
    (b)   has been accepted for participation in the Project in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 3.02 of this Agreement; and
    (c)   conforms to the Accreditation Criteria set forth in the Annex to
this Schedule.
Section II.  Terms and Conditions of Subsidiary Loan Agreements
    The following are the principal terms and conditions of Subsidiary Loan
Page  17
Agreements which shall apply for the purposes of paragraph (b) of Section
3.02 of this Agreement:
Part A:         Terms
1.  Principal Amount:
    The amounts to be made available to a Participating Financial
Intermediary under its respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall be the
equivalent, in Dollars, of the aggregate of the amounts in various
currencies which may be withdrawn from the Loan Account, in accordance with
the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement, on
account of payments made (or to be made) for eligible expenditures required
in connection with any Sub-loans made by such Participating Financial
Intermediary; provided, however, that the amount to be made available shall
not exceed the value of the total share capital of such Participating
Financial Intermediary.
    The Subsidiary Loan shall be denominated, and be repayable, in Dollars.
2.    Interest Rate:
    The Participating Financial Intermediary shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time, at a floating rate equivalent to two and one-half percent above the
weighted average rate of the six-month LIBOR plus one percent as one-third
of said rate and the interest rate determined in accordance with Section
2.05 of this Agreement as two-thirds of said rate. For the purposes of this
paragraph, "six-month LIBOR" is the London Inter-Bank Offered Rate of major
banks for deposits in Dollars, designated as page 3750 on the Telerate
Service (or such other page as may replace the Telerate Page 3750) for the
purpose of displaying such LIBOR rates for deposits in Dollars.
3.    Maturity:
      The Participating Financial Intermediary shall repay on the maturity
dates set forth in the Subsidiary Loan Agreement in accordance with an
amortization schedule as shall be determined by the Borrower up to a period
of 12 years, including a grace period of two years.
4.  Commitment and Other Charges:
    The Participating Financial Intermediary shall be required to pay:
    (a)   a front-end fee of $25,000, due upon signing the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement and creditable towards interest accrued under the Subsidiary Loan;
and
    (b)   a commitment charge on the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan
not withdrawn from time to time, of thirty-three hundredths of one percent
(0.33 %) per annum.
5.  Premiums on Prepayment:
    The Participating Financial Intermediary shall have the right to repay,
in advance of maturity, any portion of the principal amount of a Subsidiary
Loan, subject to a repayment premium of one-eighth of one percent (0.125%)
of any amount so repaid.
Part B:   Conditions
1.  Amounts made available to a Participating Financial Intermediary under
a Subsidiary Loan shall be eligible for financing out of the Loan where,
pursuant to the Co-Lenders' Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan, combined
with proceeds of the EBRD Loan which are available for financing such
amounts in accordance with the EBRD Loan Agreement, may be blended at a 2:1
ratio.
2.  Each Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall contain provisions pursuant to
which the respective Participating Financial Intermediary shall undertake
to:
Page  18
      (a)       carry out its activities under the Project and conduct its
                operations and affairs in accordance with appropriate
                financial standards and practices, with qualified
                management and staff in adequate numbers, including to
                perform environmental due diligence work with respect to
                Sub-loans, and to provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
                facilities, services and other resources required for the
                purposes;
    (b)   adhere to all standards of general application which may have been
          established for purposes of determining the continuing eligibility
          of the Participating Financial Intermediaries for participation
          in the Project, which shall include, without limitation, the
          accreditation criteria set forth in the Annex to this Schedule
          (the Accreditation Criteria);
      (c)       (i) make Sub-loans to Sub-borrowers on the terms and
                conditions set forth in Section II of Schedule 6 of this
                Agreement; (ii) exercise its rights in relation to each
                such Sub-loan in such manner as to protect its interests
                and the interests of the Borrower and the Bank, comply with
                its obligations under its respective Subsidiary Loan
                Agreement and achieve the purposes of the Project; (iii)
                not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any of its agreements
                providing for Sub-loans, or any provision thereof, without
                prior approval of the Borrower; and (iv) appraise
                Sub-projects and supervise, monitor and report on the
                carrying out by Sub-borrowers of Sub-projects, in
                accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank and the
                Borrower;
    (d)   in respect of repayments made to it under its respective Sub-
          loans: (i) open, by the date on which it shall receive the first
          repayment of principal under any such Sub-loan, and thereafter
          maintain, a separate account on its books; (ii) upon receipt of
          each such repayment, credit the same to the said separate account;
          and (iii) utilize all amounts so credited, to the extent they are
          not yet required to meet its repayment obligations to the Borrower
          under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, exclusively to finance
          Qualifying Investments on terms and conditions similar to those
          applicable to the Sub-loans;
      (e)       maintain, with staff and other resources and terms of
                reference, satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower: (i)
                a credit committee to be responsible for the evaluation and
                approval of Sub-loan applications; and (ii) a technical
                unit to be responsible for the appraisal and supervision of
                the carrying out of Sub-projects;
      (f)       (i)  exchange views with, and furnish all such information
                to the Bank or the Borrower, as may be reasonably requested
                by the Bank or the Borrower, with regard to the progress of
                its activities under the Project, the performance of its
                obligations under its respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement,
                and other matters relating to the purposes of the Project;
                and (ii) promptly inform the Bank and the Borrower of any
                condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with
                the progress of its activities under its respective
                Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
      (g)       (i)  maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect, in
                accordance with sound accounting practices, its operations
                and financial condition; (ii) have its financial statements
                (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
                related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
                accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
                the Bank; (iii) furnish to the Bank and the Borrower, as
                soon as available, but in any case not later than three
                months after the end of each such year, certified copies of
                said financial statements and accounts for such year as so
                audited, and the report of such audit by said auditors in
Page  19
                such scope and detail as the Bank or the Borrower shall
                have reasonably requested; and (iv) furnish to the Bank or
                the Borrower such other information concerning said
                records, accounts and financial statements, as well as the
                audit thereof, as the Bank or the Borrower shall from time
                to time reasonably request.
3.  The right of a Participating Financial Intermediary to the use of the
proceeds of its respective Subsidiary Loan shall be subject to: (a)
suspension upon failure of such Participating Financial Intermediary to
perform any of its obligations under its respective Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or to continue to be in compliance with the Accreditation Criteria
referred to in paragraph 2 (b) of this Part of this Schedule and with all
legal and regulatory requirements applicable to its operations; and (b)
termination if such right shall have been suspended pursuant to subparagraph
(a) hereof for a period of 60 days.
4.  Each Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall be subject to a condition of
effectiveness, providing for the submission of a certified copy of such
Subsidiary Loan Agreement to the Bank, together with evidence satisfactory
to the Bank that: (a) such Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly executed,
delivered and authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental and
corporate action of the PIU, MOF and the Participating Financial
Intermediary concerned; and (b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement is
legally valid and binding on the Borrower and such Participating Financial
Intermediary in accordance with its terms.
                            ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 7
                 Accreditation Criteria for Participating
                         Financial Intermediaries
    The following criteria shall apply for the purposes of paragraph 1 (c)
of Section I and paragraph 2 (b) of Part B of Section II of this Schedule:
A.  Capital Adequacy
1.  Maintaining a total capital to risk-adjusted assets ratio of 4 percent
in 1994 and reaching a total capital to risk-adjusted assets ratio of 8
percent by 1998, applying risk-weightings satisfactory to the Bank.
2.  Maintaining minimum equity capital of $5 million equivalent.
3.  Realistically provisioning for possible loan losses in accordance with
CBR instructions and international standards.
B.  Profitability
    Demonstrating financial solvency and profitability as measured by net
income (adjusted for inflation and loan loss provisions in accordance with
international accounting standards) providing a positive return on assets
during the previous two years.
C.  Quality of Lending Process and Loan Portfolio
1.  Limiting maximum exposure to a single borrower and its connected parties
to 50 percent of equity capital in 1994; and then to 35 percent in 1995 and
25 percent in 1996.
2.  Limiting maximum aggregate large exposures (defined as any credit and
off-balance sheet exposures to a single party exceeding 10 percent of bank's
equity capital) to 12 times equity capital in 1994; and subsequently to 10
times in 1995 and 8 times in 1996.
3.  Maintaining single loans to shareholders/directors at less than 30
percent of capital and the aggregate total of such loans at 100 percent of
capital in 1994; these percentages would subsequently decrease to 10 percent
and 20 percent by 1998.
4.  Maintaining a loan portfolio of which (i) no more than 20 percent has
been rescheduled (excluding working capital financing of up to 90 days of
sales), and (ii) less than 5 percent has been rescheduled more than once.
5.  Actively engaging in lending.
Page  20
6.  Maintaining a total collection rate (total amount of current and overdue
principal and interest collected as a percentage of current and overdue
amounts due in the year, calculated before loan reschedulings) greater than
85 percent.
7.  Limiting the remaining principal value of loans in arrears to 8 percent
of the total portfolio and the remaining principal value of loans in arrears
for a period exceeding 12 months to 2 percent of the total portfolio.
8.  Maintaining a minimum 1:1 ratio between loan loss provisions and the sum
of doubtful and loss assets, where "doubtful assets" are those where
collection or liquidation in full is highly improbable and "loss assets" are
those considered uncollectible.
9.  Maintaining an interest rate structure reflecting a satisfactory
assessment and monitoring of risk and return.
10.       Demonstrating a satisfactory set of policies and practices for
assessing the environmental effects of projects it finances.
D.  Resource Mobilization and Liquidity
1.  Sourcing no more than 10 percent of loan funds from credits allocated
according to the Borrower's special decision.
2.  Maintaining a non-inter-bank loans to non-inter-bank deposits ratio of
less than 80 percent.
E.  Managerial Autonomy
    Demonstrating substantial managerial autonomy to the satisfaction of the
Bank, EBRD, MOF, and the CBR through: (a) sources of funds, (b) legal and
ownership structure, (c) composition of and locus of authority for
appointment of Board of Directors, (d) management and staff selection and
promotion policies and practices, and (e) loan approval procedures (equal
treatment of shareholders and non-shareholders and the absence of
shareholders on the credit committee).
F.  Management Effectiveness
    Demonstrating adequate policies, procedures, and performance in the
following functional areas: (a) market strategy, (b) organizational
structure, (c) credit, (d) financial management (ALM, foreign exchange,
accounting), (e) planning and budgeting, (f) internal audit, (g) management
information systems, and (h) training.
G.  Private Sector Orientation
1.  Demonstrating a significant level of lending to the private sector.
2.  Demonstrating significant share ownership by private sector.
H.  Exemptions for Banks in Special Circumstances
    Banks not meeting one or several of the above criteria may still be
accredited for participation in the Project provided that they agree with
MOF on a plan of action for addressing their deficiencies and an explicit
set of targets for monitoring their progress in meeting the accreditation
standards.
                                SCHEDULE 8
                  Modifications to the General Conditions
    For the purposes of this Agreement, the provisions of the General
Conditions are modified as follows:
1.  The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
2.  In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-paragraph (l)
Page  21
and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
          "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any
    further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the
    provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of
    Agreement."
3.  The words "the Bank, may by notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor,
terminate the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such
amount. Upon giving of such notice, such amount of the Loan shall be
cancelled" set forth at the end of Section 6.03 are deleted and the
following is substituted therefor:
          "or (f) by the date specified in sub-paragraph (c) of paragraph
    3 of Section I of Schedule 6 to the Loan Agreement, the Bank shall, in
    respect of any portion of the Loan: (i) have received no applications
    or requests under subparagraphs (a) or (b) of said paragraph; or (ii)
    have denied any such applications or request. The Bank may, by notice
    to the Borrower, terminate the right of the Borrower to submit such
    applications or requests or to make withdrawals from the Loan Account,
    as the case may be, with respect to such amount or portion of the Loan.
    Upon the giving of such notice, such amount or portion of the Loan shall
    be cancelled."
