Page  1
June
24,
1999
Mr. Rim A. Giniyatulin
Leader, Project Management
and Coordination Unit of the
Executive Committee of
the International Fund for
Saving the Aral Sea
5a Kadiri Street
Tashkent
7000128
Republic of Uzbekistan
Re:
Netherlands Grant for the Water and
Environmental Management Project
-
Grant  No. TF021718
Dear Sir:
I am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development
(the Bank) to indicate the Bank
’s agreement, as administrator of grant
funds provided by the Netherlands, to make a grant in an amount not exceeding five
hundred thousand United States Dollars
(US$500,000) (the Grant) to the Executive 
Committee of the International Fund for saving the Aral Sea
(the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for financial 
assistance and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex
to this Letter Agreement.
The Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement
below, that it is authorized to contract and withdraw the Grant for the said purposes
and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.
Upon
receipt by the Bank of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this
Letter Agreement will become effective as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
By
/s/
Ishrat Husain
Director
Azerbaijan/Tajikistan, Uzbekistan and
Aral Sea Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
AGREED:
PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND COORDINATION UNIT OF THE
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF THE INTERNATIONAL FUND FOR SAVING
THE ARAL SEA
By
/s/
Rim A.
Giniyatulin
Authorized Representative
Dated: June 29, 1999
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant
1.
Purposes and Activities
The purpose of the Grant is to assist in the financing of the Water and Environmental
Management Project
(the Project), described in the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement, 
Page  2
dated June
21
,
1998
, between the Recipient and the Bank, acting as implementing agency
of the Global Environment Facility
(hereinafter referred to as the GEF Agreement). The 
activities to be financed from the Grant
(the Activities) are described in Parts A and 
E of Schedule
2
to the GEF Agreement as follows:
"Part A:
Water and Salt Management: 
1. 
Development of national and regional policies, strategies and action plans to 
improve water and salt management in the Aral Sea Basin.
2. 
Development and implementation, with public participation, of ideas and measures 
for low and cost water conservation.
Part E:
Wetlands Restoration:
Implementation of measures designed to improve the environmental sustainability
of the wetland areas, including the establishment of a dam, regulating facility and an
access road on Sudoche Lake and of a draining pumping station on an adjacent farm."
2.
Implementation Generally
2.1.
The Recipient shall: (a) carry out the Activities with due diligence and 
efficiency and in accordance with the implementation arrangements set forth or
referred to in the GEF Agreement;
(b) promptly provide the funds, facilities, services 
and other resources required for that purpose;
(c) furnish all information covering 
the Activities and the use of the proceeds of the Grant as the Bank shall reasonably
request;
(d) from time to time exchange views with the Bank's representatives on the 
progress and results of the Activities; and
(e)
take all necessary measures required
to enable the Bank to visit the territory of Central Asian States for purposes related
to the Grant.
Without limitation on the foregoing, the Recipient shall, if the Bank
shall so request, prepare and furnish to the Bank promptly upon completion of the
Activities a report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, on the results
and impact of the Activities.
3.
Procurement
3.1.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the consultants
’
services and works required for the carrying out of the Activities and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Attachment I
to this Annex.
3.2.
The Recipient shall ensure that any facilities relevant to the Activities are at 
all times operated and maintained in accordance with appropriate practices and that
any repairs or renewals of such facilities are promptly made as needed.
4.
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
4.1.
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by the Bank on 
its books in the name of the Recipient
(the Grant Account), and may be withdrawn there
from by the Recipient in accordance with the provisions of this Section
4, for 
expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and works, services required
for the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.
4.2.
The expenditures for the following items may be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Grant and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Activities:
Amount of the Grant
%
of
Allocated
Expenditures to
Item
(in US$)
 be Financed
(1)
Works under
00%
Part E of the
Project
(2)
Consultants’
500,000
86%
services under
Part A of the
Project
Total
500,000
4.3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4.2 above: (a) no withdrawals shall 
Page  3
be made
: (
i
)
for payments made for expenditures prior to the date of signature of the
GEF Agreement;
(ii) on account of payments for any taxes levied by or in the territory 
of any Central Asian country member of the Recipient;
(iii) on account of expenditures 
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods
produced in or services supplied from such territories;
(iv) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or import,
to the Bank
’s knowledge, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security 
Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; or
(v)
after
March
31,
2000
or such later date as the Bank shall establish by written notice to the
Recipient
(the Closing Date), except that withdrawals may be made for expenditures 
incurred prior to the Closing Date if the corresponding application is received by the
Bank within four months after the Closing Date, after which time any amount of the
Grant remaining unwithdrawn from the Grant Account shall be canceled; and
(b) if, in 
the Bank’s opinion, an amount of the Grant allocated to any of the items in the table
in paragraph
4.2
above will be insufficient to finance the expenditures for such item,
the Bank may, by written notice to the Recipient, reallocate to such item an amount of
the Grant then allocated to another item which, in the Bank’s opinion, will not be 
necessary to meet other expenditures.
4.4.
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, 
it shall deliver to the Bank a written application for withdrawal of such amount in
the form specified by the Bank.
Withdrawal applications shall be: (a) signed on 
behalf of the Recipient by the Project Leader designated by the Recipient or such
other person as he or she shall have authorized in writing; and
(b) be accompanied by 
such evidence in support of the application as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Authenticated specimen signatures of the person authorized to sign withdrawal
applications shall be provided with the first application bearing his or her
signature.
Each withdrawal application for an amount of the Grant and its supporting
evidence must be sufficient in form and substance to satisfy the Bank that the
Recipient is entitled to withdraw such amount from the Grant Account and that such
amount is to be used in the carrying out of the Activities.
The Bank shall pay the
amounts withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account only to or on the order of
the Recipient.
4.5.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods or works under contracts
costing less than US$100,000 equivalent each and for services of consultants under 
contracts costing less than US$50,000 equivalent each, all under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient.
4.6.
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the 
Grant.
The Bank, at the Recipient’s request and acting as an agent of the Recipient, 
shall purchase with the currency of the Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account such
currencies as shall be required to pay for expenditures to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Grant.
Whenever it shall be necessary, for the purposes of this
Letter Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, such
value shall be as reasonably determined by the Bank.
4.7.
To facilitate the carrying out of the Activities, the Recipient may open and 
maintain in United States Dollars a special deposit account
(the Special Account) in a 
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.
Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions
of Attachment II to this Annex.
5.
Accounts and Audits
5.1.
(a)
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Activities of the departments
or agencies of the Recipient responsible for carrying out the Activities or any part
thereof.
(b)
The Recipient shall: (i) have the records and accounts referred to in 
subparagraph
(a)
above and the records and accounts for the Special Account for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii) furnish to the Bank as 
soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after the end of each
such year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other
information concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank
shall from time to time reasonably request.
Page  4
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: (i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with subparagraph
(a) above, records 
and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after
the Bank has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last
withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records
(contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable the 
Bank
’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and
accounts are included in the annual audit referred to in subparagraph
(b) above and 
that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with
the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon
to support the related withdrawals.
6.
Suspension and Cancellation
6.1.
The Bank may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of the 
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the following
events has occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to comply with any 
of its obligations herein specified; or
(b) the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals under any loan agreement with the Bank shall have been suspended.
6.2.
The Bank may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the 
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account: (a) at any time after 
the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have been
suspended pursuant to the provisions of paragraph
6.1
above; or
(b) if the Recipient 
shall have failed to take action, satisfactory to the Bank, within six months after
the effective date hereof, to carry out the Activities; or
(c) if the Bank has 
decided, at any time after consultation with the Recipient, to withdraw its support to
the Project; or
(d)
if the Recipient has withdrawn its request for the Bank’s 
assistance in financing the Project.
Attachment I
Procurement
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I
of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January
1995
and revised in January and August
1996, and in September 1997 
(the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Works under Part E of the Project shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph
5
of
Appendix
1
thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph
1
of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and works shall be grouped in bid
packages estimated to cost $300,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestic contractors
The provisions of paragraphs
2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to works to be carried out by domestic contractors of States
members of the Recipient.
Part C:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Page  5
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph
1
of
Appendix
1
to the Guidelines. Procurement of all works shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and
with the provisions of said paragraph
1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract to be awarded under the procedures referred 
to in Part B hereof the procedures set forth in paragraphs
2
and
3
of Appendix
1
to
the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract, if any, not governed by paragraph
2
of this Part,
the procedures set forth in paragraph
4
of Appendix
1
to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants
’
services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the
Introduction and Section IV of the
"Guidelines:
Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September
1997
(the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph
3
of
Appendix
1
thereto, Appendix
2
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs
3.13
through
3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.
The short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely consultants from the Member States in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph
2.7
of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph
1
of
Appendix
1
to the Consultant Guidelines.
Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph
1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs
1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix
1
to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph
2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph
1
of this Part, the
procedures set forth in paragraph
4
of Appendix
1
to the Consultant Guidelines shall
apply.
Page  6
Attachment II
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Attachment:
(a)
the term "eligible items" means the items set forth in the table in 
paragraph
4.2 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Activities and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $100,000 
to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant
to paragraph
3
(a) of this Attachment.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Attachment.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
The Recipient shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a 
deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account
and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall
have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required
pursuant to paragraph
4
of this Attachment for the payment or
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.
On the
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the
Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have requested
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank
from the Grant Account under the eligible item(s), and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Attachment, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in paragraph
5.1
(b) (ii) of the Annex to this Letter 
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to
said paragraph in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special
Account;
Page  7
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make
withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of paragraph
6.1 of the 
Annex to this Letter Agreement; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall equal the equivalent 
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of
the Grant shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Recipient.
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that
the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for
eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph
2
of this Attachment; or
(ii)
was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Bank, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or
(B)
deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.
Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall
be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund,
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible
expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the
Bank such outstanding amount.
