                                      Document of
                                  The World Bank


                                                                  Report No: 55665 - CG




                              RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                                         ON A

                      PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING
                                  OF THE


   EMERGENCY LIVING CONDITIONS IMPROVEMENT SUPPORT PROJECT


                                     GRANT H164


                          APPROVED BY THE BOARD ON
                                MAY 26, 2005


                                        TO THE

                       DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO


                                    JULY 26, 2010




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.




                                           1
                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


BCECO         Bureau Central de Coordination
CPPR          Country Program Portfolio Review
DRC           Democratic Republic of Congo
ESIA          Environmental and Social Impact Assessment
PDO           Project Development Objective
PRO ROUTES    High-Priority Roads Reopening and Maintenance Project
PUAACV        Projet d'urgence d'appui à l'amélioration des conditions de vie
              (Emergency Living Conditions Improvement Support Project)
SDR           Special Drawing Rights
SGRU          Société de Gestion et de Réhabilitation Urbaine
UCOP          Unité de Coordination de Projets (Project Coordination Unit)




             Regional Vice President:        Obiageli K. Ezekwesili
                   Country Director:         Marie Francoise Marie-Nelly
              Acting Sector Director:        Jose Luis Irigoyen
                    Sector Manager:          Junaid Kamal Ahmad
                  Task Team Leader:          Mahine Diop




                                        ii
              CONGO, DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF
 EMERGENCY LIVING CONDITIONS IMPROVEMENT SUPPORT PROJECT

                                                      P115642
                                                     CONTENTS

                                                                                                                      Page
A. SUMMARY ................................................................................................................ 1
B. PROJECT STATUS.................................................................................................... 2
C. PROPOSED CHANGES ............................................................................................ 4
D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY ......................................................................................... 7
ANNEX 1: RESULTS FRAMEWORK AND MONITORING ....................................... 11
ANNEX 2: REALLOCATION OF PROCEEDS ............................................................. 18
ANNEX 3: DETAILED IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE ......................................... 19




                                                             iii
     DRC EMERGENCY LIVING CONDITIONS IMPROVEMENT SUPPORT
                       PROJECT (PUAACV)

                            RESTRUCTURING PAPER



SUMMARY

1.     This Restructuring Paper seeks the approval of the Country Director (AFCC2) to
introduce the following changes in the DRC Emergency Living Conditions Improvement
Support Project (Grant H164) and any accompanying amendments to the project's legal
document.

2.     According to the Grant Agreement the objective of the Project is to assist the
Borrower in improving the living conditions of the populations by strengthening the
socio-economic situation in key urban areas as well as in two isolated regions.

3.     The project includes the following four components:

          ·   Component A: Support to medium urban centers - (US$10 million) is
              aimed at restoring certain basic services in 18 urban centers located in the
              provinces of Bas Congo, Bandundu, Equateur, Kasaï Oriental, Kasaï
              Occidental and Katanga.
          ·   Component B: Support to provincial capitals - (US$27 million) is aimed
              at kick-starting economic development in the cities of Bandundu,
              Kananga, Kikwit, Lubumbashi, Matadi, Mbandaka and Mbuji-Mayi by
              supporting the rehabilitation of urban infrastructure and provision of
              equipment.
          ·   Component C: Opening up of isolated areas - (US$32 million) is aimed at
              rehabilitating and maintaining some critical interurban roads linking
              Lubumbashi to Kasenga (RN5 -208 km) and Zongo-Akula (RN6 - 390
              km) in order to support the development of economic activities by
              increasing the flow of people, goods and services.
          ·   Component D: Support to provincial institutions - (US$7 million) is
              aimed at supporting the proper functioning of provincial institutions by
              rehabilitating offices, provision of equipment, providing training to these
              institutions in the provincial capitals of Matadi, Bandundu, Kananga,
              Mbuji-Mayi, Mbandaka, Kisangani, Kindu and Bukavu.

4.     The Grant was approved on May 26, 2005, for a total amount of SDR 53.9 million
(about US$82 million equivalent). The Grant Agreement between the Democratic
Republic of Congo (the Borrower) and the International Development Association (the
Association) was signed on June 28, 2005, and declared effective on September 23, 2005.
The closing date of the Grant Agreement is September 30, 2010. The project is fully
                                           1
financed by IDA (grant). The project is being managed by the Project Coordination Unit
(UCOP), under the Ministry of Planning and all components are entrusted to Delegated
Contract Managers. This will be the first restructuring and closing date extension of the
project.

5.      The main reason for the proposed restructuring is to modify the scope and design
of the project by closing Component C, with a current disbursement rate of 92 percent,
and Component D, which remains undisbursed as most of the activities were financed by
the Government and the provinces and the remaining will be financed by the donors (the
Bank, European Union, African Development Bank). The unused funds will be
reallocated for use under Components A and B to ensure that the PDO can be achieved
by the new completion date of September 30, 2011. This will be accomplished by:

   i) closing Component C financing the re-opening of isolated areas due to the poor
        performance of contractors to help refocus the project on activities consistent with
        the achievement of the PDO;
   ii) closing Component D financing support to provincial institutions as most of the
        initial priority activities have been financed by the Borrower. Remaining follow-
        up activities could be implemented under the Governance Capacity Enhancement
        Project and the other donors project African development bank and European
        Union) modifying the results framework to better capture project results;
   iii) reallocating the Project Grant proceeds to reinforce the impact of the ongoing
        activities under Components A and B and finance key priorities in the urban areas
        that could not be funded; and
   iv) Extending the closing date of Components A, B and E (project management and
        operating costs) of the Project from September 30, 2010 to September 30, 2011.

6.      The proposed changes will not have a major effect on the original economic and
social aspects of the Project and the PDO will not change for the following reasons: (i)
key project activities are included in Components A and B; (ii) component C has already
disbursed 92 percent of the allocated funds and met the target of increasing the average
speed on the roads rehabilitated (currently at 30km/h compared to the target of 25km/h);
and (iii) Component D was designed to build on Components A, B, and C so closing it
will not impact the PDO, also taking into consideration that most of the activities of
Component D have been implemented by the borrower and the remaining activities
would be taken into account by the Bank Governance Capacity Enhancement Project and
the other donors (European Union, African Development Bank. This was confirmed by
AFTRL. The environmental category will remain a B as the changes are limited to the
closing of Components C and D, and the restructuring will not involve any exceptions to
Bank policies.


PROJECT STATUS
7.     Implementation progress and achievement of the project's development objective
ratings have been downgraded from Marginally Satisfactory to Marginally
Unsatisfactory, mainly due to delays in the start-up of activities financed under
                                            2
Component B and in the implementation of Component C, thus leading to a low
disbursement rate. In spite of very difficult implementation conditions and the fact that
works under Component C are not completed, results are already visible on the ground.
The reopening of roads in the Equateur Province contributed to facilitating the
transportation of goods and passengers. People who were secluded for several years now
have better access to the rest of the country. The average travel time in the targeted areas
has been drastically reduced. Before the project, it took no less than one day by truck to
cover 115 kilometers (Gemena-Akula), but today, three hours are enough. On the
Lubumbashi-Kasenga road, the monthly tonnage rose from 272 tons in July 2006 to
33,647 tons in January 2008. In the education sector, there has been an average increase
of 30 percent in the number of students registered in the rehabilitated schools. The
attendance rate at the rehabilitated health centers has also doubled. In the water sector,
access to potable water has increased by 25 percent in the targeted cities. The status of
each component is presented below:
   ·   Component A (US$10 million) is aimed at restoring certain basic services in 18
       urban centers located in the provinces of Bas Congo, Bandundu, Equateur, Kasaï
       Oriental, Kasaï Occidental and Katanga. Out of 129 sub-projects identified, 126
       have been completed. The completed sub-projects cover the education and health
       sectors. 15 health centers and 29 schools have been rehabilitated or constructed
       and two markets have been rehabilitated. The impact is visible with populations
       having access to these facilities. The disbursement rate of the component is 99
       percent and implementation progress is rated Satisfactory.

   ·   Component B (US$27 million) is aimed at kick-starting economic development
       in the cities of Bandundu, Kananga, Kikwit, Lubumbashi, Matadi, Mbandaka and
       Mbuji-Mayi by supporting the rehabilitation of urban infrastructure and provision
       of equipment. Implementation of Component B was delayed because recruitment
       of the Delegated Contract Manager (Maitre d'Ouvrage Délégué) fell behind
       schedule. As a result of the action plan prepared during the mid-term review
       mission to improve implementation, 34 contracts amounting to US$15 million (or
       50 percent of the component amount) have been signed and the disbursement rate
       is expected to increase. Implementation progress is rated Moderately
       Unsatisfactory but is expected to be upgraded within three months. The
       disbursement rate of the component is at 37 percent.

   ·   Component C (US$32 million) is aimed at rehabilitating and maintaining some
       critical interurban roads linking Lubumbashi to Kasenga (RN5 -208 km) and
       Zongo-Akula (RN6 - 390 km) in order to support the development of economic
       activities by increasing the flow of people, goods and services. On the
       Lubumbashi-Kasenga road, due to cost overruns as detailed in paragraph 15, only
       the Lubumbashi-Kasomeno section (or 127 km), has been completed. Works on
       the Zongo-Akula section experienced delays because of logistical problems
       encountered in moving heavy equipment, acquiring goods and construction
       materials and the poor capacity of contractors. To date, critical sections (234 km)
       have been reopened and hot spots treated. Road traffic has resumed on the
       rehabilitated sections and vehicles can now travel at an average speed of about 30

                                             3
       km/h, compared to the initial objective of 25km/h. Implementation progress is
       rated Moderately Unsatisfactory and the disbursement rate is at 92 percent.

   ·   Component D (US$7 million) is aimed at supporting the proper functioning of
       provincial institutions by rehabilitating offices, provision of equipment, providing
       training to these institutions in the provincial capitals of Matadi, Bandundu,
       Kananga, Mbuji-Mayi, Mbandaka, Kisangani, Kindu and Bukavu. Delays in
       recruiting the Delegated Contract Manager affected implementation start-up and
       because of the urgent need to have these provincial institutions operational, most
       of the activities have been carried out with the financing of the Government and
       the Provinces. Follow-up activities could be implemented through the Governance
       Capacity Enhancement Project and the other donors project which are more
       focused on decentralization. As the Government and the provinces had already
       financed some activities and the remaining by the donors, the Government and the
       Bank agreed to use the funds allocated to this component to cover cost overruns
       under Component C. Unfortunately, this agreement did not materialize because of
       the poor performance of Component C. Implementation progress is rated
       Moderately Unsatisfactory.

8.     Limiting the scope of works under Component C and closing Component D will
free up about US$11.5 million, necessary to finance key activities that otherwise could
not have been funded under Components A and B and strengthen the impact and
sustainability of the activities already completed. These arrangements were agreed with
the Government during the April 2010 Bank's supervision mission.

9.      Environmental and Social safeguards. Six World Bank safeguard policies were
triggered during project preparation and the pertaining mitigation measures identified.
The triggered policies are: 4.01 (Environmental Assessment), 4.04 (Natural Habitats),
4.11 (Cultural Property), 4.12 (Involuntary Resettlement), 4.20 (Indigenous Peoples), and
4.36 (Forests). Because of the emergency status of the project, the Environmental and
Social Impact Assessment (ESIA) were prepared during the first six months of project
implementation. The Environmental Impact Assessment for Component C and the
Environmental and Social management Framework for Components A, B and D required
by OP/BP 4.01, the Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF), required by OP/BP 4.12 and
the Indigenous Peoples Plan, required by OP/BP 4.20 were prepared and were disclosed
in DRC (April 26, 2006) and at the Bank InfoShop (March 16, 2006). Copies were
disseminated to NGOs, academics, Pygmy associations, and news agencies. An
international environmental and social consulting firm has been hired to assist and train
UCoP staff, contractors and the Bureau de Control on the areas of environmental and
social impact and management, as well as Bank safeguards procedures and requirements.
Under Component C, an action plan for the pygmy population living along the roads to
be rehabilitated in the Equateur Province, has been developed and approved by the Bank.
The objective of this action plan is to mitigate adverse impacts in the living conditions of
the pygmy population resulting from the works.

10.    With the closing of Component C, the risks associated with the environmental
safeguards will be significantly reduced, and activities undertaken for the pygmy

                                             4
population would be transferred to the High-Priority Roads Reopening and Maintenance
Project (Pro-routes). These activities include (i) health with emphasis on women and
children; (ii) education; (iii) citizenship improvement; (iii) agriculture; (iv) housing
improvement and access to basic services; and (v) sensitization activities. The transfer of
these activities to Pro-routes would benefit the pygmy population since more resources
will indeed be allocated to them compared to the very limited resources anticipated under
the Project. Compensation for resettlement resulting from works already undertaken by
Component C has been paid, except some litigation cases for which payments are
underway. As a result of these measures and the closing of Component C, the Project
team anticipates that the safeguard rating for the restructured Project will improve from
MS to S.

11.     Financial Management: A detailed financial management supervision mission,
held in February 2010, confirmed a satisfactory rating. As a result of the recruitment of
an internal auditor and a sound control environment (qualified fiduciary staff, and
adequate manual of procedures supported by a computerized accounting system), the
project complies with financial management requirements such as timely submission of
quarterly unaudited Interim Financial Reports and annual audit reports. The latest audit
opinion was unqualified and there is currently no open accountability issue.

12.     Procurement: Most of the activities have been handled through BCECO and
SGRU as Delegated Contract Managers. A few activities were directly handled by
UCOP. Procurement activities have been closely monitored in both cases. The project
team in UCOP includes a qualified and experienced procurement specialist who has
access to the appropriate tools and knowledge that enables him to carry out his functions
effectively. The procurement plan has been updated as required during implementation
and there is a good filing system in place for bidding documents. Procurement under this
project is rated Moderately Satisfactory due mainly to delays in the recruitment of the
Delegated Contract Manager and the processing of procurement of works under
Component B. During the mid-term review mission an action plan was established by the
government and agreed by the Bank to address issues related to procurement and project
implementation. Since then, the quality of the bidding documents and bid evaluation
reports has improved and procurement rating is expected to be upgraded within the next
three months.

13.    Legal covenants: All legal covenants have been complied with.



PROPOSED CHANGES
Changes in project scope and design

14.      As stated above the proposed restructuring will involve (i) closing Component C
related to the re-opening of isolated areas where road works are incomplete as a result of
poor performance; and (ii) closing Component D providing support to provincial
institutions.
                                            5
15.      Closing component C and pursuing the remaining works under the
additional financing of the High-Priority Roads Reopening and Maintenance
Project (Pro-routes). Works on the RN6 road were subdivided in two batches. The first
batch relates to the rehabilitation of the Akula-Gemena-Mbari road (165 kms) and the
second to the rehabilitation of the Mbari-Libenge-Zongo road (224 kms). Significant
delays in the implementation of works (more than two years compared to the initial
timeframe) were due partly to very difficult implementation conditions.1 The magnitude
of these difficulties had not been anticipated during preparation and there is
consequently, today, a need to revise the description of the component and limit the
activities to those already completed. These include:

    ·    acute shortage of resources needed for the implementation of works;
    ·    limited managerial staff;
    ·    limited and outdated equipment;

    ·    inappropriate equipment to carry out works (case of the Mbari-Libenge-Zongo
         road);

    ·    failure of the companies to mobilize new resources to inject into the works;

    ·    poor organization of works; and

    ·    significant delays in works implementation.
16.     The company in charge of works on the Mbari-Libenge-Zongo Road has
abandoned the sites since August 2009, thus resulting in the interruption of works. On the
Akula Gemena-Mbari road, the situation on the ground has shown clearly that the
contractor cannot complete the job. The government therefore decided to terminate these
two contracts and considered re-launching the bidding process to re-start works but
abandoned the idea for the following reasons: (i) it would take at least two to three years
to complete the works following Bank procurement guidelines; (ii) resources needed to
complete the works could not be available within the remaining project funds because of
cost overruns. These cost overruns are mainly due to a lack of detailed engineering
studies during project preparation as the team was unable to visit sites under the
prevailing security conditions. Unit prices used to estimate the cost of works amounted to
US$50,000 per kilometer during project preparation but currently they are between
US$70, 000 and US$90,000 per kilometer for similar projects such as the Emergency
Economic and Social Reunification Support Project. For the reasons mentioned above,
the government decided to close Component C by: (i) terminating the contract related to
the Akula-Gemena-Mbari road on a consensual agreement basis; (ii) terminating the
contract related to the Mbari-Libenge-Zongo road, based on the provisions of the
contract. As a result, these two contracts have been terminated.




1
 The challenges were caused by logistical problems in moving heavy equipment to remote worksites,
acquiring goods and construction materials, and especially to the recurring deficiencies noted on the ground
which prevent the companies from completing the works within the deadlines.
                                                     6
17.     Furthermore, the government requested that the Bank continue to finance the
remaining works initially scheduled under Component C under the Additional Financing
of the High-Priority Roads Reopening and Maintenance Project which is under
preparation and expected to become effective in December 2010. This decision will help
consolidate works already executed by completing the reopening of this section to ensure
that the road can be used by 4x2 vehicles under all weather conditions-except for road
closures controlled by rain barriers after heavy rains. In addition and as for all roads
reopened under the High-Priority Roads Reopening and Maintenance Project the Zongo­
Gemena­Akula section will also be maintained during its Additional Financing operation
implementation to ensure sustainability. The option to pursue the ongoing works under
the High-Priority Roads Reopening and Maintenance Project is consistent with the new
strategy adopted by the Bank and the government to move from emergency projects to
sectoral projects.

18.    In order to take into consideration the need to be more realistic on the ground, it is
proposed to modify the description of Component C in the Financing Agreement
accordingly to ensure that the critical section of the Lubumbashi­Kasenga Axis and of
the Zongo­Akula Axis are rehabilitated and maintained (rather than the anticipated 600
kms of roads) so as to make them fit for circulation and the transportation of goods under
acceptable economical conditions.

19.      Closing Component D. Because of delays in recruiting the Delegated Contract
Manager, the Government and the provinces financed some activities of the component
of the Project and the other donors will finance the remaining and the institutions to be
strengthened under the component are operating successfully. Thus, closing the
component will neither jeopardize the impact of the project nor affect the PDO. Funds
made available under this component will be used to reinforce the impact of ongoing
activities under Components A and B on the ground, and finance priority activities
submitted by the municipalities but could not be financed because of lack of funds.

20.     At project appraisal the government and the Bank agreed to finance under
Components A and B for each targeted city priority activities which would be
implemented through Municipal Contracts signed by the Government and the Recipient
cities. Due to cost overruns (resulting from wrong estimates, and increase in the cost of
key materials), activities anticipated in these cities could not be funded. Under the
restructuring, the priority will be to finance activities focusing on health, education and
economic infrastructure, with the funds made available from Components C and D, and
to reinforce the impact of ongoing activities under Component B (e.g., water points and
latrines in schools rehabilitated, drainage associated with the rehabilitation of roads,
equipment for schools and health centers) will also be financed.

Changes in outcome indicators and targets

21.     The original results framework will be revised to i) better capture all the results
the project is planning to achieve after the restructuring, ii) adjust targets according to the
revision made in the project design, iii) include mandatory Core Indicators, and iv)


                                              7
provide baseline and M&E details that were missing in the original PAD. For further
details please refer to Annex 1.

Safeguards

22.     This restructuring will not involve any additional civil works beyond those
originally planned, but will rather allow the planned works to be completed through the
reallocation of Project resources. Consequently no change is required to the safeguard
measures already adopted by the Project.

Financing

23.   Disbursement arrangements. Aside from the reallocation of grant proceeds (cf
Annex 2), existing disbursement arrangements will be maintained.

24.    Reallocating the Grant proceeds. The proposed reallocation will help
increase amounts available for Categories (1) (Part A - Support to Urban Centers) by
SDR 3.4 million to SDR 10.0 million; Category (2) (Support to provincial capitals) by
SDR 2.9 million to SDR 20.6 million; and Category (5) (Project Management and
Operating costs) by SDR 1.343 million to SDR 3.343 million; all through the reduction of
proceeds allocated to expenditure categories (3), (4), (6), and (7) as shown in Annex 2 of
this Restructuring Paper.

25.     It is worth noting that proceeds originally allocated to Category (6) - Refund of
Project Preparation Advance (PPA) ­ were not used to refinance a PPA as the latter was
not used and instead the activities were covered under IDA Grant H1640-ZR (Emergency
and Social Reunification Support Project) through its component 2 (Institutional
Strengthening). The objective of the component was to finance inter alia engineering and
other studies for preparing the extension of the Emergency Multi-sector Rehabilitation
and Reconstruction Program.

26.     Sustainability. Focus on sustainability is an important element taken into account
in the project restructuring. On the road sector, the government has already demonstrated
some encouraging results by upgrading the Lubumbashi-Kasenga road through a Chinese
fund. The request from the Government to transfer the remaining works under
Component C from an emergency project to a sectoral project (High-Priority Roads
Reopening and Maintenance Project) confirms the government's and the Bank's desire to
focus on sustainability; an issue that had not been fully anticipated during project
preparation. This transfer will allow the works already executed on the Zongo-Gemena-
Akula road to be consolidated and completed. In addition, this section of the road will be
maintained during the implementation of the High-Priority Roads Reopening and
Maintenance Project (Pro-Routes), over a three-year period, during which road fund
resources are expected to increase substantially enough to support road maintenance
programs. On urban infrastructure an agreement was reached during the last supervision
mission with the government to gradually transfer completed infrastructure to the sectoral
ministries. Lastly, the Governance Capacity Enhancement Project, which became
effective after the PUAACV, aimed at enhancing transparency and efficiency in central
and sub-national public finance and human resource management, establishing and
                                            8
consolidating an equitable resource sharing mechanism between central and sub-national
government, is paving the way for the sustainability of investments carried out in the
Provinces. Follow-up missions will continue to ensure that all activities funded under the
project are receiving appropriate funding for their O&M and are being transferred to the
appropriated administration to ensure their sustainability.

Closing Date

27.      The work program under the restructured Project will not be completed by the
current Closing Date of September 30, 2010. Completing Components A and B will
require an additional 12 months; consequently, an extension of the Closing Date for Parts
A, B and E of the Project to September 30, 2011 is proposed. The arrangements above
were agreed upon between the Bank and the Government during the supervision mission
of April 2010. Furthermore during the mini Country Portfolio Review (CPPR) held on
June 17, 2010, the Borrower submitted an action plan acceptable to the Bank to complete
all activities within the agreed timeframe (as detailed in Annex3).



APPRAISAL SUMMARY
26.     Technical appraisal: New activities to be funded under the project restructuring
are similar to those funded under Components A and B (education, health and economic
infrastructure). These had been identified at project appraisal and were included in the
Municipal contracts but could not be financed because of cost overruns in the
implementation of Components A and B. With the reallocation of grant proceeds,
resources are now available to finance these activities. During the Bank's supervision
mission of the project in April 2010, the Bank and the Government identified new needs
to strengthen the impact and sustainability of ongoing activities under Components A and
B (water points and latrines in schools rehabilitated, drainage associated with the
rehabilitation of roads, equipment for schools and health centers). Lastly, sufficient
provisions have been put in place to take into account physical and financial
contingencies to avoid cost overruns. The appraisal of new activities is based on lessons
learned from the implementation of the past 5 years, thus decreasing the risk of running
into a cost overrun.

28.    Benefits: As restructured, the project will strengthen the linkage between the
achievements on the ground and the updated results framework. The project is expected
to deliver significant social benefits by improving the living and environmental
conditions of the populations living in the targeted areas.

29.     Risks: The overall risk rating for PUAACV was High. Some risks identified
during the preparation of the project (such as price risks, resulting from the absence of a
functioning market for many goods and services in some isolated areas, delays in
implementation) have materialized. The preparation of the project restructuring paper has
been an opportunity to review and strengthen the mitigation measures corresponding to
the risks. Therefore, as these risks still exist, it is proposed that the overall risk associated
                                               9
with the restructuring be rated as High. The main risks that could jeopardize the
achievement of the restructured Project are: (i) the possible delays in completing the
activities financed under Components A and B as a result of weak response from the
construction industry and/or cost overruns; and (ii) the fiduciary risk which remains high
in DRC. To mitigate these risks, the following mitigation measures which were prepared
during the April 2010 supervision mission and the June 2010 mini CPPR, and were fully
taken into account in the design of the proposed restructured operation, will be
implemented and closely monitored during the remaining 12 months:
         (i)    Closely monitor activities to ensure that works are completed within the
                agreed timeframe. A detailed project implementation schedule (PIS),
                attached as Annex 3, was prepared and agreed upon during the April 2010
                Bank's supervision mission, confirming that remaining activities should
                be completed by September 2011. The Project Procurement Plan was
                updated accordingly.
         (ii)   Include clear terms regarding contract renegotiations, fines in case of
                delays and indexation clauses to palliate the risks of oil or construction
                materials price increase.
         (iii) Make sufficient provisions to take into account physical and financial
                contingencies.
         (iv)   Ensure closer supervision by the Bank and increase supervision missions
                and field visits by UCOP.




                                           10
                           ANNEX 1:
             RESULTS FRAMEWORK AND MONITORING
    DRC: EMERGENCY LIVING CONDITIONS IMPROVEMENT SUPPORT
                           PROJECT


                   Revisions to the Results Framework                                     Comments/
                                                                                     Rationale for Change

PDO


Current (PAD)                     Proposed

The objective of the Project is                                                There is no need to change the
to assist the Borrower in                                                      PDO as the revised results
improving the living                                                           framework establishes a better
conditions of the populations                                                  linkage between the PDO, the
by strengthening the socio-                                                    project outcomes and the key
economic situation in key                                                      indicators.
urban areas as well as in two
isolated regions

PDO indicators


Current (PAD and/or FA)           Proposed change*

Increased number of children      Pupils with access to improved school        These indicators are related to
with access to good quality       facilities in targeted areas(number)         component A and are more
education (FA)                                                                 targeted on the main activities
                                                                               financed under this component

Increased number of persons       People with access to a basic package of
with access to performing         health, nutrition, or population services
health center (FA)                (percent increase)

                                  People in urban areas provided with access
                                  to "Improved Water Sources" under the
                                  Project (number)

Reduced average                   Reduction in travel time in two isolated     These roads were completely
transportation time for           areas (hours)                                closed to traffic and the main
transport infrastructure (FA)                                                  indicators that could assess the
                                                                               situation are travel time and the
                                                                               number of persons having access
                                                                               to the rest of the country.

                                  Share of Rural Population with Access to     To measure people who have
                                  an All-Season Road (%)                       gained access to roads due to
                                  [Supplemental information:                   intervention
                                  Number of rural people with access to an
                                  all-season road]



                                                    11
                    Revisions to the Results Framework                                     Comments/
                                                                                      Rationale for Change

The cost for the transportation     Dropped                                     The main focus of the project is to
of goods between Lubumbashi                                                     increase the access by people to
and Kasenga decreased by                                                        the roads, this will be measured by
25%, price per ton transported                                                  the other indicators
between Akula and Gemena
decreased by 30%)

Performance indicators              Dropped                                     the whole component is being
identified and listed in the list                                               dropped
of Priority Institutional
Support Activities have been
reached (FA)
Increased quality and coverage
of essential services in seven
provincial capitals and
eighteen medium cities.(PAD)

                                    Direct project beneficiaries (number), of
                                    which female (percentage)

Intermediate Results indicators


Current (PAD)                       Proposed change*

Components A and B

For each target city,               Health
availability of the priority        Health facilities constructed, renovated,
services identified by              and/or equipped (number)
stakeholders during the
selection process - measured        Education:
against the baseline and            Additional classrooms built or
objective identified during the     rehabilitated (number)
Selection process.                  Schools equipped with materials and/or
                                    furniture (number)

                                    Water
                                    Improved community water points
                                    constructed or rehabilitated under the
                                    project (number)
                                    New piped household water connections
                                    that are resulting from the project
                                    intervention (number)
                                    Distribution network constructed/
                                    rehabilitated (km)

                                    Sanitation
                                    Improved latrines constructed under the
                                    project (number)



                                                       12
                   Revisions to the Results Framework                                Comments/
                                                                                Rationale for Change

                                 General Infrastructure
                                 Markets built/rehabilitated (number)

                                 Administrative buildings built,
                                 rehabilitated or equipped (number)

                                 Beneficiaries of public works program
                                 (Number)
                                 Person days provided in labor-intensive
                                 public work (number)

Component C

                                 Road

                                 Roads in Good and Fair Condition as a
                                 Share of Total Classified Roads
                                 (percentage)
                                 Supplemental information: Size of the
                                 total classified network

                                 Roads Rehabilitated (km)

Component D

Increased quality of services    Dropped                                   Component is closed activities
rendered by each beneficiary                                               were undertaken with Government
institution - measured against                                             financing and the remaining by
an objective and a baseline                                                other donors.
agreed upon during selection
process.




                                                   13
Project Development Objective (PDO):
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in improving the living conditions of the populations by strengthening the socio-economic situation in key urban areas as
in two isolated regions
                                                          Baseline      Progress       Cumulative Target Values
                                                                                                                                                   Responsibility
                               2            Unit of       Original      To Date                                                    Data Source/
PDO Level Results Indicators                                                                                        Frequency                        for Data              Comme
                                   Core   Measurement   Project Start    (June         end 2010         2011                       Methodology
                                                                                                                                                    Collection
                                                           (2005)        2010)

                                                                                                                                                                    Average popula
1. Pupils with access to                                                                                                                                            pupils per class
improved school facilities in                                                                                                     Survey of                         two cohorts of 5
                                            Number           0           16 000         17 000          20 000    Annually                         UCOP
targeted areas(number)                                                                                                            served areas                      in 25 % of the
                                                                                                                                                                    classrooms reha
                                                                                                                                                                    or built
                                                                                                                                                                    10 000 people p
                                                                                                                                                                    center
2. People with access to a                 Percentage       0%           13.5%           35%            100%                                                        100,000 people
                                                                                                                                                                    hospital
basic package of health, ,
                                                                                                                                  Survey of        UCOP              Baseline: 370,0
nutrition, or population                                                                                          Annually
                                                                                                                                  served areas                      people with acc
services (percentage increase)                                                                                                                                      basic package o
                                            Number        370,000       420,000        500,000      740,000                                                         nutrition, or pop
                                                                                                                                                                    services
3. People in urban areas                                                                                                                                            1000 people per
provided with access to                                                                                                           Survey of                         standpipe
                                            Number           0           6000           10000           70,000    Annually                         UCOP
"Improved Water Sources"                                                                                                          served areas                      500 people per
under the Project (number),                                                                                                                                         sources
4. Reduction in time travel in                                                                                                                                      Before the work
two isolated areas (hours);                                                                                                                                         60 hours to cov
                                             Hours        60 hours      3 hours        3 hours         3 hours    Annually        On site survey   UCOP
                                                                                                                                                                    kms, now 3 hou
                                                                                                                                                                    enough




                                                                                  14
Project Development Objective (PDO):
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in improving the living conditions of the populations by strengthening the socio-economic situation in key urban areas as
in two isolated regions
                                                           Baseline      Progress      Cumulative Target Values
                                                                                                                                                  Responsibility
                                2            Unit of       Original      To Date                                                   Data Source/
PDO Level Results Indicators                                                                                        Frequency                       for Data              Comme
                                           Measurement   Project Start    (June                                                    Methodology

                                    Core
                                                                                       end 2010         2011                                       Collection
                                                            (2005)        2010)

5. Share of Rural Population
with Access to an All-Season
                                               %                           22%           22%             22%                      Census from                      Populations livi
Road (%)
                                                              0                                                   Annually        the served      UCOP             neighboring vill
Supplemental information:                    Number                      1,890,000     1,890,000      1,890,000                   areas
Number of rural people with
access to an all-season road
Beneficiaries3
                                             Number                                                                                                                Populations serv
                                                                                                                                                                   the rehabilitated
                                               %                                                                                                                   health centers,
                                                                                                                                                                   rehabilitated sch
                                                                                                                                                                   water points. Du
                                                                                                                                  Census from                      nature of this pr
Direct Project Beneficiaries,                                 0          2 575 000     2 700 000      2 968 000
                                                                                                                  Annually        the served      UCOP             could be possib
Of which female                                                                                                                   areas                            same people wo
                                                             0%           51,7%         51,7%           51,7%
                                                                                                                                                                   benefit from dif
                                                                                                                                                                   services. It will
                                                                                                                                                                   possible to track
                                                                                                                                                                   this possible do
                                                                                                                                                                   counting




                                                                                  15
                                                                     Intermediate Results and Indicators
                                                          Baseline                             Target Values
                                                Unit of   Original       Progress To                                          Data Source/   Responsibility
    Intermediate Results Indicators             Measur    Project           Date                          2011    Frequency   Methodolog       for Data       Comments




                                         Core
                                                ement       Start        (June 2010)        End 2010                               y          Collection
                                                           (2005)

Intermediate Result 1: Improved Health Infrastructure
                                                                                                                              Project
1. Health facilities constructed,
                                                Number       0               15               15           18    Quarterly    quarterly      UCOP
renovated, and/or equipped (number)                                                                                           report

Intermediate Result 2: Improved Education Infrastructure
                                                                                                                              Project
3. Additional classrooms built or
                                                Number       0              261               280         334    Quarterly    quarterly      UCOP
rehabilitated (number)                                                                                                        report
                                                                                                                              Project
4. Schools equipped with materials
                                                Number       0               29               35           44    Quarterly    quarterly      UCOP
and/or furniture (number)                                                                                                     report

Intermediate Result 3: Improved Water Infrastructure

5. Improved community water points                                                                                            Regideso
                                                                                                                                             UCOP with
constructed or rehabilitated under the                                                                                        data and
                                                Number       0               66               70           84    Quarterly                   input from
project (number)                                                                                                              survey of
                                                                                                                                             Regideso
                                                                                                                              served areas
                                                                                                                              Regideso
                                                                                                                                             UCOP with
6. Distribution network constructed/                                                                                          data and
                                                  km         0               0                 0           7.8   Quarterly                   input from
rehabilitated (km)                                                                                                            survey of
                                                                                                                                             Regideso
                                                                                                                              served areas

Intermediate Result 4: Improved Sanitation Infrastructure




                                                                                       16
                                                                           Intermediate Results and Indicators
                                                                Baseline                                Target Values
                                                 Unit of        Original          Progress To                                                         Data Source/    Responsibility
    Intermediate Results Indicators              Measur         Project              Date                               2011           Frequency      Methodolog        for Data       Comments




                                          Core
                                                 ement            Start           (June 2010)        End 2010                                              y           Collection
                                                                 (2005)
                                                                                                                                                      Project
7.Improved latrines constructed under
                                                 number            0                 409               430              599        Quarterly          quarterly       UCOP
the project (number)                                                                                                                                  report

Intermediate Result 5: Improved economic and public Infrastructure
                                                                                                                                                      Project
8. Markets built/rehabilitated (number)          number            0                  2                 6                7         quarterly          quarterly       UCOP
                                                                                                                                                      report
                                                                                                                                                      Project
9. Administrative buildings built,
                                                 number            0                  9                 9                9         quarterly          quarterly       UCOP
rehabilitated or equipped (number)                                                                                                                    report
10. Beneficiaries of public works                                                                                                                     Project
program (Number)                                 number            0                23 000            25 000           34 000      quarterly          quarterly       UCOP
                                                                                                                                                      report
                                                                                                                                                      Project
11.Person days provided in labor-                number            0               1 680 000         1 800 000        2 400 000    quarterly          quarterly       UCOP
intensive public work (number)                                                                                                                        report

       Intermediate Result 6: Improved Roads Infrastructure
       12. Roads in Good and Fair Condition
       as a Share of Total Classified Roads                %               14%               14%               16.5%            16.5%
                                                                                                                                                                                        Data are related to th
       (percentage)                                                                                                                        Annually          On site survey   UCOP
                                                                                                                                                                                        Equateur province.
       Supplemental information: Size of the               km              7154              7770              7770             7770
       total classified network

       13. Roads Rehabilitated (km)                        km               0                360                360              360       Annually          On site survey   UCOP




                                                                                                17
                              ANNEX: 2
                      REALLOCATION OF PROCEEDS
       DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO --EMERGENCY LIVING
           CONDITIONS IMPROVEMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
                            P088619

                                 Restructuring Paper

1.     Proceeds for the above-mentioned project, Grant No H164, will be reallocated as
follows:



  Category of Expenditure               Allocation                % of Financing
    Current        Revised         Current      Revised        Current      Revised
Part A ­ Support to                 6,600,000   10,000,000 100%            100%
Medium Urban
centers
Part B ­ Support to                17,700,000   20,600,000 100%            100%
provincial capitals
Part C ­ Opening up                21,000,000   19,950,000 100%            100%
of isolated areas
Part D ­ Support to                 4,600,000         7,000 100%           100%
Provincial
Institutions
Part E ­ Project                    2,000,000     3,343,000 100%           100%
Management and
Operating Costs
Refunding of the                    1,300,000            0 Amount due
Project Preparation                                        pursuant to
Advance                                                    Section
                                                           2.02(C) of
                                                           this
                                                           Agreement
Unallocated                           700,000            0
Total                              53,900,000   53,900,000




                                          18
                         ANNEX 3:
            PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
     DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO --EMERGENCY LIVING
         CONDITIONS IMPROVEMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
                          P088619

                               Restructuring Paper


No   Activities                           Date                 Responsible
1    Close contract related to lot 8000   July 31, 2010        UCOP
     and ensure that all payments,
     including compensation
     payments, are made
2    PUAACV restructuring and             July 31, 2010        UCOP/WB
     funds reallocation
3    Signature of addenda to BCECO        August 31, 2010      UCOP
     and SGRU contracts for the new
     activities under Components A
     and B.
4    All bidding documents ready for      November 30, 2010
     new activities under Component
     A and B
5    Procurement of the works             February 28, 2011
     completed
6    Supervision mission and field        September 2010       UCOP/WB
     visit
7    Completion of ongoing activities     December 11, 2010    UCOP/SGRU
     under Component B
8    Supervision mission and field        December 2010        UCOP/WB
     visit
9    Supervision mission and field        March 2011           UCOP/WB
     visit
10   Supervision mission and field        June 2011            UCOP/WB
     visit
11   Impact studies                       July 31, 2011        UCOP
12   Completion of new activities         August 31, 2011      UCOP/BCECO/SGRU
     under Components A and B
13   Last supervision mission             September 2011       UCOP/WB
14   Government Implementation            September 15, 2011   UCOP
     Completion Report
15   Project Closing workshop             September 25, 2011   UCOP/WB
16   Transfer of infrastructure           ongoing              UCOP
     built/rehabilitated to line
     ministries
17   Final audit                          December 31, 2011    UCOP

                                          19
20
