                                      Document of
                                  The World Bank


                                                                   Report No: 60576 - ZR




                              RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                                         ON A

                      PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING
                                  OF THE


   EMERGENCY LIVING CONDITIONS IMPROVEMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
                         GRANT H164
                  APPROVED BY THE BOARD ON
                         MAY 26, 2005

                                         AND

            EMERGENCY ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL REUNIFICATION
                     GRANT H064 AND CREDIT 3824
             APPROVED BY THE BOARD ON SEPTEMBER 11, 2003


                                        TO THE

                       DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO


                                   (March 30, 2011)



This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.
                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


BCECO         Bureau Central de Coordination
CPPR          Country Program Portfolio Review
DRC           Democratic Republic of Congo
ESIA          Environmental and Social Impact Assessment
PDO           Project Development Objective
PRO ROUTES    High-Priority Roads Reopening and Maintenance Project
PUAACV        Projet d'urgence d'appui à l'amélioration des conditions de vie
              (Emergency Living Conditions Improvement Support Project)
PUSPRES       Projet d'urgence du Soutien au Processus de Réunification
              Economique et Sociale (Emergency Economic and Social
              Reunification Project)
SDR           Special Drawing Rights
SGRU          Société de Gestion et de Réhabilitation Urbaine
UCOP          Unité de Coordination de Projets (Project Coordination Unit)




             Regional Vice President:     Obiageli K. Ezekwesili
                   Country Director:      Marie Francoise Marie-Nelly
                     Sector Director:     Jamal Saghir
                    Sector Manager:       Junaid Kamal Ahmad
                  Task Team Leader:       Mahine Diop
              CONGO, DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF
 EMERGENCY LIVING CONDITIONS IMPROVEMENT SUPPORT PROJECT

                                                      P115642
                                                     CONTENTS

                                                                                                                      Page
A. SUMMARY ................................................................................................................ 1
B. PROJECT STATUS.................................................................................................... 3
C. PROPOSED CHANGES ............................................................................................ 8
D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY ....................................................................................... 10
ANNEX 1: RESULTS FRAMEWORK AND MONITORING ....................................... 13
ANNEX 2: DETAILED IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE ......................................... 27
           DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO (DRC)
 EMERGENCY LIVING CONDITIONS IMPROVEMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
                         (PUAACV)

                                           AND

           EMERGENCY ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL REUNIFICATION
                        PROJECT (PUSPRES)

                              RESTRUCTURING PAPER



SUMMARY

This Restructuring Paper seeks the approval of the Country Director (AFCC2) to
introduce the following changes in the DRC Emergency Living Conditions Improvement
Support Project (PUAACV) (Grant H164) and the DRC Emergency Economic and Social
Reunification Project (PUSPRES) (Credit 3824 and Grant H064).

1.      The objective of the PUAACV is to assist the Recipient in improving the living
conditions of the populations by strengthening the socio-economic situation in key urban
areas as well as in two isolated regions.

2.     PUAACV, as restructured in 2010, includes the following two components :

       ·   Component A: Support to medium urban centers - (US$10 million) is aimed
           at restoring certain basic services in 18 urban centers located in the provinces
           of Bas Congo, Bandundu, Equateur, Kasaï Oriental, Kasaï Occidental and
           Katanga.
       ·   Component B: Support to provincial capitals - (US$27 million) is aimed at
           kick-starting economic development in the cities of Bandundu, Kananga,
           Kikwit, Lubumbashi, Matadi, Mbandaka and Mbuji-Mayi by supporting the
           rehabilitation of urban infrastructure and provision of equipment.

3.     The PUAACV Grant was approved by the Board on May 26, 2005, for a total
amount of SDR 53.9 million (about US$82 million equivalent), and declared effective on
September 23, 2005. The project was restructured in 2010 and extended for one (1) year
to modify the scope and design and allow the completion of the activities.

 4.     The objectives of the PUSPRES are (i) to assist the Recipient in its efforts to
economically and socially reunify the Eastern provinces to the rest of the country; and (ii)
to increase access to and use by the local population of basic infrastructure and social
services in the provinces of Orientale, Maniema, Nord Kivu, Sud Kivu, Nord Equateur,
Nord Katanga, Nord Kasai Oriental.

                                             1
5.     PUSPRES, as restructured in 2008, includes:

       ·   Component A: Balance of Payments Support (US$50 million) providing
           budget support for critical imports has been fully disbursed.
       ·   Component B: Institutional Strengthening Component (US$15 million)
           which aims to complement existing capacity enhancement programs.
       ·   Component C: Infrastructure Rehabilitation Component (US$90 million)
           which aims at rehabilitating 1,779 kilometers o f the interurban road network.
       ·   Component D: Urban Rehabilitation Component (US$30 million) aims to
           help activate adequate implementation mechanisms for rehabilitation o f local
           infrastructure and service delivery in urban areas.
       ·   Component E: Community Empowerment Component (US$l0 million) aimed
           at financing demand-based sub-projects in several remote rural locations.

6.      The PUSPRES was approved by the Board on September 11, 2003, for a Credit
amount of SDR 35.7 million (about US$50 million equivalent) and a Grant amount of
SDR 117 million (about 164 million equivalent), and declared effective on December 5,
2003. It was restructured in 2008 to improve implementation effectiveness, meet the
sector's development financing needs, and strengthen the overall sector performance in
DRC.

7.     Both projects are managed by the same Project Coordination Unit (UCoP) located
under the Ministry of Planning and all components are entrusted to implementing
agencies.

8.      The main reason for the proposed restructuring is to respond to the changing
client needs, whereby certain activities are no longer a priority for the Government of
DRC, which requested the Bank to focus on a set of key activities under PUSPRES that
face a financing gap. A recommendation was made during the April 2010 supervision
mission to prepare an additional financing to fill the financing gap. The additional
financing option could not be pursued because of lack of IDA funding. Subsequently,
other options were explored, and the option of using the ongoing PUAACV to finance the
remaining activities was retained. Specifically, the restructuring will (i) drop a number of
activities under Components A and B of PUAACV, which are no longer considered a
priority by the government and (ii) transfer a set of activities that face a financing gap
from PUSPRES to PUAACV. In this regard, the Resettlement Action Plan (RAP)
prepared by the Recipient under the PUSPRES to address some pedestrian safety issues
recorded at the exit of Bukavu and Kamituga due to over speeding drivers and very
narrow road shoulders will be financed under PUAACV.

9.      The proposed changes will not have a major effect on the original economic and
social aspects of the Project and the PDO will not change as the transferred activities
from PUSPRES to PUAACV fall within the scope of PUAACV. The environmental
category will remain as B, and the restructuring will not involve any exceptions to Bank
policies.



                                             2
PROJECT STATUS ­PUAACV
10.      Overall Implementation Progress and Progress towards achievement of the PDO
are currently rated Moderately Unsatisfactory, mainly due to delays in the start-up of
activities financed under Component B. The project was restructured in 2010 to modify
its scope and design by dropping activities associated with two components. The unused
funds which resulted from the restructuring were reallocated to Components A and B.
During the supervision mission of October 2010, the procurement plans, as well as the
disbursement plan, were updated and an action plan was agreed upon with the
Government to help improve the ratings. Due to increased efforts and compliance with
these plans, the DO and IP ratings are expected to be upgraded from moderately
unsatisfactory to moderately satisfactory during the April 2011 supervision mission.

11.     In spite of challenging implementation conditions, results are already visible on
the ground. The reopening of roads in the Equateur Province contributed to facilitating
the transportation of goods and passengers. People who were secluded for several years
now have better access to the rest of the country. The average travel time in the targeted
areas has been drastically reduced. Before the project, it took no less than one day by
truck to cover 115 kilometers (Gemena-Akula), but today, three hours are enough. On the
Lubumbashi-Kasenga road, the monthly tonnage rose from 272 tons in July 2006 to
33,647 tons in January 2008. In the education sector, there has been an average increase
of 30 percent in the number of students registered in the rehabilitated schools. The
attendance rate at the rehabilitated health centers has also doubled. In the water sector,
access to potable water has increased by 25 percent in the targeted cities. The status of
each component is presented below:
   ·   Component A (US$10 million equivalent) is aimed at restoring certain basic
       services in 18 urban centers located in the provinces of Bas Congo, Bandundu,
       Equateur, Kasaï Oriental, Kasaï Occidental and Katanga. As part of the project
       restructuring the component amount has been increased from SDR6.6 million to
       SDR10 million (US$15.2 million equivalent). All planned activities under this
       component have been completed and the facilities are operational. The final
       implementation report and the documentary of the component are expected to be
       completed by the end of March 2011. Additional activities to be implemented
       under the component as a result of the restructuring will be managed by BCECO.
       These activities include those identified as part of the priority works under this
       component but could not be financed because of lack of resources. The completed
       activities cover the education and health sectors. 15 health centers and 35 schools
       have been rehabilitated or constructed and two markets have been rehabilitated.
       The impact is visible with populations having access to these facilities. The
       disbursement rate of the component is 66 percent and implementation progress is
       rated Satisfactory.

   ·   Component B (US$31.5 million equivalent) is aimed at kick-starting economic
       development in the cities of Bandundu, Kananga, Kikwit, Lubumbashi, Matadi,
       Mbandaka and Mbuji-Mayi by supporting the rehabilitation of urban
       infrastructure and provision of equipment. Implementation of Component B was
                                            3
           delayed because recruitment of the Implementing Agency fell behind schedule.
           As part of the project restructuring the component amount has been increased to
           SDR20.6 million (US$31.35 million equivalent). After major start-up delays,
           implementation of the component has picked up and is now on track. Over
           US$20.2 million has been committed and US$15.4 million (76%) has been
           disbursed. Implementation progress is rated moderately Satisfactory.

12.     During the supervision mission of October 2010, the Bank and the government
concluded that a number of activities were no longer considered as a priority by the
government because localities where these activities are anticipated to be implemented
have already benefited critical investments from the project. These activities are:
rehabilitation of urban roads in Matadi, water supply works in Mbuji Mayi and the supply
of IT equipment for some of the schools rehabilitated. The cancellation of these activities
will produce a US$6.1 million1 cost savings, which can be used to fill the financing gap
faced by PUSPRES and strengthen the impact and sustainability of its remaining ongoing
activities. These arrangements were agreed with the Government during the October
2010 Bank's supervision mission. The cancellation of activities will not affect the PDO,
and will require very few changes to the results framework of the project.

13.     Environmental and Social safeguards. Six World Bank safeguard policies were
triggered during project preparation and the pertaining mitigation measures identified.
The triggered policies are: 4.01 (Environmental Assessment), 4.04 (Natural Habitats),
4.11 (Cultural Property), 4.12 (Involuntary Resettlement), 4.20 (Indigenous Peoples), and
4.36 (Forests). Because of the emergency status of the project, the Environmental and
Social Impact Assessment (ESIA) were prepared during the first six months of project
implementation. The Environmental Impact Assessment for Component C and the
Environmental and Social management Framework for Components A, B and D required
by OP/BP 4.01, the Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF), required by OP/BP 4.12 and
the Indigenous Peoples Plan, required by OP/BP 4.20 were prepared and were disclosed
in DRC (April 26, 2006) and at the Bank InfoShop (March 16, 2006). Copies were
disseminated to NGOs, academics, Pygmy associations, and news agencies. An
international environmental and social consulting firm has been hired to assist and train
UCoP staff, contractors and the Bureau de Control on the areas of environmental and
social impact and management, as well as Bank safeguards procedures and requirements.

14.      With the closing of Component C during the first restructuring of PUAACV, the
risks associated with its environmental safeguards have been significantly reduced. As a
result, the Project team has upgraded the safeguard rating from Moderately Satisfactory
to Satisfactory.

15.     Financial Management: A detailed financial management supervision mission,
held in October 2010, confirmed a satisfactory rating. As a result of the recruitment of an
internal auditor and a sound control environment (qualified fiduciary staff, and adequate
manual of procedures supported by a computerized accounting system), the project
complies with financial management requirements such as timely submission of quarterly

1
    Representing 7.4 percent of the total funds of the project
                                                         4
unaudited Interim Financial Reports and annual audit reports. The latest audit opinion
was qualified, although no accountability issues were flagged. The government has
established an action plan acceptable by the Bank to address the issues raised by the last
audit report. There are no outstanding audit reports for PUAACV.

16.    Procurement: Most of the activities have been handled through BCECO and
SGRU as implementing agencies. A few activities were directly handled by UCoP and
procurement activities have been closely monitored. The project team in UCoP includes
a qualified and experienced procurement specialist who has access to the appropriate
tools and knowledge that enables him to carry out his functions effectively. The
procurement plan has been updated as required during implementation and there is a
good filing system in place for bidding documents. Procurement under this project is
rated Moderately Satisfactory due mainly to delays in the recruitment of the
Implementing Agency and the processing of procurement of works under Component B.
The quality of the bidding documents and bid evaluation reports are being improved and
procurement rating is expected to be upgraded within the next three months.

17.      Legal covenants: All legal covenants have been complied with.

PROJECT STATUS ­PUSPRES

18.     Both PDO and IP ratings have consistently been satisfactory. Out of the seven
PDO level indicators, six targets have already been achieved, and the project performance
for the remaining one indicate that it will be achieved, upon completion of the works.

19.      In spite of the challenging implementation environment2 results have greatly
contributed to improving the living conditions in DRC. The project has been instrumental
in helping the country achieve the reunification of its economic activities and has
supported social reunification. The project has also contributed to jumpstarting the
economy in the eastern part of the country which had been cut off from the other parts of
DRC for several years. Thanks to the rehabilitation of the sections of road Kisangani
Beni (750 km), secluded inhabitants from the eastern part of the country can now travel
by car from Kisangani to Beni for the first time since 1998 when only bicycles and
motorcycles could be used. Transportation costs have been reduced by 40 percent as a
result of substantial time savings recorded in the movement of people and goods. Goods
and services are now available in areas like Bafwasende that could not have benefited
from these services seven years ago. The rehabilitation of urban infrastructure has
facilitated access to basic social services (education, health) in many urban centers
(Kisangani, Bukavu, Kindu, Goma) as well as in small urban centers (Bumba, Butembo,
Isiro, Kalima, Kalemie, Kasongo, Lusambo, Uvira). More than one million people have
access to improved health facilities while more than 69,000 pupils have seen their
learning conditions improve. The project has financed the new procurement code which

2
  The difficult implementation environment was due to: (i) huge logistical problems encountered in moving
heavy equipment, and acquiring goods and construction materials;(ii) remote location of project sites and
size of the country;(iii) weak supervisory capacity from executing agencies;(iv) cost overruns due to the
lack of detailed technical studies as a result of the poor security conditions prevailing in the eastern part of
the country during project preparation and ;(v) weak local capacity in civil engineering activities.
                                                       5
will improve procurement processes in the country and contribute to enhanced
governance. Addressing the broader national challenge of sustainable forest
management, the project financed an international Independent Observer to
assist Government in reviewing the legality of all timber concessions. The legal
review of the logging concessions by the Inter-Ministerial Committee was completed in
2009. National NGOs, Independent Observers, local forest communities and indigenous
people fully participated in all relevant sessions. Out of 156 concessions submitted for the
review, 65 were deemed ready for legal conversion, 75 were deemed illegal and proposed
for cancellation, whereas 16 were the subject of specific observations, asking the
government to take a decision. Following 25 field inspection missions completed in 2010,
covering all the 91 concessions not deemed ready for legal conversion, the government
announced its final decision in January 2011. In the final reckoning, 80 out of 156
concessions were deemed legal and therefore converted. These 80 concessions now need
to negotiate Social Responsibility Contracts, mandated by law, with local communities
and indigenous peoples affected by them, in order to retain their titles. Overall, the area
under concession was reduced from over 25 million to less than 13 million hectares. The
project is facing a financial gap for an amount of US$5.7 million to complete the
ongoing works and finance additional activities identified during the supervision
mission of May 2010. The main objective of restructuring the two projects is to
address this gap.

20.     Environmental and Social Safeguards. Overall safeguard compliance is rated
Satisfactory. Safeguards' rating is B and the project is on the corporate risk list because
of the reputational risk of non-compliance in a sensitive social and environmental
context. Six World Bank safeguard policies were triggered during project preparation and
the pertaining mitigation measures identified. The triggered policies are: 4.01
(Environmental Assessment), 4.04 (Natural Habitats), 4.11 (Cultural Property), 4.12
(Involuntary Resettlement), 4.20 (Indigenous Peoples), and 4.36 (Forests). Because of
the emergency status of the project, the Environmental and Social Impact Assessment
(ESIA) had to be prepared within the first six months of project effectiveness. The
Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) for Component C of the project and the
Environmental and Social Management Framework for Component D and E of the
project were disclosed in DRC on March 26, 2006, and at the Bank InfoShop on February
3, 2006. The Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) of the project was disclosed in-
country on September 27, 2007, and in the Infoshop on September 26, 2007. The
Indigenous Peoples Plan (IPP) of the project was disclosed in DRC on September 27,
2007 and in the Infoshop on September 26, 2007. These safeguards documents are now
being used by the project. Copies were disseminated to NGOs, academics, Pygmy
associations, and news agencies. An international environmental and social consulting
firm has been hired to assist and train UCoP staff, the contractors and the Bureau de
Control in the areas of environmental and social impact and management as well as Bank
safeguards, in terms of procedures and requirements. The environmental and social
aspects of the project have improved since the Inspection Panel investigation3which had

3
 On December 1, 2005, the Inspection Panel registered a Request for Inspection, IPN Request RQ05/2
concerning the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) for two operations financed by the International
Development Association (IDA): (i) Emergency Economic and Social Reunification Support Project (ii)
Transitional Support for Economic Recovery Credit. The Inspection Panel request alleged inadequate
                                                  6
identified two major risks. One related to the Indigenous Peoples and the second to the
Okapi Wildlife Reserve. The implementation of the Action Plan for the Indigenous
Peoples is objectively helping its population improve their general living
conditions. Due to the activities carried out in the health sector, more than 3,000
Indigenous Peoples have access to better quality of health care. In the area of
education, due to the rehabilitation of the schools, 126 Indigenous schoolchildren
have seen their conditions of studies improved. Concerning the activities related
to the improvement of the citizenship of the Indigenous Peoples, several
workshops were organized to reinforce the dialogue and peaceful coexistence
between the Indigenous Peoples and the Bantus, leading to the signature of an
Agreements Protocol.

21.     To address the development of Indigenous groups in DRC in a more
strategic manner, the Bank has supported the preparation of a Strategic
Framework for the Preparation of an Indigenous Peoples Development Program,
which was completed in December 2009. Important actions have been funded by
the project to help the Congolese Institute for Nature Conservation (ICCN) better
protect the Okapi Wildlife Reserve. These include support to ICCN for radios,
vehicles, guard posts, and operating costs. The Bank team is closely monitoring
safeguards issues related to the project and will ensure UCOP complies with Bank
safeguard requirement. The RN2 road in Bukavu has been rehabilitated by the project.
Although no displacement or asset losses took place as a result of the rehabilitation, the
road shoulders have been considerably reduced to the point that practically no space was
left between the road, homes and businesses, putting the population at an extremely high
risk of traffic accidents. To correct the situation, the recipient has prepared an Ex-Post
RAP. The RAP was completed, reviewed and cleared on August 3, 2010.

22.     Financial Management performance is rated Satisfactory: The implementing
entities are compliant with the Bank's financial management requirements; and there are
no overdue audit reports and interim financial reports from these entities. The financial
statements of the PIU came back qualified, although no accountability issues were
flagged. The main issues raised are; (i) unpaid payroll taxes; (ii) existence of employees
advance without supportive documentation; and (iii) status of the advance payment to the
Tanswansea Company whose contract has been terminated and is pending arbitration at
the ICC in Paris between the company and DRC. Depending on the outcome of the


Indigenous Peoples consultation, lack of EA and forestry risks. Roads through Pygmy areas & forestry
legal reviews both require local participation; but country institutional capacity is weak. The investigation
was authorized on February 28, 2006. On August 31, 2007, the Panel issued its report outlining the findings
of the investigation. Management has prepared an Action Plan that addresses follow-up at the country level
and within the Africa Region. The Region is committed to strengthening safeguards quality control to
better monitor and manages environmental and social risks, as well as undertaking more consultations so
that the concerns of project-affected persons are adequately considered. The Action Plan includes ongoing
and future efforts for dealing with Indigenous Peoples in the Congo Basin, improving forestry sector
governance and timber tracking systems nation-wide, and strengthening the presence of the forest
administration at provincial and territorial level (through the Forest and Nature Conservation Project
(PFCN) that became effective in September 2009), and continuing outreach about Bank sector work and
lending. The first progress report was submitted to the Inspection Panel and the Executive Directors in
March 2009.The last progress report was submitted to Management in March 2011.
                                                     7
resolution of dispute, the advance could be reimbursed to IDA. The government has
established an action plan acceptable by the Bank to address these issues.

23.     Procurement: Most of the activities have been handled through BCECO,
MODRU, MODAC and UNOPS as Implementing Agencies. A few activities were
directly handled by UCOP and procurement activities have been closely monitored. The
project team in UCOP includes a qualified and experienced procurement specialist who
has access to the appropriate tools and knowledge that enables him to carry out his
functions effectively. The procurement plan has been updated as required during
implementation and there is a good filing system in place for bidding documents.
Procurement under this project is rated Satisfactory. The ongoing contracts under
PUSPRES that cannot be paid due to the financing gap will be terminated on a
consensual manner and new contracts will be signed under PUAACV to allow the
completion of the works.

24.    Legal covenants: All legal covenants have been complied with.


PROPOSED CHANGES
Changes in project scope and design

25.   The proposed restructuring will involve (i) dropping a number of activities under
Components A and B of PUAACV, which are no longer considered a priority by the
government and (ii) transferring a set of activities that face a financing gap from
PUSPRES to PUAACV.

       (i) Activities to be dropped from PUAACV:
           · Urban roads in Matadi
           · Water supply in Mbuji-Mayi
           · Supply of IT equipment in some rehabilitated schools

       (ii) Activities to be transferred from PUSPRES to PUAACV:
            · Implementation of the recommendations/activities identified in the
               Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) prepared by the Recipient (US$3 million)
            · Works related to water supply in Goma, Bukavu and Kindu and power
               supply in Kindu (US$1.2 million). Extension of water supply networks in
               Bukavu, Goma and Kindu (US$ 800,000).
            · Implementation of technical and financial audits, as well as studies for the
               implementation completion report of the project (US$290,000)
            · Remaining project implementation costs (US$350,000)

26.     The list of localities targeted under Components A and B will be slightly modified
to include localities in the Nord and Sud Kivu where the proposed activities to be funded
are located. These localities are for Component A: Kamituga, and for Component B:
Bukavu Goma and Kindu. In this regard, the description of Components A and B will be
modified as follows:
                                            8
   ·   Component A: the Medium urban Centers targeted in this component will include
       as described in Schedule 2 the province of Sud Kivu with the city of Kamituga.
   ·   Component B: There is need to add the cities of Bukavu, Goma and Kindu in the
       list of cities targeted by the component.

27.    Implementation arrangements under Components A and B will be slightly
modified to make UCOP responsible for the implementation of a number of activities in
addition to the Urban Rehabilitation Management Firm and BCECO (Implementing
Agencies). UCoP is the implementing agency for the ongoing activities under PUSPRES
with UNOPS as the procurement agent. For continuity, it is critical that UCoP remains
responsible for the implementation of these activities.

Changes in outcome indicators and targets

28.     The results framework of PUSPRES and PUAACV will be revised to i) better
capture all the results the project is planning to achieve after the restructuring, and ii)
adjust targets according to the revisions made. For further details please refer to Annex 1.

Safeguards

29.     This restructuring will not involve any additional categories of civil works beyond
those originally planned, but will rather allow the planned works to be completed through
the reallocation of Project resources. Consequently no change is required to the safeguard
measures already adopted by the Project.

30.     The Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF) for Components
A, B and D required by OP/BP 4.01, the Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF), required
by OP/BP 4.12 and the Indigenous Peoples Plan, required by OP/BP 4.20 were prepared
and were disclosed in DRC (April 26, 2006) and at the Bank InfoShop (March 16, 2006).
The ESMF prepared for PUSPRES includes mitigation measures for the rehabilitation of
water and electricity supply systems. These have been applied by the Project
implementing agency in supervising the works related to water supply in Goma, Bukavu
and Kindu and power supply in Kindu. Bank supervision has confirmed that there are no
significant environmental or social impacts associated with these works, but also noted
that the mitigation measures included in the ESMF have not been incorporated into the
contracts for these works. This will be corrected through the new contracts to be signed
under the restructured PUAACV.

31.     The RN2 road in Bukavu has been rehabilitated under PUSPRES. Although no
displacement or asset losses took place as a result of the rehabilitation, the road shoulders
have been considerably reduced to the point that practically no space was left between the
road, homes and businesses, putting the population at an extremely high risk of traffic
accidents. To correct the situation, the recipient has prepared an ex-post RAP. The RAP
was completed, reviewed and cleared on August 3, 2010, and will be implemented under
the restructured PUAACV.


                                             9
Financing

32.    Disbursement arrangements. Existing disbursement arrangements will be
maintained.

33.     Sustainability. Focus on sustainability is an important element taken into account
in the project restructuring. On urban infrastructure an agreement was reached during the
last supervision mission with the government to gradually transfer completed
infrastructure to the sectoral ministries. Lastly, the Governance Capacity Enhancement
Project, which became effective after the PUAACV, aimed at enhancing transparency
and efficiency in central and sub-national public finance and human resource
management, establishing and consolidating an equitable resource sharing mechanism
between central and sub-national government, is paving the way for the sustainability of
investments carried out in the Provinces. Follow-up missions will continue to ensure that
all activities funded under the project are receiving appropriate funding for their O&M
and are being transferred to the appropriated administration to ensure their sustainability.

Closing Date of PUAACV

34.     The work program under the restructured Project will not be completed by the
current Closing Date of September 30, 2011. Completing Components A and B as well as
the transferred activities under PUSPRES will require an additional 5 months as
discussions with the government to find an alternative solution to the additional financing
and agree upon with the Implementing agencies regarding the amendments to their
current contracts with UCoP took some time. Consequently, an extension of the Closing
Date for Parts A, B and E of the Project to February 29, 2012 is proposed. The
arrangements above were agreed upon between the Bank and the Government during the
supervision mission of October 2010. Furthermore, the Recipient submitted an action
plan acceptable to the Bank to complete all activities within the agreed timeframe (as
detailed in Annex 3).



APPRAISAL SUMMARY
35.    Technical appraisal: The activities to be funded are similar to those funded under
Components A and B (education, health, water, electricity and economic infrastructure).
These activities are designed to address issues recorded in the implementation of the last
ongoing activities under PUSPRES.

36.     As of March 29, 2011, the total undisbursed financing under PUSPRES is about
US$1.14 million which will be used to complete the rehabilitation of the Ruzizi Power
plant. This activity is critical for the supply of electricity for the people of Bukavu
(600,000). Once completed, this investment will enable the city to have reliable
electricity supply and jumpstart economic activities. Once this amount is disbursed, the
project will be out of funds, while there are still pending activities. The financial needs to
properly close this project are estimated at US$5.7 million.
                                             10
37.       The main causes of the financing gap are:

      (i) Unanticipated activities associated with the RAP and water supply network
              extensions: (a) The mitigation measures recommended by the RAP as a result
              of the rehabilitation of the Bukavu-Kamituga access road (closed to traffic for
              fifteen years) to address pedestrian safety issues, which were not anticipated
              in the design of the works. (b) Additional activities identified during the May
              2010 supervision mission to strengthen investments made in the water supply
              sector in Bukavu, Goma and Kindu. Ongoing works are limited to the
              rehabilitation of the existing network but do not allow the population in the
              project areas to fully benefit from these investments. An extension of the
              water supply network to these areas in Bukavu, Goma and Kindu is therefore
              needed. (c) The cost of implementing the remaining activities. Delays in the
              implementation of the ongoing works, will lead to the revision of the contract
              of the Implementing Agency (UNOPS) for an amount of US$350,000. The
              implementation Agency is not responsible for these delays.
      (ii) Over-commitments due to the poor monitoring by UCoP (the Project
              Implementation Unit) of the depreciation of the USD against the SDR4
              leading to difficulties in paying the balance of ongoing contracts and in
              financing technical and financial audits of the project, as well as studies for
              the implementation completion report.

For these activities all the technical studies are available as some of them are underway.

38.     Benefits: As restructured, the PUAACV will strengthen the linkage between the
achievements on the ground and the updated results framework. The project is expected
to deliver significant social benefits by improving the living and environmental
conditions of the populations living in the targeted areas and better access to water and
electricity services for the populations of Kindu, Goma and Bukavu.

39.      Risks: The overall risk rating for PUAACV remains High. Some risks identified
during the preparation of the project (such as price risks, resulting from the absence of a
functioning market for many goods and services in some isolated areas, delays in
implementation) have materialized. The preparation of the project restructuring paper has
been an opportunity to review and strengthen the mitigation measures corresponding to
the risks. Therefore, as these risks still exist, it is proposed that the overall risk associated
with the restructuring be rated as High. The main risks that could jeopardize the
achievement of the restructured Project are: (i) the possible delays in completing the
activities financed under Components A and B as a result of weak response from the
construction industry and/or cost overruns; and (ii) the fiduciary risk which remains high
in DRC. To mitigate these risks, the following mitigation measures will be implemented
and closely monitored):
         (i)    Closely monitor activities to ensure that works are completed within the
                agreed timeframe. A detailed project implementation schedule (PIS),

4
    At project restructuring stage 1SDR=1.57 US$. As of today , 1SDR=1.55US$
                                                   11
        attached as Annex 2, was prepared and agreed upon with the government,
        confirming that remaining activities should be completed by December
        2011. The Project Procurement Plan was updated accordingly.
(ii)    Include clear terms regarding contract renegotiations, fines in case of
        delays and indexation clauses to palliate the risks of oil or construction
        materials price increase.
(iii)   Make sufficient provisions to take into account physical and financial
        contingencies.
(iv)    Ensure closer supervision by the Bank and increase supervision missions
        and field visits by UCoP.




                                    12
                                         ANNEX 1
                             Results Framework and Monitoring
                                      DRC: PUSPRES
             Revisions to the Results Framework                               Comments/
                                                                         Rationale for Change
PDO
Current (as per               Proposed
restructuring PP 2008)
Assist the Recipient in its                                           No need to change the PDO.
efforts to economically                                               A first change was made
and socially reunify the                                              during project restructuring
Eastern provinces to the
rest of the country; and
increase access to
infrastructure services in
the provinces of
Orientale, Maniema,
Nord Kivu, Sud Kivu,
Nord Equateur, Nord
Katanga, Nord Kasai
Oriental
PDO indicators
Current (as per                 Proposed change
restructuring PP 2008)
Number of people in the         Share of Rural Population with        Alignment with CORE
previously           isolated   Access to an All-Season Road          indicator wording
provinces having access to      (%)
217km of rehabilitated          [Supplemental information:
sections of RN2 and 750km       Number of rural people with
of RN4;                         access to an all-season road]
Percentage increase of fiscal   No change
revenues collected in the
reunified provinces;
Increased access to water       People in urban/rural areas           Alignment with CORE
supply in areas benefiting      provided with access to               indicator wording
from water services;            "Improved Water Sources"
                                under the Project (number)
Increased access to health      People with access to a basic         Alignment with CORE
facilities   in     selected    package of health, nutrition, or      indicator wording
communities           (urban    population services (percent
centers);                       increase)
Increased      access      to   Pupils with access to improved
improved school facilities in   school facilities in targeted areas
selected communities;           (number)
Reduction of the percentage     To be dropped                         Indicator difficult to

                                                 13
             Revisions to the Results Framework                            Comments/
                                                                     Rationale for Change
of learning time loss due to                                       measure.
bad weather at selected
schools
Number of communities No change
successfully implementing
community activities in the
isolated rural areas.
                             Direct project beneficiaries
                             (number), of which female
                             (percentage)

Intermediate Results indicators
Current (as per               Proposed change
restructuring PP 2008)
The budget support has        No change
been fully disbursed.
Legal review of the           No change
logging        concessions
completed.
New procurement code          No change
adopted        by       the
government.
PRSP adopted by the           No change
Government.
Average speed of 25           No change
km/hour on the
rehabilitated sections of
RN2 and RN4.
At least 80% of the           Rehabilitated urban infrastructure
rehabilitated urban           (health centers, schools, etc) are
infrastructure are            operational one year after
operational                   completion (%)
At least 500 communities      No change
in eligible areas have
benefited from Micro-
grants      to      finance
community activities.
                              Health                               Core Indicator
                              Health facilities constructed,
                              renovated, and/or equipped
                              (number)
                              Education:
                              Additional classrooms built or


                                                 14
Revisions to the Results Framework                         Comments/
                                                      Rationale for Change
             rehabilitated (number)                Core indicator
             Schools equipped with materials
             and/or furniture (number)
             Electricity:

             Household electricity connections     Core indicators
             provided under the project
             (number)

             Transmission and distribution lines
             constructed or rehabilitated under
             the project (km)
             Water
             Improved community water points       Core indicators
             constructed or rehabilitated under
             the project (number)

             Distribution network constructed/
             rehabilitated (km)
             Roads                                 Core indicators
             Roads in Good and Fair Condition
             as a Share of Total Classified
             Roads (percentage)
             Roads Rehabilitated (km)




                                15
                                                REVISED PROJECT RESULTS FRAMEWORK - PUSPRES

Project Development Objective (PDO):
Assist the Borrower in its efforts to economically and socially reunify the Eastern provinces to the rest of the country; and increase access to infrastructure services in the provinces of Orientale,
Maniema, Nord Kivu, Sud Kivu, Nord Equateur, Nord Katanga, Nord Kasai Oriental
                                                          Baseline
                                               Unit of Original Progress              Cumulative                                                 Responsibili
                                                                                                                              Data Source/
   PDO Level Results Indicators                Measur      Project      To Date     Target Values          Frequency                              ty for Data                     Comments


                                         Core
                                                                                                                              Methodology
                                                ement        Start       (2010)          2011                                                      Collection
                                                            (2004)
1. Share of Rural Population with              %          15%          22%               22%
Access to an All-Season Road (%)

                                                                                                        Annually            On site survey       UCOP
[Supplemental information:                      Number     6000000      8800000        88000000
Number of rural people with access
to an all-season road]
                                                                                                                                                                  Level of re
2. Percentage increase of fiscal
                                                                                                                                                                  Venues
revenues collected in the reunified               %            0         368%             368%          Annually            DGI/DGRAD            UCOP
                                                                                                                                                                  2004:18.5 million CF
provinces;
                                                                                                                                                                  2008:86.7 million CF
3. People in urban/rural areas
provided with access to "Improved                                                                                                                UCOP             1000 people per standpipe
                                                Number         0         147000          187000         Annually            On site survey
Water Sources" under the Project                                                                                                                                  500 people per water sources
(number
4. People with access to a basic
                                                Number         0        1025000         1025000                                                                   10,000 people per health center
package of health, nutrition, or
                                                                                                        Annually            On site survey       UCOP             100,000 people per hospital
population services (percent
                                                Percent
increase)
                                                  age
                                                                                                                                                                  one cohort of 50 pupils per classroom in
5. Pupils with access to improved
                                                                                                                                                                  916 classrooms rehabilitated
school facilities in targeted areas             Number         0         69500           70000          Annually            On site survey       UCOP
                                                                                                                                                                   and two cohorts of 50 pupils in
(number)
                                                                                                                                                                  305classrooms rehabilitated or built
6. Number of communities
successfully implementing
                                                Number         0          1744            1744          Annually            On site survey
community activities in the isolated
rural areas.




                                                                                            16
Beneficiaries
                                                                                                                                                     Populations served by the rehabilitated
                                                                                                                                                     roads, health centers, rehabilitated
                                               Number    6000000    7000000       10000000                                                           schools, and water points. Due to the
8. Direct Project Beneficiaries,                                                                                                                     nature of this project it could be possible
                                                                                                Annually            UCOP reports     UCOP
Of which female                                                                                                                                      that the same people would benefit from
                                                 %                  51.7%           51.7%                                                            different services. It will not be possible
                                                                                                                                                     to track down this possible double
                                                                                                                                                     counting




                                                                              Intermediate Results and Indicators

                                                         Baseline
                                               Unit of   Original     Progress       Target                                          Responsibilit
                                                                                                                     Data Source/
 Intermediate Results Indicators               Measur    Project      To Date        Values        Frequency                          y for Data                     Comments
                                                                                                                     Methodology
                                        Core




                                               ement       Start       (2010)         2011                                            Collection
                                                          (2004)

Intermediate Result 1: : Improved Health Infrastructure

1. Health facilities constructed,
renovated, and/or equipped                     Number        0          102           102       Quarterly           Project report   UCOP
(number)
2. Rehabilitated urban infrastructure
(health centers, schools, etc) are             Percent
                                                             0          90%           90%       Quarterly           Project report   UCOP
operational one year after                       age
completion (%)

Intermediate Result 2: Improved Education Infrastructure

3. Additional classrooms built or
                                               Number        0         1209           1221      Annually            Project report
rehabilitated (number)

4. Schools equipped with materials
                                                             0          43             43
and/or furniture (number)




                                                                                      17
                                                                           Intermediate Results and Indicators

                                                        Baseline
                                              Unit of   Original   Progress       Target                                          Responsibilit
                                                                                                                   Data Source/
 Intermediate Results Indicators              Measur    Project    To Date        Values        Frequency                          y for Data     Comments
                                                                                                                   Methodology




                                       Core
                                              ement       Start     (2010)         2011                                            Collection
                                                         (2004)

Intermediate Result 3: : Improved Water Infrastructure

5. Improved community water
points constructed or rehabilitated           Number        0        319           384       Quarterly           Project Report   UCOP
under the project (number)
6. Distribution network constructed/
                                                km          38       38             38       Quarterly           Project report   UCOP
rehabilitated (km)


Intermediate Result 4: Improve Electricity Infrastructure

7. Transmission and distribution
lines constructed or rehabilitated              km          0                       12
under the project (km)

8. Household electricity
connections provided under the                Number        0                      500       Annually            Project report   UCOP/SNEL
project (number)

Intermediate Result 5: : Improved Roads Infrastructure

9. Roads in Good and Fair
                                              percent
Condition as a Share of Total                               0         6              6       Quarterly           Project report   UCOP
                                                age
Classified Roads (percentage)

10. Roads Rehabilitated (km)                    km          0        974           974       Quarterly           Project report   UCOP

11. Average speed of 25 km/hour on
the rehabilitated sections of RN2              Km/h         25       70             70
and RN4 rehabilitated




                                                                                   18
                                                                         Intermediate Results and Indicators

                                                      Baseline
                                            Unit of   Original   Progress       Target                                         Responsibilit
                                                                                                                Data Source/
 Intermediate Results Indicators            Measur    Project    To Date        Values        Frequency                         y for Data                   Comments
                                                                                                                Methodology




                                     Core
                                            ement       Start     (2010)         2011                                           Collection
                                                       (2004)

Intermediate Result 6: : Implementation of key reforms

The budget support has been fully            US$
                                                         0         50             50       Annually            Audit report    UCOP            Financial audit completed
disbursed                                   million
Legal review of the logging
concessions completed.                      number       0         156           156

New procurement code adopted by
                                                                                                                                               Adopted and implementation is
the government
                                                                                                                                               underway

                                                                                                                                               Adopted and implemented. Government
PRSP adopted by the Government
                                                                                                                                               is preparing the second PSRP




                                                                                 19
             RESULTS FRAMEWORK AND MONITORING
    DRC: EMERGENCY LIVING CONDITIONS IMPROVEMENT SUPPORT
                           PROJECT


                   Revisions to the Results Framework                                     Comments/
                                                                                     Rationale for Change

PDO


Current (PAD)                     Proposed

The objective of the Project is                                                There is no need to change the
to assist the Recipient in                                                     PDO as the revised results
improving the living                                                           framework establishes a better
conditions of the populations                                                  linkage between the PDO, the
by strengthening the socio-                                                    project outcomes and the key
economic situation in key                                                      indicators.
urban areas as well as in two
isolated regions

PDO indicators


Current (PAD and/or FA)           Proposed change*

Increased number of children      Pupils with access to improved school        These indicators are related to
with access to good quality       facilities in targeted areas (number)        component A and are more
education (FA)                                                                 targeted on the main activities
                                                                               financed under this component

Increased number of persons       People with access to a basic package of
with access to performing         health, nutrition, or population services
health center (FA)                (percent increase)

                                  People in urban areas provided with access
                                  to "Improved Water Sources" under the
                                  Project (number)

Reduced average                   Reduction in travel time in two isolated     These roads were completely
transportation time for           areas (hours)                                closed to traffic and the main
transport infrastructure (FA)                                                  indicators that could assess the
                                                                               situation are travel time and the
                                                                               number of persons having access
                                                                               to the rest of the country.

                                  Share of Rural Population with Access to     To measure people who have
                                  an All-Season Road (%)                       gained access to roads due to
                                  [Supplemental information:                   intervention
                                  Number of rural people with access to an
                                  all-season road]



                                                    20
                    Revisions to the Results Framework                                     Comments/
                                                                                      Rationale for Change

The cost for the transportation     Dropped                                     The main focus of the project is to
of goods between Lubumbashi                                                     increase the access by people to
and Kasenga decreased by                                                        the roads, this will be measured by
25%, price per ton transported                                                  the other indicators
between Akula and Gemena
decreased by 30%)

Performance indicators              Dropped                                     The whole component is being
identified and listed in the list                                               dropped
of Priority Institutional
Support Activities have been
reached (FA)
Increased quality and coverage
of essential services in seven
provincial capitals and
eighteen medium cities.(PAD)

                                    Direct project beneficiaries (number), of
                                    which female (percentage)

Intermediate Results indicators


Current (PAD)                       Proposed change*

Components A and B

For each target city,               Health
availability of the priority        Health facilities constructed, renovated,
services identified by              and/or equipped (number)
stakeholders during the
selection process - measured        Education:
against the baseline and            Additional classrooms built or
objective identified during the     rehabilitated (number)
Selection process.                  Schools equipped with materials and/or
                                    furniture (number)

                                    Water
                                    Improved community water points
                                    constructed or rehabilitated under the
                                    project (number)
                                    New piped household water connections
                                    that are resulting from the project
                                    intervention (number)
                                    Distribution network constructed/
                                    rehabilitated (km)

                                    Sanitation
                                    Improved latrines constructed under the
                                    project (number)



                                                       21
                   Revisions to the Results Framework                                Comments/
                                                                                Rationale for Change

                                 General Infrastructure
                                 Markets built/rehabilitated (number)

                                 Administrative buildings built,
                                 rehabilitated or equipped (number)

                                 Beneficiaries of public works program
                                 (Number)
                                 Person days provided in labor-intensive
                                 public work (number)

Component C

                                 Road

                                 Roads in Good and Fair Condition as a
                                 Share of Total Classified Roads
                                 (percentage)
                                 Supplemental information: Size of the
                                 total classified network

                                 Roads Rehabilitated (km)

Component D

Increased quality of services    Dropped                                   Component is closed activities
rendered by each beneficiary                                               were undertaken with Government
institution - measured against                                             financing and the remaining by
an objective and a baseline                                                other donors.
agreed upon during selection
process.




                                                   22
Project Development Objective (PDO):
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in improving the living conditions of the populations by strengthening the socio-economic situation in key urban
areas as well as in two isolated regions
                                                    Baseline                    Cumulative Target Values
                                      Unit of                     Progress To                                                           Responsibilit
     PDO Level Results                              Original                                                            Data Source/
                                     Measureme                       Date                                  Frequency                     y for Data            Comments
       Indicators5                                Project Start                                                         Methodology
                              Core
                                        nt                        (June 2010)   end 2010        2011                                     Collection
                                                     (2005)


1. Pupils with access to                                                                                                                                Average population of 50
                                                                                                                                                        pupils per classroom and
improved school facilities                                                                                             Survey of
                                      Number           0            16 000       17000         20 000      Annually                     UCOP            two cohorts of 50 pupils in
in targeted areas(number)                                                                                              served areas
                                                                                                                                                        25 % of the classrooms
                                                                                                                                                        rehabilitated or built

2. People with access to a                                                                                                                              10 000 people per health
basic package of health,             Percentage       0%               -          19%           38%                    Survey of                        center
                                                                                                           Annually                     UCOP            100,000 people per
nutrition, or population                                                                                               served areas
services (percent increase)           Number           0            420,000      500,000       580000                                                   hospital
3. People in urban areas
                                                                                                                                                        1000 people per standpipe
provided with access to                                                                                                Survey of
                                      Number           0             6000        10000         70,000      Annually                     UCOP            500 people per water
"Improved Water Sources"                                                                                               served areas
                                                                                                                                                        sources
under the Project (number)
4. Reduction in travel time                                                                                                                             Before the works in the
                                                                                                                                                        scarce sections of roads
in two isolated areas
                                                                                                                                                        opened to the traffic it
(hours)                                Hours        60 hours        3 hours      3 hours       3 hours     Annually    On site survey   UCOP
                                                                                                                                                        took 60 hours to cover 110
                                                                                                                                                        kms, now 3 hours are
                                                                                                                                                        enough
5. Share of Rural
                                         %            0%             22%          22%           22%                    Census from                      Populations living in the
Population with Access to
                                                                                                           Annually    the served       UCOP            neighboring villages
an All-Season Road (%)                Number           0           1,890,000    1,890,000     1,890,000                areas
Supplemental information:
Project Development Objective (PDO):
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in improving the living conditions of the populations by strengthening the socio-economic situation in key urban
areas as well as in two isolated regions
                                                    Baseline                     Cumulative Target Values
                                       Unit of                    Progress To                                                          Responsibilit
     PDO Level Results                              Original                                                            Data Source/
                                      Measureme                      Date                                   Frequency                   y for Data             Comments
       Indicators5                                Project Start                                                         Methodology
                               Core
                                         nt                       (June 2010)    end 2010        2011                                   Collection
                                                     (2005)

Number of rural people
with access to an all-season
road
Beneficiaries6
                                                                                                                                                       Populations served by the
                                                                                                                                                       rehabilitated roads, health
                                                                                                                                                       centers, rehabilitated
                                                                                                                                                       schools, and water points.
Direct Project                                                                                                                                         Due to the nature of this
                                       Number          0           2 330 000     2400 000      2 560 000                Census from
                                                                                                                                                       project it could be possible
Beneficiaries,                                                                                              Annually    the served     UCOP
                                                                                                                                                       that the same people
Of which female                          %            0%            51,7%            51,7%      51,7%                   areas
                                                                                                                                                       would benefit from
                                                                                                                                                       different services. It will
                                                                                                                                                       not be possible to track
                                                                                                                                                       down this possible double
                                                                                                                                                       counting




                                                                                24
                                                                 Intermediate Results and Indicators
                                                          Baseline                      Target Values
                                                Unit of   Original    Progress To                                      Data Source/   Responsibility
    Intermediate Results Indicators             Measur    Project        Date                      2011    Frequency   Methodolog       for Data       Comments




                                         Core
                                                ement       Start     (June 2010)    End 2010                               y          Collection
                                                           (2005)

Intermediate Result 1: Improved Health Infrastructure
                                                                                                                       Project
1. Health facilities constructed,
                                                Number       0            15           15           18    Quarterly    quarterly      UCOP
renovated, and/or equipped (number)                                                                                    report

Intermediate Result 2: Improved Education Infrastructure
                                                                                                                       Project
3. Additional classrooms built or
                                                Number       0            261          280         334    Quarterly    quarterly      UCOP
rehabilitated (number)                                                                                                 report
                                                                                                                       Project
4. Schools equipped with materials
                                                Number       0            29           35           44    Quarterly    quarterly      UCOP
and/or furniture (number)                                                                                              report

Intermediate Result 3: Improved Water Infrastructure

5. Improved community water points                                                                                     Regideso
                                                                                                                                      UCOP with
constructed or rehabilitated under the                                                                                 data and
                                                Number       0            66           70           84    Quarterly                   input from
project (number)                                                                                                       survey of
                                                                                                                                      Regideso
                                                                                                                       served areas
                                                                                                                       Regideso
                                                                                                                                      UCOP with
6. Distribution network constructed/                                                                                   data and
                                                  km         0             0            0           7.8   Quarterly                   input from
rehabilitated (km)                                                                                                     survey of
                                                                                                                                      Regideso
                                                                                                                       served areas

Intermediate Result 4: Improved Sanitation Infrastructure




                                                                                25
                                                                      Intermediate Results and Indicators
                                                               Baseline                           Target Values
                                                 Unit of       Original      Progress To                                                    Data Source/    Responsibility
    Intermediate Results Indicators              Measur        Project          Date                            2011          Frequency     Methodolog        for Data       Comments




                                          Core
                                                 ement           Start       (June 2010)       End 2010                                          y           Collection
                                                                (2005)
                                                                                                                                            Project
7.Improved latrines constructed under
                                                 number           0             409              430            599          Quarterly      quarterly       UCOP
the project (number)                                                                                                                        report

Intermediate Result 5: Improved economic and public Infrastructure
                                                                                                                                            Project
8. Markets built/rehabilitated (number)          number           0              2                6              7           quarterly      quarterly       UCOP
                                                                                                                                            report
                                                                                                                                            Project
9. Administrative buildings built,
                                                 number           0              9                9              9           quarterly      quarterly       UCOP
rehabilitated or equipped (number)                                                                                                          report
10. Beneficiaries of public works                                                                                                           Project
program (Number)                                 number           0            23 000           25 000         34 000        quarterly      quarterly       UCOP
                                                                                                                                            report
                                                                                                                                            Project
11.Person days provided in labor-                number           0           1 680 000        1 800 000      2 400 000      quarterly      quarterly       UCOP
intensive public work (number)                                                                                                              report

     Intermediate Result 6: Improved Roads Infrastructure
     12. Roads in Good and Fair Condition
     as a Share of Total Classified Roads                  %          14%             14%             16.5%          16.5%
                                                                                                                                                                              Data are related to
     (percentage)                                                                                                                Annually        On site survey   UCOP        the Equateur
     Supplemental information: Size of the                                                                                                                                    province.
                                                       km             7154            7770             7770           7770
     total classified network

     13. Roads Rehabilitated (km)                      km              0              360              360             360       Annually        On site survey   UCOP




                                                                                          26
                          ANNEX 2:
             PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
      DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO --EMERGENCY LIVING
          CONDITIONS IMPROVEMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
                           P088619

                              Restructuring Paper



No    Activities                        Date                Responsible
1.    PUAACV restructuring              March 30, 2011      UCOP/WB
2.    Signature of addenda to BCECO     April 01, 2011      UCOP
      and SGRU contracts for the new
      activities under Components A
      and B.
3.    All bidding documents ready for   May 31, 2011
      new activities under
      Components A and B
4.    Procurement of works completed    July 31, 2011
      and contracts signed
5.    Supervision mission and field     April 2011          UCOP/WB
      visit
6.    Supervision mission and field     June 2011           UCOP/WB
      visit
7.    Impact studies                    October 31, 2011    UCOP
8.    Completion of new activities      January 31, 2012    UCOP/BCECO/SGRU
      under Components A and B
9.    Last supervision mission          January 2012        UCOP/WB
10.   Government Implementation         February 28, 2012   UCOP
      Completion Report
11.   Project Closing workshop          February 15, 2012   UCOP/WB
12.   Transfer of infrastructure        ongoing             UCOP
      built/rehabilitated to line
      ministries
13.   Final audit                       June 30, 2012       UCOP
