IVocument of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
4AS ~300OL/-A1
Report No. 7263-BM
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
COMMONWEALTH OF THE BAHAMAS
SECOND TECHNICAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
October 24, 1988
Country Department III and Technical Department
Latin American and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNIT
Currency Unit                       Bahamian Dollar (B$)
B$ 1.00                              = USS 1.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The Ir.ternational System of Units is used throughout this report,
except for construction areas which are expressed in square feet
(ft2}.
lft2 = 0.093 m2
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
SCHOOL YEAR
September - August
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
BHTC        BahAmas Hotel Training College
BSN         Bahamas School of Nursing
COB         College of The Bahamas
GBPA        Grand Bahama Port Authority
ITC         Industrial Training Center (of NTC)
MOE         Ministry of Education
MOEI        Ministry of Employment and Immigration
MOT         Ministry of Tourism
NTC         National Training Council
PIU         Project Implementation Unit
UWI-CHTM    University of the West Indies Centre for
Hotel and Tourism Management



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
COHHONWEALTH OF THE BAHAMAS
SECOND TECHNICAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PRCJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  LOAN AND PROJECT SItM Y    ................................ 1
II.  THE SECTOR:  HUMAN RESOURCES ISSUES AND STRATEGY ........ S
A.  Development Context .....I         ........................... 5
B.  Education and Training System ........................ 6
C.  Education and Training Finance ....................... 7
D.  Sectoral Development Issues .......................... 8
E.  Strategy for Improvement of Training System ......... 11
Government's Training Development Plans ............ 11
Bank Assistance Strategy and Experience of ......... 12
Past Lending
III. THE PROJECT .............................................. 12
A.  Origin of the Project ................................ 12
B.  Project Objectives ................................... 13
C.  Rationale for Bank Involvement ....................... 13
D.  Project Components and Description ................... 14
E.  Alternatives to Proposed Project Interventions ....... 18
Prcject Costs and Financing .......................... 19
Project Costs ..................................... 19
Unit Capital Costs ......................9.......... ;9
Financing Plan ..................................... 19
Recurrent Cost Implications and ................... 19
Unit Recurrent Costs
G.  Project Implementation ............................... 21
Project Management ................................. 21
Technical Assistance ............................... 21
Construction and Equipment Procurement ............. 22
Construction Sites ................................. 22
Implementation Schedule ............................ 22
Procurement ........................................ 22
Disbursements ...................................... 23
Spec::al Account .................................... 23
Retroactive Financing .............................. 24
Reporting, Monitoring and Evaluation ............... 24
H.  Accounting and Auditing Procedures ................... 24
I.  Benefits and Risks ................................... 25
IV. AGREEMENTS REACHED, AND RECOMMENDATIONS .................. 2S
This report reflects the findings of an appraisal mission which visited the
Bahamas April 11-22, 1988. The mission comprised Messrs. Bo Dahlborg, Sr.
Technical Training Specialist (Mission Leader), Robert W. Etheredge, Jr.
(Architect, Coniultant) and W. Wesley Hobbs (Technical Education Analyst,
Consultant), a,Ld Ms. Maria Anderson (Operations Assistant).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
ANNEXES
1. Comparative Education Indicators
2. Labor Market Setting and Training Needs
Appendix 1-6: Labor Market Data
Appendix 7:    The Tourism Sector
3.  The Education and Training System
Appendix 1: Structure of the Education and Trai-ling Systems
Appendix 2: Organization Chart of the Minis(-r) of Zducation
Appendix 3: Education and Training Enrollments
4. Financing of Education and Training
Appendix 1:  Government Expenditures in Educatton
5. Component Design and Implementation
Appendix 1:   Studies and Specialist Assistance, Study Tours, and
Internships in Selected Local and External
Industries
Appendix 2:   Terms of Reference for Major C.-nsultftnts
Appendix 3:  Area Vocational and Community Skills Training
Facilities to be Supported Under the Skills Training
Component
Appendix 4:  Area and Cost Estimates for Construction, Wurniture
and Equipment for the Skills Training Component
6.  Project Costs
6a.  Project Cost Summary
6b. Project Cost Estimates by Year
6c.  Project Costs by Category of Exnenditure
6d. Unit Areas and Capital Costs
7. Project Management and Implementation
7a. Formal Structure of Project Implementation Team
7b. Terms of Reference for Key Project Implementation Team
Personnel
7c. Project Implementation Schedule
8. Disbursements
8a. Allocation of Loan Proceeds
8b. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
9. Procurement Arrangements
10. Key Indicators for Project Monitoring and Evaluation
11. Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAP



COMKONVEALTH OF THE BAHAMAS
SECOND TECHNICAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
1  LOAN AND PROJECT SMM4ARY
Borrower s              Government of the Commonwealth of The Bahamas
Beneficiaries:          Ministries of Education, Employment and Immigration,
and Tourism
Loan Amount:            US$l?.O million
Terms:                  Standard IBRD Terms
P:oiect Obiectives
and Description:      The proposed project would help to implement the
second phase of the Government's long-term plan to
develop its training system. By focussing on
improved labor market information, new arrangements
to strengthen institutional coordination and private
sector participation, and increased cost recovery in
public institutions, the proposed project would
implement policies and develop institutions for
management and financing of training which would
make more efficient use of available training
resources, both public and private. In addition,
the project would improve planning of post-secondary
education and upgrade and expand training capacity
primarily for thte hotel and tourism sector; expand
training opportunities for adults and out-of-school
youth, particularly in the Family Islands, in
response to labor market needs; and improve the
efficiency and relevance of vocational training by
developing inservice training and curricula that
concentrate on clusters of related skills.
The project would have four components. The
Institutional Development and Policy Implementation
Component would consist of actions, supported by
technical assistance, to:
(a)   improve the labor market information system;
(b)   expand the apprenticeship systam;



(c)   strengther. the National Training Council (NTC)
and its national subject-matter advisory
panels and establish local training committees
in the Family Islands, including employer3'
representatives;
(d)   increase cost recovery and cost sharing by
raising enterprises' participation in the
financing of training, and improve targeting
of training stipends to needy individuals; and
te)   establish a graduate tracer system and prepare
a master plan for post-secondary and higher
education in The Bahamas.
The Skills Training Component would provide:
(a)   actions, supported by technical assistance to
develop curricula for broad-based preservice
and inservice training and mobile training
programs responsive to market needs, improve
management and utilization of training
facilities, establish a system for regular
maintenance and materials supply for training
facilities, and train training managers and
instructors; and
(b) civil works, furniture and equipment for
skills training workshops at Area Vocational
and Community Skills Centers in 22 locations
in the 11 major islands, complementary
workshop construction and equipment for
existing Indlistrial Training Centers, and
equipment for mobile training packages for
basic and advanced skills training of youth
and adults, primarily in the Family Islands.
The Tourism Training Component would consist of:
(a)   actions, supported by technical assistance,
to improve coordination and articulation among
existing tourism training programs, develop
and implement new training programs for the
sector, particularly for inservice training,
and increase enterprises' participation; and
(b)   civil works, furniture and equipment for a new
Hotel Training Institute, providing
accommodation for selected programs



- 3 -
of the Bahamas Hotel Training College (BHTC),
the University of the West Indies Centre for
Hotel and Tourism Management (UWI-CHTM), the
College of The Bahamas (COB), and the
BahamaHost program of the Ministry of Tourism.
The Project Management Component would provide for
expanded staffing of the existing Project
Implementation Unit and training of local staff.
The Barn.'s financing would cover 10OZ of the cost of
technical assistance and most training equipment,
65Z of costs for items procured locally, 50Z of
civil works, and 10OZ of foreign costs for travel
and similar expenses for project administration.
Project Risks:          The proposed project is not expected to face any
unusual risks. Project implementation arrangements
were established under the previous Bank loan in the
sector. They are functioning well and will be used
for the proposed project with selective
strengthening to assure a uniform rate of
implementation.



-4-
Estimated Proiect Costa
Proiect Component                Local      Foreign   Total
---    US$ million-
Institutional Development
and Policy Implementation               1.01      0.26       1.27
Skills Training                           1.40      3.89       5.29
Tourism Training                          2.02      5.22       7.24
Project Management                        0.65      0.19       0.84
Total Base Cost (Sept. 1988)      5.08       9.56      14.64
Ph)iical Contingencies                    0.32      1.04       1.36
Price Contingencies                       0.50      0.90       1.40
TOTAL PROJECT COST                5.90      11.50     17.40
a/ Includes taxes and duties estimated at US$2.0 million.
Financing Plan
Local    Foreign  t'otal
--------US$ million-----
Government      5.90       1.50      7.40
IBRD            0.00      10.00    10.00
Total           5.90      11.50    17.40
Z of Total       34Z        66?     1002
Estimated IBRD Disbursements
Bank Fiscal Year
89       90      91        92       93       94     95
--------------------US$ million-----------------------
Annual            0.8      2.0      2.4      2.0       1.7     0.7    0.4
Cumulative        0.8      2.8     5.2       7.2      8.9      9.6   10.0
Rate of Return: Not applicable



II. THE SECTOR: HUMAN RESOURCES ISSUES AND STRATEGY
A. Development Context
2.1      The Commonwealth of the Bahamas became independent in 1973.  Its
climate, geography, and proximity to the USA have contributed to rapid
growth of tourism and related service sectors. Tourism is now the
country's largest industry and accounts for 352 of GDP and, directly and
indirectly, as much as 50Z of employment. Financial services constitute
the second most important sector, while agricultural/horticulture/fisheries
and light industry represent less than 102 each in terms of contribution to
GDP and employment.
2.2      Out of a total population of 250,000, 165,000 now live in
Nassau/New Providence Island, 40,000 in Freeport/Grand Bahama Island, and
about 45,000 in the "Family Islands", 24 islands spread over an area of
250,000 km2 (Map). The labor market (Annex 2) is characterized by a co-
existence of shortages of skills with substantial open unemployment
(average rate 12Z; 22Z in the 15-24 age group). The imbalance between
approximate annual manpower supply and demand, based on longer term
averages, for skilled manpower is illustrated by the following table,
Estimated Labor Demand and Supply by Level of Skill
Estimated            Estimated
Annual              Annual
Demanda/            Supply
Family             Family
Total      IFlands   Total   Islands
Unskilled and semiskilled workers        1,620      230       3,300       660
Skilled workers                          1,640      420         500
Technicians                                460       50         200
Professionals                              380       65         200
(of which teachers)                     (200)     (40)        (50)
Total                              4,100       765       4,200      660
al In a total of 32 occupational groups with highest No. of job openings.
Effective demand for labor in the Family Islands is concentrated at the
skilled worker level and in the fields of construction and
commerce/services. The only training available locally is that provided
through vocational courses in secondary schools which currently, in the
Family Islands, at best produce a semisk'lled worker. The existing skills
shortages contribute to generally inefficient operation and poor
maintenance of hotels and other facilities, and result in an excessive
dependence on skilled expatriates (about 10? of the workforce, concentrated
in skilled, technical and professional occupations) and consequently higher
costs and lower competitiveness, particularly in the tourism industry.
Lower standards of living and a general lack of amenities, including



training opportunities, in the Family Islands contribute to migration to
Nassau, particularly of out-of-school youth and young adults.
2.3      The Government's stated development priorities are to: (a) improve
productivity in The Bahamas' tourism industry in order to gain competitive
advantage in the region; (b) develop the Family Islands through increased
provision of basic infrastructure, including training opportunities for the
population, and tax incentives for new private investment; (c) help create
jobs for the growing population, especially in the Family Islands; and (d)
increase efficiency within the public sector administrative and publicly
funded services. A longer term objective is to diversify the countr5's
economy to make it less dependent on tourism. However, due to
comparatively high labor costs relative to some other countries in the
region, low-tecnnology manufacturing, assembly and other industries are
less likely to settle in The Bahamas than in competing locations in the
Caribbean. The main opportunitias for diversification based on local
resources are instead in agriculture and fisheries, and rniated food
processing which could be developed both for export and for import
substitution (85Z of all food consumed is imported).
B. Education and Training System
2.4      In order to provide an educated and trained workforce to sustain
economic development, the Government of The Bahamas has launched a major
effort over the past two decades to develop the country's education and
training system. While this effort has been generally successful in
primary education (net enrollment over 95Z) and general secondary education
(75Z)--and at the primary and secondary level, p-ivate schools account for
about 20X of total enrollment--it has fallen far short of meeting the
economy's needs for skills training at the skilled worker, technician, and
professional levels (para. 2.2). Accordingly, _- major priority is to
increase provision of relevant training opportunities under appropriate
arrangements for management and finance.
2.5      Preservice skills training is provided in The Bahamas mainly by
institutions controlled by the Ministry of Education (MOE), including
secondary vocational programs. MOE also oversees the post-secondary
College of The Bahamas (COB), which provides post-secondary preservice and
inservice training in a range of paraprofessional and professional areas,
including technician and teacher training. Pxofessional-level education
and training in The Bahamas is provided by the University of the West
Indies (UWI), with its main campuses in Jamaica, Barbados, and Trinidad.
The National Training Council (NTC)1 , with Industrial Training Centers
(ITCs) in Nassau and Freeport, offers a broad range of skills training
courses, mainly in technical and business trades at the skilled worker
level. Such courses are intended for both adults and out-of-school youth.
Until the present, however, NTC has concentrated on preservice courses for
1/ NTC was created under the first Bank-assisted project. It is chaired
by the Permanent Secretary of Education and includes representatives of
the .linistry of Employment and Immigration (MOEI), technical
ministries. private employers, and labor unions. NTC's secretariat is
located at tne ITC in Nassau and is currently limited to two
professionals.



youth. Specifically for the hotel and tourism industry, three different
training programs exist: The University of the West Indies Centre for
Hotel and Tourism Management (UWI-CHTM), a department of UWI's Jamaica
(Mona) Campus; the Bahamas Hiotel Training College (BHTC) operated by the
Bahamos Hotel Training Council2 , which functions in parallel with the NTC;
and the 'BahamaHost' public relations training program of short courses
operated by the Ministry of Tourism. In addition, four secondary schools
(two in New Providence and two in Grand Bahama) have small hotel training
programs. There are also a few private training institutions offering
training mainly in business skills. Some of these schools provide training
on a contractual basis to individual tourism enterprises. Several major
h- ;els have in-house training programs. The organization and structure of
the education a.,d training system as well as the enrollments of the
different institutions are described in Annex 3.
C. Education and Training Finance
2.6      Government Financing.  Public expenditure on education and
trainihg in The Bahamas, at about 72 of GDP, is among the highest in the
Latin America and Caribbean region. The Government's total operating
budget for education and training in 1987 amounted to US$96.0 million (192
of total Government recurrent expenditure and 6.5Z of GDP). Capital
expenditure in 1987 amounted to US$8.0 million (102 of total capital
expenditure and 0.5Z of GDP). The large proportion of school age children
in the population, and the relatively high average teacher salaries
(including allowances for expatriates) explain the high costs. Out of thr'
US$95.0 million in operating funds, 44Z was spent on primary education, 382
on secondary, and BZ on COB. (Including salary subsidies paid to private
schools, the Government finances about 902 of totA costs for primary and
secondary education, the remaining 102 being covered ma.inly through school
fees). Another 22 of recurrent budget was spent on NTC/ITC, 0.52 on BHTC,
and 0.2Z on UWI-CHTM. Included in the NTC allocation is US$0.8 million
(0.8X) for stipends to trainees (adults and out-of-school youth) taking
preservice training courses at NTC centers. This stipend, which amounts to
US$42 per student per week and is currently paid to about 500 students in
one-year courses, is provided as a specific incentive to support trainees
in skills courses (Annex 4).
2.7      The large budgetary allocation3 to general education seem
generally appropriate for a country of the characteristics of The Bahamas,
considering the importance of a literate labor force for the service
sectors. By comparison, expenditure on training will have to be raised
over time in order to expand training in selected areas and improve
quality. In the short and medium term, however, substantial improvement
could be achieved without or with only marginal budgetary increases (paras.
3.16-3.18) by using available resources more efficiently and by increasing
resources available for training through expanded and more consistent
application of cost sharing and cost recovery measures.
2/  The Bahamas Hotel Training Council wis established in 1979.  It is
chaired by the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Education and
includes representatives of major hotel operators and labor unions.
BHTC's management functions as the Council's secretariat.



- 8 -
2.8      Financing by Beneficiaries of Training.  Beneficiaries
(students/trainees and their employers) already participate in a major way
in financing of publicly operated training. COB's operations are financed
through fees (25Z) and the Guvernmeat (75Z). Private enterprises have
donated substantial amounts of equipment to COB (about 15Z of total
eqiuipment cost). NTC/ITC's preservice training operations are fully
financed by the Government, including stipends to trainees (para. 2.6). On
the other hand, the building which houses the ITC at Freeport (as well as
COB's and BHTC's Freeport divisions) was donated and refurbished for
training purposes virtually entirely by the privately owned Grand Bahama
Port Authority (GBPA) out of its own resources. The current value of land
and buildings is set at US$2.5 million. In addition, industry and private
foundations have donated US$210,000 worth of equipment for this facility.
BHTO's operations are financed through direct financial contributions from
the Government (50Z) and the Tourism Promotion Boards (30Z), and from
tuition fees and other cost recovery measures such as inservice training
contracts with individual hotels (20Z). The short BahamaHost courses are
organized by the Government through the Ministry of Tourism and are
financed through fees. The UWI-CHTM program is financed under cost sharing
arrangements among regional governments.
2.9      In addition, private firms, particularly in the hospitality
sector. spend substantial amounts on recurrent expenditure for their in-
house training programs. Based on average training budgets of
representative hotels and restaurants, the annual expenditure on these
programs countrywide is roughly estimated at between US$2.5 and 3.5
million. Other major entities (banks, GBPA, and government technical
agencies) are estimated to spend each year between US$S.2 and 1.8 million
on their own training programs. It can thereiore be safely assumed that
enlterprises currently finance between US$4.0 and 5.0 million's worth of
training annually, in addition to their contributions to public training.
Employers' incentives to train their workers are obviously strong, in a
competitive and fast growing industry, and hotels are expanding their own
in-house training programs.
D. Sectoral Development Issues
2.10     The main issues in training development are: (a) limited training
capacity and opportunities; (b) weak and uncoordinated training
institutions; (c) inadequate labor market information for planning of
training; (d) weak links with employers; (e) lack of systematic cost
reduction, cost sharing, and cost recovery policies; and (f) inadequate
training programs and facilities. Each of these issues is analyzed in some
detail in the following paragraphs.
2.11     Inadequate Training Capacity and Opportunities.  Skills training
in The Bahamas has advanced significantly in the 1980s with Bank assistance
through the Technical and Vocational Training Project (Loan 1962-BM of
US$7.0 million signed May 8, 1981). Under that project, which has been the
country's first major effort to build up a training system for Bahamian
manpower, training for industrial, business and health technicians has been
upgraded and expanded (60Z of project cost), a management organization a..d
training facilities have been established for training of skilled workers
for New Providence and Grand Bahama Islands (32Z), and more limited



- 9 -
resources have been devoted to upgrading tourism training in Grand Bahama
(8Z). However, even in those specific fields where training has been
established, such as for mechanics, masons, bookkeepers, cooks, hotel
managers, etc., the current output responds to only 10 to 302 of annual
requirements (estimates based on both annual retirements and expected
growth). Skilled maintenance workers for hotel and tourism facilities are
in especially short supply, and in the Family Islands are virtually non-
existent. An apprenticeship system has been established by the Ministry of
Employment and Immigration (MOEI) but until now is functioning only in the
carpentry and masonry trades in New Providence Island, with a total of
about 40 participants supervised by MOEI's Apprenticeship Unit, whose
professional staff is limited to one full-time officer. As yet, there is
virtually no inservice or upgrading training available, except within large
enterprises, for the majority of already employed workers (for instance,
about 2,000 auto mechanics), who need to improve their skills to achieve
acceptable productivity in their existing jobs. Part of these shortcomings
could be overcome through more efficient use of existing facilities; in
many cases, additional investments are necessary.
2.12     Weak and Uncoordinated Training Institutions.  The Government's
overall strategy for human resources development is essentially sound but
most institutions involved in training, particularly the NTC, are of recent
creation and need further strengthening and support. At the same time, the
growing size and diversity of those same institutions increase the need for
improved inter-institutional coordination and articulation, for instance,
among institutions and training programs for the tourism sector (para.
2.17). Post-secondary and higher education in general is fragmented, and
particularly COB suffers from a lack of an overall development plan based
on national priorities. Government has not yet established clear long term
plans and priorities for post-secondary education.
2.13     Inadequacy of Labor Market Information for Planning of Training.
The labor market information system currently operated by the Ministry of
Employment and Immigration (HOEI) provides poon coverage of employment
trends, and an inadequate basis for analyses of' labor force characteristics
such as earnings, turnover rates, patterns of mobility, profiles of the
unemployed, and detection of areas of skill shortages.  Estimations of
labor supply have improved markedly with assistance under the first
training project, but with respect to demand estimates and related
characteristics of the labor market, the system has not yet improved.
Although raw data are available from a variety of sources, due to lack of
trained staff and weak inter-agency coordination, in many cases they are
not collected regularly and processed, analyzed and disseminated to
concerned government agencies, such as MOE, and to the general public.
Therefore this information cannot presently be used as a basis for planning
either by individuals or by training institutions.3
3/ For manpower supply, a system has been developed in MOE under the
ongoing project, and a recent Labor Force Survey by the Department of
Statistics has provided some updated demand information; but analysis
and dissemi-tion of information are inadequate, particularly on the
demand side.



- 10 -
2.14     Weak Links with Employers.  A main weakness in the training
system, leading to possible inefficient response to labor market needs, is
the lack of effective institutional mechanisms, such as advisory committees
commonly used in industrialized countries, for participation by employers
in the development, delivery and evaluation of training programs both at
the national and local levels, particularly as regards NTC-managed
programs. Advisory committees to assist in determining objectives and
content of courses are functioning in Nassau for a few industrial branches,
notably refrigeration/air conditioning and welding, but are lacking for
most subject-matter areas, particularly those concerning smaller
enterprises and construction activities. In the Family Islands, there are
no established mechanisms to advise on specific local training needs. An
apprenticeship system exists but is still very limited in scope (para
2.11).
2.15     Lack of Cost Reduction, Cost Sharing and Cost Recovery Policies.
Clearing the backlog of training needs would require new investments in
training facilities at the same time as there is strong pressure to
increase the Government's recurrent expenditures for education and
training. Even if financing were available for the capital cost of key
investments, the Government would still need to find the means to expand
training operations while contaiaing the growth in its recurrent
expenditures. Issues in this area include the need to adopt measures to
reduce unit costs through programs which focus better on priority skills,
take advantage of economies of scale and utilize existing facilities more
efficiently, particularly at COB, whose unit costs in some courses are high
due to uneconomically small enrollments; adjustment of the current policy
of providing stipends to all NTC trainees, by targeting stipends only to
trainees from low income households, or with family dependents; and
establishing arrangements for increased cost sharing by employers and
trainees, including increased financial contributions by employers to
hospitality and industrial training through direct subsidies and inservice
training contracts.
2.16     Inadequate Training Programs and Facilities.  Inadequate training
facilities and lack of appropriate teaching equipment are a major problem,
especially for t'urism-related training and training in the Family Islands.
Moreover, inservice training programs are virtually non-existent and some
existing preservice programs hold little relevance to participants.
Secondary vocational courses in the Family Islands, for example, are overly
narrow for most youth and out-of-school adults, providing training in
narrowly defined skills often in low demand such as technical drawing,
woodworking and home economics.  Another issue is the current inflexibility
of NTC preservice training programs for skilled workers which have been
standardized at one year's duration, instead of using shorter modular
courses more easily adapted to needs and opportunities. Also, in the
Family Islands, some managers and instructors are not trained to operate
more flexible and cost-effective programs and short courses which could
offer practical training in collaboration with enterprises. There is
currently no efficient system for regular maintenance of building and
training equipment, nor for supply of necessary training materials; this
causes low training efficiency particularly in the Family Islands.
Moreover, in these locations, there are no organized apprenticeship
programs, and little or no use is made of existing skilled personnel as
part-time instructors.



- 11 -
2.17     Specific Issues in Training for the Tourism Sector.  The tourism
sector suffers from a shortage of technical skills and inadequate training
programs for maintenance of facilities (for instance, air conditioning
systems and elevators that are out of service are among the most frequent
complaints received from hotel guests). As to specific hospitality-related
training, physical facilities and equipment are inadequate at both BHTC and
UWI-CHTM, and coordination of planning and articulation among training
programs at the institutions are virtually non-existent. In spite of
generally appropriate curricula and adequate staff resources for training
in this sector, the outputs of the institutions are insufficient in
quantity (only 3OZ of new cooks needed can be trained) and deficient in
quality (only about 50Z o,. prescribed practical course work can actually be
performed by students). Given the present lack of facilities, much-needed
inservice (but off-the-job) training for employed tourism personnel does
not take place; recurrent costs are higher than they could be if the
institutions cooperated more; already small capital budgets are
inefficiently used; and due to the lack of articulation among programs,
graduates of BHTC and COB are effectively unable to pursue higher
management studies at UWI-CHTM. This situation perpetuates the
inefficiency of training for the hospitality sector and an over-reliance on
expatriate managers at middle and upper levels in The Bahamas.
E. Strategy for Improvement of Training System
Government's Trainin8 Development Plans
2.18     The Government's evolving education and training strategy, as
updated in 1986, emphasizes improvements in the quality and efficiency of
vocational and technical training, as well as increased outputs in
accordance with regularly updated information from an improved labor market
information system and taking into account government and private
development plans for major sectors of employment and location of activity.
The strategy foresees expansion of relevant training opportunities in the
Family Islands. Specifically for the hotel and tourism industry, the
strategy aims at a feasible degree of integration and articulation of
tourist training programs and related support courses of the BHTC, the UWI-
CHTM and the COB training institutions, thus attaining increased efficiency
in the utilization of facilities, reducing investment costs and, to a
lesser extent, recurrent costs of training. In fields not specific to
tourism, the strategy also expects COB to expand its offerings to new areas
of post-secondary training and to develop degree-level higher education
programs. Both COB and NTC will be expected to strengthen on-the-job and
off-the-job inservice training programs for upgrading the performance
levels of employed personnel. In addition, the strategy recognizes the
need for more effective cost recovery in the delivery of training, in
particular inservice training, and increased financial participation of the
private sector in meeting recurrent costs. Once this strategy is fully
implemented, the Government expects that the supply of skilled and
technical workers will more closely approximate effective demand in the
economy, and that qualified Bahamians will increasingly replace many
expatriates at the middle and higher technical and management levels, thus
helping to keep tourism costs competitive.



- 12 -
Bank Assistance Strategy and Experience of Past Lending
2.19     The Bank's overall objectives and strategy for The Bahamas are
stated in a memorandum from the Bank's President dated February 9, 1984 and
entitled 'The B6hemas: Graduation from the Bank'. The memorandum
recommended to the Executive Directors that The Bahamas be graduated after
a phase out period ending in FY89. The phase-out lending program envisaged
two projects; those projects have subsequently been identified as the
Second Water and Sewerage Project (Ln. 2756-BM of US$10.0 million, approved
on October 14, 1986) and the proposed Second Technical and Vocational
Training Project described in this report.
2.20     Bank policy for training calls for adjustment in management and
financing policies in order to increase the productivity of training
expenditures and the sustainability of public training institutions, and at
the same time preservation of equity through improved opportunity for
individuals to enhance their technical knowledge and skills. With
assistance from the Bank under the first Technical and Vocational Education
Project financed from Loan 1962-BM (para. 2.11), the Government has
successfully laid the foundations for developing an efficient training
system responsive to the needs of the Bahamian economy. The first project
has been essentially well implemented, although it has suffered an
implementation delay of two years due to delays in availability of a site
(for a Nurses Training School) and because anticipated cofinancing of a
hotel training facility did not materialize. Also, due to this lack of
cofinancing, an amount of US$450,000 intended mainly for equipment for
tourism training was cancelled from the Loan. The proposed second project
again makes provision for a hotel training facility as part of a larger and
more comprehensive package, independent of cofinancing, for tourism sector
training. The proposed second loan would effectively support the further
articulation and implementation of the Government's training strategy in
ways consistent with general Bank policy. By focussing on basic policy
issues as reflected in the need for an improved labor market information
system, new arrangements to strengthen institutional coordination and
private sector participation, better planning of post-secondary education,
and increased cost recovery, the proposed project would help create a
framework for management and finance of training that makes more efficient
use of available training resources, both public and private. Bank
experience with the first project has demonstrated the Government's
commitment to sound trairing development objectives and its ability to
implement a major training project.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Origin of the Project
3.1      In 1986 the Government requested the Bank to consider a possible
second technical and vocational training project, with special emphasis on
the tourism sector. A Bank reconnaissance mission was fielded in November
1986 to initiate discussions and assist in identifying the cotaponents of a
possible project. A mission in September 1987 assisted the fiovernment in
project preparation and in actions to select a consulting institution to
carry out a broad-based, PPF-financed study of institutional training for



- 13 -
the tourism sector. A Project Preparation Facility was approved on
November 20, 1987, and appraisal took place during April 1988. The project
was negotiated on September 22 through 23, 1988. The Bahamian delegation
was headed by Mr. Gurth Archer, Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Education.
B. Project Objectives
3.2      The proposed project tould help implement major elements of the
second phase of the Government's long term plan to expand and upgrade its
training system. The project will pursue two key objectives:
institutional development and improved policy implementation in training
management and finance; and expansion and upgrading of training capacity in
combination with measures to use existing training capacity more
effectively. The relation of these objectives to the sector issues is
illustrated by the "Project Matrix" shown on the following page.
3.3      Objective No. 1: Institutional Development and Strengthening of
Management and Financing of Training. The central objective is to ensure
the administrative and financial sustainability of the training system
through better planning and more efficient allocation of staff and
technical and financial resources, strengthening of institutions, better
coordination of training efforts, stronger linkages between the training
system and employers at the national, local, and enterprise level, and
establishment of a larger and more stable base of financial resources
available for training through cost sharing and cost recovery measures and
actions to increase private sector participation in financing of training.
3.4      Obiective No. 2: Technical and Operational Improvements.  The
project would also aim to make the training system more responsive to labor
market requirements and improve the quality and cost-efficiency of training
by: modifying existing training programs and developing and implementing
new short, modular programs for flexible delivery in response to market
needs, including mobile training programs for small-volume training in the
Family Islands; strengthening management and maintenance systems; and
increasing the supply and upgrading the performance capability of training
administrators and instructors.
C. Rationale for Bank Involvement
3.5      The proposed project would help implement the second phase of the
Government's long term plan to expand and upgrade its training system, and
would supply trained canpower for the major sectors of the economy through
the year 2000. While tha Government's overall sector development strategy
is sound, developmental institutions are still relatively young and can
benefit substantially from the training policy support and technical
guidance that would accompany a Bank project. No other lenders or donors
have expressed an interest in a project of this kind. The European
Community will probably finance a regional tourism training project which
would not substitute for but complement the proposed Bank project by
providing temporary additional staffing for BHTC and UWI-CHTM and a
dormitory for Caribbean and Family Island students at the proposed Hotel
Training Institute. The proposed project would contribute significanJly to
the development of key sector institutions and the implementation of
improved policies for management and finance of training.



fllLB*JS    =5jDW                                                TR FRO Project Mttri t
Correopcndi ng
Sr*citic lIJe!h                                                   ProiSbt Obt.[ee a                          gaI n-                        Proi2st Cop"Onente           Codtioaitnlcovpnants
1.    tnadeuate Trrning Capa-   I(s) Presea.ce training out-  I(s) Iner.o..  presrvice              1(a) Construction, equipment. TA        I(u) Skilt- Trixniao           I(s) ta training program to be
city and Opportunities            put below earket needs           trainino Output guided          for pretervice training                 Cowepnent (Preeerwice          sont to eank by Juno 30. 1990,
by market                       pogaea- deveopeint                      Training Subcompon nt)         and i  tleasnte4 academic yoes
S99t/91
(b) Aprenticeship syet..        (b) Fipand apprenhticship       (b) (i)  Expand, eteff A hNov           (b) IDbPI Ceoponent             (b) Dated cowenant to expand
undeveloped                     *ystem guided by market              l'REI Apprenticeship Unit          (Apprenticeship System          system to a trades by
(ii. Staff training throuh TA          Comonent Subcomponent)         Ocsc"Or 31, 19'
{iii)Cqipmnt  ond vhicles,
(c) No Insetvice or upprad-    (e) DevOlop inservieo/up-        (c) TA for inservice training           cc) Skills Training Campo-
;ng training for SWf            grading training                proram development                      nent (Innervic* Train-
workers                                                                                                 i ng Subcomponent)
2.   'eak end Uncoordinated        2(6) at "ek                      2(s) Str.ngthn WC through    2(a) Bonk guidance and technical           2(e) Skills Training Conpo-   2(t) Dated covenant on plan for
Institutions                                                       partnership in project          assiatance                              nent (Project Implemen-        mangemnt improvemnt and
ispl*eentatiin and                                                      tation Component)              staff training by Juno 30, 1lW
buff training
(b) MMC training managemnt    <b) Oicto, tlDE                   (b) (i)  Sank guidance and technical  (b) Skill* Training Compon-   (a) (;) DOted covenant to eotabt;ie
weak to to                                                            aesietence                        n"t                                 tscqkr System by t2/31/1.ll
ti)  Monitoring and             (i)  Introduce graduate         (i i) flank guidance end technical                                 (b) (;i)  DOted Covenant to
evalution of                    tracer systee                   *oi;tance                                                                improve maintenance
training                                                                                                                                 and Supply system  by
(ii) Maint hence and            (ii) Introduce function-                                                                                      June 30. 1990
materisto supply                ing system of ma;n-                                                                                                                      I-
tenonc a  supply                                                                                                                         4
(<) No ptlns or prioritiwe      (c) Derelop masteo  plon for    (c) Establish local workting group      (c) IW&1  Compont (H4igher  (c DOtet covensnt for Mattr plan
for poet-secondary              poet-secondary and              groupel provide TAl                     Educstion Study)                to be completed by December 31,
education                       higher education                                                                                        191
3.    Inadequacy of Labor Morket 3(s) Lack of interagency           3(s) Establi h lu d             3(a) Selection of agency (MMEI)         3(a) ,(b),(c): SUlP1            SW ) Dated Covenant to st up
Information for Planning          coordination and leader-         agency and *taff                hiring of staffing, houaing             Component (Labor Infor-         labor information system
of Training                       ship                             unit                            Of Unit                                 mation System Sub-              by June 30. l989.
(b) Shortage of trained staff  tb) Train staff on-the-          (b) Technical samietance                    component)
job
(c) Shortage of aquip-nnt       Cc) Provida neceseary           (c) Supply of euipwmnt
equipment
4.    Weak Linkts with Employere   4(al Few adviaory comitteoe   4(a) (i)  enpond subj;t-aroa  4(e) (i)  Bank guidance & TA                 4(a) tPI  Component             4(a) Dated Covenant to
adv iory co_m;ttes.                                                (Advisory Committee            etabl ish co_;itt466
to nMa areas                                                       Subeompovent)                  by December 31, 1989
Cii) create local train-        (ii)  bank guidance ATA
;ng co;itfiess In
Family lolands
(b) Apprenticeship systas,      (t) se l(b) above                                                       (b) Saw i(s)                    (b) Se*  I(s)
undevetoped
(c) No cooperative training    (c) see 4(C) above                                                       (c) Sew 4(s)                    (c) Seo 4(a)
programs



Correspond ing
hSose,fic tomes                       Svb-l-uas-                    Proe   Cbiecti,es                            Mens                           ProiKt Co_onants               Conditional ity/Covenants
5.    Lack of Cost Reduction,        S(a) NTC not permitted to        S(&) Enable NTC to receiv,        5(a) Now reglations for NTC              5() *(b).(c)  =OPTI Cr.         5(a) (b).(c) Dated covenant for
Coat Sharing, and Cost             charge for training               and espand training                                                        ponent (Cost Reduc-              m_*eures to be taken
Recovery Iabaures                  services                          funds                                                                      tion/Coet Recovery               by June 30. 1989.
Subcomponent)
(b) High cost- of training       (b) Real locat  resourcee by    (b) Change of *lection criteria;
stipends due to lack of          targeting atipenda on             application af new criteris
criteria for award               tho  in nood
(c) lack of aechanl_ma for       Cc) Establiah coat recovery    (c) Applicetion of mechanim
cost recovery through            and procedures, inclu-            and procedursa
contract training and            ding contract training
tuition feo                      and tuition fees
6.    Inadequata Training            6(a) Naorro, infloaible pre-   6(a) Reform training programs  6(a) soe 5(a) above                            6(a) Skills Training Compo-   6(a) .(k),(c): SE  S(*)
Prograas and Facilities            oervice training progra           as guided by  arket                                                        "Mnt
(b) No inseroice training        (b) Establish in-ervice           (b) ae  1(c) above
program                          training a* guided by
aarket
(c) Limited training in          Cc) * o 4(a) above                (c) *ee 4(s) above
collaboration with
enterprias
(d) Inadequate training faci-  (d) Improve facilitios and          (d) Contruction, furnitur.,                                               (d) Project sites to be legally
lities  and lack of train-       equipment for priority            equipment                                                                 transferred for effectiveness
ing equipment                    training, as guided by
(s) Lack of instructors. no    (a) Establish systa- to use    (e) Establi h profoeional                                                      (e) See 5(a)
use of *ui-ting ekilled          ekilled persona as                instructor corps; train
pereonnal ae instructors         instructors                       teochersc  TA
7.    Specific Ieau** for            7(a) Shortges of technicel       7(a) was 6(a) above               7(a) see 6(s) above                       7(a) Tourism Training Coem-  7(a) Dated Covenant on So
Training in Tourios Sector         mintenance skills                                                                                             nent                            employer financing by                     Z
Osc*ker 31, 1991. 
(b) Inadequate facilitios        (b) Create now joint train-    (b) TA, construction, furniture,                                             (b) Agroe_nt on imploentation
at tour;i m-pecific              ing facility for                  equipment                                                                 tation of Touris Training
training institutions            tourism                                                                                                     Component in accordance with
consultants' recommendations.
(c) Lack of institutional        Cc) Establish articulation        (c) Iseu  policy on articu-
coordination                     and coordination among            lation and coordination
institutions                     based on PPF study
(d) Inadequate output            (d) se  6(a) and 6(b) above    (d) see 6(a) and 6(b) above                      tlnotitotinal Develop-
(quality A quantity) of                                                                                       snt and Policy Imple-
training                                                                                                      mentation Conponent
(a) High cost A inefficiency   (a)  ase  6(a) and 6(b) above    (a) see 6(a) and 6(b) above
of training



- 15 -
D. Project Components and Description
3.6      The objectives of the proposed project would be attained through
four distinct but mutually supporting project components, to be implemented
according to an agreed plan covering specific actions within each component
and dates for their implementation.
3.7      Institutional Development and Policy Implementation Component
(US$1.4 million). This component would include additional staffing, office
space, technical assistance and equipment for the Department of Labor of
MOEI to establish by June 30, 1989, a system for regular production and
dissemination of needed labor market information; and for the
Apprenticeship Unit of MOEI to expand the existing apprenticeship system to
six trades each (carpentry, masonry, plumbing, electrical installation and
appliance repair, auto mechanics, and secretarial skills) in New Providence
and Grand Bahama Islands by Dec. 31, 1990. Both the labor information
system and the apprenticeship system expansion would be implemented
according to an action plan, a draft of which has been reviewed and deemed
acceptable by the Bank. The component would also comprise the
establishment, by December 31, 1989, of a graduate tracer system to
evaluate NTC's and BHTC's training programs, and of national subject matter
area advisory committees for eight major industrial branches (construction,
commerce, vehicle repair, electrical installation, communication and
consumer electronics, plumbing and pipe installation, welding and
mechanical maintenance, and refrigeration and air conditioning) and local
training committees in each of the nine major Family Islands in accordance
with agreed Terms of Reference. Technical assistance would also be
included to help implement cost sharing and cost recovery in training and
to prepare a master plan for the future development of post-secondary and
higher education in The Bahamas t be completed by December 31, 1991.
Specifically regarding cost recovery in NTC programs, a plan of action, a
draft of which has been reviewed and deemed acceptable by the Bank, to
implement policies and procedures ensuring receipt by NTC of training funds
and permitting it to expend funds for training financed under contracts
with employers and/or through tuition fees for both preservice and
inservice training; and policies, eligibility criteria based on need and
training performance, and verification procedures to ensure targeting of
training stipends to selected individuals from lower income households, or
those with dependents, would be implemented in a form acceptable to the
Bank prior to student recruiting for 1989, or at the latest June 30, 1989.
The Government would also implement financing policies in BHTC to achieve
at least 502 employer financing of preservice training specifically for the
tourism sector no later than December 31, 1991. (Inservice training is
already financed 1002 by beneficiaries).
3.8      Skills training Component (US$6.3 million).  This component would
adapt, improve and selectively expand training in priority skills which are
not hospitality-specific but yet essential for supporting infrastructure
and services such as construction and technical maintenance skills, and
would provide new non-formal preservice training programs and related,
complementary equipment and facilities, including 10 mobile training units,
for low-cost training at the skilled and semi-skilled levels of adults and



- 16 -
out-of-school youth in skills in high demand, and establish a program of
inservice training at the same levels fully financed by beneficiaries.
Both preservice and inservice training would be offered at the two existing
Industrial Training Centers (ITCs) in Nassau and Freeport, at two new Area
Vocational Centers in New Providence Island, and at 20 Community Skills
Centers in other islands (Annex 5, Appendices 3 and 4). The Community
Skills Centers would be physically located at and administered by secondary
schools offering vocational courses and would be used in the evenings and
during school vacations for non-formal and inservice training. The
programs would cover a broad range of skills in the commercial, service,
construction and technical/industrial sectors. The project would provide
supplementary training equipment for existing training workshops as well as
construction and equipment for new priority skills training facilities,
including an expansion of the ITC at Freeport and a small maintenance and
materials supply center in Nassau. The new adult training programs,
operated in modular and short-course format, would be prepared under the
oversight of national and local training advisory committees and would be
delivered flexibly by NTC in response to labor market needs. For secondary
students, more relevant and cost-effective training would be provided by
MOE, by deleting traditional single-skill vocational subjects of long
duration, and instead introducing broader-based training in "clusters of
related skills"4 adapted to the equipment provided for non-formal and
inservice courses, in place of traditional single-skill training programs,
particularly in the Family Islands where broad maintenance skills are in
high demand. All courses would be overseen by local training committees to
ensure relevancy to market needs, and would be systematically evaluated
using graduate tracer studies.
3.9      Under the project, skills training opportunities for adults and
out-of-school youth, geared to labor market needs, would be made available
for the first time in ten of the Family Islands, in addition to five
locations in New Providence and Grand Bahama. The program would aim to
provide non-formal preservice or inservice training to about one-half of
each of 500 adults and out-of-school youths annually in the Family Islands,
300 in Grand Bahama, and 600 in New Providence Island. As a result, about
700 'new" workers trained in non-formal courses would join the workforce
annually, or about one-half of the need documented in para. 2.2. Another
700 existing workers would have their skills upgraded through inservice
training, thereby reducing the existing training backlog. In addition, the
quality of vocational training provided to completing secondary students
would be improved, without any increase in unit costs due to the reduction
in total hours spent in vocational classes, through the use of better and
more relevant training programs and equipment, so that substantial numbers
of semiskilled secondary school graduates would leave school with much more
employable skills than before.
3.10     Training specialists would be contracted for the design of modular
non-formal short course programs, including mobile programs and adult
4/ For instance, clusters of related skills for building construction and
maintenance--masonry, carpentry, plumbing, electrical installations and
cabinet-making.



- 17 -
evening courses, and for development of the related instructor training and
industrial internship programs, including the creation of a corps of
certified instructors among skilled workers who could teach part-time in
evenings and short courses. Specialist assistance would also be provided
for development of curricula for 'clusters of related skills." A dated
program for improved management and utilization of skills training centers
and for training of managers and instructors, as well as the new course
syllabi would be presented to the Bank for review and comment by June 30,
1990, and implemented beginning with academic year 1990/91. An improved
system for maintenance of buildings and training equipment and supply of
training materials to Industrial Training Centers and Area Vocational and
Community Skills Centers would be implemented by June 30, 1990.
3.11     Tourism Training Component (US$8.7 million).  This component would
improve and expand training directly related to the hotel and tourism
industry, such as the training of chefs and waiters, and would consist of:
(a) specialist assistance to evaluate and make recommendations concerning
the relevance of existing tourism training programs for the labor market;
the need for an increased volume of short preservize and inservice training
programs; and measures required to improve the coordination and
articulation among the different programs, including (i) the division of
labor between COB and BHTC particularly in subjects such as languages,
accounting, and business management and (ii) coordination of admission
requirements at UWI-CHTH with course content at BHTC and COB; and (b)
design, construction, furniture, and equipment for a new joint Hotel
Training Institute, exploiting the economies of feasible joint use by the
different institutions for the programs of ti,e BHTC, the UWI-CHTM, related
courses of the COB, and the BahamaHost program. The primary purpose would
be to raise the quality of tri[ning and to increase enrollments and output
in such areas (e.g., training of restaurant chefs) where present capacity
is clearly inadequate. The Institute would have an effective capacity to
receive about 350 students simultaneously, compared to an aggregate
capacity of about 250 in existing facilities. The increased overall
capacity and efficiency gains would permit an increase in the combined
annual output from the LVI-CHTM and BHTC's diploma/certificate courses,
including the apprentice chef program, from about 40 to 120 per year. The
largest increase in output would be in short preservice courses for hourly
hotel workers at BHTC which would increase from currently insignificant
levels to about 750 per year, and in short inservice training programs for
restaurant and hotel workers, which would likely continue at current levels
of about 750 graduates per year. This combined output would approximately
respond to estimated minimum training needs in those trades for which basic
training is provided by BHTC and UWI-BHTC (Annex 2, Appendix 7). In
addition, the BahauaHost visitor relations program, which has as its
ultimate goal to reach virtually every person in the tourism-related
workforce of 40,000, would be able to increase its current annual coverage
of about 700 workers to 1,200. The Government has confirmed that the
tourism training component would be implemented in accordance with the
recommended actions made by consultants in a recently completed Special
Study of Hotel Training in The Bahamas, including policies and procedures
for coordination and articulation among tourism-related programs at BHTC,
UWI-CHTM and COB, and terms, conditions, timetable and management
arrangements for sharing the facilities of the new Hotel Training
Institute.



- 18 -
3.12     Project Management Component (US$0.9 million).  This component
would consist of strengthening of the existing Project Implementation Unit
(PIU) with a full-time civil works coordinator and a full-time procurement
specialist plus several part-time PIU members (Annexes 7a and b), and of
operating costs (communication, travel, office supplies) for project
implemertation and supervision. As part of this component, a two-day
equipment procurement seminar would be presented by competent consultants
for PIU staff before the start of equipment procurement. The Government
has agreed to sustain the unit throughout the project implementation period
and not to change the staffing, organization and functions of the PIU
without prior Bank approval (para. 3.20).
E. Alternatives to Proposed Project Interventions
3.13     Alternative ways to address the manpower problems were studied but
rejected, including (a) creating additional, separate skilled worker
training centers (in addition to those existing in Nassau and Freeport) to
be operated independently by the NTC; this would cost more, especially in
the Family Islands, and reduce possible benefits compared to the chosen
solution of developing existing training facilities at secondary schools
into Community Skills Centers to be used by both MOE and NTC; (b)
exploiting economies of scale in existing institutions in Nassau instead of
investing in training in the Family Islands; this would further reduce
immediate government expenditures for training but would, based on pA.st
experience, fail to provide the required manpower for the Family Islands;
(c) improving existing hotel and tourism training facilities separately for
each institution; this would be administratively easier, in the short run,
but would perpetuate uneconomic operations ari severely curtail efficiency
due to the limitations of present sites; and (d) encouraging the private
sector to finance, own, and operate such a facility, instead of supporting
a major, new public facility for hotel and tourism training; this idea was
presented to managers of major hotels and was rejected for the following
reasons: (i) the funds expended, and to be expended, by the Government for
hotel and tourisnm training, already emanate directly from the enterprises
in the form of the room tax on hotels, part of which is currently channeled
to training via the Tourism Promotion Boards; (ii) the tourism sector is
not interested in, and can see no practical way of either staring ownership
of, or operating efficiently a central facility; while each major hotel has
an in-house training program (para. 2.9), the only practical and cost-
efficient arrangement for basic training of large employee groups is
considered to be through improvement and expansion of existing public
training institutions. The industry's representatives are enthusiastic
about the BahamaHost program and also consider that they have adequate
influence over BHTC, without direct ownership, through the Bahamas Hotel
Training Council; they are not equally satisfied with UWI-CHTM but believe
that this must be resolved in a different manner since UWI is a
multinational institution which would be very difficult to privatize.



- 19 -
F. Project Costs and Financing
Project Costs (Page 4 and Annexes 6a-6c)
3.14     Total project costs are estimated at US$17.4 million, with a
foreign exchange component of approximately US$11.5 million, or about 66%.
The cost estimate includes about US$2.0 million equivalent in applicable
local taxes and duties. Physical and price contingencies are equivalent to
91 and 10 of baseline costs, respectively. Physical contingencies were
added to base costs at 152 for construction of the tourism and hotel
training facility, and 10% for other construction, equipment, and technical
assistance. Price contingencies were estimated based on projected
international inflation rates of 32 for 1989 and 1990 and 42 p.a.
thereafter.
Unit Capital Costs
3.15     Unit costs for technical assistance, unit areas and costs of
construction, unit costs for equipment, and unit capital costs per student
place are summarized in Annex 6d.
Financing Plan (Page 4)
3.16     The project would be financed as follows:  the amount of the
proposed Bank loan would be US$10.0 million equivalent, which would
represent 65X of total estimated cost, net of taxes. The proposed loan
would finance 87Z of foreign exchange costs. The loan would be repayable
over 15 years, including five years of grace, and would bear interest at
the Bank's standard variable rate. As an average during the implementation
period, the Government's contribution to the project would represent about
12 of annual public expenditure on education. With respect to the capital
budget, expenditure under the project would represent on an average about
10% of total capital expenditure on education (Annex 4, Appendix 1).
Recurrent Costs Implications and Unit Recurrent Costs
3.17     The project would require increased recurrent expenditures by the
Government for the operation of new training programs and maintenance of
the new facilities. When project components are fully operational in 1995,
direct annual recurrent costs to the Government for training (in constant
1988 US dollars) will increase by US$759,000, as shown in the following
table:



- 20 -
Cost of Consumable
Cost of    Supplies & Maintenance   Total
Instructors    of Physical Plant       Costs
Skills Training Component
a. NTC Adult Training
Programs                 $ 57,000           $ 36,OOC         $ 93,000
b. Completing Secondary
Day Students              272,000            120,300          392,000
Sub-Total                  $329,000           $156,000         $485,000
Tourism Training Component
a.  BHTC                       $ 60,000           $140,000          $200,000
b.  UWI-CHTH                      --                74,000            74,000
Sub-Total                  $ 60,000          $214,000          $274,000
$759, 000
3.18     Total Incremental Annual Expenditure (1995).  The incremental
costs shown above do not include the cost of inservice training which would
be provided by project institutions but would be financed entirely by
employers under contract with NTC and BHTC.   This type of training would
account for a major part of the expected growth in enrollment but would
decrease rather than increase recurrent costs to the Government, since part
of general overhead could be recovered under the contracts. The increased
costs under the Skills Training Component (US$485,000) would be partially
offset by annual savings through more selective targeting of training
stipends. For tourism training, the proposed consolidation of facilities
and operations would actually reduce unit operating costs by about 15Z.
However, this reduction would be offset by the expected expansion of
enrollment in preservice courses. The resulting increase in annual
recurrent costs for tourism training ($274,000) is expected, based on
statements of both the Government and of industry representatives, to be
fully financed through a marginal increase in existing annual contributions
from the Tourism Promotion Boards represented on The Bahamas Hotel Training
Council. Other cost reduction and cost recovery measures which would be
adopted as part of the project (para. 3.7) would result in additional
savings on recurrent costs. As a net overall result, the project would
actually reduce total recurrent expenditure for training to the Government.
3.19     Unit Recurrent Costs.  The unit recurrent costs of the different
institutions and programs are estimated as follows:



- 21 -
Unit Recurrent Costs (US$ per student year)a
PresentD            After Project
NTC Adult Training            3,670C               2,820d
Completing Secondary          1,220                1,270
BHTC Preservice Programs      3,300                2,800
UWI-CHTM Programs             6,600e               not directly affectedf
COB Pr:service Programs       9,800                not directly affected
aExpressed in Full-Time Equivalents (FTE) and in US$ of 1988
bAnnex 4
clncluding $1,630 for training stipends
dIncluding an average of US$820 for training stipends to needy students
eMission estimate
fProposals to significantly reduce unit costs would be a likely result of
the Master Plan for Post-Secondary and Higher Education to be prepared
under the project.
The above unit recurrent costs are comparable to those of corresponding
programs in other countries, in spite of the generally high relative cost
level in The Bahamas and (in the case of NTC and secondary courses) the
additional costs caused by the geographical dispersion of the Family
Islands. Specifically, regarding tourism-related training (BHTC and UWI-
CHTM), unit recurrent costs are similar to or compare favorably with thoqe
of institutions in the region potentially competing for Bahamian students.
G. Prolect Implementation
Project ManaRement
3.20     The project would be managed by the MOE through a Project
Implementation Unit (Annex 7a) consisting of, (a) on a full-time basis: a
project manager, a civil works coordinator, a procurement specialist, and
support and clerical staff; and, (b) on a part-time basis: the principal
officer of the NTC, the three MOE coordinators of vocational/technical
education, representatives of each of the three tourism training
institutions, a legal officer, and a project accountant. The design and
supervision of construction of the Hotel Training Institute would be
carried out by a private firm of architects and engineers acceptable to the
Bank, engaged under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.   A
condition of effectiveness would be that the PIU would have been formally
established and that the project manager and the procurement specialist
would have been appointed. The appointment of the civil works coordinator
would be a condition for disbursement against the Civil Works category for
expenditure other than for professional fees.
Technical Assistance
3.21     To facilitate reference, all technical assistance included in the
project has been listed, with starting dates, in Annex 5, Appendix 1.



- 22 -
Terms of Reference for major consultant inputs have been prepared and are
in Annex 5, Appendix 2.
Construction and Equipment
3.22     (a) For the skills training component, construction designs would
be based on standard designs of the MOE and would utilize insulated
prefabricated metal buildings similar to those previously employed in
school construction in The Bahamas. Designs for the workshops at the ITC
in Freeport would use materials and design features to harmonize with the
existing building. Detailed civil works design and supervision of
construction under the skills training component would be the
responsibility of the Estates Section in the MOE, assisted by the civil
works cootdinator in the PIU.   Furniture and equipment lists and
specifications would be prepared as a result of technical assistance
inputs, and procurement would be coordinated by the procurement specialist
in the PIU.  (b) For the joint facility for tourism training (the Hotel
Training Institute), a conceptual design based on the PPF-financed
consultants' report on the Special Study of Hotel and Tourism Training in
The Bahamas has been prepared by an external firm of architects. Furniture
and equipment lists and specifications for the Institute are attached to
the consultants' report. Preliminary drawings of the buildings for the
Hotel Training Institute, draft terms of reference and a draft contract for
the contracting of a firm of architects/engineers to carry out the detailed
design, bidding, and supervision of construction of the Institute have been
reviewed and deemed acceptable by the Bank.
Construction Sites
3.23     It would be a condition of effectiveness that the Government
furnish evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, that the titles of the sites
for construction of the Hotel Training Institute and the ITC in Freeport
would have been legally transferred to the Ministry of Education.
Implementation Schedule
3.24     The project would be implemented over a period of about six years.
Project implementation target dates are shown in Annex 7c. This scheduling
is consistent with the Ministry's experience in implementing the first
project and with the profile of similar projects in the region.
Considering the present state of project preparation, construction for the
Skills Training Component could begin during the second quarter of calendar
year 1989 and for the Tourism Training Component during the third quarter
of 1989.
Procurement
3.25     Civil works contracts for construction of the Hotel Training
Institute would be awarded on the basis of international competitive
bidding (ICB). Prior to the invitation for tenders, the Bank would approve
all tendering documents for this component. Since the remainder of the
civil works would be widely dispersed and relatively small in size, it is



- 23 -
doubtful that there would be international interest in bidding. For this
reason, local competitive bidding would be satisfactory. However,
interested foreign companies would not be precluded from bidding. The Bank
has reviewed and deemed acceptable the following documents proposed to be
used for local competitive bidding for civil works: (a) Invitation to Bid;
(b) Instruction to Bidders; (c) General Contract Conditions; (d)
Supplemental Conditions; (e) Sample Form of PAJposal; (f) Form of Bid Bond;
(g) Form of Performance Bond; and (h) Typical Contract Form. Contracts for
equipment, furniture and educational materials would be grouped, to the
extent possible, to form attractive packages and would be awarded on the
basis of ICB procedures in accordance with Bank guidelines when these
packages are estimated to total US$50,000 or more. Contracts below
US$50,000 would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised
locally in accordance with procurement practices approved by the Bank prior
to negotiations. In addition, miscellaneous items that cannot be grouped
into packages exceeding US$10,000 would be procured on the basis of three
price quotations. All consulting contracts would be procured in accordance
with Bank Guidelines. Annex 9 summarizes proposed procurement
arrangements, limits on the types of procurement applied, and prior review
thresholds. With the thresholds established for ICB, contracts awarded
through ICB would account for about 56Z of total project costs and 61Z of
Bank disbursements. The limits for prior review of bidding documentation
by the Bank would result in a coverage of about 792 of the total estimated
value of civil works contracts and 63Z of goods contracts.
Disbursements
3.26     The proceeds of the proposed loan would be disbursed throughout
the six and one-half year disbursement period at the following rates: (a)
SOZ of expenditures for civil works and professional fees; (b) 100? of
expenditures for furniture, equipment and educational materials procured
under ICB; 65Z of expenditures for furniture and equipment procured under
local procedures; (c) 1002 of expenditures for technical assistance; and
(d) 100Z of foreign exchange costs (travel, communications) under the
project administration component. Withdrawals from the loan account would
be supported by the required documentation or by Statements of Expenditures
(SOEs). The Bank would disburse about US$2.9 million against SOEs for
contracts for civil works not exceeding US$500,000, contracts for equipment
not exceeding US$100,000, and operating costs for the project
administration unit. SOEs would be prepared by the Project Implementation
Unit and certified by the Ministry of Finance which would retain supporting
documentation and would make it available for periodic inspection by Bank
staff.
3.27     The disbursement period is consistent with that of the First
Vocational Training Project which closed recently. Details on disbursement
percentages per category, and estimated schedule of disbursements by
quarter are in Annexes 8a-b. The Closing Date for the loan would be June
30, 1995.
Special Account
3.28     In order to facilitate timely project implementation, the
covernment would establish a special account in the Central Bank of The



- 24 -
Bahamas with an initial deposit of US$500,000 which represents an estimated
three to four months of applicable Bank financed expenditures.
Retroactive Financing
3.29     Retroactive financing in an amount not exceeding US$400,000 would
be provided for expenditures, incurred after the beginning of appraisal and
before loan effectiveness, on professional fees for civil works design and
specialist assistance.
Reporting, Monitoring and Evaluation
3.30     The project manager would be responsible for preparing periodic
progress reports evaluating quantitative and qualitative aspects of the
project for the Permanent Secretary of Education. These would be
summarized semi-annually and sent to the Bank for review and comment; an
assurance to this effect has been provided. Key indicators for proiect
monitoring and evaluation are provided in Arnex 10. Periodic evaluation of
the progress of the tourism training component would continue to be the
responsibility of the chief operating officers of the participating
institutions, and an annual report to the Permanent Secretary of MOE would
be prepared by each of them regarding the pertinent results being observed
as a result of project inputs. Based on these reports, the Government and
the Bank would jointly review on an annual basis implementation progress
with emphasis on financial management and policy implementation,
particularly regarding use of labor market information for planning of
training and cost recovery and cost sharing arrangemerts. In addition, a
follow-up system, including graduate tracer studies would be established
for the Skills Training Component as well as for the Tourism Training
Component in accordance with Bank guidelines (para. 3.7).
H. Accounting and Auditing Procedures
Accounting Procedures
3.31     As has been the practice and functioned well under the ongoing
project, the Ministry of Finance would maintain separate accounts for the
project in accordance with acceptable accounting practices. A summary of
these accounts, reflecting cumulative expenditures incurred by the end of
each semester, would be attached to progress reports sent to the Bank for
review and comments.
Auditing Procedures
3.32     All project accounts, including the Special Account, financial
statements, and statements of expenditures relevant to the project, would
be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. The
auditor's report and the certified copies of all relevant financial
statements would be sent to the Bank not later than 120 days after the end
of each fiscal year. Audit reports required for the recetly completed
project have been satisfactory and submitted on time.



- 25 -
I. Benefits and Risks
Benefits
3.33     The proposed project would help improve the quality and
productivity of hotel and tourism services (including both direct
hospitality services and technical maintenance of facilities and supporting
services) as well as of other sectors. In all, about 2,700 additional
persons would benefit annually through access to improved training courses,
about half of them in courses directly related to hospitality services. In
the longer term, this would help reduce the current reliance on expatriate
personnel and strengthen the competitive position of The Bahamas as a
tourist destination in the region. It would also help to achieve more
balanced development by providing training opportunities in The Family
Islands to meet existing needs for trained manpower and support employment-
generating initiatives and self-sufficiency there, and reduce migration
pressure on social and technical infrastructure in NassaulNew Providence
Island.
Risks
3.34     Possible risks are: (a) lack of cooperation by enterprises (state
and private), including those in the tourism sector. This risk is being
addressed through close involvement of enterprises in project preparation
and through expansion of the advisory committees that include
representatives from the private sector; (b) shortfalls in counterpart
funding. This risk is considered small in view of the Government's
demonstrated strong commitment to human resources development in general,
to expansion of the tourism industry, and to equitable development in the
Family Islands; and (c) technical/administrative ineffectiveness of
innovative programs for the Family Islands. This risk is addressed through
technical assistance for technical program development, and strengthening
of the capacity for field supervision of the Project Implementation Unit.
IV. AGREEMENTS REACHED, AND RECOMMENDATIONS
4.1      During negotiations the Government agreed to:
(a) appoint necessary additional staff and take other action
necessary to implement the improved labor market information
and apprenticeship systems and adopt a dated program to
introduce adjustments in management and finance of training;
specifically, to: (i) establish the labor market information
system in a form acceptable to the Bank by June 30, 1989;
(ii) expand the apprenticeship system o six trades each in
New Providence and Grand Bahama by December 31, 1990; (iii)
establish the subject-matter advisory committees, local
training committees, and a graduate tracer system,
satisfactory to the Bank, by December 31, 1989; (iv)
implement policies, criteria and procedures acceptable to the
Bank, making training funds available to NTC and permitting
it to expend funds for training financed under contracts with
employers or through tuition fees, and achieve better
targeting of training stipends to students from poor families
or with dependents, by June 30. 1989; (v) achieve no less
than 50Z employer financing of preservice training for
tourism by December 31, 1991; and (vi) complete preparation
of the Master Plan for postsecondary and higher education by
December 31, 1991 (para. 3.7); and



- 26 -
(b) implement a dated program to achieve the proposed
improvements and developments in utilization and management
of the skills training centers, and a program of training of
managers and instructors for all participating centers.
Specifically, such a program and the new course syllabi for
skills training centers would be presented to the Bank for
review and comment by June 30, 1990 and implemented beginning
with academic year 1990/91; and an improved system for
maintenance of buildings and training equipment and supply of
training materials will be implemented by June 30, 1990
(para. 3.10).
4.2      During negotiations, the following assurances were received from
the Government:
(a) that it would sustain the Project Implementation Unit
throughout the project implementation period and that no
changes would be made to the staffing, organization and
functions of the PIU without prior Bank approval (para.
3.12);
(b) that periodic progress reports would be prepared and sent to
the Bank for review and comment and that the Government would
participate in annual joint reviews of implementation
progress (para. 3.30); and
(c) that the Tourism Training Component would be implemented in
accordance with the recommendations made by consultants in
the recently completed Special Study of Hotel Training in The
Bahamas, including terms, conditions, timetable and
management agreements for efficient operation and sharing
among the participating institutions of the new Hotel
Training Institute (para. 3.11).
4.3      Condition of loan effectiveness would be that the Government (a)
establish the PIU and appoint the project manager and procurement
specialist (para. 3.20), and (b) furnish evidence satisfactory to the Bank
that the titles of the sites for construction of the Hotel Training
Institute and the ITC in Freeport would have been legally transferred to
the Ministry of Education (para. 3.23).
4.4      The appointment of a civil works coordinator in the PIU would be a
condition for disbursement against the Civil Works category for
expenditures other than professional fees (para. 3.20).
4.5      Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project constitutes
a suitable basis for a Bank loan to the Government of The Bahamas of
US$10.0 million equivalent, with a term of 15 years including a grace
period of five years.



-27-
MMMAU" UM"00 IMICAMU
ing
tCV10AL
t                                    Oll OOCATtOR tUMU=T             !AMT    I           :sATS rft               UNIT COST ;PROGRESS11011i
:            :Cw                     ;As PKILCIAT    ;91F=trJ&U                                                  0'89MV       :1AT9 FRM   :39CONDAILY:SICONDARTAIGNER
:IASEI poll. :CAPITA IPCICWT GOTMIAl. CKWMALsALL*rATO  70j;RATS                 gawu.:SCNOOL         :$?UogMtgm"ItON :PRIMARY TO igmIOLL.   STUOVM    -excou,
:TUAtMILL5.103S)  :09VOM    10 ;QMIJNMI    pal  W                RI 9  (9)   :RATIO  ;CVCLx           :m        !A0 PGRCWglSgCOPMUV   RATIO            :PER      ALATIO
:0*19):(1919)   COOFATtON !SXMDtTUU   t                          (1976)                 (1)    :TRACINGS  CW/CAPtT,%:    (2)             (2)      TIACKER       (1)
(4)            (S)       s             (7)                               (10)          01)          (I 2)       1")    (14)
o"VEM O COUPTSICS                                                              -                                             21                                     73         1)       2-1.90
4UST    tA           so                                     Vk.,                                                                        -              99
SI                                                                                                                 0.941         too
CANADA                      11           o.    '3,          le.say       lo*? 346? ziet   99k,        106A      too          it                                     929        la       22.60.
,;VffJ%gV ?.A.       71    6t.1  12,100        4.6           9.94        __-         -       "ll.      a"        1008                                 1009          944        --       12.1ne
"I'll"ILAMOS                14.0  10           7.9           i.1         zo   is   25       gobi       Ye         95         Is         is.)           99           62         11       12.0
.1W lZALAND,         so      ).Zb    osib    5.5-           11.4         17   It   28        "tk      100        100         24         11.6          100           62         Is       7slao..
swxntm               11,     S.)  11.2SO       0.0          14.2         11   to   to       ggb        lqx      too          164        Ili,$         100           79.        10-Y     3b.snal
LASTER" APRIC
BOTSVAMA            el       1.Ob    glob    6.41           22.0         41   14   22       40        100         Y?         12         10.0           40           20        JI         1.81;
augulfDt                                                                 43   la V          Zs         298        35         11         20.2           12            3.        I?        1.00
C',   S                      ":'b    "'        '::r        '::O                                                                        --
'WRO              :,'     . 4       us       I               co        49   29   22       49         76        40          39                        45           36        20        -3.4,0
011"I'll            64       0.4      460      1.0          11.9         71   26    ...    to          42        66          40         67.0           40           10         19        n.6o
LrNt,)PtA           As    61.0        [to      1.6p          . 5         is   28   17        19        I?         104        61         0.)            gle          14        44         o.$0
Kf."A                02     17.4b    410b    J.&Wb          zf.tb        6i   16   It        6gb      all         so         16         14.4.          )5           Is        26         --
LFSOTHO             42       1.4b    4)sb    S.S            16.9         la   12   26        i0       ilb-       4i          48          9.b           46           21         zi        1.30
,%AnAGA,%CAR         I?      M.$      310      4.0v         24.U         51   28   19        so        94b.       33         5ib         S,O           is           14        13         ).loby
4ALAWI               el      6.1b    230b    M              11.4         is   14   15        21b       62         23         6S          $.s           iz            6         21        0.60
4AUNITtus           :1       t:o  l.jlAb    4.3            14.0         46   36      7      gob       93         it         23         11.0          100           so        22         1.00
ILWAROA               I      S9.    zlob        1.6         27.6         71   16   13        171,      6s         la         40         16.0            9            5         ib        0.40
SETCHILLES           to      0.6   1.170       16.9         22.48        14*  lid  100       -         --         -          2,         -              --           ---       -         --
SPALtA               Al      4.i      ZAO       I ...       lo.%         job  44b   6b    Sob          224        mob        Zib         9.0b          Bob          12b        22        1.30
SI-DAM               go     19.2b     mob    1.0            ---          4.6   19   ...    12          $18.       be         34          LA            46           16         16       ...
sw"ILANII            J,        yb    940b    J.#pb          20.4         u     14   is       61b       93         so         13         11.0           go           29         is        I.O.)
TAXZAMtA            flo               ifio     S 9          I? I)        41   in   1:        794       "b         67         4)         11.0           lgb           I        201'       4.30
Rh                Zob                               I     I     I
UGANDA                      "  2.               1:6         lz:           a     I            il        s6b        41         14          j.Sb          it           jgb       22         0.60by
ZAIMP.               At    29.6b    210b    7.1             26.4         -     -     to     -Ab        76         Zs         la         21.0           40           LS        28         2.00
ZOADIA               RU      j.1b    -Abb    4.$P           11.1         46   23   22        da b      95         so         48         12.9           19           ib        22         1.50
ZtKgASWR             Al      %lb    loob    S.1             19.5         6z   12      6      64b       90         SS         )g,        20.0           es           IS        21         O.SO
bPSTEIX AFRICA
fi:`atm             19      3.4b    Ilob    6.W            15.0         41   21      S     ilb        42         10         46         tA.0           30           It        41         1.007
SURK114A             SI      6.5      210b    2.1-          it.?         AS   29   26        9         16         Zs         Si         24.3           16                     24        4.01
CANtRWH              64     10.0      Glob      1.1p        -            31   is   26    20            as         4Sb        io         -              --           2)        ze         2.70
C.A.2.               ab      2.6b    2bob    1.891          26.701       49   16   24    --            79         4S         654y       Is             --           is        by         1.4041
CiAo                 $7      il      119       2.6         6.9          "I  16-   11-                 44         19         60          S.$           is            74       37         (.80*
cnxGo                76      L.$      670      q.00"        27.76T                                                           56by       -              30           -           ibv      *.oo-v
EIIUAT. GVt'49A      4s      o.3b    27ob    2.4             1.6         47   24            2(b        0          10         60          1.2           40           25        1707       --
CAM                  77      0.6   1.420        1.7by        6.41                                                            46by       -              --           --         igby      2.6007
CANStA               11      0.6      210       1.1"         6.0         46   ZS*   be   job           40bv       9D*        Val        4*.Ia          40           12bxy      17        -
GRUA                 76     11.1      400       4.07         lJ.Sb       -     -     -      -          libuy      --         21by,      -              --           36bxy      21        -
cull,"               14      1-1      29op    4.6ap                      2ta  zedW          20         114        16         38         20.0610        as           16        29         1.04
116     0  11     ,Ob                   9.6         46   t 2 -        ISM         5a         10         26          2.0           ---                    16         -
tv                  el         't,   ,20       1.1          42.6         51   40     9     3561,       72         19         37        20.0            69          22"        10         1.88
LIKItA               so      L.$      szo      4.6          19.6         -)   23   24    10            Si         12         Is         20.0           76           22        20         2.90
KALI                 el      1.0b     190      4.2&         2106         is   21   It    to            20         60         44         15.1           66            1        11         0.9047
HAUZtTA09A           06      1.7b    4job    S.0            22.4         12   40   Zs    it            Ss         IS         50         30.0           S4           itl        23        4.90
wtugn                84      1.2      100       2.6         21.0         40   Zs   20    14            25         to         16         41.0           37            6        28         0.50
NIGERIA              el    9).6b    lbob    1,41t           tb.O         __  --0            36         93         70         )6         lo.$           41           21        10         1.00
Slt .49GAL           66                 0          b        24.0         a6b  jib  lqb   Zs            52         59         46         26.0           194,         t6a       24         2.208
11               is       ':.Ob         1.0.                          .,b         17-       -           35        2S.Ob           04           W         22        0.60by
TOGO                 is      2.4      loo      6.5q.        26.sq        lo*  Zs&  Zia   to            74         40         54by       38.0           52           32by       6b        1.60by
lktCA MD THII CAStItZAP
=             ye    27.1   2.340        1.1          10.9         614  316  la*   qlb           89         52         II         -              el           31         a        21.00
BAHAPAS              79      0.2   2.170       S.?          19.1         $6   )6   It    93b           99        97          24         -              9?           is        19        -
BAXAADOS             is      0.2   2.660       a,%*"        22.12        .11  Ill  161   "h           1007        99S        211,       19.90          990          lay       207      -
UOLIVtA              so      SA       iso      4.107        IO.$*        -         -     -  61         14s,                  zor        -              --           157       -         tZ.607
11 P-EKL             79   116.S   1.710         3.8          6.2         St          t4    76          13sy                  2147        4.5b          6t.          Isar      14AY    12.621,
CHILK                76    10.9   1,590         I 2by       I I :,01b    ;_          -     7           ,,gb-r                j4bf       -                           55b.7     Zoby      It.lovy
COLOMWA              to     I  I   I I                      !S            S zo   20           b         S         36         32          6.6                        *7        20        10.020y
CnSTA ateA           so        I   .:.61006    61.41         11.1        410   21   11    90           ol         77         1)          $.S           77           40         27       1
CUIA                 is      -.6               8.0          11.0         -         -     -  96        112b.7      98         isby                      96           71b.7      is
omtwtcAp REV.    so          S
CLIADOR            so        :,.b  I: ol IWO  ':O"p        ":o         43,9   211  22    68b          60         31         59          ).J           94           10        I)        16
6            G                 3     16    at         lo$         -          36         12.6           86           47         16          00
rIL SALVADOI         77               640       1.11,7          Iby      64     a 27    &I             821197    12          IT         -              41           26b.y      27by      7.00by
.UATRMALA           16      6.0   1.010        1.14y        12.6b        -                             69blY    -            35by                     69            15bal     igby      S.507
CUVAOA               ?6      1 S      , ,       S  :1         ,::bl      -                                                   32by                                   sgby                   oobr
'I                       S:O.    I           :.                                                                                                    6T
KAI                  so                10                     7  ay      65     9     6                id         20         41         19.0                         4*       27         0:60
KONO us             is      1.6      sio       3.5by       I)by         624  156  l9a   60            890.7      304        41by       I              be&
J                                                                              "     20                Is        9a          40                        95                                ::0,0,
APAtCA             go       2.1   1,110       6.S          is p         37     I          9D
KERECO               to    61.%   I'm          4.1          17.0a        46   11)  LS    92            96         is         44          9.5           ob           56         17       10.10
NICALUMA             is      2.6b    610b    I.Obw           14.0t,      -     ---          gob        esb.       24         lyb        -              -            26b%      lob       -
?AMAMA               is      1.6h, 1.5sab    s.s"           2t,aby       426  lia  1)    a2b           gsby       --         25by       11.6           $so          sobf      27by    20.40by
PARAGUAT             19      1:0    1:110       If                       42     1 20    64              I         12         2                         7            22        12         0.70
so        ,   I           I                               11                                                                      .19,         19        22        14.407
p                           16        000         6          4 1         is     5 it    w               I         So         1.
1:11WOlDAD 4 "S.   17        1.1   3.1110      4.6by         8.6bi       48   12   20       "          49         91         IO         lo.sl          49           62        24k       -
URUGUAY              74      1.9   2.500        I.$          9.4b        ---         -      Id        1,)ibx      -          26b                                     4bv;     -         17.606,
VENCZULLA            is    14.4   3.440         $.IT        18.9b        -         -     -  62        106bg       -          24                                     Igba       17       21.107



-28-
OWMATIVI nOCAIrION INDICATOO
AMST 2. 1911411
!CZNTIAL
Govgumm
mptectirun    :coucaricom                             :00wtutow:              I UCUIMM
.05 RMTATION tRICURISSIT    :AOULT                    :&Art MR   i            :Ugly CM    :FROGUSSION:
':cmp 192              :A$ P91CONT    :8XP11MDITUI23 tLIT91ACV1FStM%ST:FRImRIV    :PltftlT : PRIPARV    :MATX 11001  :StCOnk":SCCOKDAIkV:Ht".Kfft
:Magi KM. :CUITA :MCLVf G1W,TOTAL C9912AL:ALLOCATED, TO,:SAT%                     :ZNWU.iSOML            :STUDONTS; COUCATION :P&tMRV TO :ENROLL    :STUDENTS ;I41nLL.:
:09wom    TO ZGQVERAOW         :Pat  W    bit i  (1)   :RATIO, :CTCLS            'Ptk       :AS MCCIFT139CONDOY   :WIO              :PER         'ItATIO
.SI* '(37        EDUCATION iCKPtMITVU                 (2)                   (1)         (2)      :YLIACM     GW/CAPIVA:    (1)               (t)    :TrAcmea        0)
:T ASIA AND Tmg FACIptc
na               86 1 .1110.01,    zoob       1.1           7.1         3)   46   21        Ito        96         as          25          5.0            67           14         la         -.60
timastA              .1   110.5b       sio       2.1           9.3         70   24      6       12b       OR         61          37          11.0            7.           27         .16        1.
coarA                81      it '.    6ub        7.7v         20.0          14   )4    It       %          ol        98           41         16.0            SI           72         22         ...j
14ALAYS IA           S.      16:1S     860b      6.7          t6.1          n    40    22       Ilb        911        ga          22         16.0            87           72         !2            1.)
PAPUA 0I.C.          03      11-Os    $20        5-4          19.0         40    17   22        __        60         II*          ]is        L5.0            35           13".       21.        ..).)
Fqtl.t"tns           79     4S.jb    fi"b        Z.fa         14.0         64    36 -           7sb                  6s           H           7.1            69           $5         It        N.
SIWAOM               an       2.4   4.620        2.7           6.7          14   40    16       63        92         SI           )I          6.0           96            $5         22         4.-1)
40LO"M  ISL.          a       0        640       6.60-        19.Ob        41   u      20       is         ?a        so          27          1O.S           40            20         la           S.)
TRAILAND             V          0b     110(lb    1:4          to I         S      14   10       66        itoi       69          21           4.)&           44           '6         1 a           -j
"AMATU               ob                          S I          23:s          691   I?     4      LIt        t         60           14         31.0            is           20         16           1)
SOUIR ASIA
10     92.3b       90      1.1p          Ina"         St   17   20        22b        63Y        -           Si          S.6            ---          14         23         [..I
WWAN                                                                                            'o
INDIA                                                         '.  -1                            16
6      2'o                                                                                       41                                                            O."
IMPAL                42                  sob     I.,         --                                 It         'O         --          is         --              ---          lIL                   I.
PAKISTAN             62    w.to         )Sob     2.0            7.0         la   ZO   2.        :2         so        41           30          5.9            $6           21         II
=       42",                        "'MR,        I.,            3.7         47   19   Is        12         liby       69          371,                       bi             8
7         3    I.IYO       ].S-                                                      sly        4S4         17                                       19Y
AtaitiA                9     iR                               12.1          346  264  ZI4       35                                            7.0?           $S-                     .6
MT"                  ol    415O        630'      1              1:11        ]I-  )SO  26#                  ISO        We          14-         9.66           W            43.        19.            0
II   26   21                                                      6.2?
rR99a                 76        1       140         6           0 bb                                       giby       ---         Zgb                                      79bx       ,?by     I..""
lux                  79      36.9      -         5.767        14.147                            U)        lotil-                  124                                        as      24ii
IRAQ                                                           f, ' ,                           ---       100Y                    2                                       Allay
ULM                 "       T.,   ':'00    'b:"41             I:S:Y                            98         93                    l"
I-O .6                                                                                                             94           SI         14        I 1.
JORM                 Al       1.21,  1.4zob    4.9v           10.2          to   44    is       l(b        92.        85          12          B.L                         6"          38        d.41
79   2.) -                 __           le.b.ily  -  -  -    -                       ge C    -              19         --              -             4            -
04      I.&I,    olob    6.0.           22.9          m    41   19        Is         51-         9          31          IS.1           --            L.:        -1.
OMAN                 as              6.490b      1.2           12.744       -     ---  --       3ob?       710-       65-         250        ---             90            II*        144      ...
tonivou                      :.,:,2     glob     4 6                        so    26    11      so        125         70          to          16.9           66           5S          16        q.jo
aomotA                                  too 22.1     by       '6                                          106b-       ---         z3b        ---                          $4 b.       ,2b      il..)by
I                                           a                                                                                          96
$PAl:                 76     37., O20            2.ty         16.8y                                        gaby       ---         29b                        -            6,by       --
sykt                 is       O.,     :'I        4                          19   2S   26        SE         alby       w           15b                        be           .1"        210       12.60
79        4        70      I 0            O:'                                       loo-        go          39b         12.8           30                                   1)
TUNISIA                       S      t.110         :a"'       "g 0          42   39   le        62b                                                                        10         1         6. 1)
TURUT                63       4,;.S                                         SO   22   24        ?3b       tio         77          3 1         6.0            55                       10,         .W
0=    A.*.          SO      0. 3b  ""O          ':,',
Slob   I             ,:2,        so    20    It      20         55         28          SI          27.8            so            9         20         1 91)
TV"    F.D.R.        82       2.0       4job     7.6            9.7         610  146   44       SI         61         14          2%          22-0-          46            17         20        !:So
- ------- ---
0COUNTRIES,
=       110.11 112.11L'11'.Ifw                  84                93        70   69   61        SI         92        be           95          6S              YS           9 1        Be       65
" at                                           (1.4-           (.1-  (23-  (0-  (5-          (8-       (12-       (12-         (ty-        (1.4-           (10-         (1-        (9-       ().J3-
10.0)           54.3)  94)   46)  13)         " )       119)      99)           7?)         67.0)           100)         64)        46)
Q"Ftlldo, upper,                                lt.5            21.7      5 1   36   22        Al         98        so          61           10             SI            47         26         I J
Nmdta.                           4.0             16.1       .3   28    tg       51         SI         61          35          t3              as           26         22         ).7
Lovett                             M              11.0       is   21   II        25         60         35          26           9              40           14         it         l.j
Q"Cttte De.t.ttbo:                              1.3              S.4     6.5  1.5  6.5   28.0          19.0       22.5         ?.O         5.6            21.11        16.1%        1.5        $.O
"**.t                                           4.4             l?'O      46   28   is         53         76                    16           16             62            it         23        6.9
StGaidard uO.Intialz                            1.9              6.7      12   10       1      29        21         14          It           13              'I           23          7         I.,
Maidtast                                        4.0             16.0      41   ze    19        51        83         61          IS           11             65            26         12         I. I
$VRIM I                                                                         FOOTMOTES:
DAnM  VNAVAIRAGLK                                                  A-DATUM PRIOR TO USI TtAlk                               S - 4141STRY OF EDUCATtOR (ME) 01rLT
KAGMITUPZ NIL 02 IRCLICtOLE                                        9-DATUM MM    RECINT IRAN ILLSE UM                       T - MDZ APO STAIrg GOVELVKM    OKLY
canm omitomat.2                                                    n-CURIO"  fRtels                                         W - PUILLC EXPENOtTURE OKLV
O     INCLJJDU  PAILT-TLNB STUDEM                                        9-nt DMOLLKENT RATIO                                     I . INCLUDES Mgt-ACC STUDIN"
P : CROSS EMOLLPM           OLATtO                      y - UNESCO SOURCES
tCDP
SOURM:             Col,Oria I VW 21  W.114 B..k All"  o, 9d.cation ..t.r ft.Id alset.ta.
C,it,iaos I to 14:  11.11d Said, Ed.tattoo 0-Ct-, -to.t.m. Gbra   .  O . . . O
fift,21.1 th. Use.-   St.11.1tcet Y.81bobli, '
-             ------------ - ----
COV"Idti- Id.C4110. Data a,& ,saf.1 1. Ch. ...Wut.. of '.rio.O ad-ott.. Y.-Na, em attlyal. f .10ti.. Otto" of
.01"MOC "a  de- I.P-         bt."a ItTl0iiS .-trt..-  Hova..,. to the b..I.  f the O,*aOst "t., Ctoss-tt ... I -P.Itet.
,h,14 b. Oppr"ChOd  ICh S."t ".tt...  Bet* pret*.t.d L. th.  b.. t-L'. hil'. ... t.ll.Ct.d tS1x.IT bY 84.1, ttestoo.
Irm  so"resaft  devices ; tt.  ratwitd., am  st.ft .01 t-t-   O, date (los                       Elf-t. h."   bass "d. t.  t..d.rdt..
"'t.'t t-a -4 .ot              -Its, t, ch-Ck the ate.-Cy  f th. dl..  N.Wth.1404, -.h dt.  C. *till less rtatt t,
".."I                    It LI'tnk    -fting t. t.Pr.-              pr.gr ... 11.1y ot th. -46too of It.  pr.tt...1 -k.
mpsm    4.d               I.                                                                                                  t. th.
41 Chesil data. tt.  foil-t.9 q.*ttftUtt-.  h-Id t. k-Pt iii .1.d:
(t)   'Id.t.tt-' as dft"d t. Cha, tabl. thel.d.. 411  due4ttoo  M  tl.t.t.g. both forftt &Id too-to,"k.
(3) -Prlamicy' ird.csttoa mtere to d.Cattoo U th. firtc I.-I. -d 'Pacotd.ry- ihf.catt.. I*C. t. .11 W.Catt..
Ot Ch* .*C..44.T 4-1 togeedt-6 of tip. (..S.,                        I.Ch.".1.  grt..It-OL).
(3)   'Llt.rety mtes'             6) an  .1red, btal..d f,m  t-try c.m.e.s.  t. u.1 eftatries, they art ..ly
OPPIO.LdWitt-         Md it    d..btf.1 thAt -y -it.t. doft.ttjos .1                      h.. b". follo-d e.-I.taftlY.
(4)   'Pbite ..-Adilt.re 1. W.cs.'Im-                   4 -d 11) WtI. t. all Capital &M   Me.r..t s.podttuCe. d.-C.d to
ed."Cl- by Pottle too qW.1--blit .94octes.
(S) 'I.Collftat Cattail- ("to. 7. tZ ..4 14) relsm t. ..h-l y.or .,d Al. tt. p., ... team at .1tailits chlid-a
f.111-ttes, to the ."raptute school. wblt- S" Prt..C. b, I.-I. Thel are oft- -bj-t t. O vid.
earct. of O"  t t- ChN 40"I.PlAg tiittlr* oviell t- -it"Ottotli to th.                         .9 b"te ditte (I.e.,
-g"p*cl tte ;p1tift   Md acrallimests).  mirotterat ftg.m                    f-dissamly its high.. tk.. th. -a", of
St.de.98 "t"tty to sehftl.  Over-OSed Owda.tii -                   be t-t.diad 1- Chase, 199.t-   ited rare 90, It* thb tdtt-*-



-29-
Annex 2
Page 1 of 6
THE BAHAMhAS
SECOND TECHNICAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Labor Market Setting and Trainina Needsl
Labor Market Characteristics
Summary
1.       The labor market in The Bahamas is characterized by a coexistence
of substantial open unemployment (average rate of 12.22; 22.21 in the 15-24
age group) and significant scarcities of skills. As much as 502 of total
employment is in the tourism industry and related services. In the smaller
Family Islands, more people are self-employed than in New Providence and
Grand Bahama Islands. Private returns to education and training are high,
and steep earnings differentials indicate pronounced scarcities, especially
of technical personnel (Appendix 5). Simple projections based on census
data (Appendix 6) suggest an average steady volume of annual job openings
which is not matched by current manpower supply except at the unskilled and
semiskilled levels, as shown in the following table. (In the Family
Islands, only unskilled and semiskilled workers are currently produced, so
that there are a substantial backlog of skilled worker training needs.)
Estimated Labor Demand and SuDlY by Level of Skill
Estimated           Estimated
Annual             Annual
Demanda/            Supply
Family             Family
Total      Islands   Total   Islands
Unskilled and semiskilled workers        1,620       230      3,300       660
Skilled workers                          1,640       420         500
Technicians/professionals                  460        50         200
Professionals                              380        65         200
(of which teachers)                     (200)      (40)       (50)
Total                               4,100       765      4,200       660
ai In a total of 32 occupational groups with highest No. of job openings.
About 502 of job openings, except for teachers, are in the hotel and
tourism sector and related services. Additional information on labor
demand in the hotel and tourism sector is provided in Appendix 7 to
this Annex.
1/  Sourcess (i) "The Labor Force - 1986," Department of St.uistics,
Ministry of Finance, Nassau, The Bahamas; (ii) "Statistical Abstract -
1985," Department of Statistics, Ministry of Finance, The Bahamas;
(iii) "Bahamas Youth Employment Projects Final Report," J.V. Burgan,
Organization of American States, 1986.



-30-                         Annex 2
Page 2 of 6
2.       This inadequate supply of skilled Bahamians entails an excessive
dependence on skilled expatriates and consequently higher costs and lower
competitiveness, particularly in the tourism industry. For these skill
shortages to be eliminated, both preservice training of new labor market
entrants and inservice training of employed workers need to be
substantially expanded and made more efficient. To g..ide adequately such
an expansion of training, the existing labor market information system also
needs strengthening.
3.       Population.  The Bahamas' population of about 250,000 is tnevenly
distributed: 165,000 in New Providence (including Nassau), 40,000 in Grand
Bahama Island (including Freeport, the main industrial center), and 45,000
in the Family Islands (Eleuthera, Andros, Abaco and 19 others). It is a
youthful population; 50% are 19 years of age or younger, and over 60,000
are in school full-time. These proportions will change over time, however,
since the crude birth rate has dropped from about 3.92 in 1975 to 3.3Z in
1980 and close to 2.0Z in recent years. The working-age population (15
years and older) of about 155,000 person is still growing by about 4%, or
some 6,000 persons annually. Migrant workers, particularly from Haiti, are
only partially captured by available statistics. The Government estimates
that they total about 40,000, of which as many as 25,000 may not be
included in census and other data.
4.       Labor Force (Appendix 1).  In May of 1986 the labor force stood at
110,900 persons, an increase of 272 over the last official figure of 87,000
recorded in the 1980 Census. This expansion in the labor force increased
the participation rate from 67.4% in 1980 to 71.4% in 1986. The major
element in this expansion was the increase in female participation from
39,000 in 1980 to 52,000 in 1986, augmenting the female participation rate
from 57.42 in 1980 to 642 in 1986. The participation rate for males also
increast:d, but at a much slower rate, from 78.22 in 1980 to 79.32 in 1986.
5.       Employment.  In May 1986, total employment amounted to 97,400
persons (up from 75,700 in 1980, an increase of 292), of which 53,200
(54.62) were males and 44,200 (45.42) females. Bahamians accounted for
90.52 of the total employed -- 87.92 of all employed males and 93.72 of all
employed females. Non-Bahamians, thus, represented 9.5% of the total
employed persons. However, in the more industrialized island of Grand
Bahama, non-Bahamians constituted 15.2% of the employed. Non-Bahamians are
more prominent in some sectors, and account for 26.1% of all workers in
"community, social and personal services" (which include3 teachers and
other professionals) and 12.5Z in agriculture and fishing (where
expatriates figure both at man.gerial level and as unskilled labor,
including many migrant workers).
6.       Employment by Sector (App^ndix 2; details on the tourism sector
are provided in Appendix 7). The sectoral distribution of employment
illustrates the strong service orientation of the economy. The two
statistical groupings "Community, Social and Personal Services" (30.72) and
'Hotels and Restaurants' (19.9%) absorb the largest proportions of the work
force. Half of all employed persons (and 65X of all employed women) worked
in these two sectors. "Wholesale and Retail Trades" (12.5%), "Financing,
Real Estate, and Business Services" (8.22), and "Constructionu (8.32) are



-31-
Annex 2
Page 3 of 6
also important sources of employment, while "'anufacturing" (5.12) and
'Agriculture, Hunting, Fishing and Forestry" (5.0%) are relatively small in
terms of employment.
7.       Employment by Occupational Group.  "Service Workers" constitute
the largest occupational group, increasing from 25.5Z of all workers in
1980 to 27.8% of the total workers in 1986. 23.1 percent of all male
workers and 33.6Z of all female workers are employed as "Service Workers."
"Production and Related Workers' were the next largest occupational group
accounting for 23.92 of all workers. "Clerical and Related Workers"
account for 16.8% and "Professional and Technical Workers" for 13.2% while
the 'Agriculture Workers and Fishermen" group was proportionately very
small representing 5.3% of total workers.
8.       Employment Status (Appendix 3).  Variations are quite large among
islands as to the distribution of the employed population by employment
status. Among females, salaried and wage workers in the private sector
ranged from 60.6% of the employed population in Abaco, Andros and Eleuthera
to 79.51 in Grand Bahama. Among males, 27% were self-employed in Abaco,
Andros and Eleuthera, but only 121 in New Providence. Both on Grand Bahama
and in the Abaco, Andros and Eleuthera group, self-employed persons
constituted a larger proportion of the total employed than did government
employees. In general, employees in the private sector account for high
proportions of the workers on all islands, ranging from slightly more than
half of the total workers in Abaco, Andros ana Eleuthera to three-quarters
of the workers in Grand Bahama; and self-employment is particularly
important in the Family Islands.
9.       Unemployment.  Overall open unemployment amounted to 13,500
(12.2%) in 1986, compared to 11,300 in 1980 (131). Unemployment is higher
among females (15%) than males (9.71). By island, the average unemployment
rate in 1986 ranged from 8.3% in Abaco to 15.41 in Andros (6.62 to 13.91
for males and 10.01 to 17.7% for females).
10.      Employment and Educational Attainment (Appendix 4).  Almost one-
half (48.31) of the labor force had a high school education, 4.5% had no
formal education and 9.41 had college level education. Educational
distr! ution by sex indicates that females in the labor force were more
academically prepared than their male counterparts. 66.21 of the female
labor force had post-primary education compared with 55.11 of the male
labor force. Unemployment is highest among those with no formal edacation
(18.21) or only primary education (14.11), while those with some post-
primary education (11.41) or undergraduate college/university degrees
(6.81) fare better, and postgraduate degree holders suffer no unemployment
at all.  There are no data on employment as a function of training.
However, reports from school principals consistently indicate that based on
their observations, graduates from secondary vocational courses are more
likely to seek and find employment in the Family Islands than graduates
from general secondary courses; the latter tend more to emigrate to Nassau
in search for employment or further education. Due, in part, to a lack of
emphasis on training in the past, many employed workers have low
productivity; many new job seekers are poorly equipped for the labor
market; and as a consequence, the country's competitiveness suffers,



Annex 2
Page 4 of 6
particularly in the tourism industry, and expatriates still hold many jobs
requiring trade or professional skills.
11-      Schooling, Skills, Earnings. and Labor Scarcities (Appendix 5).
The graph of median income in the Appendix illustrates the high private
returns to education (particularly near-complete primary, which almost
triples earnings compared to no formal education; completed secondary; and
three years or more of higher education). Earnings differentials must be
considered steep, particularly considering that there is no income tax in
the Bahamas, and other taxes are not designed to have a particularly
progressive effect. A measure of relative labor scarcities is provided by
the sample wages offered in connection with vacancies reported to the Labor
Exchanges operated by the Ministry of Employment and Immigration.
Representative sample wages have been plotted in the Appendix and show
consistently higher than median potential earnings for skilled workers and
technicians, indicating pronounced scarcities of skilled labor,
particularly in technical fields.
12.      An extreme case illustrated in the Appendix is a position as
diesel mechanic which was advertised at a salary more than twice that of a
secondary school teacher. In fact, many of the positions advertised in the
Bahamas are ultimately filled by expatriates at substantially higher
salaries and benefits, perhaps twice or three times the salaries offered at
the Labor Exchanges. If those expatriate salaries (and salaries of, among
others, expatriate teachers) could also be plotted, the scarcity of the
corresponding skills, and the costs to the economy of those scarcities,
would be even more obvious. Also, the vacancies quoted were from Nassau
and Freeport (Grand Bahama); in the Family Islands, scarcities are even
more acute, for instance in the case of auto mechanics. These earnings
differentials provide an indication of scarcities of skills, but are not an
indicator of the numbers of skilled workers needed to eliminate the
scarcities, nor of the best combination of education and skill-specific
training. In a small labor market such at that of The Bahamas, with widely
different needs in different islands, these reservations are particularly
relevant and justify careful design of training programs. Flexibility in
size of enrollments and in content of programs (including broad-based
training instead of narrow skills training in many areas) along with
systematic monitoring of employment effects of training as well as
variations in demand are essential features of the training system if
resources allocated to training are to be used efficiently.
Projected Future Manpower Needs (Appendix 6)
13.      Prolection Method.  One simple, yet relatively credible way to
estimate future needs of various kinds of workers is based on intercensal
comparison. New workers are needed for two main reasons: (a) to replace
retirees, etc., and (b) for net growth in occupations. Factor (a) can be
estimated as a percentage of actual populations. Factor (b) can be
extrapolated from the historical growth between censuses, based on the
rationale that those industries and occupations that are already large and
growing are most likely to be the ones to grow in the future. Obviously,
thie latter assumption must be applied with caution, but nevertheless is
likely to provide a general indication, at least in the case of sectors and
occupations with proven prospects for growth and without large short-term



-33-                        Annex 2
Page 5 of 6
variations or major technological changes. The OAS Youth Employment
Project (footnote, p. 1) has provided this assessment for the 25
occupations listed in page 1 of Appendix 5, which are at the same time the
largest occupations in the Bahamas. The extrapolation method cannot be
used, for instance, for the construction industry which is subject to large
employment variations depenling on the start-up and completion of major
construction projects. For that industry, a projection has instead been
made based on the number of building permits issued; the results are shown
in page 2 of Appendix 6. Together, the two tables in Appendix 6 list the
vast majority of new jobs chat can be expected to grow in The Bahamas in
the near future and provide an order of magnitude of the numbers required.
(Since there is a documented backlog of scarcities of some occupations, the
numbers could in fact ba adjusted upward for those occupations.)
14.      Proiected Manpower Needs.  Interestingly, the total number of
annual new jobs projected in Appendix 6 amounts to about 4,100 which, at
current participation rates, closely corresponds to the expected number of
job-seekers among the 6,000 annual new entrants to the working-age
population. Thus, on the whole, the unemployment situation should not be
getting worse, but rather better (considering manpower needs not counted
above, and the slowly receding numbers of new entrants), provided the
corresponding numbers of entrants are suitably prepared to take up entry-
level jobs in the occupations listed.
Training Needs
15.      Occupational Types. As can be expec.ed, several of the
occupations offering large numbers of new openings are related to the
hospitality sector and related services. Salesmen, shop assistants, maids
and related service workers, waiters, bartenders, cooks, charworkers and
cleaners, guards and related workers, straw and shell workers, and part of
the clerical jobs belong to this cluster and probably account for about 40Z
of total openings. Other large groups are bookkeepers, cashiers,
carpenters/joiners, farm workers, te.chers, bricklayers/masons,
stenographers/typists, machine fitters and mechanics, and unspecified
construction workers, all of which are needed in numbers of over 100
annually. The distribution among the islands of these needs can be
inferred from available census data.
16.      Needs for Training of New Workers and Retraining of Existing Work
Force. For purposes of the project, demand for tLaining can be divided
into (a) specific training for the hospitality industry; (b) training of
skilled workers in general for the modern sector, including technically
skilled workers for maintenance of plant and for building construction.
The project addresses training needs in category (a), which are the subject
of a special, PPF-financed study and therefore not discussed here; and (b),
which is the group primarily targeted by the proposed Skills Training
Component of the project. In this group, substantial needs exist for
training of new entrants (para. 2) as well as for upgrading of existing
workers. Meeting these needs poses different problems in the major
islands, where the larger market permits a higher degree of specialization,
than those in the Family Islands, where training should be broader and
grouped in clusters of related skills. The training programs, facilities,
management systems, and enrollments proposed to be



-34-                         Ae 
Annex 2
Page 6 of 6
included in the project have been planned in accordance with those needs
and constraints.
17.      Need for an Improved Labor Market Information System.  The
collection, processing and analysis of labor market data, particularly
information on the supply side, enrollments and graduates, have been
improved during the ongoing project, but a more comprehensive system is yet
to be put into place. Proposals exist for development of such a system,
which will be included in the project's Institutional Development and
Policy Implementation component (Annex 11).



Labor Force by  Island and Sex
ML SAW"
I                               I       101g.       B    tFiKUIED I DRAII EILO E    I  LAMI* FORO        I  UEIftDUNT   B
I      ICUin "I  lMU FWF                           I BI LM*   F    I  U INO1    FmO    I  PTfCIPAI IM    1       MIE        I
B              B                  B                B                 B      Ml  E       B                  I
B                              _                    B               B                 B         I                           B   
I ALL MAHWW          1OIL       B        510,920    1    91.400     1        13,500   1        71.4       I       J2.2      1
I                    OWNE       I        59906    B    53.2O0      B         S    1011        79.4       1       9. ?
B                    FlEbWLt    B        52.000    1    44.200      B         t,1E0   1       &4.1       1        5.0
~~~~~I                               I                         . B       BI 
IN  NDiWm            TOTAL      I        ISO3M0    I    6  100      1         9,200   I       12.9        1      12.2       B
I                    IK"E       B        31,70    1    35,130       B                 1,6311  796        1        9.4       I
I  KE"^U   B         ^0,546    B    3D,919     I        S,5716           66.7       I       15.2       B
I                               I                   B               I                 I                   B                 I                               w.,
I O M1011r .OIL                 I         IglOo    B    15,170     1         !.,30   1       70.3               14.2       1
I                    OLWE       I         1O5461 9I,270             1         1270   1        79.6       1       12,0       1
I                    fOWLE      B         7o        B 0,0           B         1.360           60.6       1       17.1       1
TOiAL      B         3,510    B      3,220     1          290B 1         69.0       B        9.3       B
B                    IKLE       I         2.210    1      2,130     1           150  1        6.9        B        b.6       I
B                    FEIUL      B          1.219    B     1,09I0    1           140  1        49.9               11.4       B
BIK11               1014.L     I         2p"      1      2,0       1           410  1.    49.5          B       15.4       B
I                    InK        B          11             I                     225   1       64.        1       13.9 
I                    [OWE       B           .0WS    B       66w     I           UIS           36.5       B       17.7       B
BIWIA ,OI.L                     B         S420    1       4,920     B           so            71.4                9.2       B
I     tB  IRA*Sa   OWE          1         2,05    1       2,670     1           2     1       11.2       1        7.a       1
I sp                F e"       t         2Bm      1      2.250     1           25 B          64.9       I       16. 
I                               BI                                  B                 IBB
IO W   IA U6         101.L      B         5,510    B      5.00      1           41               -                9.5       I
I                    OWE        B         2,010    1      2.610     1           2010  1          -       I        7. 
B                    [[IKE      B         2,70    1       2.45      1          2101              -       B       10.*0 
I ~ ~  ~    ~ ~ ~ ___________ ___I__I              _        I__I___BB1B 



a~~~~~~~~~~~~a
$   iI'I.Ii X5               I    i
|~~t g       jWg 
0.                      A  #
I~    Sp
Fl
LW''t-   |   t   |;  | g & i     - Lp                  O
-- - - -  -- - - - -  - - -  -      -
1r& s                  ' .   -         
B ; |        |   EB       . f BE  fir
- - - - - -  - -                              I - -
-- ------------_------------
L - - - --P   -  La    - g |  X -  - I ,i
|~~~               *.          -        I 
X    * i ES       a Y  a b L.          L 
K .        Y      - ,    -, , > |" l
1 S  . aa  i                               U         
b a     *a  - -    .   .  . r , 
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _
,, xTpuaddV   ~ ~  ~      ~    ~    ~    -I         i
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                I    -U



Annex 2
-37-                                 Appendix 3
Page 1 of 2
I               -   -   -   -   '  - 1
-    -    -    -    -               -  -  -   ' - -
1~~~~~~~~~~~~   ~ ~~~1
j--------    - 4      - - 
-      ---.    - - -    ---  I 
-    -         - - - - -    -   I
L~~J          0~ F        -
S  |  |     o  1Q  8  g  2   ;
-------- -                            V- p -----.- -
0           j~      I        I '_ __  _    __    __   __    _
lI        02         -  -s           -
.       1"t,  X              x o o o 8~~~~~~~  -
___------ 
1,l1~~~~~~~a  a' pq  o
!  I    _'          op.
__   _   _ ' _  _         ___ 



Annex 9
-38-                                 Appendix 3
-- .iPage 2 orX                                2
I. 1                "3 " 
I     a          I . sR-
I     i _   ________
i | g l, X S1,  R.  .
^~~~~~~ |                              "3 X L$|
e   %  ;   f-  "4
I   g    a,, s               0l
1~~ I l    a li* 
--------------------------_



-39-                          AL, tLex 2
Appendix 4
------------------------
.4
-------------            e - --
-      -I  1              ----=
___E_J_E_|_llig_l_X-i-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .4-f



TH4E BAHAMVAS
PROPOSED SECOND TECHNICAL & VOCATIONAL TRANING PROJECT
Arnua InccMe                                                               Annex 2
(198SSD)
(851 00 - US$i1 00)
40.000
ciarnrnas as a tunction ot uraotion ct icducalran & tuGufninvj
(1980 Census & 19iMVocances)
l3f1.l0  f l  I %hA 01"he
ib 2l4tWfW s n 41 9UOL
I)Wel MechcanIc                                       3 itngr 5s a5t0t
4:-
Orattiman. Au CondrtKlonin &
Ueieolaton Mvechanic
200(00                                 t                                    (bstat F , ywrylon            -~K - - - c n 'a ollt
Pa  Cook  _                                                     (980 Census Adcp istea to
Wurttgs.x                                 _ ~       "r     -               _ s           1iurnrur I
Lunbel Fi W S';K:ia Auto Mechnanic. /
Stenufyosleas t _  I
i| -sm  S Ptm              Schd
TeaCher
\S_Atbr  Beautician
\#-  , Maid utwpeson
=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~Yearsa or  ucutrkx
& homlting                     ,
0       1       2        3       4       5       6        7       8       9       10      11       12      13       14      15      16       1?      18
----Y -                          tL owa Sbeckn_|Hm     Swaondom.                       P Vst i3COI ,       -lne5t-
(ElWeentarY)                      (JknKrx High School     (Senrwot WK)01)                    COC,P                                                                u  2
WakS&kmit    4113,



-41-
Annex 2
Appendix 6
Page 1 of 2
Estimated Annual Job Openings from Growth and Rotirement: 26 Non-Construiction Occupations
with Most Opening*
(Based on 1970 and 1980 Census Data)
Occupation Title               Retirement       Growth        Annual Total       1986 Total
Salesmen, Shop Assistants             89              224             818                8594
Bookkeepers, Cashlors                 84              194             278                3383
Farm Workers. etc.                    88              le             246               8325
Maids, Rol, tor. Workers             152               54             206               1014
Teachers, NEC                         87              116             202               3606
Waiters, Bartenders, etc.             97               97             194                39U4
Stenographers, Typslst                73               S1             154                2921
Cook*                                 58               87             145               2318
Machine Fitters Mecha. NEC            66               80             140                2419
Charworkers, Cleaners, etc.           48               88             181                1765
Guards, Rol. Workers                  29               61              90                1166
Motor Vehicle Drivers                 56               30 68                            2237
Service Workers, NEC                  80              56               85                1216
Construction Workers NEC              80               So              80                1219
Bookkeepers, Cashiers NEC             27               44              71                1111
Prof., Tech. , Wkrs. NEC              17               58              70                 688
Working Proprietors - Trade           26               40              65                1027
Pollcemen Detectives                  29               37              ec                1163
Clerical Workers NEC                  80              -26              es               8461
Managers NEC                          62              -14              68               2611
Straw and Sh-ll Workers               88               25              56                 924
Fish Hunt, Ro. Workers                sO               26              55                1226
Senco, E^g. Tc%nIe! NEC               12               87              49                611
Manager  (Trade)                      23               22              45                989
Electrical Workers NEC                18               80              4                  5607
2,989
Source:  Bahamas: lYouth Employment Project: Final Report,w J.V. Burgan, GAS, 19816.



-42-
Annex 2
Appendix 6
Page 1 of 2
Estimated Annual Job Opening* from Growth and Retirement:
Construction Occupationo Only
(Based on 1970 and 1980 Census Duta)
Occupation Title               Ratheirent      Crowth        Annual Total
Construction Workers NEC              ae.5            85             115
Bricklayers, Mason,                   41.2           115             156
Labor* NEC                            76.9           238             814
Carpenters, Joiners                   *1.6           195             254
Plumbers, Pipetitters                 ,8.3            48              67
Painters, NEC                          4.8             6              11
Shoet Metal Workers                    8.4             2               5
Painters, Construction                14.2            45              69
Struct. Metal Workers                  1.1             4               5
Cement, Terazzo Workers                 .1             2               2
Plasters                                .2             6               6
Earth Moving Mach. Opera.              6.1 a                         36
Electrical Wire_en                    12.4            68              75
1,165
Source: Bahamas: 'Youth Employment Proe, ct: Final Project,' J. V. Burgan, OAS, 1986.



-43-                          Annex 2
Appendix 7
Page 1 of 3
THE BAHAMAS
SECOND VOCATIONAL AND TECHNICAL TRAINING PROJECT
THE TOURISM SECTORI
I. INTRODUCTION
1.       Tourism is the predominant factor in the economy of The Bahamas.
Although the development of the tourist trade has been cyclical, the
secular trend has shown steady growth in the last 25 years. The most
recent downturn was in the early 1980s when demand was inhibited by
economic recession in the country's major tourism markets, particularly the
United States, which accounts for 861 of all tourist traffic. Recovery got
under way in 1983 and developed into a boom in 1984 and later years; in
1987, the number of visitors for the first time exceeded 3 million, or over
twelve times the number of inhabitants.
2.       Much of the resurgence in traffic has been in cruise visitors
which account for only about 5% of total visitor expenditures. While
arrivals of stopover visitors, the economically most significant traffic
segment (about 92% of visitors' expenditures) have also reached record
levels, the volume of the tourist trade, as measured by the number of
visitor nights, has been increasing by only about 41 annually during the
eighties. This is due to the growing importance of short-stay, three or
four-day vacations requires a relativeJy greater expansion in visitor
arrivals in order tc achieve the same alume of visitor nights.
Furthermore, tourist expenditures have risen modestly in real terms
(allowing for inflation), both because average prices have scarcely kept up
with inflat.^n and because most of the traffic growth has come from lower-
spending socioeconomic groups attracted by bargain package prices.
3.       The challenge for the next few years is to balance traffic growth
against financial yield in order to optimize profitability. The
opportunities of the current period of commercial success are to reinvest
in renovation and cautious expansion, and above all in quality improvement,
while accumulating adequate reserves to buttress the tourism sector against
any future downturn occasioned by economic conditions in the United States.
4.       There is also an opportunity to make difficult choices concerning
regional policies. While Nassau and Paradise Island (New Providence) are
the most developed tourist destinations in the islands - and their very
success creates the possibilities for further expansion - the marginal
costs of such expansion are gradually increasing because of the pressure on
environment and infrastructure, such as water supply, and escalating
investment costs. The tourist trade in the Family Islands has been
relatively stagnant, with both demand and supply remaining virtually
unchanged over a number of years. Both the Government and the private
sector need to consider carefully policies and programs to ensure a
balanced growth throughout the islands, taking into account the
1 Based on 'The Bahamas: Economic Report," IBRD, 1986, and 'Special Study
of the Hotel and Tourism Training in The Bahamas,a University of South
Carolina, 1988.



Annex 2
Appendix 7
Page 2 of 3
environmental impact patterns of different development strategies for the
sector, and choosing strategies that help to preserve rather than destroy
the very natural assets on which the tourism is based2
II. THE MINISTRY OF TOURISM
5.       The Ministry of Tourism is one of the most effective in the world.
While it carries out all the usual functions of a Ministry of Tourism -
product development, maintenance of standards, internal awareness campaigns
and so forth - its great strength is its marketing capability. In 1987, of
a total Ministry budget of $35.9 million, $20.0 million were spent on
advertising, public relations and other marketing programs. This
represents a marketing cost of only $6.00 for each tourist arrival, a lower
cost r&tio than for other major tourist destinations in the Caribbean. In
addition, the Ministry maintains a sophisticated computerized statistical
program aimed almost entirely at developing market intelligence and
tactical guidance. The Ministry operates tourist offices in nine major US
cities, three in Canada and three in Europe. The total staff, at home and
abroad, numbers 320.
6.       Tourist market promotion in The Bahamas is a healthy cooperative
effort between the public and private sectors. Tourist promotion boards,
one each for Nassau and Paradise Island, Grand Bahama and the Family
Islands, promote the private tourism interests of each area. They maintain
their own overseas offices and engage in market development focused on
their own destination. Their activities are financed by the allocation of
half the 61 room tax which is levied on all hotel nights.
III. TOURIST RECEIPTS
7.       Receipts from visitors, excluding international fare payments, are
thought to represent nearly 702 of GNP. Receipts from stopover visitors
constitute about 922 of all visitor receipts. These receipts have grown at
an average annual rate of 8.8Z since 1980 so that, allowing for inflation,
real growth has been relatively modest, averaging about 41 annually during
the 1980s.
IVY EMPLOYMENT
8.       Total employment generated by the tourist sector is estimated at
close to 40,000 or about 501 of total employment in the country. More than
16,000 persons work in hotels and about 13,000 work indirectly providing
tourists with other goods and services (such as local transport,
restaurants, entertainment, sports activities, handicrafts, casinos, etc.).
In addition, more than 10,000 persons are employed providing goods and
services to the tourist trade. Additional employment is partially
2/  The environmental effects of tourism development are beyond the scope
of the proposed training project; nevertheless, environmental concerns
will be integrated in relevant training courses, particularly those for
managers in the tourism sector. Bank staff have alerted the Government
to the importance of environmental issues and informed the Government
that even after graduation from Bank lending, The Bahamas can obtain
technical assistance from the Bank concerning these issues.



-45-                           Annex 2
Appendix 7
Page 3 of 3
generated in the economy by the demands of those directly and indirectly
employed in the tourist trade. Employment growth in the sector is lower
than the growth rate of the tourism trade (historically, about 4% annually)
because of structural changes, including changing average size of
establishments. A special study prepared for the proposed project by
specialist consultants has estimated the likely net growth in direct
employment in hotels over the next ten years at 2,800 persons, an increase
over ten years of only 17.5Z over the current 16,000. Annual turnover in
hotel employment is high (&bout 30Z), particularly in major properties and
in lower-level occupations (hourly employees). This turnover is due partly
to changes of employer, partly to moves in and out of employed status which
are very common in The Bahamas. This low-growth, high-turnover situation
has implications for training for the sector, in that training for higher-
level occupations should be expanded with caution, while the need for short
preservice and inservice training of hourly employees is very large in
terms of individuals needing such training (thousands of people annually).
These factors have been taken into account in designing the project's
Tourism Training Component.
V. OUTLOOK
9.       The outlook for the tourist sector in The Bahamas is generally
favorable but depends heavily on economic conditions in the United States,
the main factor in determining demand. The second most important demand
factor is the growing competition from similar destinations in the
Caribbean and Pacific areas.  In this competitive situation, the quality of
tourism services, as perceived by visitors, is important; in this regard,
The Bahamas needs to improve its product as evidenced by a high incidence
of complaints by visitors as registered by the Ministry of Tourism, and a
much lower than expected proportion of repeat visitors. On the supply
side, hotel capacity on Grand Bahama (Freeport) has been augmented by the
recent opening of the Lucayan Beach complex and the Xanadu hotel, and in
New Providence (Nassau) the large Chrystal Palace Hotel, with 1,200 rooms
is due to open in late 1988. The relatively low occupancy rates of some
existing hotels would also permit further market development. There is
also considerable unutilized capacity in the Family Islands. Thus, longer
term growth is not likely to require further rapid expansion of lodging
capacity, but will depend on improving capacity utilization, without having
to resort to bargain pricing, through improvement of the overall product
and increased, selective promotion efforts. Improved and expanded training
of personnel throughout the sector and related sectors is seen as a major
means to necessary product improvement.



-46-
Annex 3
Page 1 of 2
THE BAHAMAS
PROPOSED SECOND TECHNICAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
The Education and Training System
1.       Structure and Oraanization of Preservice Education and Training.
The structure of The Bahamas' preservice education and training system is
shown in Appendix 1. The majority of education and training is provided by
institutions operated by the Government through or under the coordination
of the Mini4try of Education (MOE). The College of The Bahamas (COB), the
Bahamas Hotel Training College (BHTC), and the Industrial Training Centers
(ITCs) operated by the National Training Council (NTC) have their own
governing bodies tied to the Ministry of Education as shown in the
organization chart in Appendix 2. Independent schools (mainly operated by
religious organizations) are approved and supervised by MOE. In addition
to those institutions shown in Appendix 1, there are specialized scbools
such as the Bahamas Police College and the Bahamas School of Nursing which
are operated by the Government, and a small number of private training
institutes devoted to training in commercial subjects, training of
beauticians, etc. The Bahamas participates fully in the regional
University of the West Indies (UWI), which has its major campuses in
Jamaica, Barbados and Trinidad. The Center for Hotel and Tourism
Management of the UWI (UWI-CHTM), located in Nassau, trains higher-level
manpower for the hospitality industry in the entire region; at present it
has very few Bahamian students, largely because of a lack of articulation
with the more practical and employment-oriented training available in BHTC.
2.       Inservice Training.  Upgrading training and retraining for
employed persons is also provided by some of the institutions mentioned in
Appendix 1, notably COB and BHTC. In addition, the Ministry of Tourism
operates the BahamaHost inservice program for the hospitality industry.
Substantial in-house inservice training programs are provided by many
employers, notably in the hotel industry, but also by some government
agencies and the Grand Bahama Port Authority (a private enterprise).
3.       Enrollment and Output (Appendix 3).  The following two tables
summarize data for 1985:



-47-                            Annex 3
Page 2 of 2
TABLE 1: Preservice Enrollments and Outputs (1985)
Enrollment     No. of Graduates
Primary and All Age Schools           37,181
Junior Secondary (grades 7-9)         14,435               -
Senior Secondary (grades 10-12)        9,128              2,730
Subtotal Primary & Secondary        60,744
COB Preservice Courses                   795                153
BHTC Preservice Courses                   30                 30
Nurses Training School                    103a               30b
ITC Preservice Courses                   513b               365b
Others                                   200c               looc
Subtotal Preservice Training         1,641                678
Total Preservice Education
and Training                      62.385
al987-88 data
b1986-87 date
I        ~~CMission estimate
TABLE 2s Inservice Traininz Enrollments and Outputs (1987)
Enrollments    No. of Graduates
COB Inservice Courses                    430               200
BHTC Inservice Courses                   922a              922
ITCs Inservice Courses                    17                17
BahamaHost Program                       714               714
Employers' In-House Programs           4,000             4,000
Total                                6,083             5,853
a1986 data
4.       Financing of Education and Trainin2.  Details to illustrate paras.
2.6 through 2.9 in the Staff Appraisal Report are provided in Annex 4.



T'IIE IIAIIAMAS
SECOND TECHNICAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Structure of Education and Training System
Pre-                          Junior        Senior
School         Primary         hligh          hligih                    --   Business and Industrial Technicans
-                 48 4                     [ lt12                             niversities Abroad
Cvemil  rnet Schools                                w         'Iourism Indlustry
BIITC              Tourism Industry
- lealth Industry                             X
tCitskilled, Semi-skilled Workers
Semi-skilled and Skilled Workers
Inidepenihdent Schools
23  _  _[iTTTj----41T77J--                        "A"              *-----o  Universities Abroad
C(:h   -   Colleg,e of The Hahanias
BuITC  -   lHahainas 11otel Traitklig CoIll ege
BSN   -   Bahamas School of Nursing
ITC   -   Industrial Training Center
UWI-CHTM   -   University of the West Indies Centre for Hotel and Tourism Management                                           >
o X 
,.x x



THE BAHAMAS
SECOND VOCATIONAL AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Organization Chart of the Ministry of Education
vrWn g Boar                                                         Natiotiat Training
of the College                                                               Council
of the Bahamas
Bahamas Botel                                          X
Training Council / 
I KF nsUtesmNLMH    sBcusTAR  I    DEPIT1 PERAKMaN        SECRETARYI
AccOuM?   uIdC3I ANNIPB  A CO LTUR 
A:COWSS   V1 &Cl*,                     PEROM                                               SUPERVISOY SERVICB
LSTATES                               iPL^SIi"Q 66 REbEARDH                                SC vau   D& aVE1O
bUPPLISS                               CULYWAL AFFAIRSCSI 
I  UCISYRY                              t         IUA
Sowce: Niniatry or Education and Cultwrl



THE BAHAMAS
PROPOSED SECOND TECHNICAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Education and Training Enrollments
UIllOIJMT IN1 tWcATOnAL UISTITIUTIOIS t5 THE SAHDS ST 1V3t. 1974 - 1965
:. I. 312.01
1T   or lOSsTlutlOS           3914      191_      19S8       1939      1980      1981      I9Y2   __5)         195 ___ _
GCVIRIGWIT INSTII1TIONS
Pilmagy and Al1 Age            2s.18S   2.I143    18.254   29.32)   25.939   26.438   21,943   )3.044   21.$12   21.42
Junlo, Secoadary/Sr.  itah   13.190   33.942    12,51t   12.450   12,311    11.9)2   12.286    11.914   12.016   12.099
Seteor Secondary                 9.412    1.271       6.899    8.935   _.125    4.433 _.442    6. 490   6.344    6.311
TOTAL                       45.450   46.914    46.700   45.510   47,1; *      6.981  4_ ._8   48.512   44.172   48.5$2
INSFJIPEEIXT IPSTITUTIOWS
tugeaag  and All Age *.374    6.012                   6.413    8.341    0.440    8,614    9.213    9.044    9.469    9*339
Junior SecodaryiSt. sigh    3,34S    4.431            4.408    4.355    4.334    4.431        4.*09    4*.45    4.414    * 421
Senior secondary                 3.39(0      84 _13 _9_5                    j3a       345      -340        253 _       5       224
TOTAL                       13,109   11,111    13.492   13,241   13.31S   13.812   13.965   133.12   14.13   14.192
ALL ItST&aTILMUS
Pr.iury .nd All Age            32.162   11.835    37.591   317,492   31,399   31.013   31.716    37.092   31.301   17.161
Junior SecondarylSr. Nigh   38.913  13.371   13.925   14.435  13.452  13,310   84.490   14.431   14.452   I.S728
Senzor Sacondary               13.062    7.939        1.410 _.730    1.109    4.917    4.932    4.113              6.602    6,831
TOTAL                       0175.Z   *42.31   _2. __        1.157  ,63.30   60.453   69.83    40.294   80.353   40.144
Special Schols Ilnti:d
tx -
5031CC:  Wnal       of Fd Xcaolon                                                                                                                 fU O  1
O X *J.



IGSSUOT an na1rr 11  NIsIsuw Of  UCAIION ANID IUKEP UI ICNOLS IT IWfl oF bCNUL AM St IStAW: 89S
taboo I1.il
R    r*vr STFlo. or     L  57AFF SO. OF  3OSL SrAurto    i  Id"   STAn O*- Ol,  ?LL SlA~f  l0of    L S5A8*                 No  .OF  KIL   STAIF
b^_SrtagOLs            scirr om.     o       F s o Tc sr SCIOI IS   srU C,                 -cm     ss uen                                     s
.w ri*vous*vm      3.4311   10)      *   U.ltl   01         38  4.08   3*2        *    S.l04   )14       i   $ 1  IS,           4    131  311        3    I. lst .134    *3
Capp  Pae"_        j*9gq        1         2          3                                           Ise      3     22_*   la       I      S4   11)            1.0*4   494    as
Abe-te&Cape          683    40       II      of    2*        143  _                                       I        -_                                      2.03    91    20              Uj
Aars.                334    R4        *   5.03*    34       14    20310 t          I        O     54      3     200 Is          I                          3._*3   lit    as
Olvery l .i.         E 12Z    *       I          _      .       _       . -  -         -      -            -     -          -          -                     l. i2t   a 
83.1.1               as.    to        I      tsa     1       I       -    -                                                                                  us    - - - -      0  I1  z
Cauled                   -                    32      t       so      -    -                 9      la     a                                                  o i l - _  *   
Y cmaebediaa.d                -     1 -   _         48      3       *    _        -      -    _ .   _         _       _        -       -       -    -       -       8298I          1I
YtI..aSh.rm        ).Om      93      8e      It |                       * s                               I _          3     8  l * 103  2           _ 8*           144    22
e                    *48    44       8_    _       _      _       _      _        -                             301     ) 1     8            - _                            I. ;s *3 
brbear lseend        IS    10         I                                                                                         -      -                     31_s    6      I
la                   236    11        I                                                                                                                      in       _. _ _ _ _ _ X  to  I
La" Cal               lsa  I                   -                                                                      -     -                                 Is a    I     I
Itsl^ Was            R       ic      12     gl2      I       *                                    Al      I                                                  oiF 1       _ _ _ _ _l  11I    IS
esawm                %is      4      3                                                             .                    _                    _ -                            t -  ->
lim*. 8O0md          it      2       a       -      -       -       -    -       -                                                                          at2     a 1    3       oo t:.
.ousb.                       .                                                            _ 9                      ' ._  -. 1* 9  S             _  ,. ,. -.  -1 0
.e M.1                                   9  e            a) 13***                      1 1.4. *6  *..*4    9*  )   8 0.*2    434    22   *fil l 9    29'  44j*  l                  X4
'INSUIP w   eS.S.. *I  i wig- SO.



THE XAUALAS
PROPOSED SECOND TECHNICAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Finncnng of Educstion and Trainino
Recurrent Coat- Coat-Sharing  nd Unit Coot. for Pres-rvic.
Education and fTrining
Cost (USS million)
Total Annuol                     Financed by                                       Unit Cost
Recurrent                                                                     (Annus! Rofurr.nt
Cost                  Students                                N4o. of         Cost per FTE
InatitutleniSehool Twy.                  CM    il.ionl    Cgft,L  FaaiLla7   Enteriseus                    Stde nts         Studnat)
Upper Secondary                               11.O          9.906    1.1           _            _           9,128       81,206 (11.223 for
vocationql streams)
(Subtotal                                (1L"                                 -
ITC One Year Programs                         1.            1.88       -          -             -             S13        3.86  (of which 82,036
for training,
11,630 for stipends)    t
COD Presrvice Programs                        7.10          6.46     1.30          -          0.06            796b      89,811 (of which 820e for
stiperds)
BHTC Prservice Progr wm                        0.79         *.40     0.10         0.20          -             212b      sa,302
(Ubt6tal]                              (1-alu        Q8?3    cli            MM          s88
21.38        16.63     2.U6         0.29        9.06
OFoundstions and individual donors
bNo. of actual full tim  students
x



THE BAHAMAS
SECOND TECNICAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PRnJECT
Gov,rnment Expendituro. In Education
(in constant 1986 B 'eee)
1981                     1962                      1983                     1984
~~~- -- -- -- - --  - - -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- - -- - -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- - -- - -- -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Current Capital Total   Current Capital Totrl   Current Capital Total   Curront Capital Total
Total Covornmnt                   368,192  57,663 366,855   812,451 418,67 3a ,569  338,566  23,673 366,140   367,819  26,779 378,598
Expenditures
Expenditures in                    76,183  6,706  84,s88    77,538   6,286  82,795   80,908  4,356  86,263   84,866   3,228  88,694
Education
Education expenditures                 25     12      23        26      11      23        24      16     24        24      16      23
as U of total
----------            -----------------------------------------------------------
ul
-------------------------------- -- - ------------                                  -------------------
1986                   1966 a/                   1987 a/          1986-1993
_ -  ----- ----_______-----  Annual
Current Capital Total   Current Capital Total   Current Capital Total   estiate b/
----- - ------    -   ---- - ----            ------------- - --------- - --  - - ---------- - ----------------------------------
Total Government                  873,766  64,579 428,344   358,656  41,627 399,677  468,333  74,933 543,267   66s,8ee
Expenditure,
Expenditures In                    86,206   4,982  91,188   84,634   8,96  86,594   s8,983   7,493  96,477    97,e66
Education
Education expenditureo                23       9      21        24      16      22        19     16      18        18
as S of total
--- - - - - - - -  - - - -- -- - - ------- --  ------ --- -- --- --- --- -- --- --- ----
a/ Preliminary figuron
b/ Mission estimates
may 24, 198                                                                                                                                  >
:LX
x -VI-



-54-
Annex 5
Appendix 1
Page 1 of 8
THE BAHAMAS
SECOND TECHNICAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Studies, Specialist Assistance, Study Tours, and Internships
in Selected Local and External Industries1
Person         Beginning
Specialist Requirements                  Months            Date
Labor Market Information System:
A specialist to assist the Labor
Market Information Unit in the
Miristry of Employment and Immigra-
tion in establishing the System and
training new local staff.                     1.5            4-01-89
Apprenticeship Systems
A specialist to assist the Apprentice-
ship Unit in the Minlitry of Employ-
ment and Immigration in expanding the
apprenticeship system into new trades
and training local staff.                    0.75            4-01-89
S-bject matter Advisory C-YItteez aen
Local Training Comnitteess
A specialist to assist MOE and NTC in
expanding the Subject Matter Advisory
Committee system and setting up and
evaluating the functioning of pilot
local tzainlng comaittees.                   0.75            7-01-89
Maintenance and Materials Supply for
Community Skills Centeros
A specialist to assist MOE and NTC
in setting up a new system of manage-
ment, including maintenance and
materials supply, and train local
staff.                                        1.5            10-01-89
1/ Reference: Annex 5, Appendix 2, 'Terms of Reference for Major
Consultants. 



Annex 5
Appendix 1
Page 2 of 8
Person         Beginning
Specialist Requirements                  Months           Date
Mobile Training and Equipment Concepts
A team of training specialists for
development of detailed course
syllabi, shop job sheets, training
aids, and equipment needs for the
'ollowing priority programs:                 16              9-01-89
Cabinet and Furniture Repair and
Construction
Advanced Cabinet and Furniture
Making
Furniture and Automotive Upholstery
Domestic Refrigeration and Air
Conditioning Repair
Electrical Installations
Clothing Tailoring
Fruit and Vegetable Processing
Advanced Culinary Arts
Clusters of Related Skills Training
Program:
A team of training specialists
for development of "clusters of
related skills" programs in the
following priority clusters:
16             9-01-89
Drawing-Wood Building Construc-
tion-Electrical Installations
Drawing-Wood Building Construc-
tion-Plumbing Installations
Drawing-Wood Furniture Making-
Cabinet Making
Drawing-Welding-Metal Furniture
Fabrication
Automotive Brakes and Wheel Bear-
ings-Engine Tune-Up-Small
Engines



-56-
Annex 5
Appendix 1
Page 3 of 8
Person         Beginning
Specialist Requirements                  Months           Date
Technical Instructor Training
Specialist:
For the preparation and develop-
ment of the training and indus-
trial internship program for
the certification of industrial
skills instructors for the
Community Skills Training Center's
evening class programs.                      10 1/2          2-15-89
Home Economics Teacher Training
Specialist:
A specialist for the development              3              6-01-89
of a program for upgrading the                1              6-01-90
modular short-course development
skills and the technical skills
of home economics teachers through
a series of three week sinmer
courses and technical internships
in the food scrVi^es onA  l^ti4"."
making industries.
Preparation of a Master Plan for
Medium- and Long-Term Development
of the Post-Secondary Educational
System in The Bahamas%
A team of one local and three                19 mm           10-01-89
ex-patriate specialists to                     expatriate
assist local administrators and              12 mm local
staff of post-secondary represen-
tatives of relevant ministries
and private industry in developing
a medium- and long-term plan for
the rational development of the
post-secondary education system.
Hotel and Tourism Management:
A specialist in the planning,
organization and implementation
of a computerized student records,
personnel and business accounting
system for the new hotel training
facility.                                     3              01-15-92



Annex 5
Appendix 1
Page 4 of 8
Person         Beginning
Specialist Requirements                  Months            Date
Arts and Crafts Speclallstss
Five expatriate instructors for
two weeks each to conduct special
classes in arts and crafts.                   2.5            10-01-90
Three local artisans from the
Family Islands to conduct classes
of two weeks each.                            1.5             11-01-90
In-Country Short Courses and
Internabips:
Inservice Teacher Improvement in
The Bahamas:
In-country short-course training
programs for upgrading instruc-
tional skills of selected Family
Islands and Grand Bahamas                     15)            6-01-90
instructors for:                              15)            6-01-91
Evening class skills training                 )
programs                                 15)            6-01-92
Day class vocational/technical                )
programs                                  15)            6-01-93
In-country industrial internship                ) number of
stipends for upgrading technical                ) teachers
expertise of selected Family                    )
Islands and Grand Bahamas                     10)            6-01-90
instructors for:                              15)            6-01-91
Evening class skills training                 )
programs                                 10)             6-01-92
Day class vocational/technical                )
programs                                  10)            6-01-93
Fellowship Training/Study Tours Abroadt
Fellowship Training Abroad:
Trade Industrial Education Coordinator        12             1-01-91
Home Economics Educations Coordinator         24             9-01-91
Home Economics Teachers (2) for                4             6-01-89
two eight-week summer study                 2              6-01-90
tours for each                              2              6-01-91
Study Tours Abroad:
Senior Arts & Crafts Instructor (trip
to India to observe production in
government crafts centers).                0.75            9-01-90
Arts & Crafts Instructors (5) (for
two week visist to Craft Centers
in the Carolinas in the U.S.).             2.5             6-01-89



-58-
Annex 5
Appendix 1
Page 5 of 8
Summarv of Technical Assistance Base Cost Estimates
General Conditions for Consultants
Consultancy assignments will be carried out in the locale, in-
country or at the consultancy team's home base, in accordance with the
terms and conditions set forth in the consultant's Terms of Reference
(TOR), and which are deemed to be the most efficient and effective setting
to assure the quality of output required. There is overwhelming evidence
to show that the major portion of such consultants' work in curriculum and
course syllabi development and the preparation of most teaching-learning
aids can be done much more effectively and efficiently at the consultant's
team's home base. This of course assumes that: (a) the consultants are
fully qualified by both training and experience for the work required; (b)
the consultant team members's experience in curriculum development is fully
up-to-date in regard to modern methods of content organization and
presentation; (c) the consultant team has formal agreements and ties with
education and training institutions in the areas and levels of training in
which they are consulting so as to have full access to both the physical
and human resources of the institution; and (d) the consultant team would
have, as they definately should, adequate secretarial and computing
services of their own.
Costing Basis
Consultant Fees and Per diem:
-    Monthly fees of $6,000 per month of 22 working days.
-    Per diem allowance of $120 per day for those days actually in
the councry in accordance with consultant team's terms of
reference. No per diem allowed for work done at team's home
base or outside The Bahamas.
Travel Costs:
-    Air fares averaging $1,300 round trip only for those trips
required and as set forth in the consultant team's terms of
reference.
-    Internal transportation costs averaging $400 per in-country
stay in The Bahamas, including air fares to some of the
Family Islands as per the TOR and reasonable taxi fares while
in country.
Other Considerations:
-    No cost allowance has been made, nor should be made, for more
consultant months in the field (The Bahamias) than those
numbers stated in the TOR.



Annex 5
Appendix 1
Page 6 of 8
General Conditions for Study Tours and Fellowship Training Abroad
Short Study Tours/Internships (up to 8 weeks):
-    Air fares averaging $900 round trip.
-    Subsistence and fees $3,000 per month.
Fellowships Abroad:
-    Air fares averaging $1,000 round trip.
-    Subsistence and training costs averaging $1,500/month.
Summer Short-Course Teacher Training and Industrial Internships in The
Bahamas
Teacher Training Stipends
-    Per diem supplements of $80 per day for two three-week short
courses for 40 instructors over a four year period.
-    Air fares averaging $60 round trip for two trips for the 40
instructors.
Industrial Internships:
-    Per diem supplements of $80 per day for each of 30
instructors for 20 days each.
-    Air fares averaging $60 each for the 15 instructors who are
expected to need an internship on some island other than
their home island.
Preparation of a Master Plan for Post-
Secondary Education System Development:
(a) In-country Work.
Three people for total of 6.5 months @$10,000           $ 65,000
(b)  Airfare - 11 @ $1,300 each                                14,300
Sub-Total Costs          $ 79,300
Labor Market Information Specialist:
(a) In-country Work.
One person for 1.5 months @ $10,000                     $ 15,003
(b)  Airfare - I @ $1,300                                       1,300
Sub-Total Costs          $ 16,300



-60-
Annex 5
Appendix 1
Page 7 of 8
Apprenticeship Training Specialist:
(a)  In-country Work.
One person for 0.75 months @ $10,000                    $  7,500
(b)  Airfares - 1 6 $1,300 each                                 1.300
Sub-Total Costs          $  8,800
Advisory Co mittee Specialist:
(a)  In-country Work.
One person for 0.75 month @ $10,000                     $  7,500
(b)  Airfare - 1 6 $1,300                                       1,300
Sub-Total Costs          $  8,800
Maintenance and Materials Supply
Specialist:
(a) In-country Work
One person for 1.5 months 6 $10,000                     $ 15,000
(b)  Airfare - 1 6 $1,300                                       1,300
Sub-Total Costs          $ 16,300
Hotel and Tourism Computer Specialist:
(a)  In-country Work
One person for 3 months @ S10.000                       $ 30,000
(b)  Airfare - 1 6 $1,300                                    $  1.300
Sub-Total Costs          $ 31,300
Arts and Crafts Specialists:
(a)  In-country Work
Five people for a total of 2.5 months @ $10,000         $ 25,000
(b)  Airfare - 5 6 $1,300                                       6,500
Sub-Total Costs          $ 31,500
Arts and Crafts Local Artisans:
(a)  Three local persons for a total of 1.5 months
@ $10,000                                             $ 6,000
(b)  Travel from Family Islands 6 $100 for 3 persons              300
Sub-Total Costs          $ 6,300
Total Costs of Consultants                              S198,600
Fellowships Training/Study Tours
Abroad:
Trade and Industrial Coordinator:
(a) Subsistence and Training costs for 12 months
6 1,500                                               $ 18,000
(b)  Airfares - 2 6 $1,000                                      2,000
Sub-Total Costs          $ 20,000



-61-
Annex 5
Appendix 1
Page 8 of 8
Home Economics Education:
(a) Coordinator for 24 months
@ $1,500 per diem & trng. costs                       $ 36,000
(b)  Airfares - 3 @ $1,000                                      3.000
S 39,000
Home Economics Teachers:
(a) Two for two eight-week summer course
e $1,500/mo.                                          $  6,000
(b)  Airfares - 4 6 $1,000                                   $  4,000
Sub-Total Costs          $ 10,000
Total Costs of Training Abroad                          $ 69,000
In-Country Short Courses and Internshivs:
In-country short course pedagogical
train - 10 teachers per year over
four years.
40 people for 20 days each @ $130/day
per diem.                                                  $104,000
Pltis airfares for 40 people 6 $60 av.                          2,400
Sub-Total Costs          $106,400
In-country industrial internships - 30
instructors for 20 days 6 $89.day
per diem                                                   $ 48,000
Airfares for 15 people @ $60 av.                                   900
Sub-Total Costs          $ 48,900
Total Costs of In-Country Training & Internships             $154,300
Total Costs of Training In-Country and Abroad                $378,600



-62-
Annex 5
Appendix 2
Page 1 of 12
THE BAHAMAS
SECOND TECHNICAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Ma-or Consultants
A.       THE MOBILE TRAINING AND EQUIPMENT SPECIALISTSI
Introduction
1.       The consultant team (para. 2) would develop the detailed short-
course training course syllabi, daily lesson plans and shop job sheets for
the eight priority modular training programs named in para. 6 of the above
reference. They would also develop and/or specifyt (a) the basic
reference materials and audio-visual aids; (b) the basic and specialized
equipment lists and specifications for the portable equipment required for
each of the training programs named; and (c) the basic design criteria and
broad specifications for the custom made packing cases in which the
individual portable equipment items, or groups of items, would be packed
for t.asy handling and safe shipping by inter-island cargo boats and light
trucks. No crate should be larger than that which can be moved by one man
using a large commercial size "mover's dolly."
Consultant Team Composition and Qualifications
2.       Team Composition.  The team would be composed of a highly
qualified and experienced team of vocationalltechnical training consultants
with formal ties with training institutions having many years of experience
in the development of curricula and course syllabi, and in the training of
skilled and semi-skilled workers for entry level jobs in the industry. The
principal consultant would be a fully qualified and highly experienced
vocational technical instructor who has had a minimum of 15 years of
teaching experience in the vocational training programs. This experience
would include extensive experience in the development of modular short-
course syllabi in one or more of the industrial skills areas and the actual
training of semi-skilled and skilled workers. The principal consultant
should have at least a master's degrese in technical/vocational education.
3.       The other training specialists of the team must also be fully
qualified and highly experienced vocational/technical instructors in the:r
respective areas of skills expertise. They should have a minimum of 10
years of experience in modular short-course curriculum and course syllabi
development and an equal amount of teaching experience in vocational
programs. Experience in the two areas may be concurrent. They should have
a minimum of a master's degree in technical/vocational education.
1/ Reference: Annex 11, B, Appendix 4, "The Mobile Training and Equipment
Concept for the Family Islands."



-63-                         Annex 5
Appendix 2
Page 2 of 12
Program Development and Implementation
4.       The principal consultant would first visit The Bahamas, including
short visits of 2-4 days to each of about four of the major Family Islands,
and about one week in Grand Bahama, for a period totalling about two months
tot (a) observe the levels of technology being used in each of the skills
areas listed in para. 6 of the aforementioned reference and discuss needed
improvements with industrial personnel; (b) inventory the major items of
equipment available in representative secondary school vocational training
shops Cu ')e used as community skills centers, so as to determine what
supplementary equipment will need to be provided through the "mobile
training and equipment concept"; (c) discuss the probable logistical
arrangements with the Director of Training of the National Training Council
in Nassau; (d) talk with existing instructors at ~he National Training
Center in Nassau, and one of the community skills centers in Grand Bahama
Island, concerning the strengths and weaknesses of the current skills
training programs for adults; and (e) collect other relevant information
necessary for the development of detailed training programs and preparation
of required equipment lists and specifications.  Secondly, the consultant
would return to his home base and, with the assistance of his subject-
matter specialists and the cooperation of the vocational-technical training
institution with which he nas consortial arrangements, spend about 12
person-months in detailed preparation of the training program and the
mobile equipment needs. This preparatior. would include: (a) detailed
course syllabi for each of the eight training programs listed in para. 6 of
the aforementioned reference and in para. 5 below; (b) a "master set" of
each of the course syllabi and the related visual aids, from which copies
can be made, and 20 full sets of the course syllabi and shop job sheets for
use by the first two groups of trainees in each of the eight programs; (c)
suggested evaluation procedures for determining levels of competencies
reached at the end of each module of training; and (d) required equipment
lists and technical specifications for the m-bile packages.
5.       Upon completion of the above activicies, and at a date agreed with
the Government, the principal consultant or an equally qualified
technical/vocational educator merber of his team, would return to The
Bahamas for a period of about two months to assist the National Training
Council in implementing the first phase of the training program.
Priority Training Programs
6.       Training programs identified as high priority for presentation on
the more populated Family Islands of Abaco, Andros, Eleuthera, Exuma and
Long Island are:
(a)  Cabinet and Furniture Repair and Constructioni
(b) Advanced Cabinet and Furniture Making
(c) Furniture and Automotive Upholstery
(d) Automotive Engine Tune-Up (Basic and Advanced)
(e) Domestic Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Repair
(f) Electrical Installations
(g) Clothing Tailoring
(h) Fruit and Vegetable Processing



-64-
Annex 5
Appendix 2
Page 3 of 12
7.       Additional training programs may be identified by the National
Training Council, but the preparation of them would be handled through
contract amendment and an agreed additional sum of money.



-65-
Annex 5
Appendix 2
Page 4 of 12
B.       SPECIALISTS FOR DEVELOPMENT OF CLUSTERS OF RELATED SKILLS TRAINING
PROGRAM
Introduction
1.       The consultant team (par&. 2) would develop the detailed training
course syllabi, lesson plans and job sheets for the five priority clusters
of related skills discussed in para. 4 of the above reference and in para.
6 below. They would also develop and/or specify the basic reference
materials and audio-visual aids.
Consultant Team Composition and Qualifications
2.       Team Composition.  The team would be composed of a highly
qualified and experienced team of vocational/technical training
consultants. The team must have formal ties, and present evidence to this
effect, with training institutions having many years of experience in the
development of curricula and course syllabi and in the training, at the
secondary level, of skilled and semi-skilled workers for entry level jobs
in industry. The principal consultant would be a fully qualified and
higV..y experienced vocational/technical educator. He should have a minimum
of a Master of Science Degree in vocational or technical education (not in
professional level engineering); a minimum of 15 years of actual teaching
experience in vocational/technical education in one or more of the skills
areas set forth in para. 6 below; and at least five years experience in
technical school administration as a technical department head and/or as a
director of instruction of an individual school; and such experience should
include extensive and recent experience in the development of modern
vocational/technical curricula and training evaluation. The other training
specialists of the team must also be highly qualified and highly
experienced vocational/technical instructors in their respective areas of
skills expertise. They should have a minimum of: a Master of Science
Degree in vocational or technical educatJon (not in professional level
engineering); 15 years of experience as a vocational/technical instructor
in secondary or post-secondary schools; and considerable experience in the
preparation of modular course syllabi for secondary level
vocational/technical training programs in one or more of the clusters of
related skills (as set forth in para. 6 below).
Program Development and Implementation
3.       The principal consultant would be a highly competent, fully
qualified and experienced training specialist in either: the building
trades clusters (a, b or c of para. 6); the welding-metal furniture
fabrication cluster; or the automotive-small engines cluster. The
principal consultant, accompanied by a specialist from each of the other
two skills cluster groups above, would first visit The Bahamas for a period
of about eight weeks. During this visit, including about three days in
each of four of the major Family Islands, they would: (a) discuss
thoroughly with the MOE coordinator of trade and industrial education, and
selected upper secondary trade and industrial education (T&I) teachers, the
2/ Reference: Annex 11, B, Appendix 3, "Broad Based Training in Clusters
of Related Skills."



-66-
Annex 5
Appendix 2
Page 5 of 12
"clusters of related skills" concept; (b) visit relevant service and
production enterprises, in the Nassau area, to observe levels of technology
being used by them in the respective skills areas of the priority "clusters
of related skills" for which training programs are to be developed; (c)
visit the four Family Islands, with their MOE counterpart and with T&I
teachers provided by the respective islands, to discuss the school
facilities and equipment to be provided under the project and the general
content of the respective "clusters of related skills" training programs;
and to visit with representative enterprises to observe the levels of
technology being used in the respective skills areas and to discuss needed
improvements with enterprise personnel; (d) upon return to the MOE
headqua-ters in Nassau, the consultant would: review the pertinent findings
of the Family Islands; visit with relevant MOE personnel; needed
strengthening of technical competencies of teachers for the "clusters of
related skills" programs and ways of improving such competencies through
short intensive "technical internships" in relevant Bahamian enterprises;
and (e) collect other relevant information necessary for the development of
detailed training programs.
4.       Secondly, the consultants would return to their home base and,
with the assistance of other subject-matter specialists and the cooperating
vocational/technical training institute(s), spend a total of about 7 person
months in detailed preparation of the five "clusters of related skills"
programs set forth in para. 7 below. This preparation would include: (a)
detailed course syllabi for each of the skilla areas within each of the
five "clusters of related skills"; (b) a "master set" of each of the course
syllabi, shop job sheets and related visual aids, from which can be made in
quantities; and 24 full sets of the course syllabi and shop job sheets for
use in the first "pilot course" presentation of each of the cluster
programs in a selected school; and (c) recommended evaluation procedures
for determining levels of competencies reached by students at the end of
each module of training.
5.       Thirdly, upon completion of the above activities and at a date
agreed with the Government, the three leading specialists -- the building
trades, the welding-metal furniture, and the automotive-small engines
specialists -- would return to The Bahamas, for a period of about one
month, to assist in conducting the "pilot course" presentation of each of
the cluster of programs in an appropriately selected school.
Priority Training Programs
6.       Training programs identified as high priority for development in
the Family Islands as "clusters of related skills" programs are:
(a) Drawing-Building Construction-Electrical Installations. Here
the training emphasis would be on: the preparation of simple
building construction drawings and typical electrical
installation drawings for small homes and shops of difficult
types of construction; the ability to accurately read such
drawings and those of slightly more complex buildings; and
basic entry level skills in the construction of small
buildings and in the installation of the electrical system of
small homes and shops.



-67-
Annex 5
Appendix 2
Page 6 of 12
(b) Drawing-Building Construction-Plumbing Installations. Here
the cluster would include entry level training in plumbing
installations for small and medium size homes of all types.
The plumbing training would emphasize the use of the new,
superior, more economical, and easier to learn installation
techniques of high strength plastic pipes.
(c) Drawing-Wood Building Construction-Cabinet Making. Here the
training would also include: the preparation of working
drawings for simple furniture, such as desks, tables,
bookcases, etc., and cabinets; and the construction of such
items; and, during the last year, the option of constructing
the frames for simple upholstered furniture and, for the more
talented, the upholstery of such furniture.
(d) Drawing-Welding-Metal Furniture Fabrication. Here the
training emphasis would be upon: the preparation of working
drawings for metal furniture; electric and gas welding of
light metal bars and tubes; and fabrication of metal framed
furniture and ornamental grill work for windows and gates,
and other light welding projects.
(e)  Automotive Brakes and Wheel Bearings-Engine Tune Up-Small
Engine Repair. Here the emphasis would be upon those entry
level skills which have the greatest frequency of use in the
automotive service industry; those that require a relative
low level of investment in training equipment (as contrasted
to that required for general motor overhaul); and tho use of
relatively low-cost, hand-held tune-up meters (as contrasted
to costly electronic oscilloscopes and complex and expensive
tune-up machines which only the larger of commercial repair
shops can afford). The training would place special emphasis
upon the attainment of skills in the reading and correct
interpretation of instructions, drawings, specification
sheets and bolt torque tables in modern automotive repair
manuals.
7.       Additional training programs may be identified at a later date,
but the preparation of them would not be carried out under the current Bank
assisted project.



-68-
Annex 5
Appendix 2
Page 7 of 12
C.       SPECIALIST FOR DEVELOPMENT OF CERTIFIED TECHNICAL INSTRUCTOR
TRAINING PROGRAM3
Introduction
1.       The consultant would develop the detailed training program for the
preparation of certified 'technical instructors" as set forth in Annex 11,
B, Appendix 6, including both the pedagogical aspects and industrial
internship aspects of the program.
Consultant Qualifications
2.       The consultant, if not a staff member of a vocational/technical
teacher training institution, must have a formal arrangement with such an
institution so as to obtain such technical 'backstopping" as may be
required in the program development. The consultant must be a fully
qualified and highly experienced vocational/technical educator. He should
have a minimum of a Master of Science Degree in vocational/technical
education (not in professional level engineerivg); a minimum of 15 years of
actual teaching experience in vocational/technical education in one or more
of the industrial skills areas; and a minimum of five years experience as a
vocational/technical teacher trainer.
Training Program Development and Implementation
3.       Developnent.  The consultant would first visit The Bahamas for an
initial period of about one and one-half months to: (a) study the technical
and pedagogical training needs of both types of instructors mentioned in
paragraphs 1 and 2 of Annex 5b, Appendix 6; (b) discuss the logistics of
proposed training with the National Training Council administrators and
representatives of potential instructor trainees; (c) assess the
possibilities of cooperative internship arrangements with selected
commercial and industrial firms; and (d) collect other relevant information
beating on the proposed "certified instructor" training program. Secondly,
the consultant would return to his home base and, with the cooperation of
the instructor training institute with which he has consortial
arrangements, spend about six man-months in the preparation of the
instructor training program. This program wou)? include the development of
(a) a detailed course syllabi in the preparation of modular short-course
training programs and the appropriate methodologies for its presentation;
(b) a "master set" of the course syllabi and related visual aids from which
duiplicate copies can be made in large quantities; (c) twenty full sets of
the detailed course syllabi for use by the first group of instructor
trainees; (d) a detailed outline of a business and industrial internship
program for instructor trainers, including suggested categories of on-the-
job technical experiences which interns :hould strive to obtain; and (e) a
plan for the monitoring, evaluation and "feed-back" of the instructor
training program and the "certification" process.
3/ Reference: Annex 11, B, Appendix 6, "Development of a Certified
Technical Instructor Corps for Community Skills Training Centers."



-69-
Annex 5
Appendix 2
Page 8 of 12
4.       Implementation.  The initial groups of instructors trained over a
two-year period of time in a series of modular short-courses. The
consultant would spend about six weeks during each of the first and second
years of the program in the actual presentation of the training course, the
supervision of the industrial internship prograi and in the evaluation of
the training program. He would be assisted in these activities by the
Director of Training of the NTC and by one of the technical teacher
trainers of the College of The Bahamas.



-70-                          Annex 5
Appendix 2
Page 9 of 12
D.       HOME ECONOMICS AND HOTEL TRAINING INSTRUCTOR TRAINING SPECIALIST
Introduction
1.       This expatriate specialist would be responsible for the
development of a modular, short-course training program for upgrading the
technical and pedagogical competencies of existing and newly recruited home
economics and hotel training teachers.  The major objectives of this
upgrading will be to improve their levels of performance in both the new
adult evening class programs and the newly upgraded day class programs for
upper secondary level trainees in the Community Skills Centers.
Consultant Qualifications
2.       The consultant, if not a staff member of a home economics teacher
training institution, must have a formal arrangement with such an
institution so as to obtain such technical "backstopping" as may be
required in the program development. The consultant must be a fully
qualified and highly experienced vocational/technical educator. She must
have a minimum of a Master of Science Degree in home economics education; a
minimum of 15 years of actual teac'Aing experience in home economics,
including foods, nutrition and clothing; a minimum of fiv*. years experience
as a home economics teacher trainer; and, preferably, some experience in
institutional food service.
Training Proaram Development and Implementation
3.       Development.  The consultant would first arrive in Nassau, on the
date set forth in the contract, for a period of about two weeks, to (a)
discuss with the Ministry of Education's Home Economics Training Officer
the training needs of home economics teacheri and the logistics of the
proposed training program; (b) assess the possibilities of cooperative
internship arrangements with selected hotel, food service and clothing
manufacturing or tailoring industries; and (c) collect other relevant
information bearing on the instructor training program. Secondly, the
consultant would return to her home base and, with the cooperation of the
instructor training institution with which she has consortial arrangements,
spend about one month in the preparation of the instructor training
program. The program would include the development of: (a) a detailed
course syllabi of the proposed instructor training short course; (b) such
audio and/or visual aids required for the course presentation; (c) a
detailed outline of the proposed internship program; and (d) a plan for the
evaluation and 'feedback" of the instructor training program. Thirdly, the
consultant would return to The Bahamas at a date set forth in the contract
for a period of six weeks during the Summer of 1990 and, with the
assistance of the home economics training officer, (i) conduct the first
three-week short-course; (ii) evaluate its effectiveness; and (iii) plan
the second short-course to be held in the Summer of 1991.
4.       Implementation.  The first two groups of home economics
instructors would participate in upgrading training during a three week
period during the Summers of 1990 and 1991. During eaeh of these sessions,



-71-
Annex 5
Appendix 2
Page 10 of 12
the consultant would be assisted by the MOE Home Economics Training Officer
and by one or more of the better qualified home economics teachers who
woTuld have participated in post-graduate ievel home economics studies
abroad during the Summers of 1989 and 1990 or 1991.



-72-
Annex 5
Appendix 2
Page 11 of 12
E.       SPECIALISTS FOR ASSISTING IN THE PREPARATION OF A MASTER PLAN FOR
MEDIUM- AND LONG-TERM DEVELOPMENT OF POST-SECONDARY AND HIGHER
EDUCATION SYSTEM IN THE BAHAMAS"
Introduction
1.       The consultant team would advise and assist the Government and the
post-secondary and higher educational institutions in planning,
implementing and preparing the individual institutional and overall
educational system reports which will serve as the basis for a national
"master plan;' and advise on the preparation of the "master plan".
Consultant Team Composition and Qualifications
2.       Team Composition.  The team would be composed of a highly
qualified and experienced group of post-secondary educators, with formal
ties with post-secondary educational institutions, and who have had many
years of experience in planning and carrying out such studies in
institutions in which they have been senior administrators themselves.
They should also have been members of national or regional professional
teams with several years of experience as consultant-evaluators for other
institutions undertaking such studies themselves. This experience should
be equivalent to that of the "Consultant-Evaluator Corps" of the Regional
Accreditation Associations for Higher Education Institutions in the U.S.A.
The team would consist of three members headed by a principal investiRator-
planner, with a technical education planner-analyst, and a general academic
education planner-analyst as members. All of them should have graduate
degrees at the doctoral level, have served in post-secondary educational
institutions as senior professors, department heads and deans of
instruction, and it could be helpful if the principal investigator could
have served as a president of a university. The technical education
planner-analyst's experience should have been in a technical institute
branch of a university. All of them must have had at least 15 years
experience in post-secondary education.
Program Development and Implementation
3.       The consultants would be required for a total of about 6.5 man-
months over a period of about 18 months to periodically assist in the
planning, implementation of the studies and advising on the preparation of
the "master plan". First. The principal investigator-planner of the
consultant team would visit The Bahamas for an initial visit of one month,
as set forth in his contract and terms of reference, after potential
members have been identified for each of the study teams suggested in
paragraphs 7 through 13 of the guide outline referred to in Annex 11, A,
Appendix 4, para. 8. During this visit, he would advise and assist in
organizing and orienting the various teams as to their objectives,
functions, obligations and interrelationships, and to help launch the
preliminary institutional self-studies. Second. After an elapsed time of
about three months, the principal investigator-planner would return to The
Bahamas, accompanied by the two education planner-analysts mentioned above,
for a period of one month for himself and two weeks each for the other two
4/ Reference: Annex 11, A, Appendix 4, "Preparation of a Master Plan for
Medium- and Long-Term Development of Post-Secondary and Higher
Education in The Bahamas."



-73-                       Annex 5
Appendix 2
Page 12 of 12
consultants. During this visit, the team would discuss the work of the
respective study teams, and advise and assist in any problem areas
identified by the teams. Third. After another elapsed period of about six
months, the three consultants would return to The Bahamas for a period of
one month for the principal investigatGr-planner and two weeks each for the
other two planner-analysts. During this visit, the team would closely
review the preliminary drafts of the institutional self studies, identify
areas requiring further study, assist in further exploration of such areas,
and clearly delineate the identified institutional strengths, areas of
concern, and corrective Aetions taken, planned or suggested. Additionally,
the principal investigator-planner would concentrate on assisting the
Central Study Team in formulating, to the extent that institutional study
data can be made available, a preliminary draft of the overall national
"master plan." Fourth. After another lapse of about fourth months, the
consultant team would return for a final visit, with the principal
investigator having a one month stay and the two planner-analysts for a
period of one week each for a final review of each of the institutional
reports and the overall study report. Additionally, the principal
investigator would help prepare the "Master Plan for Medium- and Long-Term
Development of Post-Secondary and Higher Education in The Bahamas".



THE BAHANAS
SECOND TECHNICAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Are Vocational and Community Skills Training Facilities to be Sup-ported Udedr the Skill, Training Cooponent
SE = Supplemental equipment and learning aids.
CFE = Construction, furnishing and equipping of instructional shops.
E =   Equipmnt only
No. of Shope
Home      Tech.    Constr.    mech.      Elec.    Marino               Constr.   Suppl.  Equip.
School Name                Business    Econ.      Draw.    Skills    Skills    Instl.  Sc. A F.   Crafts   A Equip.   Equip.   Only
Abaco Island
Abaco High                      SE         SE         SE        CFE       -                                          I -  1     a      -
(1 x 1,600)
Coopers's Town                  SE         SE         SE        SE        SE         -         -          -          -         (6)     -
Andros Island
North Andros                    SE         -          SE        SE        -          SE        -          -                     4      -
Central Andros                  SE         SE         SE        CFE       -          SE        -          -          1         4       -
(1 x 1,600)
Mangrove Key                    -          CFE        SE        SE        -          -         -          -          1          2      -
x 1,600)
South Andros                    SE         SE         SE        SE        SE         -                                         (6)     -
Eleuthera Island
Albury                          SE         CFE        SE        SE        -          -         -          CFE        2          J      -
(1 x 800)                                                        (I x 800)
Gov. Harbour                    SE         SE         SE        SE        -          -         -          -                     4      -
North Eleuthera (New)           E          E          E         E                                                    -          -      4
Exuma Island
L. N. Coakly                    SE         SE         SE        SE        SE         -         -          CFE        1         (6)     -          X
(I x 800)
Long Island                                                                                                                                     OX
Major                           SE         CFE        SE        SE        CFE        -         SE         _          2         4
(1 x 1,600)                   (1 x 1,600)
North Long Island               CFE        SE         SE        CFE       -          -         -          CFE        3         2
(1 x 800)                    (1 x 1,600)                                 (1 x 800)
Crooked Island
Crooked Island                  SE         SE         -         CFE       SE         -1                                        3
(1 x 1,200)



No. of Shops
Home      Tech.    Constr.    Mech.     Elec.    Marine               Constr.   Supplo.  Equip.
School Nam                Business    Econ.      Draw.    Skills    Skills   Instal.  Sc.   F.  Crafts   A Equip.   Equip.   Only
San Salvador
Son Salvador                   -          SE         SE        SE        -         -         -         -           -        S       -
Cot Island
Old Bight                      SE         CFE        SE        SE        CFE                 -                     2        a       -
(1 x 1,200)                    (1 x 1,600)
Arthur's Town                  _          CFE        SE        SE        -         -         -         CFE         2        2       -
(1 X 1,200)                                                 (1 X 1,200)
Grand Bahama Island
Lucays (New)                   E          E          E         E                   E         -          -          -        -       (6)
Eight  ile Rock                SE         -          -         -         -         -         -         -           -        1       -
Wst End                        _          SE         SE        SE        -         -         CFE        -          1        a
(1 x 400)
Inapua
Inagua                         _          SE         SE        SE        -         -         CFE       -           1        (3)     -
(I x 400)
Now Providence Island
Area Vocational Center I       E          E          E         E         E         -         -         -           -        -       (S)
Area Vocational Center II      E          E          E         E         E         -         -          -                            (S)
Sub-Total: Constr. & Equip.        1           6         (0)       4         2         (0)       2          4          18       -       -
Sub-Total: Sr. Eqip. Only          12          11        16        13        4         2         1          (0)        -        (59)    - 
m    
Equipmont Only                     4          4          4         4         2         1         0         0           -        -       19   o ux
Total of 22 conters of which 17 would be located in 10 of the Family Islands.



-76-
Annex 5
Appendix 4
Page 1 of 2
THE BAHAMAS
SECOND TECHNICAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Area and Cost Estimates for Construction, Furniture and Equipment
for the Skills Training Component
Basic Data:
Construction costs of $70 per square foot average
New shops to be constructed under project:
7 X 1,600 ft2 - 11,200 ft2
4 X 1,200 ft2 - 4,800 ft2
5 X   800 ft2 -  4,000 ft2
2 X   400 ft2 .    800 ft2
18                20,800 ftz total
Shops to be furnished and equipped:
18 new ones constructed under project *$20,000 average CIF costs.
19 new ones (construction outside project) Q$20,000 average CIF
costs.
59 existing requiring supplemental equipment @$10,000 average CIF
costs.
Existing rhops requiring minor renovations:
59 with average cost of $4,000 each
Mobile training equipment packages:
10 with an average cost of $10,000 each for NTC (CIF costs)
i.       New Shops Constructed Under Project:
(a)  Construction                        20,800 ft2 X $70 ft2-  $ 1,456,000
(18 shops with 20,800
ft2 total)
(b)  Equipment and furniture             18 X $20,000                 360,000
(18 shops *$20,000 average
per shop)
2.       New Shops Constructed Outside Project: (19 Q$20,000)
(a)  Equipment and furniture only        19 X $20,000 =               380,000
3.       New Shops at Freeport Industrial Training Center:
(a)  Construction                        5,200 ft2 X $90 =            468,000
(3 shops with 5,200 ft2 total)



-77-
Annex 5
Appendix 4
Page 2 of 2
(b)  Equipment and furniture            3 X $20,000 -                60,000
(3 shops e20,000 each)
4.       Existing Shops - Skills Training Centers:
(a)  Minor renovations                  59 X $4,000 =               236,000
(59 local shops E$4.000
average)
(b)  Supplemental equipment only        59 X $10,000 -              590,000
(59 local shops @$10,000
average)
(c)  Supplemental equipment Freeport   4 X $10,000 =                 40,000
ITC Center
(4 shops $lJ0,000)
(d)  Supplemental equipment Nassau                   =              150,000
ITC Center
(including $40,000 for the
Craft Program)
5.       Mobile Training Equipment Packages for NTC: (10 packages)
10 X  10,000 average =     100,000
Total Cost (Construction, Furniture, and Equipment
Only) for Skills Training Component                 $3,840,000



Annex  6a
-78-                                                 Page  I of  I
IMF RAQ
S-SOND TECHNICAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
PROJECT COST SUNNARY
IUSs '000)
Z Total
Z Foreign Base
Local    Foreisn   Total    Exchange   Costs
==xass  _=-~z_== =s-- === =zzzs=w== zZ=SZ==
A. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPIENT AND POLICY INPLENENTATION    1,015.10    261.40  1,276.50             20       9
B. SKILLS TRAINING                                           1,401.57  3,891.47  5293.04          74      36
C. TOURISM TRAINING                                          2s018.55  5,219.30  7,237.85          72      49
D. PROJECT MANAGEMENT                                          650.80    185.16    835.96          '2       6
Total BASELINE COSTS                                           59086.02  9,557,33 14,643.35          65     100
Phvsic&l Contingencies                                        320.78  1s042.87  19363.65          76       9
Price Contingencies                                           507.34    894.26  1,401.61          64      1"
Total PROJECT COSTS                                            54914.14 11494,47 17M408,61          66     119
Nh 13.  98=8==S 14:=-                     -
Mau 13i 1988 14:!?



-79-                                              Annex  6b
Page 1 of 1
THE BAHAMAS
SECOND TECHNICAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Project Costs Estimates By Year
(us$ looc)
Paoe Costs                             Total
1998    1989     1990      1991     1992      1993    1994      US$
saslz s asr-zxSS-  *wat-wss lux-_XS== :as:::-s ::::::s.. zs====  zs_=:x=sx
A. 'NSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND POLICY IMPLEMENTATION            -  272.87   263.63   195.00   195.00   195.00 185.00   1'276.50
D. SYILLS TRAININN                                                - 1,394.02 1.009.02   792.87   937.13   904.50 256.50   5.293.04
C. TOURISM TRAIN'NG                                         32  :0  972.00 3,655.20 1I264.60   479.77   341.52 170.76   7,237.85
PROJECT mANAGEME:T                                          29.0C   150.68   157.64   153.56   153.56   133.76  57.76        935.96
Total BASELINE COSTS                                          354.00 2,789.57 5,114.49 29396.03 1,754.47 1,564.79 670.02  14,643.35
Ph1sica1 Contintencies                                       0.60   295.19   607.80   214.13   119.35   104.00  32.59   19363.65
Price Contingencies                                          0.18    84.92   334.26    49.36   261.13   308.61 163.24   1s401.61
Total PROJECT COSTS                                           354.78 3,159.58 6,056.55 24859.52 29134.94 1,977.39 865.95  17,408.61
ZZ82,2222==   *sazx- -X X= 2vzc  vzv=vzv ZZ==:=::  ,--==Z  Zzz=dxvz
Taxes                                                           -   299.64   654.65   368.13   336.05   294.82 128.10   2,071.40
Foreign Ex:change                                          327.99 2.135.33 4*122.73 1,843.38 1,346.52 1,233,92 484.61  11t494.47
MN' 13, 1988 14:59
Totals Incljd4ng Contingencies
'US$ '000)
__-- ----_____    ---- --_ --__ -- --_ -- ---- _--__ ---- ---- _-- __
1998    1989     1990      1991     1992     1993    1994   Total
=:22:2  ::2ain2 2:2=sz==   .:::2  :2======  =:2=2=222   ====: :s22:222:
A. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND POLICY IMPLEMENTATION           -   288.60   286.50   202.67   210.79   219.21 "27.98  1.435.75
P. SKIL!S TRAINING                                               - 1.568,33 W158.75   940.66 1w156.38 1,160.98 339.51  64324.60
C. TOURISM TRAINING                                         325.00 1,141.95 40437.21 19541.12   585.71   434.84 226.12  89691.85
0. PROJECT rMDAGEENT                                         :9.78   160.80   174.09   175.06   182.06   162.36  72.24    956.41
Tota1 PROJECT COSTS                                           354.79 3,159.58 6t056.55 2,859.52 2s134.94 1,97'.39 965.85 17,408.61
==:== z22sz: :  =::      :=r=:=== ==:::::=2 =2=2==== :2 2 Zs:==== :2::::===
Kaw 13. 1938 14:59



Annex svc
-80-                                                  Page  1 of  I
THE BAHAMAS
SECOND TECHNICAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Project Costs by Category of Expenditure
(US$ illion)
_4S T&.'! 2NAL                                              Ohvs1i.
W.E-JFIE,4T AND                                            C3nt;rae-;.ei  -e.r S .:hanie
FOLICY        SKILLS   TOURISM    PROJECT              -- -- --- ----------------
:MPLEIEN!AI3N   TRAINING  TRAINING  MANAGEMENT  Total             Asount   A: ount
t. INVEST4ENT C38TS
A. CIV'L uICRK5  SZ.2                                                     S            -   7.66   12.7    0.09    '0.0       5.36
P.   URNVI Li EOUIPMENT                           ).06       .32       1.42            -   3.91    7.4    0.9    -4.1        2.2
. !rCqtCAL ASSISTANCE
1. TRAINING                                      -       0.25       0.05            -   0.30    5.0    0.'1    40.6       0.15
'. SPECIALIST ASSISTANCE                      0.10       0.44       0.39            -   0.93    6.5    0.!    !00.0       0.3
Sub-Total TECHNICAL  SSIVSTANCE                   0.10      0.69       0.44            -   1.23    i.1    ;.08    37,9       1.09
Tot2l :TNJE3TMENT :3STS                              0.17      5.29       7.24            -  12.70   10.5   '.33    ':.,        9.26
I.. RECURRENT COSTS
A,  SALARIES                                    0.81          -          -        0.71   1.52    1.4    0.02    10.0        0.15
S. OPERATING COSTS                              0.30                              0.13   0.43    1.9    0.0!    33.6        0.14
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                1.11         -          -         0.84   1.95    1.5    1.03      :5.2     0.30
'3tal IASELINE COSTS                                  1.28      5.29       7.24         0.84  14.64    9.3       36    45.3      9.56
thysical Contingencies                            0.02       0.46       0.86        0.03   1.36    0.0    L 0        ' .5     1.04
Price Contingencies                               0.14       2.57       0.59        0.09   1.40    7.7    3.11       :3.8     0.29
!:ztal PROJECT COSTS                                  1.44      6.32       .69         0.95  1?.41    9.4    1A       !.0    11.49
[                                ===:=:f:gztr:  t=5~~~~~~~~~~~VVzz-=__ ==: ==== =====V  =====  zz======:==:======
[ Ta;xes                                          0.02       0.96       1.10            -   2S07    5.3               0.0      2.00
Foreign E::change                                  0.30      4.70       6.28         0.22  11.49    9.8    1.'!       O.0      0.00
Ma1 13. 1939 14:59



-81-
Annex Cd
Page 1 of 1
THE BAHAMAS
SECOND TECHNICAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAININC PROJECT
Unit Areas *nd Cnpt.l Contn
(Bne  Costs April 1988  In US Dolloro)
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE COSTS1
Local Consultants/Specialits                                          S  2,000/month
Expatriato Consultanto/Specialists                                     I  6,000 - 10,000/month
Short Study Tlura Abroad
(Subsistence and Fees)                                              I    700/week
Fellowships Abroad
(Subsistence and Fes)                                               *  1,500/month
Local Internship.
(Per Diem Supplement)                                               I      SO/day
CONSTRUCTION UNIT AREAS AND COSTS
Com_unity Skills Centers (870/ft2):                                    I  7,150/student place
Now Workshops at Freport ITC (390/ft2):                                S  9,750/student place
Hotel and Touris  Training Facility (S110/ft2):                        I 11,950/student place
EQUIPMENT AND FURNITURE UNIT COSTS
Comunity Skills Centers, new workshop. (37)                            S 20,000/workshop
Community Skills Center, equipment only (69 workshop.)                 S 10,000/workshop
Mobile Training Package (10)                                           I 10,000/package
Hotel and Tourim Training Facillty (1)                                 S800,000
UNIT CAPITAL COSTS PER STUDENT PLACE2
Community Skills Centers, n-w workshop.                                *   8,800/student place
Community Skills Centerss * pplemental equipment only                  S     830/student place
Mobile Training Packags                                                3     830/student plece
Hotel and Tourism Training Facility                                    S  14,260/student place
j/ Details In Annex 6, Appendix 1.
V/ Construction, equipment and furniture.
j/ Designed for use In existing workshop. which will havo certin
specified basic training oquipment for the specially to be lerned.



-82-
Annex 7a
THE BAHAMAS
SECOND TECHNICAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Formal Structure of Project Implementation Team
1.       The formal structure of the Project Implementation Team would be
based upon that used ir the successful implementation of the First
Technical and Vocational Training Project. However, it would be
appropriately strengthened to assure a more uniform rate of implementation
and to provide for more guidance in the implementation of the educational
aspects. A major underlying principle will continue to be the development
of an improved permanent capacity for the implementation, monitoring and
evaluation of projects of programs regardless of financing sources.
2.       The structure and staffing of the team would be as follows:
t                              ~~~~~~~~~Prolect Manager*
Civil Works*              Procurement |SilIls Train ng         ourism  raining|
CordnSorSecialist*                                 ,I7 Specialist
-Part-time      -rndustrial         -BHTC Representative
Specialists    Training Board
Director           -UWI-CHTM Representative
-Rep. from
Vocational         -Bahamahost Representative
Training
Department
| Legal Officer         r [Proecet A,ccounta-nt I       isuop rtStatTI
* Full-time Team Members



Annex 7b
-83-                        Page 1 of 4
THE BAHAMAS
SECOND TECHNICAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Key Project Implementation Team Personnel
1.       The composition of the Project Implementation Team is detailed in
Annex 7a. The key personnel of the unit to be appointed in accordance with
the following terms reference and qualifications should be:
Project Manager
2.       The project manager would be responsible directly to the Permanent
Secretary (PS) of the Ministry of Education. With the advice and consent
of the PS, he would formulate policy and procedures to facilitate the
timely implementation of the project in accordance with the Loan Agreement
and Bank Guidelines. He would coordinate the day-to-day project
implementation activities of the project civil works coordinator; the
equipment and furniture procurement specialist; skills training
specialists; tourism training specialists; the legal officer and the
project accountant. He would also supervise the activities of the
secretarial and support staff. He would be responsible for overall project
monitoring and the preparation of periodic project implementation progress
reports and sending them to the Bank for review and comment.
3.       The project manager should have had successful experience in the
implementation of similar projects under World Bank or Regional Bank
financing. He must have proven capability in managing and coordinating the
work of professional and support personnel in activities carried out under
conditions requiring the efficient scheduling of physical, financial and
human resources. Experience is much more important than academic
preparation, therefore he could be an educator, an engineer, an architect
or have had any other university graduate level preparation. Communication
skills in both written and spoken English are very important.
Civil Works Coordinator
4.       This person would be responsible, on a full-time basis, for the
implementation of the civil works program and would ensure that the terms
and conditions of contracts for construction are prepared and carried out
in a satisfactory manner and under terms and conditions set forth in the
Loan Agreement and the Bank Guidelines. He would coordinate and supervise
construction activities in accordance with the implementation schedule and
the construction schedules of the civil works contractors. He would keep a
detailed record (written and pictorial) of progress of each civil works
component and report to the Project Team Coordinator on a timely basis on
the quality of work and the financial status of the project. Specifically,
the Civil Works Coordinator would be expected to:
-    be actively involved in selecting and evaluating contractors
being proposed to do work under the project;
-    assist in evaluating bids received for construction and
installation of equipment;



Annex 7b
-84-                          Page 2 of 4
-    ensure that terms and conditions of tendering documents are
adequate and would meet World Bank guidelines;
-    review and approve all payment requests made by contractors
before payment is made by a Ministry;
-    assist in the final inspection of facilit  s and certify that
all work was satisfactory and had been made in accordance
with the terms of the contract documents before final payment
would be made to the contracting company;
-    visit on a frequent basis all projects under construction and
report to the Project Manager as to their status, pointing
out all issues and suggest methods for resolving such issues;
-    approve all changes and modifications to the construction as
it progresses;
-    maintain financial records on construction including payments
made to the contractor, estimated cost to complete, and
likely costs for modifications and changes during
construction;
[ - ensure that equipment would be delivered, installed and
connected in facilities in a timely and satisfactory manner;
and
-    prepare and maintain an overall proposed implementation
schedule of works under the project and maintain an estimate
of cost of construction by building. A visual status chart
should be developed for the project which would indicate when
each component would be begun and completed. A comparison
between estimated and actual progress should be shown on this
chart.
5.       Experience gained on similar projects has consistently pointed out
benefits derived by project implementation units employing their own full
time civil works coordinator. This person should have adequate experience
in directing and coordinating the design efforts of both public and private
entities and understand fully the needs for tender documents to be well
defined with a minimum of errors and omissions. Professionally, the civil
works coordinator should be an architect or engineer with no less than 6-8
years of practical experience in managing projects. It is expected that he
would be employed on a full time basis and would dedicate 100 percent of
his time to construction financed under this project.
Equipment and Furniture Procurement Specialist
6.       The equipment and furniture procurement specialist would be
responsible for coordinating the preparation of all equipment and furniture
lists and technical specifications, the grouping of items into packages of
a similar nature; and, in full accordance with Bank Guidelines, advertising
of procurement tenders, evaluation of bids, awarding of contracts, and the
receiving and installation of equipment and furniture. The actual
preparation of lists and specifications, however, would be the
responsibility of the training institutions which would be the recipients



Annex 7b
-85-                         Page 3 of 4
of such furniture and equipment, or other authorized agents. These duties
would require that the Procurement Specialist be employed on a full-time
basis.
7.       The procurement specialist should, preferably, be a vocational or
technical educator who has had significant experience in the preparation of
such lists and specifications, in the evaluation of bids, and in the
logistics of the receipt, distribution and installation of large groups of
furniture and equipment during a short time span.
Skills Training Specialists
8.       rhese responsibilities would be carried out by the regular MOE
vocational/technical training officers and the principal officer of the NTC
as part of their regular responsibilities in their respective areas of
expertise. Individually, they would coordinate for their respective
institutions: the preparation of furniture and equipment lists and
specifications; the installation of equipment under the overall direction
of the procurement specialist; the recruitment and/or training of
instructors; the work of consultants in the development of training
programs; and the monitoring and evaluation of educational program
implementation.
Tourism Training Specialists
9.       These responsibilities would be carried out by representatives of
the Bahamas Hotel Training College, the UWI Center for Hotel and Tourism
Management, and the Bahamahost Program as a part of the regular
responsibilities to their respective institutions. Individually, they
would coordinate for the respective institutions: the assistance of
institutional representatives in the implementation of special studies by
external consultants; the preparation of equipment and furniture lists and
specifications; the identification of physical space needs for the new
building; the development of the lists for training materials and library
references; the effective utilization of consultant services in upgrading
of curriculum content; upgrading training activities, locally and abroad,
of instructional staff; and the monitoring and evaluation of educational
program implementation.
Legal Officer
10.      The legal officer need only be available for a few days per year
to advise and assist in the development of the bidding documents for
procurement of civil works, furniture and equipment, and technical
assistance. If the MOE does not have a legal adviser, one from the
Attorney General's Office could be assigned to provide these services on an
ad-hoc basis. However, to assure the appropriate timeliness of his
services, he should be formally appointed under a written agreement.
Project Accountant
11.      Even though the Accounting Division of the MOE would keep the
separate project accounts, a single individual accountant would be formally
assigned as the project accountant. While the accountant would not be
required on a full-time basis, especially during the earlier months of
project implementation, one should be appointed on the basis that the
project accounts would be a first priority responsibility.



A&"& .  JIv
-86-                         Page 4 of 4
SuHport Staffing
12.      A single full-time secretary would probably be adequate, providing
that the typing of equipment lists and specifications is the responsibility
of the participating training institutions. Additional part-time typists
would be needed from time-to-time for the periodic rush work' of the
procurement specialist, especially in the typing of biddirng documents.



-87-
Annex 7c
Pge. 1 of I
THE SAMMAS
SECOND TECHNICAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Proj oct Implementation Schedule
(Cumulative Progress In X)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------__----__--------------
Project Component                      CYS8   CYS8  CY9O  CYOI CY92 CY"S CY94
Institutional Developmnt and
Policy Implementation
Furniture and Equipment                            0    SO   100
Specialist Assistance                              0    60   100
Skills Training
Civil Works
Skills Training Workshops A Maint. Center       0    20    40   60  80  100
Freeport - Industrlal Training Center           0    100
Furniture, Equipmnt A Educ. Materials
Skills Troining Workshops A Maint. Center       0      0     14   29  67   86  100
Nassau - Industrial Training Center             0     80   100
Freeport - Industrial Training Center           0    8S   100
NTC Mobile Training                             0     14    SO   so 100
Technical Assistance
Troinin                                         0      9    26   66  68  100
Speciai st Assieance                            0    66   100
Tourism Training
Civil Works
Hotel and Tourism Training Facillty             0    20    87  100
Furniture, Equipwunt A Educ. Materials
Hotel and Tourim Training Facility              0      0      7   28  61   67  100
Technical Assistance
Training                                        0      0     0    0   40   6o  100
Specialist Assistonce                         e6    eS    a6   91  07  100
May 18, 1966



-88-
Annex 8a
Page 1 of 1
THE BAHAMAS
SECOND TECHNICAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Amount of the
Category of                   Loan Allocated        Z of Expenditures
Expenditures                 (US$ Equivalents)        to be financed
1.  Civil Works                        4,600,000           50Z
2.  Furniture, Equipment and           3,000,000           100Z of CIF cost of foreign
Educational Materials                                 expenditures, 10OX of ex
factory costs of locally
manufactured furniture, and
65Z of local expenditures
for items procured locally
3.  Technical Assistance               1,200,000           100Z
4.  Travel, Communications,               75,000           1OOZ
Materials for Project
Administration
5.  PPF Refund                           325.000
6.  Unallocated                          800,000
TOTAL                     10,000,000



-89-                          Annex Ob
THE BAHAMAS
SECOND TECHNICAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Dlsburs.esnts
(US$ million)
Cumulative Disbursmsnts
Bank                       Disbursement   - -- -------   - ----- - Balance
Fiscal        Quarter         during                    X of         of
Year           Ending        Quarter        Amount     Total        Total
__________________--__________________________________________________________
89   March 81, 1989            9.89 a/       0.80                  9.79
June 80, 1989            0.60 b/       0.80          8       9.20
99   Sept. 80, 1989            0.40          1.20                  8.89
Dec. 81, 1989            0.40          1.60                  8.40
March 81, 1999           .069          2.20                  7.80
June 80, 1990            9.69          2.89         28       7.29
91   Sept. 80, 1990            0.70          8.60                  0.50
Dec. 81, 1990            0.70          4.29                  6.89
March 81, 1991           0.50          4.70                  6.30
June 80, 1991            0.50          6.20         52       4.80
92   Sept. 30, 1991            0.50          6.70                  4.89
Dec. 81, 1991            0.69          6.20                  8.80
March 81, 1992           0.60          6.70                  8.80
June 30, 1992            O.59          7.20         72       2.890
93   Sept. 89, 1m              0.50          7.70                  2.80
Dec. 81, 1992            0.40          8.10                  1.90
March 81, 1993           0.49          8.60                  1.60
June 80, 1998            9.40          8.9D         89       1.10
94   Sept. 80, 1998            9.89          9.20                  0.80
Dec. 81, 1998            0.20          9.40                  9.00
March 81, 1994           0.10          9.50                  0.50
June 89, 1994            9.10          9.60         96       0.40
96   Sept. 30, 1994            0.10          9.70                  9.80
Dec. 81, 1994            9.19          9.80                  0.20
March 81, 1995           0.10          9.90                  9.10
June  90, 1995           0.19         190.0        1W        O.99
a/ PPF repayment
b/ Initial deposit of USS0.5 million Into the Special Account
August 11, 1988



Annex 9
-90-
THE BAHAMAS
SECOND TECHNICAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAININO PROJECT
Presur_oent Arrono_nte
MUs= Iion, Tota I o*t)
Procurement Method1 t (Acceptablo to the Bank)
Category                       iCe        LCB      OTHER     TOTAL
U-M   mmTlion--------__
Civil Works                     6.20     8.00        -         9.20
(8.40)   (1.61)                (S.")
Furniture, Equipoent, and       B." l     .70       *.8U       4."
Educational Materials        (2.70)   (9.69)    ( 0.20)    (8.59)
Technical Aesistance             -         -        1.40       1.402
_                 (1.40)    (1.40)
Operating Costs for              -         -        2.20       2.20
Project Administration         -                 (0-10)   (6.10)
TOTALS                     0.69    8.70         8.90     17.40
(. 10)   (2.20)     (1.70)   (10.00)
V                           67         29         4       1in
Limits by Type of Procurement and Prior Review Threshold*
(bvvo  thoueand)
Type of     Prior Roview       Contreat      Aggregote      Type of
Contract      Limit             Value          Ll-it      Procurement
Civil Works      6J0          1,909 and over       -        ICB
Under 1,000        8,600       LCB with foreign
firm eligible to
participate
Furniture,      1in          SO and over           -        ICe
Equipmnt,                    Under W6              760      LCB with foreign
and                                                         firms eligiSle to
Educational                                                 participate.
Materials                    Under 10              age      Local shopping
(3 prt ;e quotations)
Technical
Assistance4       80          80 and over          -        Proposals invited
from short list of
lnternational and
local consultant
f Irm.
Under 80             200       Invitations from one
or more Individual
consultants
/ Numbers In parentheses represent that portion of costs which would be
financed by the Bank.
/  Including a Project Preparation Advance of US1  256,69.
3/ All other contracts subject to ex post review by Bank Staff durlng
supervision missions.
J Contracts for technical assistance and special studies would be awarded
In accordance with Bank guidelines.



-91-
Annex 10
Page 1 of 2
THE BAHAMAS
SECOND TECHNICAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAININO PROJECT
Key Indicators for Proj et Monitoring and Evaluation
_____________________________________________________________________________________________________
Expected date of completion
Project Component                        Monitoring Indicators         (per Loan Agreemnt)
_____________________________________________________________________________________________________
Institutional Development and
Policy Implementation
(a) Ministry of Employment and Imigration
(i) Establish labor market Information system                         June 80, 1999
Furniture and Equipment                Percentage Installed
Specialist Assistance                  Percentage Implemented
(1i) Expend MOEI'- apprenticehip system                               De-cmber 81, 1990
Furniture and Equiri-ent               Percentage Installed
Specialist Assistnce                   Percentage Implemented
(b) Minlitry of Education and National Training Council
(1) Establish advisory co_mittoes for                                De-cmber 81, 1989
major Industrial trades and local
training comittees
Speciolist Assistance                  Percentage Implemented
(tt) Develop and implement plans                                       June 80, 1990
for lmproved utilization and
managment and s*ff training
Specialist Assistance                  Percentage Implemnted
(III) Imple_nt policies for cost sharing
and cost recovery In training
-    NTC to receive/expend funds                                  June 80, 1089
-    Targoting of otiponds                                        June 80, 1989
Speciali t Assistance                  Percentage Implemented
(iv) Prepere master plan for the                                      December 81, 1991
future development of post-secondary
and higher education
(v) Implement Graduote Traer System                                  December 31, 1989
Specialist Assistance                  Percentage Implemented
(e) Bahama Hotel Training College
Achlve at loeat S0 omployer
financing of presorvice training       Percentage implemented    December 31, 1991
Skills Training
(a) upgrade and expand pre- and Inmervice     Porcentago of centers      Course syllabi ready for
skills training program  for adults       using now programs         Bank's review and coements
end out-of-school youth                                              by June 80, 1990
Specile IIt As Istance                 Percentage Ipl em nted
Training                               Percentage Implemented



-92-
Annex 10
Page 2 ot 2
THE BAHAMAS
SECOND TECHNICAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Key Indicators for Project Monitoring and Evaluation
Expected date of completion
Proj et Component                          Monitoring Indicators          (per Loan Agreement)
(b) inerao  relevancy of training In           No. of training packages   Course myllabl ready for
vocational training program  through        doveloped (statlonary/     Bank's review and commenta
developmet of  elustoro of reloted          mobile)                     by June 80, 19O
skills                                      Percentage of centers using
now program
Specialist Assistance                    Percentage Implmented
(c) develop and mplement mobile                                            Course syllabi ready for
training programe                                                       Bank's review and com_nta
Specialolt Assistance                    Percentage implemented
(d) Implement supply and maintenanc                                        June a0, iWo
(e) Civil Works
Skills Tralning Workshops A Maint. Center Percentage completed
Free_rt - Industrlal Training Conter        Percentage completed
(f) Furniture, Equipment A Educ. Materials
Skills Training Workshops a Maint, Center Percentage Installed
Nassau - Industrial Training Center         Percentage installed
Fr  port - Industrial Training Center       Percentage Installed
NTC Mobile Training                         Percentage delivered
Tourilm Training
(a) Implement recommendations of PPF-financed
study
(i) Improve articulation among different    Percentage Implemented
tourilm training programs
Speciallst Assiotnce                     Percentage imploented
(11) dei gn curricula in  everal now         Percentage Implemnted
spe  .l11zatione and incorporate ne
programs including Inservico training
Specllist Assitance                     Percentage implemented
(111) teacher training and developmont        Percentage implemented
of training materials
Speciailst Assistance                    Percentage implemented
(b) Civil Works
Hotel and Tourism Training Facility         Percentage completed
(c) Furniture, Equipmnt A Educ. Materials
Hotel and Tourism Training Facility         Percentage installed
July 26, i989



-93-
Annex 11
Page 1 of 2
THE BAHAMAS
SECOND TECHNICAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
1.       Working Papert  'Proposed Civil Works Implementation Plan,"
Robert W. Etheredge, Jr., 1988.
2.       'Tourism Development Program for The Bahamas," Executive Summary,
Bechtel International Company, 1987.
3.       'Bahamas Handbook,' E. Dupuch, Jr., 1988.
4.       *Commonwealth of The Bahamas - Statistical Abstract 1985,'
Department of Statistics, Nassau, 1985.
5.       'The Labour Force 1986,' Department of Statistics, 1986.
6.       'Bahamas Youth Employment Project: Final Report," J. V. Burgan,
OAS, 1986.
7.       "Bahamas Occupation Handbook," Department of Labor, 1987.
8.       'A Guide Outline for the Planning and Implementation of a Pre-
investment Study for Post-Secondary Education Systems
Development." World Bank Working Paper.
9.       'Special Study of Hotel and Tourism Training in The Bahamas,"
University of South Carolina, 1988.
10.      Detailed Project Costs
11.      Working Papers:
A.       Institutional Development and Policy Implementation
Component
Appendix 1: Report and Recommendations with Regard to a National
Human Resource Data Base System
Appendix 2: Terms of Reference for the National Industrial
Training Advisory Council (NTC)
Appendix 3: Recommendations for the Development of Cost Recovery
and Increased Private Sector Assistance to Training
Appendix 4: Preparation of a Master Plan for Medium- and Long-
Term Development of Post-Secondary and Higher
Education in The Bahamas



-94-
Annex 11
Page 2 of 2
B.       Skills Training Component
Appendix 1: Short Course Modular Training for Employed/Unemployed
Adults and Out-of-School Youth in NTC Programs
Appendix 2:  Broad Based Training in "Clusters of Related Skills"
Appendix 3: The Mobile Training and Equipment Concept for the
Family Islands
Appendix 4:  Local Training Advisory Committees in the Family
Islands
Appendix 5: Development of a Certified Technical Instructor Corps
for Skills Training Centers
C.       Tourism Training Component
Appendix 1:  The Ministry of Education Policy on
Integration/Coordination of Hotel and Tourism
Training Institutions in The Bahamas
Appendix 2: Special Study of Tourism Training in The Bahamas:
Report and Findings of the PPF Study Team
Appendix 3: Government Statement on the BahamaHost Program
D.       Project Management Component
Appendix 1: Guidelines in the Development of Tracer Systems for
Placement and Follow-up Studies of Vocational and
Technical Training Program Graduates



IBRD 2D756R
800                                   7r                                    7s6
GRAND BAHAMA ISLAND
Wolbrs Coy                                                                                      North
West End                       ~~~~~~~~~~Riding Pt.
t  Settlement                                            McC ons
Town
GRAND BAHAMA L                                                   \                                                Bvg PkkonPt.
.HabRocki
Normans                                                                      i            ,p        2
U.S.A.                                              Castle          ok HarbourM.e
GUEAT                     FREEPORT       Lutay~                 o    10  20  30   40
Freeport                                  ARECT                                                                   Kilneer
WilsonCity                                           SA
{,X0 A8ACCt 1                           ~~~~~~~~~U S.A.
Gorda Cort-                                                                            A r*  A v r o
-26-                                                                                                                   M etO    Gor<ioc<  |    26-- ,julf ofA N
26'                      '0"""41C,, ~~~slernileWllCUAOCEAN
BERRY IS       s1akintAWe ~II ENz"a  CHANNEL                            Aosrir                   OCfoAN
BIMINIS                   *           NO PA4EAA                                                                  tIAITI
T8ERL                   A  t / a n t i c                                   REP
Alice                                               ICAUOUA Caribbean Sea
414icolls                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~PANAMA  SIUL
Tol.      Nassau                   !LEUTHRA                                           tA VINZUL
+.:=g      n       oo, Torpum BCOLMEUTHERA                                        BIA|
PI                              k          NEW PROVIDENCE 1.        NowPortsmouth                           74.
Of S t                                          drosTown                              ArthursTown          0  c  e  o  n
NormSn Covt                        CAT 1
q>   ANDROS 1.                                       C?4,  The igh;
-2<   Sal                  SXd~                         r'<Boi 4                                                       AN SALVADORI                      24-
Sol ~~~~~~~~~~~Rchod GREAT  Bun 0Rum oCy
Richmond HilW%p*U;MTA   yGUr ndoRu  o
r,.^^ -op An a.... oaa'd or rho. Sot,  ..e4e.e, -                                  HToIJ1tSt,~L         LONG I.
Mt4  OS  .O..,,, toMu..f,S' -a -~ ft r_S DM5 fd MoM.*d
- - poor of 'A WooS Mt.. rrV o, Vo C M MY O Ot                                                        De ydmons Cot
INSET 2nceTown i
NEW  PROVIDENCE ISLAND                                                                                   '-             Pitt
South Pt. ~Town
SouPtad  PK    .  <    OOOKED 1
Paradise 1.                                                           )Snug           Pita's Well
Gld  bg Z              T   4t7 G   2           ailardsVilloge                                                    CorrLN .
01  take                    inion                                                  ACKLINS 1. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAYAGUANA 1.
-22-                                                                     22-
-25-                                       rmicho                                        040               120    160
KILOMETEjRS
Coral Horbour       Millb ar                                                0    20    40    60   i0   100
0  2   4   6   8                             MILES                    GREAT INAGUA 1.
Kitto4s'ns
0,           4  5         CUBA                                   MatthewTownf
77~~~~~'30' ~~~~~~Miles74
THE BAHAMAS
SECOND TECHNICAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
(  INDUSTRIAL TRAINING CENTER                                        MAIN ROADS
COLLEGE OF THE BAHAMAS                                           :NTERNATIONAL AIRPORTS
HOTEL TRAINING COLLEGE                                      .    MAJOR AIRFIELDS
COMMUNITY SKILLS CENTERS                                        MINOR AIRFIELDS
COMMUNITY SKILLS CENTERS
(TO BE EQUIPPED ONLY)
SEPTEMBER 1988



