Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3004-BM
 Loan Agreement
(Second Technical and Vocational Training Project)
between
THE COMMONWEALTH OF THE BAHAMAS
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated January 9, 1989
LOAN NUMBER 3004-BM
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 9, 1989, between THE COMMONWEALTH OF THE BAHAMAS (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project describe in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01.  The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 
deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
Section 1.02.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(b)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated October 
20, 1987 and November 20, 1987 between the Borrower and the Bank;
Page  2
(c)
"PIU" means the Project Implementation Unit referred to in Section 3.01 
(b) of this Agreement;
(d)
"NTC" means the National Training Council, an agency of the Borrower;
 
(e)
"ITC" means any of the Industrial Training Centers of NTC located in the 
Borrower's cities of Nassau or Freeport, and "ITCs" means, collectively, the aggregate 
of those centers;
(f)
"MOE" means the Ministry of Education of the Borrower; 
 
(g)
"BHTC" means the Bahamas Hotel Training College of the Borrower.
 
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to ten million dollars ($10,000,000).
Section 2.02.  (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or,  if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost 
of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2  to this 
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall,  for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain 
in dollars a special account in its Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of,  the Special Account shall be made  
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date,  the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges  thereon.  The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
cancelled.
Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1995 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04.  The Borrower shall pay to tho Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of l%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Loan not  withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05.  (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of 
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate per annum for each 
Interest Period equal to one-half of one percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings for the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such Interest 
Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.
(c)
For purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means the six-month period commencing on each 
date specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, including the 
Interest Period in which this Agreement is signet.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings means the cost of the outstanding 
borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, expressed 
as a percentage per annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
Section 2.06.  Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on March 
1 and September 1 in each year.
Page  3
Section 2.07.  The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01.  (a)  The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of 
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall 
carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate financial, administrative, engineering and educational practices, and 
shall provide,  promptly as needed,  the funds,  facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall establish in MOE and maintain, until the completion report referred 
to in Section 9.07 (c) of the General Conditions has been furnished to the Bank, a 
project implementation unit (Pill), with staffing, organization, functions, 
responsibilities and funding arrangements satisfactory to the Bank.
(c)
The Borrower shall ensure, or cause to be ensured, that the Project shall 
be managed by PIU, and that PIU shall consist of: (i) on a full-time basis, a project 
manager, a civil works coordinator,  a procurement specialist, and support and 
clerical staff;  and (ii) on a part-time basis,  the principal officer of NTC, three 
(3) coordinators of vocational/technical education services who shall be provided by 
MOE, representatives of the Borrower's tourism training institutions, a legal officer, 
and a project accountant.
(d)
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,  the Borrower shall not make or 
permit any change,  other than those changes needed to comply with the provisions of 
paragraph (c) of this Section or to carry out Part D of the Project, to be made in the 
staffing, organization and functions of PIU.
(e)
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.07 of the General 
Conditions and unless otherwise reasonably requested by the Bank pursuant to such 
provisions,  the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank by March 31 and September 30 of 
each year, a semiannual evaluation report on the progress made in the execution of the 
Project during the preceding six (6) months, such report to be of such scope and in 
such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Section 3.02.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03.  The Borrower shall:
(a)
not later than December 31,  1989,  establish national subject-matter 
advisory committees for eight (8) major industrial and business trades, and local 
training committees in each of the about nine (9) most populous of the Borrower's 
Family Islands, each of such committees with functions and staffing satisfactory to 
the Bank;
(b)
not later than June 30, 1989, take all action necessary to implement 
policies and procedures,  satisfactory to the Bank, which will make available to NTC 
and allow NTC to expend funds for training financed under contracts with employers 
and/or tuition fees, and establish a schedule of tuition fees satisfactory to the 
Bank;
(c)
not later than June 30, 1989, establish and implement eligibility 
criteria and procedures,  satisfactory to the Bank, designed to ensure that stipends 
for trainees in NTC programs are provided on the basis of individual need and training 
performance;
(d)
not later than June 30, 1989, establish a labor market information 
system, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; 
(e)
not later than June 30, 1990, establish a system of regular maintenance 
and materials supply, referred to in Part B (iii) of the Project, for ITCs and area 
vocational and community skills centers, including those located in the Borrower's 
Family Islands, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank;
Page  4
(f)
not later than December 31, 1990, expand its apprenticeship system to six 
(6)  trades in New Providence and Grand Bahama Islands, in a manner satisfactory to 
the Bank;
(g)
not later than December 31,  1989, establish and begin implementing, in a 
manner satisfactory to the Bank, the graduate tracer system referred to in Part A (iv) 
of Schedule 2 to this
(h)
not later than December 31,  1991,  take all action necessary to put into 
effect the plan under Part A (v) of the Project, including all such action as is 
necessary to achieve and maintain a private sector participation in the financing of 
training for tourism of at least fifty percent (50%); and
(i)
not later than December 31,  1991,  complete to the satisfaction of the 
Bank, the master plan referred to ln Part A (vi) of the Project.
Section 3.04.  The Borrower shall
(a)
not later than June 30, 1990, prepare and furnish to the Bank, for its 
comments, an action program aimed at improving and developing the utilization and 
management of the ITCH and community skills centers, including those located in the 
Borrower's family Islands, and at the training of managers and instructors of said 
centers, referred to in Part B (iv) and (v) of the Project;
(b)
not later than June 30, 1990, prepare and furnish to the Bank, for its 
review and comments, new curricula and syllabi for preservice and in service training, 
and an action plan for mobile training programs,  referred to in Part B (1) and (ii) 
of the Project, respectively; and
(c)
promptly thereafter, carry out such program, curricula and syllabi and 
action plan, taking into account the comments made by the Bank thereon, and in 
accordance with a  timetable satisfactory to the Bank.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained separate 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices 
the operations. resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or 
any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have  the records and accounts  referred to  in paragraph (a) of 
this Section including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four (4) months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section 4.01, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Bank has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
Page  5
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01.  Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
a change shall have been made in the laws under which NTC has been 
established which, in the opinion of the Bank, shall adversely affect the carrying out 
of the Project; and
(b)
any action shall have been taken by the Borrower, or any other authority 
having jurisdiction, for the dissolution or disestablishment, or for the suspension of 
the operations, of NTC.
Section 5.02.  Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof 
shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and
(b)
the event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01.  The following events are specified as additional conditions to 
the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
that the Borrower has taken, or caused to be taken, all such action as 
shall be necessary to vest in the Borrower all rights in respect of land required for 
the Project, including title thereto, and has made such land available to MOE for 
purposes of the Project; and
(b)
that PIU has been established in compliance with Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement and the project manager and procurement specialist referred to therein have 
been appointed.
Section 6.02.  The date is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of 
the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01.  The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for Finance 
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General
Conditions.
Section 7.02.  The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Financial Secretary
Page  6
Ministry of Finance
Churchill Building
P.O. Box N 3017
Nassau, Bahamas
Cable address: 
Telex:
 
MINFIN 2055
 
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD 440098 
(ITT)
Washington, D.C. 
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
THE COMMONWEALTH OF THE BAHAMAS
By /s/ Margaret MacDonald
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Husaid
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts  of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                         Amount of the
                       Loan Allocated        % of
                        (Expressed in    Expenditures
     Category        Dollar Equivalent) to be Financed
(1)  Civil works          4,600,000       50%
     (including pro-
     fessional fees)
(2)  Furniture, equip-    3,000,000       100% of foreign
     ment and educa-                      expenditures,
     tional materials                     100% of local
                                          expenditures
                                          (ex-factory
Page  7
                                          cost) and 65% of
                                          local expenditures
                                          for other items
                                          procured locally
(3)  Consultants'         1,200,000       100%
     services and
     training
(4)  Travel,                 75,000       100%
     communications,
     and office
     materials under
     Part D of the Project
(5)  Refunding of           325,000       Amount due pur-
     Project Prepara-                     suant to Section
     tion Advance                         2.02 (c) of this
                                          agreement
(6)  Unallocated            800,000
          TOTAL          10,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory 
of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above,  no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for:
(a)
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals,  in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $400,000, may be 
made on account of payments made for expenditures in respect of professional fees for 
civil works design and consultants' services,  incurred before that date but after 
April 10, 1988; and
(b)
expenditures under Category (1) in respect of Part B of the Project other 
than professional fees paid to architects and consultants under contracts approved by 
the Bank for the planning, design and supervision of the civil works, unless the civil 
works coordinator referred to in Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement has been 
appointed.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to implement the major elements of the second 
phase of the Borrower's long term plan to expand and upgrade its vocational training 
system, by providing institutional development and improved policy implementation in 
training management and finance, and by expanding and upgrading and using more 
effectively the Borrower's vocational training capacity.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Institutional Development and Policy Implementation
 
Provision of technical assistance aimed at:
(i)
revising, finalizing and implementing the draft plan of action for 
the Borrower's labor market information system;
(ii)
revising, finalizing and implementing the draft plan of action for 
expanding the Borrower's apprenticeship system;
Page  8
(iii)
preparing and implementing a plan of action for strengthening NTC 
and its national subject-matter advisory committees, and 
establishing local training committees in the Borrower's Family 
Islands, including employers' representatives;
(iv)
preparing and implementing a plan of action for establishing a 
graduate tracer system which quantifies and evaluates on a 
continuous basis the accomplishments of all of NTC's and BHTC's 
training programs including, inter alia, quality and effectiveness 
of the delivery of each of said programs, and the nature and terms 
and conditions of employment of graduates from each of said 
programs;
(v)
revising, finalizing and implementing the draft plan of action for 
increasing cost recovery and cost sharing by raising trainees' and 
enterprises' participation in the financing of training, and for 
cost reduction, including improving the eligibility criteria and 
procedures for allocating stipends for trainees in NTC programs to 
needy individuals; and
(vi)
preparing and implementing a plan of action for assisting the 
Borrower in the preparation of a master plan for post-secondary 
and higher education in the Borrower's territories.
Part B:
Skills Training
 
1.
Provision of technical assistance aimed at: 
 
(i)
developing curricula for broad-based preservice and in service 
training of youth and adults responsive to market needs, 
particularly in the Borrower's Family Islands;
(ii)
developing mobile training programs responsive to market needs;
 
(iii)
establishing a system of regular maintenance and materials supply 
for ITCs and community skills centers, including those located in 
the Borrower's Family Islands;
(iv)
improving the management and utilization of skills training 
centers; and
(v)
training managers and instructors.
 
2.
Carrying out of civil works, and acquisition and utilization of furniture and 
equipment for skills training workshops at community skills centers and area 
vocational centers in about twenty-two (22) locations in the eleven (11) most populous 
islands of the Borrower.
3.
Carrying out of complementary workshop construction, and acquisition and 
utilization of equipment for ITCs and a maintenance and materials supply center in 
Nassau, and of equipment for mobile training programs for basic and advanced skills 
training of youth and adults, primarily in the Borrower's Family Islands.
Part C:
Tourism Training
 
1.
Provision of technical assistance aimed at: (i) improving the coordination and 
articulation among existing tourism training programs;  (ii) developing and 
implementing new training program for the tourism sector; and (iii) developing 
training materials and training of instructors.
2.
Carrying out of civil works, and acquisition and utilization of furniture and 
equipment for a new training facility in Nassau for hotel and tourism training and for 
accommodation for programs of the BHTC, the University of West Indies Centre for Hotel 
and Tourism Management, and the Bahama Host Program of the Borrower's Ministry of 
Tourism.
Part D:
Project Management
 
Strengthening of PIU by expanding its senior staff and improving its 
capabilities for project supervision.
Page  9
*   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1994.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
                                   Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due     
              (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 1 and September 1
     beginning March 1, 1994
     through September 1, 2003               
500,000
 
_________________________ 
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
The following premiums are specified for the purposes of Section 3.04 (b) of the 
General Conditions: 
     Time of Prepayment                 Premium
                                   The interest rate
                                   (expressed as a
                                   percentage per annum)
                                   applicable to the
                                   balance outstanding on
                                   the Loan on the day of
                                   prepayment multiplied
                                   by:
Not more than three years                 0.20
     before maturity
More than three years but                 0.40
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                   0.73
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity
More than 11 years but not                0.87
Page  10
     more than 13 years
     before maturity
More than 13 years before                 1.00
     maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.
To the extent practicable,  contracts  for goods shall be grouped in bidding 
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more so as to permit 
international competitive bidding.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A 1 hereof, goods manufactured in The Commonwealth of the Bahamas may be granted a 
margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 
2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Contracts for civil works other than those in respect of Part C.2 of the 
Project, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $3,500,000 and 
contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $50,000, but more 
than the equivalent of $10,000, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent 
of $750,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive 
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
Items or groups of items estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $10,000 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $350,000, may 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations 
solicited from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract for: (i) civil works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $500,000 or more, and (ii) goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.  Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 
2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of 
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph,  
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall not apply 
to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan 
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure.  Such contracts shall be retained 
in accordance with Section 4.01 (c)(ii) of this Agreement. 
Page  11
2.
The figure of 15%  is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall 
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in 
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the 
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by  World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank 
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories  (1) through (4) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $500,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (8) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
have been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments  in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been made out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, 
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment mate by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall,  at such time Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents 
and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
Page  12
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories,  less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any pay,ment out of 
the Special Account:  (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of  this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) 
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request;  or (B) deposit into the 
Special Account (or,  if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount 
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into 
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or 
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures,  the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
