         International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
                  International Development Association
                                                                    87414
                     International Finance Corporation
                Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
                        FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
                        CONFIDENTIAL
                                                                       EDS98-516
                                                                 November 18, 1998


Board Meeting of November 18, 1998
Statement by Murilo Portugal
    Panama - Country Assistance Strategy and Public Policy reform
                           Adjustment Loan
     On behalf of my Panamanian authorities, I would like to thank
Management and staff for preparing this Country Assistance Strategy.
The ultimate objectives of the economic strategy implemented to date
by   the Government of Panama are the reduction in the levels of
poverty and the elimination of barriers to a more equitable
distribution of income for all Panamanians.     These objectives are
envisioned by both the current CAS as well as by the prior one. The
Panamanian Government adopted on September 17, 1998, by Cabinet
Decree, a New Strategic Focus on Poverty which, in large measure, is
also reflected in the CAS.
In order to achieve these objectives, the government’s strategy has
been to enact legal reforms which have permitted the operation of
market forces in a number of key sectors of the national economy.
Other major policy changes have been targeted to the productive
segments of the Panamanian economy which had been divorced from world
commerce in order to integrate them into the mainstream of
international trade with a minimum of trauma. In this manner, Panama
has left behind policies which were perceived to foster social
inequities.
Transformations have affected both the private and public sectors. In
the latter, reforms have introduced competition to public services
through privatizations, while consolidating    the medium term macro-
fiscal position of the government.
While there has been a major strengthening of market mechanisms that
will permit the sustainable development of Panama’s economy, it is
necessary to focus attention on those pockets of the population that
are most vulnerable, especially those who lack education, health or
access to the    national infrastructure and thus have been largely
untouched by recent economic gains. In this regard, Panama is pleased
and appreciative for the support received from the World Bank in
designing its first Survey of National Living Standards, completed in
1997, which will furnish detailed information to policy makers on the
living standards of its population. It is largely on this survey and
with the advice of the World Bank that the New Strategic Focus on
Poverty referred to earlier was prepared.
                                  2


The rich statistical and analytical information yielded by this survey
will permit the discussion, design and evaluation of a new generation
of reforms in the social area that will include education, health and
other programs directed to marginal groups in remote areas of the
country. These measures will complement the reforms already underway
so that all Panamanians will have access to the benefits of economic
growth.
A new comprehensive environmental law has been adopted that will
require that all investment projects - including social and economic
infrastructure   projects-  to   be  executed   according  to   modern
environmental standards, including environmental and social impact
assessments, development of mitigation measures, and consultation with
civil society.
It is necessary to point out that the          current crisis in the
international financial markets has impacted   not only Panama but all
of Latin America, the consequences of which     are not yet completely
clear. Therefore, Panama may well require to    recur to the World Bank
to use its guarantee lines to finance and       mobilize resources for
projects of social reform or investments.
Finally, on behalf of my Panamanian authorities, I wish to thank the
Bank for the technical support and financing offered to Panama
throughout the long process of implementing its social and economic
reforms agenda. Panama trusts that it can continue to count on the
IBRD Group participation in the future development of the   country.
