Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPORT NO.
19612
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(44100)
ONA
LOAN
rN THE AMOUNT OF US$61 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF PANAMA
FOR THE PUBLIC POLICY REFORM ADJUSTMENT LOAN
May 5, 2000
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
Central America Countrv Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective March 2000)
Currency Unit = Balboa
1 Balboa = US$ I
US$ 1 = 1 Balboa
FISCAL YEAR
January I  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BDA                 Agriculture Development Bank
CAS                 Country Assistance Strategy
CLICAC              Competition and Consumer Affairs Commission
DDSR                Debt and Debt Service Reduction
EFF                 Extended Fund Facility
ERL                 Economic Recovery Loan
FES                 Social Emergency Fund
GDP                 Gross Domestic Product
IDB                 Inter-American Development Bank
IMF                 International Monetary Fund
LSMS                Living Standards Measurement Survey
MIPPE               Ministry of Planning and Economic Policy
OED                 Operations Evaluation Department
PPF                 Project Preparation Facility
PPRAL               Public Policy Reform Adjustment Loan
SAL                 Structural Adjustment Loan
SIACAP              Savings and Pension Fund for Public Employees
TA                  Technical Assistance
TAL                 Technical Assistance Loan
WTO                 World Trade Organization
Vice President:   David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:   Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Manager/Director:   Guillermo Perry
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Mateen Thobani



FOR OFMICIAL USE ONLY
Implementation Completion Repor.
Panama Public Policy Reform Adjustment Loan
CONTENTS
Page No.
I. Project Data                                                                           I
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                          1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design., and of Quality at Entry               2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                   3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                     5
6. Sustainabilitv                                                                         5
7. Bank and Borrower Perfonnance                                                          6
8. Lessons Learned                                                                        7
9. Partner Comments                                                                       8
10. Additional Information                                                                9
Annex 1. Key Perfornance IndicatorsiLog Frame Matrix                                     10
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                     12
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                     13
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                     14
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                     1 5
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                        16
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                    17
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P050608                                         Project AName. PA PUBLIC POLICY REFORM
Team Leader: Mateen Thobani                                 TL Unit. LCSPE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                          Report Date. Mdav 5, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: PA PUBLIC POLICY REFORM                          L/C.TFNumber: 44100
Country/Department: PANAMA                                                  Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: ME - Economic Management
KEY DATES
Original            Revised'Actual
PCD:  08/10/98                                  Effective.  11/30/98            1 1i30/98
A4ppraisal:  08/10/98                                   MTR.
Approval:  11/19/98                                  Closing: 02/22/99             02/22/99
Borrower.lmplementing Agency: REPUBLIC OF PANAMA/MINISTRY OF PLANNING AND ECONOMIC
POLICY
Other Partners:
STAFF                 Current                                     At Appraisal
Vice President:       David De Ferranti                           Shahid Javed Burki
Country Manager:      D-M Dowsett-Coirolo                         Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Manager:       Guillermo Perry                             Guillermo Perry
Team Leader at ICR.   Federico Changanaqui                        Richard Ground
ICR Primary.Author:   Mateen Thobani
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely. HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial. M=Wodest. N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Instituuional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)         ICR
Quality at Entry:
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The Bank has supported Panama's policy reforms and debt reduction efforts since the early 1990s. In
March 1997, the Bank completed the Economic Recovery Loan (ERL), which supported a wide range of
structural reforms. The Government requested continued Bank support to complete a set of reforms in its
Public Policy Reform Program. Given that the Administration was nearing the end of its termn, the
Government requested a one-tranche operation. The Govermment complied with all Board presentation
conditions. The Public Policy Reform Adjustment Loan (PPRAL) supported the Government's Public
Policy Reform Program, which aimed to lay the groundwork for accelerating growth within a stable
macroeconomic environment, and for achieving a significant reduction in poverty and inequality.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The Loan objectives were not revised.
3.3 Original Components:
The Loan supported a subset of the components of the Government's Public Policy Reform Program,
including measures to:. (i) deepen the trade reform process to stimulate growth over the medium-term and
reduce poverty; (ii) implement social security reform as it relates to the private pension regime for state
employees; (iii) implement domestic competition reform to complement trade reform; and (iv) adopt and
initiate implementation of an agreed Poverty Reduction Strategy and Action Plan. This was a one-tranche
adjustment loan, for which conditions were met by the time of Board approval.
3.4 Revised Components:
Components were not revised.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The operation was not selected for a quality at entry assessment by the Bank's Quality Assurance Group.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The loan aimed to. lay the basis for a recovery of growth through a stable macroeconomic framework and
the deepening of structural reforms, and to develop a comprehensive and longer-term poverty reduction
strategy and action plan. As described in 4.2 below, these objectives were substantially achieved.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Macroeconomic Framework
Under the loan, the Government agreed to maintain a sound macroeconomic framework as determined on
the basis of agreed indicators. As the Government's macroeconomic program was supported by an
Extended Fund Facility (EFF) from the IMF, the Govermment and Bank agreed to use the same indicators,
especially as they related to fiscal targets (Table 1). The Government failed to meet the 1998 fiscal targets
because of election-year spending pressures, leading to a sharp rise in public investment from the
programmed 4.2 percent of GDP to 6.4 percent (Annex 1, Table 1.2). According to the Government, the
increased investments were mainly on roads, reflecting very rapid execution of existing foreign-funded
projects. Current expenditures rose by 0.6 percent of GDP relative to the program, matched by an increase
of 0.6 percent in current revenues.
-2 -



Table 1: Key Fiscal Targets (% of GDP)
Indicator                                     Program                  Outcome (1998)
Non-financial public sector deficit             0.7                          3.0
Public savings                                  2.9                          2.4
Net external financing                          4.7                          5.0
Net domestic financing                          -3.6                        -1.7
Although the 1998 macroeconomic targets were not met, the macroeconomic situation remained stable,
with GDP growth of 4.1 percent and inflation of 1.4 percent in 1998. Gross private investment, which
was projected at 22.8 percent of GDP under the program reached 27.9 in 1998, boosted by increased
foreign direct investment in the reverted areas. Investor confidence in the economy remained high, with
foreign direct investment equivalent to 12.6 percent of GDP in 1999. Real GDP grew by 3.2 percent
(preliminary) and the overall public deficit was reduced from 3 percent of GDP in 1998 to 1.2 percent in
1999. The decline in the public sector deficit reflected efforts by the outgoing and incoming
administrations to restrain expenditures after the election-induced expansion in late 1998. Inflation
remained virtually unchanged from the previous year and the unemployment rate fell from 13.6 percent in
1998 to 11.6 percent in 1999. The economic performance is particularly commendable given depressed
Latin American demand, which has lowered canal revenues and led to a sharp decline in re-export revenues
from the Colon Free Zone.
Trade Reform
Under the PPRAL, the Government deepened the tariff reform begun in the ERL. It published a decree
reducing ad valorem import tariffs on selected products to 10 percent from 20-50 percent. Also, with the
exception of automobiles, milk and milk products, and rice, it reduced import tariffs on all other goods to a
maximum of 15 percent and consolidated all reduced tariffs into five rates: 15, 10, 5, 3, and 0 percent.
Tariffs on rice and milk products were also lowered by 10 percentage points (to 50 and 40 percent
respectively). Tariffs on rice were to fall to 30 percent by 2000. The above actions were part of the Loan
conditions. In addition, the policy matrix also describes the prior approval of WTO protocol and related
legislation.
The tariff reforms are achieving their desired results. The price of the basic consumer basket has declired
further and there is a noticeable increase in the quality and variety of goods in the market. A study by
CLICAC also shows substantial price declines in many classes of consumer goods and construction
materials. However, the gains are less than their potential due to administrative and health-related barriers,
which limit the impact of the reduction in tariffs. At the same time, the dire predictions of massive
unemployment by some skeptics have not materialized. In fact, the unemployment rate fell in 1999.
However, there have been losses in some agricultural incomes, which has led to ad hoc income support
programs. Nonetheless, objectives were substantially achieved.
Domestic Competition Reform
The Government has made a satisfactory start in promoting competition and improving consumer
protection. Regulations for Title I (protection against monopolistic practices) of the Law on Competition
Policy were issued and being implemented by the Competition and Consumer Affairs Commission
(CLICAC). Several cases of monopolistic practices and market concentration are being investigated-for
example, collusion among flour millers, airline mergers, bid-rigging on government contracts by medical
oxygen suppliers, and market concentration of auto spare parts. CLICAC has also been successful in
- 3 -



preventing oligopolies in the sugar industry and, jointly with MIPPE (MIPPE was abolished by the new
Administration and its functions absorbed by a new Ministry of Economy and Finance), has been
pro-active in promoting competition in medicines, fuels, and transport, though with limited success. It has
also provided education on consumer rights, issued funes for having expired items on grocery store shelves.
and published prices on many consumer items. Overall, there appears to be a discernible change in the
attitude away from price controls (which have been eliminated) toward competition and consumer rights.
On the other hand, regulations for the other titles to the Competition Law have yet to be prepared and there
have been few victories with respect to anti-competitive practices to date. This is partly because of the
slow judicial process but also because of the slow pace of preparation stemming from limited institutional
capacity. In addition, CLICAC could usefully focus more on promoting deregulation and less on enforcing
existing laws and regulations. Additional technical assistance could be provided through a possible
technical assistance loan (PPRTAL) to help improve the speed of implementation and the relevancy of
reforms. The objectives supported by the Loan were substantially met.
Social Security Reform
Slow bul steady progress has been made in the Govermment's attempt to move the supplemental social
security program for government employees from a publicly-administered one based on defined benefits to
a fully-funded. privately-administered program based on defined contributions. Laws and regulations for
this purpose were issued in 1997 and 1998. Government employees now know the extent of their vested
interest in this voluntary program. Following a competitive pre-qualification and bidding process, the
Government has selected a private company that will register the public sector employees and make
payments to retired employees. In addition, the selecting of ftrms that will be responsible for investing the
funds has been completed and the Cabinet has authorized the issuance of bonds. Although the
implementation was somewhat slower than originally envisaged, the objectives have now been
substantially met. This measure is expected to improve fiscal discipline and strengthen public finances
over the medium and long-termn.
Povert, Reduction Strategy
The Government made substantial progress in the adoption of its poverty reduction strategy and action
plan. Promulgation of the strategy and issuance by MIPPE of an action plan were conditions under the
Loan. The process of consultation between MIPPE and line ministries implementing the poverty reduction
programs as well as between the Government and civil society has been impressive. The poverty map was
completed and distributed to relevant line ministries as well as to members of civil society and industrial
groups. Line ministries prepared detailed operational plans for 1999 that are better targeted to the poor.
These plans describe for each program, the objectives, coverage, target group, extent of community
participation. amounts budgeted, and annual output targets. The process of preparing the operational plan
and its focus on targeting may already have helped reallocate funds to higher priority activities, improved
coordination, and raised awareness on the need for decentralization and community participation.
The pace of implementation of the action plan was affected by budget cuts during 1999, affecting
several of the programs in the action plan. Nonetheless, the Government is very pleased with the Bank's
assistance in the preparation of the Government's poverty reduction strategy and action plan. The
collaborative effort in preparation of the Bank's Poverty Assessment has also resulted in capacity building
and appears to have generated a strong commitment for poverty reduction efforts among ministry officials.
Moreover, as the incoming administration has publicly supported targeted poverty reduction programs, the
probability of sustainability of reforms is high.
- 4 -



4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A
4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Institutional development was not an explicit objective of the operation, although work under the Bank's
Poverty Assessment (prepared jointly with the Government) and the Bank's support for the preparation of
the Government's poverty reduction strategy and action plan resulted in considerable capacity building in
MIPPE.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Panama faced a difficult external environrment during 1998 and 1999. The Asian crisis which later
extended to Latin America adversely affected Canal traffic and the operations of the Colon Free Zone,
depressing revenues and economic activity.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Program implementation was also made more difficult by the political transition. Election year spending
pressures pushed fiscal policy off-track in 1998 and fiscal performance criteria were not met. Despite this
setback, once the election was concluded, the outgoing and incoming administrations made a successful
effort to reign in expenditures and thus managed to reduce the overall public sector deficit from 3 percent
of GDP in 1998 to 1.2 percent in 1999.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
N/A
5.4 Costs and financing:
N/A
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The overall sustainability of the reforms supported by the Loan appears likely, although the new
administration has backtracked somewhat on trade reforms. On the macroeconomic side, even though
fiscal targets were not met, the macroeconomic situation improved in 1999. While it is too soon to evaluate
the sustainability of the macroeconomic program, the new administration has expressed its commitment to
fiscal discipline. The competition policy reforms are beginning to get recognition and support and
CLICAC has the legislative mandate to withstand the challenge of a policy reversal. Similarly, the social
security measures are largely complete with little chance of reversal, and in fact provide a good basis for
further reforms to improve the social security system's financial position and to increase administrative
- 5 -



efficiency. The new administration has expressed support for the poverty reduction program and action
plan, and has indicated its implementation will be a high Government priority. The WTO-related
legislation on trade policy is entrenched in law and will be difficult to change. The Government, however,
following up on commitments during the campaign, raised tariff rates on a number of grains, vegetables,
meat, milk and prepared food. These measures were taken despite the fact that analysis carried out as part
of the Bank's Poverty Assessment pointed out that the net effect of the trade reforms on consumers,
including both the urban and a number of the rural poor, is positive. The Government, in turn pointed out
that some farmer groups have been negatively impacted by the dual effects of the severe drop in commodity
prices and tariff reductions. It also argued that, while not disagreeing with the need for trade reforms, the
tariff reduction adopted by the previous administration had gone too far, and that its tariff increases were
within the ceilings permissible under Panama's agreement with WTO.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Given the change in administration, no specific transition arrangements were made for a follow-on
adjustment operation. The Bank had initially planned a Technical Assistance Loan, that would support the
new administration in preparing its structural reform program. The new Government has not indicated
whether it will request technical support for its program.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. 1 Lending:
The Bank's performance in project identification, preparation assistance, and appraisal is satisfactory. As
Loan conditions were met before Board presentation, there were no supervision missions and the Loan
closed soon thereafter. Because of preparatory activities on a possible follow-on technical assistance loan,
Bank staff continued to visit Panama and carried on with follow-up activities related to the policy reforms.
The ICR preparation mission was delayed in order to permit a better evaluation of Loan objectives and
sustainability prospects. The operation concentrated on policy measures in selected areas that were being
implemented up-front by the Government, which assured Borrower commitment and ownership. The Bank
played a useful role in assisting with the design of reforms and providing technical assistance for their
implementation. Coordination between the Bank, IDB, and IMF was good. The Government was very
pleased with the quality and responsiveness of the Bank teamn, in particular staff working on the Poverty
Assessment which underpinned the Loan's poverty action plan. Some officials, however, regretted that the
Bank did not prepare the proposed TA loan with the outgoing administration. The Bank, however, felt that
given the uncertainty regarding the new Government's reform program, it would have been imprudent and
possibly counterproductive to have negotiated and approved a TA loan to support a set of, as yet,
undefined reforms.
7.2 Supervision:
Since this was a one-tranche operation with all conditions met before Board, there were no actual
supervision missions. As discussed above in 7.1, however, Bank missions visited Panama regularly to
assess economic developments, review progress in key reformn areas and continue the work of the Poverty
Assessment.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall bank perfornance was satisfactory. The use of a one-tranche operation was a good way of
- 6 -



supporting a pending reform agenda in the last period of an outgoing administration, without leaving
compliance with tranche conditions for a new government to implement.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower performance was satisfactory in preparation and design of the adjustment operation. The design
of the operation effectively picked up a number of key reforms that remained from the Government's
previous adjustment effort.
7. 5 Government implementation performance:
The Government met all conditions except those related to the fiscal measures. While it was probably
unwise to agree to reduce public expenditures in an election year, the bulk of expenditure overruns were on
capital expenditures, mostly worthwhile public investments, according to the Government. The
macroeconomic outlook appears good. Implementation has also been good, although somewhat slow in one
or two areas. Commitment to the program by the outgoing Government was very good. Except for the
reversal on import tariffs, there are no indications that the new administration plans to reverse the reforns
supported by the PPRAL.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
N/A
7. 7 Overall Borrowver performance:
Overall borrower performance is judged satisfactory. It was highly satisfactory in all aspects of the
operation, except for the lack of compliance with the fiscal targets due to electoral pressures on
expenditures.
8. Lessons Learned
Borrower ownership and selectivity in conditionality were key to the operation's success. The Government
had already decided to implement many of the reforns. The Bank provided useful advice and technical
assistance but did not push the Government to go beyond its comfort level. Having learned from the
difficult implementation experience of the ERL, the Bank and Government concentrated on a few key
policy areas and a limited set of covenants. To minimize the risk of not meeting all conditions, the Bank
designed the operation so that all conditions were met before Board presentation. This was particularly
important as the Loan was approved just six months before the presidential election.
While the reform program was largely successful, three measures might have improved the implementation
and sustainability of the reforms. First, a stronger public awareness campaign to explain the rationale for
the reforms could have been built into the program. Increased public awareness and information is
particularly important in Panama, which has seen decades of interventionist policies and where benefits of
competition and market-oriented policies have limited acceptance.
Second, the Bank could have urged and supported the Government in devising a clear strategy on how to
address the needs of poor producers that would be negatively affected by the trade reform program. To
compensate for alleged losses in some agricultural incomes, the Government has succumbed to pressures to
- 7 -



make US$ 10 million available to pork, corn, and tomato producers through the state-owned Agricultural
Development Bank (BDA), and there are pressures for providing similar support to other producers.
Rather than providing relief through such ad hoc means, or increasing tariff levels, the Government should
devise a strategy for minimizing the transitional impact, while encouraging non-competitive farmers to shift
to other economic activities.
Third, the difficulty of reducing the share of public expenditures in an election year could have been
foreseen by the IMF and the Bank, and program targets adjusted accordingly, particularly since the fiscal
situation was better than in most Latin American countries. This would have been difficult to accomplish,
given that as is generally the case where there is a Fund program in place, the Bank and the Government
agreed to rely on the macroeconomic targets negotiated in the Fund's EFF to assess the appropriateness of
the macroeconomic framework. It is possible, however, that more realistic fiscal assumptions could have
led to better planning and phasing of the subsequent budget cuts that were required to reduce overspending
in the pre-election period.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrowerl;implementing agency:
This section presents the unedited comments from the borrower.
The Public Policy Reform Adjustment Loan (PPRAL) (Loan No. 4410 PA) in the amount of US$61
million was a single-tranche loan for which the conditionality was met prior to its presentation to the
Executive Board on November 19, 1998.
The objectives of the loan were to support the Government's Public Policy Reform Program, which aimed
to lay the groundwork for accelerating economic growth within a stable macroeconomic environment in
order to achieve a significant reduction in poverty and inequality.
The PPRAL supported a series of policy reform measures which included deepening trade reform,
continuing reforms of the Saving and Pension Fund for Public Employees (SIACAP), implementing the
Competition Law, and adopting and initiating a Poverty Reduction Strategy and Action Plan.
The operation was a follow-up to an Economic Recovery Loan (ERL) which was signed in 1992 and
disbursed in three tranches, the last two of which were satisfactorily disbursed under the present
Government [refers to the previous Balladares Administration].
The economic philosophy underlying the two operations was consistent with the Public Policy Program
developed beginning in 1994, the general objective of which was to reduce poverty by promoting
broad-based economic growvth.
The Government believes that the PPRAL made it possible to pursue and deepen the economic measures
contained in the Government Plan. The loan also underscored the Government's commitment to its Public
Policy Reform Program.
With regard to trade reform, the PPRAL ensured support for public financing in the light of a possible
decline in import revenues occasioned by tariff reductions adopted unilaterally in 1997. As of January 1,
1998 Panama's ad valorein tariff structure included five rates: 0, 3, 5, 10, and 15 per cent, with a few
exceptions.
-8 -



The tariff reduction led to substantial price decreases in many classes of consumer goods and construction
materials and also fostered the diversification of those items. The decline paved the way for improved
resource allocation, encouraged greater competition, and promoted the opening up of the economy.
Following this, the Government, with Bank support, gradually introduced Regulations for the Competition
Law dated February 29, 1996 and for the Phytosanitary and Zoosanitary Laws. These regulations,
together with trade reform, are the mainstays of the effort to promote competition in the Panamanian
economy.
The Government continued with its timetable for implementing SIACAP. In December 1998 four firms
were prequalified for the purpose of selecting the Fund's investment administrators. In January 1999 the
Credicorp Bank consortium was selected by international competitive bidding to serve as the entity
responsible for registration and payments. On August 17th five firms - Profuturo, Progreso de
Inversiones, Banco DISA-ING, and Banco de Bilbao Vizcaya- Wall Street Burscitil - were selected to
serve, along with the Social Security Agency, as the system's investment administrators.
The sale of SIACAP recognition bonds was approved by Cabinet Decree No. 16 dated July 14, 1999. In
addition, the initial bond issue administration contract was signed and countersigned by the Ministry of
Economy and Finance, the Office of the Controller-General, and Empresa Latinoamericana de Valores
(the custodian and payment and transfer agent).
In keeping with the objectives of the Public Policy Program, the Government adopted the Poverty
Reduction Strategy by Cabinet Decree in August 1998 and submitted a supplementary letter to the Bank
listing a series of actions to be carried out during 1999.
In conclusion, the economic and social measures which Nvere adopted led to increased economic growth,
notvithstanding the unfavorable external environment.
The loan facilitated the orderly management of public finances, thereby attracting external credit. The role
of the State has been altered and transformed, and the State now plays a less active role in the economy. In
addition, private investment - both domestic and foreign - has increased.
(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A
10. Additional Information
N/A
-9-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
The operation did not include outcome impact indicators. A table indicating compliance with conditionality
and a table with key economic indicators are included in this section.
Table 1.1: Loan Objectives and Cor npliance with Conditionality.
Objective                Conditionality/Covenant                   Status
Appropriate macroeconomic       Continued maintenance of a sound   Partially fulfilled. As explained in
framework, consistent with the  macroeconomic framework,         Section 4.2, the Government failed to
objectives of the program.      consistent with the objectives of the  meet the fiscal targets. Improved
Program, as determined on the basis fiscal policies were adopted in 1999
of indicators agreed by the Borrower and the economy remains stable.
and the Bank.
Reduce the level of protection and   (a) Approval of WTO Protocol and  (a) Fulfilled.
increase openness to trade.     associated legislation.          (b) Fulfilled, as per Borrower's
(b) Reduction of import tariffs on    Cabinet Decree No. 37, dated July
selected products from 20-50% ad   24, 1997.
valorem to 10% ad valorem; and    (c) Fulfilled, as per the Borrower's
(c) Reduction of all import tariffs to  Cabinet Decree No. 68, dated
a maximum of 15% ad valorem, with November 12, 1997
the exception of tariffs on
automobiles, milk and milk products,
rice; and consolidation of all such
reduced tariffs into 5 rates (15%,
10%, 5%,3% and 0%).
Improve competition.            Entry into effect and initial    Fulfilled, as per the Borrower's
implementation, satisfactory to the   Executive Decree No. 31, dated
Bank of the regulations to implement September 3, 1998 regulating Law
the Competition Policy.         No. 29 dated February 1, 1996 on
Competition Policy.
Create Private Pension System for   Entiy into effect and initial  Fulfilled, as per the Borrower's
Public Employees (SIACAP), Law   implementation, of the social   Executive Decree No. 32. dated July
No. 8 (approved February 1997).    security reforms.             6, 1998, issued to support social
security reform activities of SIACAP.
Prepare and adopt a Poverty     (a) Adopt a Poverty Reduction    Fulfilled. (a) The Poverty Reduction
Reduction Strategy and Action Plan. Strategy by means of a Cabinet  Strategy was signed as Cabinet
Resolution; and                 Resolution No. 134 on September 17,
(b) Issue an Action Plan setting forth 1998; and (b) A supplementary
the specific actions for        Letter signed on September 25, 1998,
implementation of the Strategy.  outlines the actions planned to
implement the Poverty Reduction
Strategy.
- 10 -



Table 1.2: Key Economic Indicators, 1997-99
Forecast in President's Report                   Outcome
Indicator          1997   1998    1999    2000    2001   1997-99   1997    1998   1999p 1997-99
Real Growth rates (%)
GDP mp                    4.4    4.0      4.1      4.5     5.0      4.2      4.5     4.1    3.2    3.9
GDP pc                    2.8    2.4      2.7      3.1     3.6      2.6      2.8     2.3    1.5    2.2
CPI Inflation(%)           1.3    0.5      1.0      1.0     1.2      0.9     -0.5      1.4    1.5    0.8
As % of Current GDP
Gross Domestic           25.4   27.0    27.3    27.4    27.6    26.6    31.1    34.3   34.4   33.3
Investment
o/w: Public Investment   4.4    4.2      3.0     2.9      2.9      3.9      4.3     6.4    5.0    5.2
Gross National Savings   22.4   22.6    23.6    25.1    25.5    22.9    24.1    21.0   20.5   21.9
o/w: Public Savings      3.3    2.9      2.0      3.4     3.7      2.7      3.0     2.4    2.9    2.8
Non-Fin. Pub. Sector      -0.3    -0.7    -1.0     0.4      0.8     -0.8     -0.2    -3.0   -1.2   -1.5
B alan.                   _ _  _  _ _  _  _ _ _     _ _     _ _ _  _  _ _                             _ _
Current Account Balance    -3.0   -4.4    -3.7    -2.3    -2.1    -3.7       -6.9    -13.3  -13.9  -11.4
The Govemment carried out a major revision of its balance of payments statistics. The new data are shown under outcomes.
Therefore, figures for savings, investment and balance of payments are not directly comparable to the ones projected in the
President's Report. Historical data with the new methodology are not available.
Sources: Office of the Comptroller General and IMF.
- 11 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
As a one-tranche adjustment operation, there are no project costs or procurement arrangements to report.
The loan amount was US$61.0 million which remained unchanged and was fully disbursed.
- 12-



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
N/A
-13 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
a) Missions:
Identiicadon/Mrep ar         C             eiLtyon               ;s                          Obctiv
Identification/Preparation          4   Country Officer, Economist,
October 1997                       civil service, competition/private
sector development
Appraisal/Negotiation
December 1997                  9   Country officer,
trade/agriculture, social
security, civil service,
country analyst, Sr.
Economist,
competition/private sector
development
March 1998                     1   Sr. Economist
May 1998                       6   Economist, Sr. Economist,
poverty reduction, health sector,
education sector
June 1998                      1   Poverty reduction
August 1998                    6   Economist, trade/agriculture,
social security, Sr. Economist,
legal counsel,
competition/private sector
development
August 1998                    2   Sr. Economist, poverty reduction
Supervision
N/A
ICR
July 1998                      I   Sr. Economist                         S                  S
(b) Staff
-   tag-eco rjt°Cce                         Actual/Latestw Estimate
.__________                    sN   Stf ;} T)}wSekRs             US$(,00,X 0,i
Identification/Preparation                51.3                        161.9
Appraisal/Negotiation                      7.5                         17.3
Supervision                                3.0                         11.5
ICR                                        8.0                         21.5
Total                                     69.8                       212.2
- 14 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
OMacro policies                           O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
OSector Policies                          OH  *SUOM   O N  O NA
E Physical                                OH  OSUOM  O N  * NA
O Financial                               OH  0OSUOM  ON  * NA
O Institutional Development               0 H  O SU * M  0 N  0 NA
M Environmental                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction                O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
N Gender                           O H OSUOM O N * NA
5i Other (Please specify)
O Private sector development              0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
3 Public sector management                0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Other (Please specify)
- 15 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
D Lending                                            OHS@S OU OHU
L Supervision                                        OHS OS   O  U .O  HU
D Overall                                            OHS OS OU OHU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
D Preparation                                        O HS   s   Ou       O HU
L Government implementation performance              0 HS O S   0 U  0 HU
Li Implementation agency performance                 O HS * S   0 U  O HU
El Overall                                           OHS OS   O U  O HU
- 16 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
List of major studies related to the Loan and reform program.
Consultant Evaluation on the Social Security Component (December 1997)
Community Organization, Values and Social Capital in Panama (April 1998)
Redistributive Impact of Agricultural Trade and Pricing Reforms (May 1998)
Poverty, Vulnerability and Labor Markets in Panama (September 1998)
Poverty and Female Headed Households in Panama (September 1998)
Urban Poverty in Panama (October 1998)
Incidence of Public Heath Spending in Panama (October 1998)
Poverty in Indigenous Populations in Panama (April 1999)
Agriculture and Rural Poverty in Panama (April 1999)
Malnutrition in Panama: An Analysis of LSMS Data (April 1999)
Inequality in Panama (April 1999)
The Determinants of Poverty in Panama (April 1999)
Panama Poverty Assessment (IBRD Report No. 18801) (June 1999)
Effects of Tariff Reductions on Consumer prices of Some Products of the Basic Food Basket,
Household Consumption Products, and Construction materials (in Spanish) (August 1999)
- 17 -



0,



