Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
Report No. P 7263 PAN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
ON A
PROPOSED PUBLIC POLICY REFORM ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$61 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF PANAMA
October 29, 1998
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    = Balboa
US$ 1.00        = Balboa 1.00
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
LIST OF ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
BNP             National Bank of Panama
CAS             Country Assistance Strategy
CEM             Country Economic Memorandum
CFZ             Colon Free Zone
CLICAC          Competition and Consumer Affairs Commission
CPF             Complementary Pension Fund
DDSR            Debt and Debt Service Reduction
DOD             Department of Defense
DTF             Development Trust Fund
EFF             Extended Fund Facility
ERL             Economic Recovery Loan
FES             Social Emergency Fund
GDP             Gross Domestic Product
'GOP            Government of Panama
IBRD            International Bank of Reconstruction and Development
IDB             Inter-American Development Bank
IFC             International Finance Corporation
IFIs            International Financial Institutions
LAC             Latin America and the Caribbean
LSMS            Living Standards Measurement Survey
IMF             International Monetary Fund
MIGA            Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
MIPPE           Ministry of Planning and Economic Policy
NFPS            Non-financial Public Sector
PA              Arnulfista Party
PPF             Project Preparation Facility
PPRAL           Public Policy Reform Adjustment Loan
PPRTAL          Public Policy Reform Technical Assistance Loan
PRD             Revolutionary Democratic Party
PRIBA           Basic Infrastructure Reform Loan
SIACAP          Pension Fund for Public Employees
SSA             Social Security Agency
TAL             Technical Assistance Loan
Vice President:   Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director: Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Director:   Guillermo Perry
Lead Economist:  Lan Bainnon
Task Manager:   Federico Clhanganaqui



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PANAMA
PROPOSED PUBLIC POLICY REFORM ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TABLE OF CONTENTS
LOAN  AND PROJECT SUMMARY ..........................................................i
I. BACKGROUND                               ..........................................................              1
II. BANK  COUNTRY  ASSISTANCE PROGRAM ..........................................................3
III. MACROECONOMIC FRAMEWORK ..........................................................4
IV. PUBLIC POLICY  REFORM  PROGRAM  ..........................................................7
V. PROPOSED  PUBLIC POLICY  REFORM  ADJUSTMENT LOAN .......................................8
A. ORIGIN, SIZE AND TRANCHING ..........................................................8
B. PROPOSED PPRAL CoMPONENTS ..........................................................8
C. OTHER REFORMS NOT INCLUDED iN THE PPRAL ........................................................ 12
D. PLANNED PUBLIC POLICY REFORM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LO)AN ............                         ................ 16
E. BENEFITS AND RISKS ...................................................................                 16
V'I. RECOMMENDATION .........................................................                                      18
ANNEXES
A. LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
B SUPPLEMENTARY LETTER: 1999 ACTION PLAN FOR POVERTY REDUCTION
C. MATRIX OF POLICY ACTIONS
D. STATISTICAL TABLES
1-) Panama At A Glance
2-) Key Macroeconomic Indicators
3-) Non-Financial Public Sector External Financing
4-) Status of Bank Group Operations in Panama
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PANAMA
Public Policy Reform Adjustment Loan (PPRAL)
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:          Republic of Panama.
Amount:            US$61 million.
Implementing
Agency:            Ministry of Planning and Economic Policy.
Terms:             Single currency loan in dollars with a fixed interest rate
with 12 years maturity, including a 3 year grace period.
Schedule of
Disbursements:     One tranche to be disbursed upon effectiveness. All
conditionality has been met before Board presentation.
Program Objectives: The proposed Public Policy Reform Adjustment Loan (PPRAL)
would support the Government's Public Policy Reform Program,
which aims to lay the groundwork for accelerating growth within
a stable macroeconomic environment, and for achieving a
significant reduction in poverty and inequality.
Loan Description:   The proposed PPRAL would support a subset of the components
of the Government's Program outlined in the Letter of
Development Policy provided in Annex A, including measures to:
(i) deepen the trade reform process to stimulate growth over the
medium-term and reduce poverty; (ii) implement social security
reform as it relates to the private pension regime for state
employees; (iii) implement domestic competition reform to
complement trade  reform; and  (iv) adopt and  initiate
implementation of an agreed Poverty Reduction Strategy and
Action Plan, outlined in a Supplemental Letter provided in Annex
B. A matrix spelling out the policy actions supported by the loan
is provided in Annex C.
Benefits:         In addition to supporting the Government's fiscal program and
financing plan (together with the IDB and IME), the PPRAL would
focus on those areas where impact on growth, fiscal sustainability,
poverty and inequality is expected to be significant. Accordingly,
benefits of the PPRAL include:  (i) providing an enabling
environment for private sector-led growth by maintaining a stable
macroeconomic framework and improving the functioning of
markets by starting implementation of the Competition law, which



removed all remaining price controls and established the anti-trust
and consumer protection framework; (ii) enhancing fiscal
sustainability by implementing a private, supplementary fully-
funded voluntary pension scheme to replace the deficit generating
Complementary Fund; (iii) increasing the economy's overall
efficiency over the medium-term, and impacting positively on
poverty through trade reform; and (iv) developing a comprehensive
Poverty Reduction Strategy and Action Plan to assist the
Government in achieving a significant reduction in poverty and
inequality, to target public expenditures to improve the nutrition,
health and education of the most disadvantaged - the rural
population, indigenous communities and children.
Risks:             The risk that the actions to be backed by the proposed PPRAL will
not materialize is judged to be modest, as all loan conditions have
already been met. So far, the Government has shown no signs of
policy reversals or slowdown in the implementation of reforms.
On the political front, should the opposition win the May 1999
elections, there is a risk that reform momentum could slow and
some reforms could be halted or reversed. However, the risk of
overall backtracking is slight, for several reasons. First, the new
Administration will need to maintain progress in economic reforms
in order to ensure investor confidence, especially in the year when
the Canal reverts to Panama. Second, the important support of the
international community to improve infrastructure, strengthen
institutions and improve the effectiveness of social programs,
would be affected in the event of major policy reversals. Third,
there is a growing public awareness that dealing with poverty and
inequality will require a comprehensive set of policy reforms and
targeted interventions. The Bank would work with the Authorities
to avert policy reform reversals through discussions with the new
economic and social teams during the transition to the new
Government, dissemination of the results of the Poverty
Assessment to build consensus on the policy reforms needed to
sustain a determined attack on poverty and inequality, and through
the overall implementation of the Country Assistance Strategy.
Map:              IBRD No. 29549
Project
Identification No.:  PA- PE 50608
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED PUBLIC POLICY REFORM ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF PANAMA
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Public Policy Reform Adjustment Loan (PPRAL) to the Republic of Panama for US$61 million
to support the Government's Public Policy Reform Program. The loan would be a single
currency loan in US dollars with a fixed interest rate with 12 years' maturity, including a three-
year grace period. The loan would be fully disbursed in one tranche upon effectiveness.  The
proposed loan would be the fourth adjustment loan for Panama and is a key component in the
Country Assistance Strategy which is being presented to the Board together with this loan'.
I. BACKGROUND
2.    Distortions and Crisis. Although it was once one of the more prosperous and stable
economies in LAC, in the 1970s Panama adopted highly protectionist and distortionary policies
that ultimately stifled growth, generated a large external debt, created a highly dualistic
economy, exacerbated poverty, and led to a marked increase in inequality. As state expenditure
mounted and policy interventions proliferated, domestic prices of importables and nontraded
goods rose faster than international prices despite the U.S. dollar-based monetary regime;
productive private investment was crowded out and foreign investment dried up; and the
competitiveness of international services, the economy's mainstay, was eroded. Social services
were expanded greatly, especially social security for public sector employees and tertiary
education, but unemployment soared and two-fifths of the population was pushed into poverty
despite Panama's relatively high average per capita income, leaving the country with a highly
unequal distribution of income.
3.    The expansion of the state and inflated domestic absorption were financed by high
foreign borrowing: in 1980, Panama had one of the heaviest commercial bank debt burdens in
the world. During the early 1980s, these distortions, together with the debt crisis, plunged the
economy into recession. The Bank and other donors attempted to engage Panama in addressing
these distortions, but with very few results. Under SAL I (1983, US$60 million) Panama lifted
some export restrictions and price controls, shifted from quotas to import tariffs on a range of
industrial goods, privatized one hotel and a sugar mill, and closed a public development bank.
SAL 11 (1986, US$100 million) aimed at deepening these initiatives, but because of failure to
reform the social security system, backtracking on trade reform, and general deterioration of
economic management, SAL II was cancelled. In 1987-88, Panama ceased to service its
commercial debt and fell into arrears with multilaterals. By end-1989, GDP had fallen by 16%,
mismanagement and external sanctions had demonetized the economy, and unemployment had
climbed to 20%.
'Country Assistance Strategy for FY99-01 (Report No. 18421-PAN, October 29, 1998).



-2 -
4.   Initiation of Economic Recovery. Since 1990, the country has come a long way towards
achieving a political and economic recovery. In the first several years, growth was based mainly
on a boom in construction and other nontradables, and arrears accumulation. By 1994, GDP
reached pre-crisis levels, but in the absence of fundamental structural changes in the economy,
growth fell back to the modest 2% trend of the previous two decades and poverty continued to
ifester. A change of Government in that year marked an important turning point for Panama.
Subsequently, over the last four years, the Government has undertaken many of the critical
reforms needed to stimulate more broad-based growth and begin attacking widespread poverty.
It dismantled a labyrinth of trade barriers and price controls; undertook a far-reaching
privatization program and issued anti-trust and consumer protection legislation; concluded a
]Debt and Debt Service Reduction (DDSR) accord which restored Panama's access to
international financial markets; and strengthened public finances, having downsized the state and
external debt. The Bank supported these reforms through a DDSR Loan (US$30 million, 1997)
and the Economic Recovery Loan (ERL, US$120 million, 1992), whose third tranche was
released in 1997, and is working with the Administration to consolidate and deepen the reform
process.
'5.    Acceleration of Economic Growth. After several years of little growth, the Panamanian
economy began to respond to the reforms launched by the current Administration. In 1997, GDP
rose 4.4%, despite the effects of El Nino, a downturn in Canal operations (due to decreased grain
imports by China), and declining U.S. Defense Department demand. This acceleration of growth
was spearheaded by a 34% rise in the port sector (activity doubled in Manzanillo, Panama's first
private port, developed with IFC backing); a 15% increase in the CFZ; 9% growth in telecoms;
and an 8% rise in construction (as large private projects in ports, tourism and highways were
initiated). For the first time, economic growth reduced unemployment to 13.4% from 14.3% in
1996. Inflation was nil-the basic consumption price index actually dropped 4.6%, due to trade
reform and lower international commodity prices. Foreign investment reached US$850 million
(10% of GDP), primarily due to telecoms privatization. The public external debt, lowered by
14% of GDP by the DDSR, declined to 58% of GDP in 1997. Growth is expected to slow to 4%
in 1998 (down from original expectations of 5-6%), due mainly to El Nino's impact on
agriculture and hydroelectric generation, no growth of the CFZ because of the world financial
crisis, and a strike in the banana sector that affected most of the 1997 and 1998 production. The
three-year IMF Extended Fund Facility (EFF) approved in December 1997 is on track.
6.    Persistent Poverty and Inequality. Despite the country's impressive political and
economic recovery in recent years, one million Panamanians (37% of the population) are still
poor and 22% extremely poor, according to the 1997 Living Standards Measurement Survey
(LSMS) carried out as part of an ongoing joint Government-Bank Poverty Assessment.2. In
general terms, this was known before the LSMS and Poverty Assessment, as was the fact that
income inequality in Panama is among the highest in the world (Gini coefficient of 60 in 1997).
What the exercise did help to clarify was that inequality had worsened markedly in the past 14
years, and that poverty was more acutely concentrated in certain population groups than had
previously been realized. More than half of children and 95% of the indigenous population live
in poverty. In the early 1980s, the poorest quintile received 2.9% of income, while they received
1.5% in 1997. Less than half the population is rural, but three quarters of the poor and 88% of
2 Estimates subject to revision upon completion of data analysis.



-3 -
the extreme poor reside in the countryside. By far the poorest of these rural inhabitants are
indigenous peoples who, despite being just 8% of the population, account for one-fifth of the
poor and one-third of the extreme poor. Although poverty is largely a rural phenomenon, this
does not mean that urban poverty is unimportant-while only 16% of the urban population is
poor, one quarter is clustered just above the poverty line.
7.    High poverty and inequality are partly the legacy of policies that severely penalized
growth and employment and distorted social expenditures, redistributing income from the poor
to the non-poor. They also stem from poorly targeted safety nets, inadequate coverage of basic
infrastructure, limited ownership of assets and access to financial markets, and environmental
degradation. As a result, social indicators among Panama's poor resemble those of lower-
income countries. Indeed, 16% of all children are malnourished, including more than 25% of
poor children and 50% of indigenous children. In the poorest 40 districts of the country, infant
mortality rates are 40-50 per thousand live births compared to a national rate of 20. Only 16% of
extremely poor children and 27% of poor children attend pre-school, which has shown to be an
important input into future educational achievement, and the average educational attainment of
poor youths is just 4.5 years of schooling versus 8.6 for the non-poor. Only 50% of the rural
population has safe water, and only 9% of the rural poor are connected to wastewater systems,
with latrine use still limited among those lacking sanitation connections. In 1990, only 23% of
small farmers had titles to the land they occupied, virtually precluding them from Panama's well
developed financial markets. Moreover, the distribution of landholdings is the most skewed in
the region and agricultural productivity, whether measured in value added per land or labor, is
lower than in any Central American country.
II. BANK COUNTRY ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
8.    The previous CAS discussed by the Board on February 7, 1995 focussed on: (i) reviving
sustainable growth through implementation of the Government's structural reform program,
supported by the Bank's ERL and technical assistance; and (ii) poverty alleviation, through
project lending and a proposed Poverty Alleviation study. The CAS proposed a base case
lending program of about US$180 million over FY96-98, focussing on rural health and nutrition,
safety net, basic education, and rural poverty, and a high case of about US$225 million which
would add a DDSR loan to the base case. In the event, the Government complied with the
triggers for the high case and the resulting DDSR loan was crucial in helping Panama reduce its
external debt and restore access to international financial markets on favorable terms. The
remainder of the lending program focussed almost exclusively on poverty alleviation with
approved operations in Rural Health, Basic Education, the FES, Rural Poverty and Natural
Resources, and a Health Sector Reform Pilot LIL. These operations were complemented by
further technical support for the Government's privatization program (Utilities Restructuring
Project) and a second roads operation (Second Roads Rehabilitation Project). The Bank Group's
continued support for the Government's reform program proved highly effective. The CAS and
CEM prepared at the outset of the new Administration helped define a medium-term framework
for the reforms, and the ERL and its accompanying technical assistance and policy dialogue
provided supported in implementing the reform agenda.
9.    The new CAS for FY99-01 is guided by the results of intensive analytical work and
brainstorming with the Panamanian Government on the causes of poverty and inequality. The
conclusions are reflected in a formal Poverty Strategy and Action Plan adopted by the Cabinet in



-4 -
September 1998, which provides the framework for the thrust of the Bank's future assistance
program. The overriding objective is to reduce the high incidence of poverty and improve the
nutrition, health and education of low-income groups, targeting the rural population, indigenous
communities, and children. Specifically, the CAS seeks to reduce poverty from 2-4 percentage
points and extreme poverty by 1-3 percentage points by 2001. To achieve this, the CAS would
'focus on: (i) accelerating growth; (ii) expanding access of the poor to social services,
infrastructure and assets; (iii) improving safety nets; and (iv) fostering environmentally
sustainable development. There are no significant differences between the Government and the
Bank on the development agenda or policies. A base case lending program of US$225 million,
equivalent to the high case of the last CAS, reflects Panama's strong track record on structural
policy reform and macro-management over the last several years, and the quality of work on the
Poverty Strategy and Action Plan. Triggers for a lower case lending scenario would be: (i)
macro deterioration caused by the adoption of inadequate domestic macroeconomic polices
and/or backtracking on structural reforms; (ii) inadequate progress in implementing the Poverty
Strategy and Action Plan, especially in terms of expenditure reform; or (iii) significant
deterioration in our portfolio.
m. MACROECONOMIC FRAMEWORK
10.   Panama is mainly a service economy, with low shares of agriculture and industry. It has
strong links to international markets, primarily through banking, legal services, insurance,
shipping and the Colon Free Zone (CFZ). Services account for 75% of GDP, among the highest
in Latin America. With US$1,500 million in non-factor services exports, merchandise exports
are relatively small compared to the re-exports that take place through the CFZ. Panama is
therefore greatly influenced by developments in the external environment. To date, the impact of
the current international crisis on Panama has been limited, and the Government remains firmly
on track in striving to consolidate its fiscal and external balances in line with the performance
criteria in an ongoing three-year IMN Extended Fund Facility. The greatest short-term concern
of Panamanian policy makers is the possibility that a slowdown in global growth, especially in
the U.S. economy, would reduce demand for Panama's CFZ exports, Canal traffic, and other
services linked to world trade, with rapid transmission effects in the domestic economy.
Assuming no major worsening of international conditions or additional contagion effects in the
region, however, Panama should continue to reap the rewards it is beginning to experience from
ilts ambitious Public Policy Reform Program, with good medium-term growth prospects, which
wvill be essential for reducing unemployment, poverty and inequality.
11.   Base case scenario. As discussed earlier (para. 4), the Panamanian economy has recently
begun to respond to the reforms launched by the current Administration, with GDP growth in
1997 of 4.4%. Growth in 1998 and 1999 is expected to slow somewhat to about 4% (in contrast
to earlier expectations of 5-6%) due to the effects of El Nino and the impact of the world crisis,
increasing in subsequent years to 4.5-5% on the strength of the response of private investors to
Panama's enhanced credit standing and a deepening of structural reform efforts. Services and
service exports will account for most of this growth.
12.   Fiscal and external balances. A stable macroeconomic environment, that achieves and
sustains fiscal and external balances, is a key objective of the Government's reform program. To
this end, the Government has prepared a macroeconomic program for the period 1997-2000,
supported by the IMF's EFF arrangement. The Government has made good progress in meeting



-5 -
its macroeconomic targets during 1997 and 1998. In 1997, the Central Government registered a
deficit of 0.4% of GDP, against a surplus of 0.2% the year before. This shift reflected
transitional costs associated with the Public Policy Reform Program. The original target for the
overall central government balance had been a deficit of 2.2% of GDP. The much lower actual
1997 deficit number reflected the shift of payments of 1.8% of GDP owed by the central
government to the Social Security Agency (SSA), from 1997 to 1998. Disbursements from an
IMF Standby Arrangement, the Bank's ERL, Government of Japan (OECF) cofinancing of the
ERL, and IDB adjustment lending financed the deficit, and enabled the Government to eliminate
its remaining arrears and reduce its net domestic credit, reversing the drawdown in deposits it
had made in 1996 to finance part of the up-front costs of the DDSR.
PANAMA
Table 1: Selected Economic Indicators
Base-case scenario
Actual             Estimate        Projection
1992  1993  1994  1995  1996   1997  1998  1999  2000  2001
Real Growth Rates
GDPatmarketprices          8.2   5.5   2.9   1.8   2.5    4.4   4.0   4.1   4.5   5.0
GDP (mp) per capita        6.2   3.5   1.0   0.0   0.9    2.8   2.4   2.7   3.1   3.6
Shares of GDP (°/)
Gross Domestic Investment    19.7  24.1  24.5  26.2  23.6   25.4  27.0  27.3  27.4  27.6
of which: Public Lnvestnent    3.1   4.0   3.4   3.4   3.8    4.4   4.2   3.0   2.9   2.9
CunrentAccountBalance      4.3  -2.2  -0.4  -3.4  -1.6   -3.0   4.4  -3.7  -2.3  -2.1
Gross National Savings     15.4  22.0  24.1  22.8  22.0   22.4  22.6  23.6  25.1  25.5
NFPS Total Revenues       30.4  28.3  28.5  29.2  27.6   27.5  27.0  26.4  27.5  27.3
NFPS Deficit(-)/Surplus(+)  1.6  -1.4   0.3   0.2   0.4   -0.3  -0.7  -1.0   0.4   0.8
Other
MerchandiseExports2       40.9  15.2  18.6  -12.1  11.0   12.7  -8.8  14.3  12.4   8.3
Inflation (CPI % average)   1.8   0.5   1.3   0.9   1.3    1.3   0.5   1.0   1.0   1.2
Debt/ GDPmp ratio         76.6  76.0  73.2  71.8  64.5   57.8  59.5  57.1  54.6  51.5
DebtService/XGSrmtio      20.3   7.6   9.3   8.4  21.9   33.8  14.6  12.9  13.1  12.5
'See Annex B6-7 for an explanation and a more complete list of key economic indicators.
2Current UJS$ terms, annual percentage growth.            Source: MIPPE and Bank staff estimates.
13.    The central government deficit target for 1998 is larger, at 4%  of GDP, partly reflecting
further transitional costs (estimated at 2.1% of GDP) associated with the Public Policy Reform
Program, including: (i) the replacement this year of the Complementary Pension Fund by the
private pension plan (SIACAP) for public employees, (ii) privatization of the telecoms and state
power firms, and (iii) trade reform.  The rest of the increase in the deficit reflects the
aforementioned shift of payments of 1.8% of GDP owed by the central government to S SA, from
1997 to 1998. Projected net external financing, including US$61 million from the proposed
Bank adjustment loan, should more than cover the 1998 deficit, enabling the central government
to further replenish its deposits with the National Bank of Panama.
14.    The non-financial public sector (NFSP) deficit target for 1998 is 0.7% of GDP, compared
to 0.3% of GDP in 1997, and a surplus of 0.4% in 1996. The difference between the central
government and NFPS deficits reflects the surpluses of the SSA and state enterprises. In 1998,



-6 -
the NFPS exclusive of the central government is projected to register a surplus of 3.3% of GDP,
mainly the result of the projected surplus of the SSA. Part of this surplus (0.3% of GDP) would
be devoted to net repayments of external debt of these entities; the rest would be deposited in the
National Bank of Panama. By the year 2000, it is projected that the overall NFPS would return
to a surplus of around 0.4% of GDP and would begin paying down the external debt, as the
savings from structural reforms and revenue and expenditure measures would surpass the
itransitory costs of these reforms.
15.   Public investment is projected to drop from 4.4% of GDP in 1997 to less than 3% in
2000, compensated by growing private investment in infrastructure, the former Canal zone, and
services during the projection period. As a result of higher imports related to foreign investment
in infrastructure, mining and tourism, the current account deficit is projected to peak at 4.4% of
GDP in 1998, falling in real terms gradually thereafter. Merchandise exports growth would
average 6% through the projection period, following the development of export processing
zones, improved port facilities and a more liberal trade regime. In general, capital flows are
projected to practically cover the current account deficit. During 1998-00, foreign investment
inflows would result from the privatization of the electricity company (IHRE) and two copper
rnines (approximately US$500 million); the development of a new export processing zone in
Fort Davis, in the former Canal zone; the construction of a container terminal in Coco Solo; and
the construction of the southern expressway and the Colon highway. The net foreign assets of
the National Bank are projected to increase during the period.
16.   External Debt Management and Creditworthiness. In July 1996, the Government
concluded a DDSR operation, covering Panama's US$4 billion commercial bank debt, with the
support of a US$30 million DDSR loan from the Bank and financing from the IMF and IDB.
The DDSR reduced the debt by 14 percentage points of GDP and restored Panama.'s access to
international financial markets on favorable terms-at large savings to the country (9% of GDP).
In January 1997, international risk agencies assigned Panama a sovereign credit rating of BB+,
and an investment grade rating to the private sector. In February 1997, Panama returned to the
bond market for the first time since the early 1980s with a five-year eurobond issue that was
oversubscribed by US$200 million, reaching US$500 million; the spread was 175 basis points
over five-year Treasury Bonds (compared with a spread of about 900 basis points that Panama
had faced prior to the DDSR). The government used the proceeds to repurchase Brady bonds,
netting Panama savings of US$77 million (0.9% of GDP) in present value terms. In September
1997, the Government completed a US$610 million exchange of 30-year global bonds for Brady
bonds as part of a US$700 million issue, further reducing the net present value of the debt by
US$95 million (1.2% of GDP). The spread was 250 basis points, which is lower than those
obtained by the five other countries which have undertaken such exchanges. The Government
utilized released collateral for further debt reduction, in accordance with the provisions of the
DDSR loan. Finally, in April 1998, Panama placed a US$300 million bond issue in the
international market. The ten-year notes, which carried a spread of 265 basis points, enabled
Panama to mark another point on the yield curve, as well as to retire more expensive Brady
bonds (US$40 million) and short-term domestic debt (US$125 million), and build up a cushion
of bank deposits which will be drawn down in the first quarter of 1999, when the Government
faces seasonally large external debt service payments and seasonally low revenues.
17.   External Financing Needs. Panama has no central bank, the US dollar is legal tender,
and the capital account is open. Because of the dollar standard, there is no foreign exchange



-7 -
constraint in the conventional sense, so the country's creditworthiness and external financing
needs are linked directly to public sector finances. Without a central bank, the Government
cannot finance fiscal deficits by printing money, but only through domestic or external
borrowing (or accumulation of arrears). Fiscal policy and the resulting financing needs of the
public sector thus become the key elements of the Government's macroeconomic program.
18.   The Bank has provided three adjustment loans and a DDSR to Panama (paras.3-4), which
have helped meet the external financing needs of the public sector and the fiscal costs of the debt
operation. The proposed PPRAL will help finance part of the transitory fiscal impact of the
Government's Public Policy Reform Program, as indicated in Table 2 below. The loan will also
indirectly support the balance of payments by helping to meet the public sector's external
financing needs. The table below summarizes the external financing needs of the NFPS, and the
contribution of the proposed PPRAL.
PANAMA
Table 2: Financing Requirements of the Non-Financial Public Sector 1998-2002
(In millions of US$)
1998       1999        2000       2001        2002
Revenues and Grants             2,556.8    2,565.0     2,812.7    2,966.6     3,127.3
Expenditures                    2,623.5    2,657.4     2,769.9    2,882.5     2,999.2
Overall Deficit                  -66.7      -92.4        42.8       84.1       124.2
Financing                         66.7       92.4       -42.8       -84.1     -124.2
Domestic(net)                  -325.8       76.0       -57.3       -7.6      -106.2
External (net)                 392.5        16.4        14.5      -76.5       -21.9
OAw Policy Disbursements
IMF                          53.1        53.0       39.7          0           0
IDB                           100         40          30          0           0
World Bank                    61           0           0          0           0
Source: IMF and WB staff estimates.
IV. PUBLIC POLICY REFORM PROGRAM
19.   The Government's Public Policy Reform Program is extremely ambitious, and includes
reforms in the areas of (i) external trade, (ii) the civil service, (iii) social security, (iv) the tax
structure, (v) privatization, (vi) domestic competition, (vii) the financial sector, and (viii) the
foreign investment regime. It also includes a comprehensive poverty reduction strategy and
action plan, developed in the course of a joint Poverty Assessment exercise with the Bank (see
descriptions in Annex A: Letter of Development Policy, and annex B: Supplementary Letter).
Those components of the Public Policy Reform Program which would be supported under the
proposed adjustment loan are described in Part V-B below; other components not directly
supported by the loan are detailed in Part V-C.



-8 -
V. PROPOSED PUBLIC POLICY REFORM ADJUSTMENT LOAN (PPRAL)
A. ORIGIN, SIZE AND TRANCHING
20.   Since the early 1990s, the Bank has supported policy reforms and debt reduction efforts
essential for Panama's economic recovery. Progress under the previous administration was
limited but, beginning in 1994 with the present Government, Panama has made solid advances in
restructuring its economy. Indeed, this country, which only several years ago was an outlier in
the LAC region on many fronts (protection, state control of the economy, few coherent
development efforts), has experienced a major turnaround and is now among the best regional
performers in many areas. In March 1997, the Bank disbursed the third and final tranche of the
E]conomic Recovery Loan (ERL). Following the successful conclusion of the ERL, Bank staff
began discussions with the Government on a Country Assistance Strategy for FY99-01. One of
the areas to which the Government attached high priority was continued Bank support for its
Public Policy Reform Program, through adjustment and technical assistance loans, in concert
with the IMF and IDB.
21.   The IM1F is backing the Public Policy Reform Program through its SDR 120 million
three-year EFF approved on December 10, 1997. IDB is supporting the Program through a
IJS$120 million Basic Infrastructure Reform Loan (PRIBA) and US$120 million Financial
Sector Adjustment Loan. The Bank would focus its adjustment support on: (i) a deepening of
the trade reform process, both because of the importance for growth over the medium term, and
boecause of the more immediate positive poverty impact; (ii) implementation of an umbrella
framework for competition policy, to complement the trade reform, (iii) social security reform,
as it relates to implementation of the private pension regime for state employees, and (iv) the
clevelopment and start-up implementation of a comprehensive Poverty Reduction Strategy and
Action Plan, with a view to ensuring that the growth process stimulated by the Public Policy
Reform Program would result in measurable decreases in the level of poverty and inequality in
Panama. A companion technical assistance operation (PPRTAL) that would back a wider range
of reform activities and institution-building is also being prepared, with support from a recently
approved Project Preparation Facility and a PHRD grant.
22.   Given the strength of the Government's program and the nature of the actions on the one
hand, and the fact that the Administration would be near the end of its term in office on the other,
the proposed loan has been designed as a one tranche adjustment operation. The Government
has complied with all conditions for presentation to the Board of the operation. The proposed
US$61 million loan is an important part of the Government's Public Policy Reform Program
outlined in the Letter of Development Policy and Supplemental Letter (Annexes A and B), and
also has been built into the financing plan of the ongoing three-year IMIF Extended Fund Facility,
as summarized in Table 2 above.
B. PROPOSED PPRAL CoMPoNENTs
23.   Trade Reform. The Government, which inherited the most highly distorted trade regime
in the region, has made radical trade reform one of the cornerstones of its Public Policy Reform
Program. Prior to implementation of the ERL, nominal ad valorem equivalent rates of protection
ranged from nil for capital and most intermediate goods, to 90% for final manufactured goods and
as high as 800% for basic grains. As late as 1996, quotas and other nontariff barriers were still used



-9 -
extensively, especially to protect domestic producers of foodstuffs. As a result, domestic prices of
foodstuffs and other consumer nondurables were generally much higher than international prices,
whereas the prices of consumer durables were similar to international prices. In December 1996
and March 1997, in compliance with ERL conditionalities, the Cabinet issued a series of decrees
which: (i) reduced tariffs on all industrial and agroindustrial products from 60% and 90%, to
40% and 50%, respectively; (ii) reduced tariffs on the main agricultural commodities from a
range of 50-180% to 20-60%; (iii) transformed remaining specific tariffs into ad valorem ones;
and (iv) eliminated remaining nontariff barriers to imports.
24.   In July 1997, the Legislative Assembly approved the WTO Protocol and associated laws,
and the Government initiated a second round of tariff reductions under Cabinet Decree No. 37,
which lowered the maximum import tariff on construction materials, vegetable oils, and wheat
and wheat products, from 20-50% to 10%, beginning September 1. On November 12, 1997, the
Government promulgated Cabinet Decree No. 68, reducing all other import tariffs to a maximum
of 15% beginning January 1, 1998, and consolidating the number of tariffs, heretofore 108, into
5 rates (15%, 10%, 5%, 3% and 0%), with the exception of automobiles, whose tariffs will
remain in the range of 15-20%; milk products (lowered from 50% to 40%) and rice (lowered
from 60% to 50%). Decree No. 68 further stipulates that the tariff on rice imports will be
lowered to 30% by the year 2000.3 On this basis, Panama has instituted one of the most open
economies in the region within the short span of less than two years, and has the lowest average
effective protection for agricultural products of any country in the LAC region.4 The proposed
PPRAL would support the second generation of import tariff reductions undertaken over the past
year. The two following actions are conditions of Board presentation of the PPRAL: a
Reduction of import tariffs on selected products from 20-50% ad valorem to 10% ad valorem. in
compliance with the Borrower's Cabinet Decree No. 37. dated July 24 1997: (i  Reduction of
all imports tari§ffs to a maximum of 15% ad valorem. with the exception of tariffs on automobiles.
milk and milk products, rice, and those covered by (i) herein, and consolidation of all such
reduced tariffs into 5 rates (15%. 10%, 5%o, 3%l. anid 0%q) in compliance with the Borrower's
Cabinet Decree No. 68, dated November 12, 1997. These conditions have been met, and a Bank
mission in August 1998 has verified satisfactory compliance in the field with Decrees 37 and 68.
In addition, the proposed PPRTAL would assist in preparing the enabling regulations for
implementation of the legislation associated with the WTO Protocol.
25.    Trade reforms are not only expected to boost economic growth and employment over the
longer term, but will impact directly on the poor in the short-run. At end-1997, the domestic
price of corn was still 49% above the border price; rice was 44% higher; sugar, 43%; onions,
40%; beans 37%; chicken 33%; and pork, 56%. The sharp reductions in tariffs that took effect on
January 1, 1998 are significantly boosting real incomes, particularly for the poor (for whom food
represents 68% of total expenditures), as all of these staples figure prominently in the
Panamanian diet. Indeed, under the new tariff structure, the domestic price of corn should fall
3 The Government also issued Cabinet Decrees No. 19 of May 7, 1998 and No. 23 of June 18 1998, establishing a mechanism to
adjust import tariffs on raw and refined sugar from 15% to 50%, under certain market conditions. The tariff rate would be 50%
in those cases where the F.O.B. import price is lower than the "floor" price resulting from a band based on historical averages of
highl and low prices.
4 The Government accompanied Cabinet Decree No. 68 with the institution of a prograin to facilitate private sector adjustment to
the new relative price structure (Cabinet Resolution No. 263, November 12, 1997). This program encompasses the creation of a
US$25 million fund to finance reconversion and technological modernization of agricultural and manufacturing activities, and a
US$10 million fund to finance export market development. These funds will be administered by commercial banks and lent out
at market rates. It also provides for the sale of Government silos to producer associations.



- 10-
about 30%; rice, 12%; sugar and onions, 20%; beans, 16%; chicken, 14%, and pork, 27%. The
new tariff structure also should reduce the prices of consumer nondurables, such as clothing, and
housing construction costs. As lower protection also will result in lower producer prices, the
income of some poor commercial producers and landless laborers could also decline. However,
reductions in producer prices of two of the most important crops, rice and corn, will not
significantly reduce money incomes of poor farmers because they produce essentially for their
own consumption; on the other hand, the rents of larger producers would drop significantly.5
Moreover, the majority of the poor are net consumers of food--even those engaged in agriculture.
A preliminary study using 1997 LSMS data estimates that the minimum total net benefit of the
1998 reductions in tariff equivalents on food amounts to US$43 million (0.5% of GDP). This
gain translates into significant increases in per capita consumption--3. 1% for the extreme poor,
2.8% for all poor, and 1.2% for the non-poor-- resulting in a reduction of the population below
the poverty line of almost 0.9 percentage points, in a reduction of the population living in
extreme poverty  of 0.7  percentage points.   These gains are very  significant, especially
considering that poverty rates are generally very stable and that these estimates show the
minimum  net gain.6   Net losers represent only 2%  of the population and 10%  of producers
i(conversely 98% of the population and 90% of producers are net gainers). About 84% of the net
llosses are incurred by non-poor producers.
26.    Domestic Competition Reforms. In August 1995, the Assembly overhauled the Labor
Code, curbing the intervention of Government in employer-employee relations and giving
e mployers more flexibility to determine wages, to tailor employment to market conditions, and
tlo reassign employees within the firm. In February 1996, the Assembly approved the
Competition Law, which: abolished the Price Control Office; created the Competition and
Consumer Affairs Commission (CLICAC); instituted anti-trust norms; and introduced anti-
(lumping and countervailing provisions in line with WTO standards, with the backing of the
ERL. In March 1997, remaining price controls were eliminated, with the exception of goods
with import tariffs above 40%, and those affected by other restrictions to competition as
determined by the Commission. These remaining-controls lapsed in September 1997.
27.    The Bank has provided technical support to the Government on the preparation of the
regulations of the Competition Law (No.29). The regulations define the nature of monopolistic
practices, and establish basic principles for the assessment of economic efficiency, definition of
relevant markets and barriers to entry. The regulations also lay down broad informational and
methodological requirements for reviewing mergers and acquisitions in Panama.  In addition,
the regulations provide a comprehensive statement of key aspects of due process in the
application of the law, and refines the framework for CLICAC's participation in government
economic policy-making in competition-related matters. The proposed PPRAL would support
5According to a 1994 study, 70,000 small producers grew corn for on-fann consumption. Their output accounted for an
estimated 47% of corn production. A mere 938 large, mechanized fanns harvested 53% of the corn produced in Panama that
year, capturing extraordinary rents. Similarly, a 1993 study indicated that 55,000 small fanmers produced rice for on-farm
consumption. Their output accounted for 19% of rice production, while 1,125 large fanns harvested four-fifths of the country's
rice crop.
6 These estimates show the minimum gains and maximum losses--or the worst case scenario--from agricultural trade
liberalization because they assume zero elasticity of substitution for producers and consumers. The actual net gains will be
appreciably higher, inasmuch as producers can and will switch from less to more profitable activities upon relative price changes,
and consumers-especially poor ones-likewise can and will switch from more to less expensive foodstuffs. See: Rafael
Y'rarrazaval, Kathy Lindert and Tom Wieiis, "Redistributive Impact of Agricultural Trade anid Pricing Reforms." Draft Poverty
Assessment Working Paper. May 5, 1998.



implementation of the Competition Law. Entrv into effect and initial implementation satisfactory
to the Bank. of the Borrower 's Executive Decree No. 31, dated September 3. 1998 regulating Law
No. 29 dated February 1. 1996 on Compeition Policy is a condition of Board presentation of the
PPRAL. This condition has been met The regulations satisfactory to the Bank, have been
prepared with Bank support as part of project preparation, and were issued by Executive Decree
No. 31 on September 7, 1998, containing regulations to Title 1 (on monopolistic practices and
other provisions of Law 29). The Decree was published in the Official Gazzette on September
15, 1998. The proposed PPRTAL would provide support for building the institutional capacity of
the CLICAC.
28.   Social Security Reform. In February 1997, the Assembly approved Law No. 8, creating
the Pension Fund for Public Employees (SIACAP), with the support of the ERL. With the
creation of the SIACAP, which replaces the insolvent state Complementary Pension Fund (CPF),
CPF-generated deficits will disappear over time (current beneficiaries of the liquidated CPF
retain their benefits). In 1996, this deficit amounted to about 0.7% of GDP, and would have
grown progressively, to the detriment of fiscal sustainability. In addition, the CPF was highly
regressive, providing the 59% of state employees covered by special labor regimes with
extremely generous pensions upon early retirement. The SIACAP is a supplementary, private,
individually-financed pension scheme, and will be regulated by an Administrative Council.
Implementation of the SIACAP will not only strengthen public sector finances, but improve the
equity of social expenditures, foster savings and capital market development, and promote
development of a second-tier pension system.
29.   The SIACAP regulations were promulgated in June 1997; however, a number of the
provisions, needed improvement. The SIACAP Administrative Council proposed a number of
amendments to the regulations, with input from the Bank, relating to the composition of the
Administrative Council and the Risk Evaluation Commission, prudential norms on investments,
and restrictions on the diversification of eligible instruments and issuing entities. 7he proposed
PPRAL would support implementation of the SIACAP. Entry into effect and initial
implementation, satisfactory to the Bank. of the Borrower 's Executive Decree No. 32. dated July
6. 1998, issued to support social security reform activities of SIJAAP was a condition of Board
presentation of the PPRAL. This condition has been met. On July 6, 1998, the President issued
Executive Decree No.32, amending Executive Decree No. 27 of June 27, 1997 which regulated
Ley No. 8 of February 6 1997. The revised regulations were prepared with Bank support as part
of project preparation, and are considered satisfactory. The proposed PPRTAL would provide
support for building the institutional capacity of the SIACAP Administrative Council, and for
preparing a second generation of social security reforms. The latter are essential because the
social security system proper has a benefit structure that would require a significant increase in
mean rate of contribution to ensure its long term solvency.
30.   Reducing Poverty and Inequality The present Government's approach to reducing
poverty and inequality initially focused on implementing structural reforms needed to accelerate
growth. As indicated above, the economy is now beginning to respond to these reforms, some of
which have had a direct and measurable impact on poverty-in particular the trade reforms. As
fiscal space has increased, the Government has also begun to direct incremental funding to the
social sectors, for the most part in association with World Bank and other externally financed
projects. In 1997, the Government and Bank launched joint work on a more comprehensive
human development and poverty alleviation strategy, beginning with an LSMS exercise. As the



- 12 -
survey results became available, various technical reviews and brainstorming sessions took
place, involving both technicians and key members of the Economic and Social Cabinets. This
work culminated in the elaboration of a Poverty Strategy and corresponding Action Plan,
approved by the Cabinet in September 1998. The Plan is based on several key principles: (i)
efficiency in social spending; (ii) decentralization of implementation and spending in the social
sectors; (iii) targeting social spending on the poor; (iv) participation of communities, citizens and
civil society; and (v) improved sectoral coordination. The main target groups include: the rural
and indigenous poor, poor children under five (particularly those suffering from malnutrition),
child laborers, poor pregnant and lactating women (particularly those at risk of malnutrition), and
poor unemployed women and youths. Emphasis is placed on key actions following these
principles in education, health, the social safety net, nutrition programs, and on specific issues
pertaining to urban and rural (including indigenous) poverty. The Plan also supports the
development of a Monitoring System-to track the evolution of poverty and implementation of
the Strategy.
:31.  Implementation of the Poverty Strategy has already begun and the Government has
outlined the key actions in each area for 1999 in a Supplemental Letter for the proposed PPRAL
('Annex B). One important action which will be completed by end-1998, involves improving the
existing Poverty Map, by combining LSMS and Census data. This Map will be used to target
spending on human resources and safety net programs, beginning with the 1999 budget. Another
key action is the creation of a permanent Poverty Monitoring System, which would encompass
implementation of an annual LSMS, using a reduced-core questionnaire, and a second full-blown
LSMS in 2000, with follow-up every three years. Data from the LSMS could again be combined
with Census 2000 data to update the Poverty Map.
32.   The two following actions are conditions of Board presentation of the PPRAL: (i
Promulgation of the Borrower's Poverty Reduction Strategy. satisfactory to the Bank, by means
of a Cabinet resolution, and (ii) issuance by the Ministry of Planning and Economic Policy of the
Borrower, of an action plan letter, satisfactory to the Bank. setting forth the specific actions for
the implementation of such strategy during 1999. These conditions have been met. The Poverty
Strategy and Action Plan ("Nuevo Enfoque Estrategico Frente a la Pobreza") was signed as
Cabinet Resolution No. 134 on September 17, 1998.  The Government has also sent a
Supplemental Letter outlining "Actions to Reduce Poverty in 1999" dated September 25, 1998
(see Annex B attached). Successful implementation of this Poverty Strategy and Action Plan is
fundamental to the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy. Much of the CAS is designed to follow-
up the PPRAL by helping the Government to carry out its Poverty Strategy and Action Plan;
success in this area will serve as a trigger for the CAS lending program (para. 9). In addition to
the Government's own monitoring system and our ongoing work in each sector, the planned
Public Expenditure Review (FY99) will provide feedback on implementation of the strategy with
respect to spending allocations, equity and efficiency. The planned Poverty update and LSMS
(FY01) will generate the data to track the poverty situation and program impact, and the
incidence of public spending.
C. OTHER REFORMS NOT INCLUDED IN THE PPRAL
33. Privatization. The Government is also pursuing regulatory reform, contestability and
privatization, to enhance the coverage and efficiency of basic services and facilitate the
reorientation of state expenditure to poverty alleviation and investment in human capital. In



- 13 -
telecommunications, in January 1996, the Assembly approved the Telecommunications Law
and in February, the Utilities Regulatory Entity Law (telecommunications, electricity, water and
sanitation). In September 1996, private cellular telephone services were established. In May
1997, the Government completed the sale of 49% of its shares in, and awarded a 20 year
concession for management control of, the state telecommunications firm to Cable and Wireless
for US$652 million (equivalent to 7.6% of GDP)--the largest direct foreign investment made in
Panama since the construction of the Canal. As part of the accord, Cable and Wireless Panama,
also will undertake a US$572 million capital expenditure program to expand and upgrade
telecommunications services over the next five years. These reforms were backed by the ERL,
and by IDB's PRIBA.
34.  In electricity, in December 1996, the Assembly approved the General Electricity Law,
which provides for the division of the Electricity Institute into 8 independent companies, all of
which (excepting transmission) will be privatized. Three power distribution companies are sold
in September 1998, with advisory assistance from IFC, and four generation companies were
planned to be privatized by end-1998. In water and sanitation, in January 1997, the Legislative
Assembly approved the General Water and Sanitation Law, which provides for the restructuring
of the Water and Sewerage Institute into several separate companies, and their eventual
privatization. The first of these companies, covering the Panama City and Colon metropolitan
areas, is slated to be privatized in early 1999. The Bank is supporting the reform program in
these two sectors through the ongoing Utilities Restructuring TAL. The IDB also is supporting
this component, through the PRIBA. In the port sector, the privatization of the state port
authority's (APN) service delivery functions was completed in March, 1997, with the backing of
the ERL, leaving APN to perform solely a regulatory function. In addition, the Government has
granted several concessions to private firms to develop new ports. The first of these, the US$130
million Manzanillo container port, which was backed by a US$61 million investment by IFC,
began operating in 1995 and has reduced shipping costs to and from Asia by 66%. The
Government has opened other traditionally state-dominated activities to the private sector,
including the financing, construction, operation and maintenance of major highways. These
highways are being built and financed by strategic private foreign investors who are licensed to
levy tolls and maintain the expressways for 30 years. Their total cost is estimated at about
US$561 million. In addition, the privatization and development of the assets of the former Canal
Zone is getting underway.
35.   The Government also is moving forward with the privatization of goods-producing and
nonbasic service enterprises, under the provisions of the July 1992 Privatization Framework
Law. On the basis of this law, prepared with the backing of the ERL, 7 state enterprises were
privatized in the past several years, generating revenues of US$82 million (1% of GDP), and 4
were liquidated.  The Government is preparing to transfer to the private sector, through
privatization or concessions, the remaining largest state enterprises.  Accordingly, the
Government granted long-term concessions to private operators for the State Race Track
(November 1997), National Casinos (January 1998), and the Transisthmian Railroad (February
1998). In addition, the privatization of Tocumen International and France Field Airports, La
Victoria Sugar Refinery, and the Atlapa Convention Center are expected to be completed by end-
1998. In 1996, these enterprises generated revenues of US$78 million and employed 3,000
people (2% of state employees). Under private ownership and management, these enterprises are
expected to expand output and employment levels rapidly. These privatizations and concessions
also will generate substantial capital proceeds. By law, these proceeds, as well as those from the



- 14 -
privatizations of public utilities and of assets in the former Canal Zone, will be deposited in the
Development Trust Fund (DTF); the income from the DTF can only be invested in development
and social programs. As of September 25, 1998, the DTF totaled US$770 million and is
projected to reach to US$1,250 million by end-1999. The proposed PPRTAL would provide
support for PROPRIVAT, the privatization agency.
36.   Tax Reform. In July 1995, the Legislative Assembly approved the Fiscal Incentives
Harmonization Law (prepared with the support of the ERL TA component), which significantly
reduced distortions and allocative inefficiencies caused by the tax system. In July 1996, the
Assembly amended the Fiscal Incentives Harmonization Law, eliminating the income tax on
Col6n Free Zone activities. Consolidation of long-term fiscal sustainability and an enabling
miacroeconomic framework also requires additional measures to rationalize and broaden the tax
system. For instance, all services are exempt from the value added tax. To this end, the
Government closed a number of tax loopholes and limited certain tax deductions in the
agricultural and tourism sectors at the end of 1997, with the support of the IMF EFF. In
addition, the Government intends to complete a comprehensive review of the tax system, and
prepare reforms which could be implemented by the next Government after the May 1999
elections. The proposed PPRTAL would include a comprehensive study of the tax system.
37.   Civil Service Reform. In 1996, the employment conditions of 59% of state employees
were determined by 100 different special laws. These employees received 72% of the total wage
bill, and their average wage was US$8,430. The average wage of employees not covered by
special wage laws was US$4,750. Between 1991 and 1996, the average salary of employees
COvered by special laws rose 25.4% (18.4% in real terms) due to the automatic salary adjustment
provisions of these laws. Also, the number of such employees increased 16%. In contrast, the
average salary of employees not benefiting from special laws rose 8% during this period, or 1%
in real terms. The number of these employees declined more than 5%.
38.   Consolidation of fiscal balance hinges on bringing the growth of the public sector wage
bill under effective Government control. Achieving this and increasing the efficiency of the
public sector require a comprehensive reform of public sector labor legislation. To this end, the
Government drafted, with support from the ERL TA component, a General Public Sector Wage
Law that would replace the plethora of special labor laws, and introduce a merit-based civil
service throughout the public sector. However, this draft law has not been approved yet by the
legislature, and is unlikely to be approved before the May 1999 elections. At the same time,
there is a Civil Service Law which has not yet been implemented. This Law, approved in 1994
before the current Administration came into power, would introduce additional rigidities in the
hiring, firing, reassignment and promotion of civil servants, centralizing all such decisions in the
Civil Service Directorate. The proposed PPRTAL would provide support for completing and
implementing a General Public Sector Wage Law, revising and implementing the Civil Service
Law, and building the capacity of the Civil Service Directorate.
39.   Financial Sector Reform. The Government is strengthening the regulatory framework
and supervision of the financial sector, and reducing the state's direct role in the sector. To this
end, in February 1998, the Assembly passed a new Banking Law. This law: (i) reorganized the
National Banking Commission into an autonomous bank superintendency, with increased powers
to regulate and supervise commercial banks, and to intervene in distressed banks; (ii) introduced
prudential norms in line with internationally-accepted practices and standards; and (iii)



- 15 -
introduced provisions relating to banking secrecy and transparency necessary to allow for
consolidated supervision of banks and financial groups. At the Government's request, the Bank
reviewed the new Banking Law and progress made by the new Superintendency of Banks. The
new legislation establishes a sound basis for modern banking regulation in Panama, in line with
international standards for the prudential supervision and regulation of banks and other financial
institutions, and includes provisions on money laundering. The Government also intends to
promulgate a capital markets law and to restructure and privatize several state financial
institutions. IDB has been the main player in the financial sector through a Financial Sector
Loan, which is supporting implementation of the new Banking Law, and setting-up a legal and
regulatory framework for the securities market. IFC is providing assistance in the development
of capital markets.
40.   Transport Sector Policies. While port sector reforms and privatization have reduced
maritime shipping costs to international levels, a preliminary survey reveals that the rest of the
sector is beset with distortions and highly fragmented legal responsibility for regulating the
transport sector. Domestic surface freight transportation is unregulated, with the exception of
Law No. 10 (1989), which stipulates norms for weights and measures (which are to be
determined and enforced by no less than 5 different state entities). In this context, powerful
regional cooperatives have emerged and de facto limit entry and competition in domestic freight
transportation.  This market power not only has created substantial rents for cooperative
members, but led to the prevalence of empty returns (because members from one regional
cooperative prevent members from another from unloading any cargo in "their" region).
Domestic freight transport costs are further inflated by restrictions affecting the hauling of cargo
between Panama and Central America.
41.   Unlike trucking, the legal framework for surface passenger transportation, both intra- and
inter-urban, is clearly defined. However, Law 14, Executive Decree No. 186, and Resolution
No. 29, all promulgated in 1993 under the previous Administration, severely limit competition in
public passenger transportation.  This legislation stipulates that the awarding of route
concessions, the number of vehicles allowed to service the routes and service prices are all set by
a Technical Committee made up of two service provider representatives, two members of the
Ministry of Government and Justice, and one user representative.  The result is market
segmentation, poor service and inflated prices. In February 1998, the Government removed
restrictions on Central American truckers, and is preparing legislation to remove remaining
barriers to competition in both freight and passenger service. The proposed PPRTAL would
support transport sector reform initiatives.
42.   Petroleum  Refining and Marketing Policies.  Competition in the refining and
marketing of petroleum products long has been highly restricted in Panama. In 1992-93, the
previous Administration liberalized the sector, but the resulting legal framework still presents a
number of deficiencies. The current system of differential taxes, administered prices, tariffs and
subsidies across different products and marketing agents, combined with selective exemptions,
most notably in the petroleum free zones, has perpetuated a series of distortions: prices diverging
from import parity, restricted competition, sporadic quality problems, and quantity rationing. The
result is that domestic prices for petroleum products are high compared to international levels--
about 30% above U.S. levels, with the protected firm capturing the lion's share of the difference,
to the detriment of domestic producers, and public revenues. The Government intends to reform
the legal framework, and is contracting a comprehensive study of the hydrocarbon sector.



-16-
43.   Foreign Investment Regime. Panama became a full member of MIGA on February 21,
1997, and ratified the International Convention on the Settlement of Investment Disputes,
strengthening guarantees to foreign investors. Although Panama's location and monetary regime
are attractive to foreign investors, and foreign investment has increased considerably in response
ito policy reforms, privatization and the strong improvement in creditworthiness, the legal and
iinstitutional framework foreign investors confront remains complex. At the same time, the
disengagement of the U.S. and improvement of the investment climate in competing countries
could erode its relative attractiveness to investors. Foreign investment legislation in Panama
ifollows an enclave approach, with special regimes in place for most sectors and subsectors of the
economy. In some cases such special regimes close activities to foreign investors. For instance,
iforeigners cannot engage in retail trade in Panama. Similarly, each sector or subsector is
serviced by a special agency. In some cases the enclave approach cuts down on red tape, but in
others it simply adds one more layer of bureaucracy for prospective investors. The sheer number
of institutions preclude senior government officials who serve on their boards from giving more
than token attention to any one of them. No entity is specifically responsible for seeking to
improve the image of Panama as a site for foreign investment, or has the power to cut through
the bureaucracy. The Government has contracted a comprehensive study of the foreign
investment regime and institutional framework, with a view to dismantling remaining
impediments to foreign direct investment, rationalizing the disparate legislative framework, and
consolidating institutional authority for promoting foreign direct investment and expediting
market entry. The proposed PPRTAL would support capacity building for PROPANAMA, the
investment promotion agency.
D. PLANNED PUBLIC POLICY REFORM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LoAN
44.   A planned technical assistance loan of about US$10 million would be a companion
operation to the proposed PPRAL. It would provide support to institutions for designing and
implementing policy reforms on the current agenda, and for preparing reforms that could be
tackled by the next administration following the May 1999 elections. The responsible agency
would be the Ministry of Planning's Public Policy Unit, which has overall responsibility for
designing, implementing and monitoring the Government's reform program, and to line agencies
directly responsible for implementing components of the program to be supported by the
PPRAL. The proposed PPRTAL would extend to September 2001, or one year after the
inauguration of the next Administration. A US$1.1 million Project Preparation Facility (PPF) has
recently been approved to help finance project preparation activities, and a PHRD Grant of
US$204,425 was recently approved by the Japanese Government to finance selected studies and
prepare terms of reference for the work to be carried out under the PPRTAL.
E. BENEFITS AND RISKS
45.   Benefits. In addition to supporting the Government's fiscal program and financing plan
(together with the IDB and IMF), successful implementation of the adjustment program is
important to consolidate and achieve the gains of ongoing reforms needed to ensure lasting,
broad-based improvements in living conditions. The PPRAL would focus on those areas where
impact on growth, fiscal sustainability, poverty and inequality is expected to be significant.
Accordingly, major benefits of the proposed PPRAL include: (i) providing an enabling
environment for private sector-led growth by maintaining a stable macroeconomic framework



-17-
and improving the functioning of markets by starting implementation of the Competition law,
which removed all remaining price controls and established the anti-trust and consumer
protection framework; (ii) enhancing fiscal sustainability by replacing the deficit generating
Complementary Fund with a private, supplementary fully-funded voluntary pension scheme;
(iii) increasing the economy's overall efficiency over the medium term, as well as impacting
positively in alleviating poverty through trade reform which reduces tariffs on products heavily
consumed by the poor (for whom food and consumer non-durables represent a high percentage
of expenditures); and (iv) developing a comprehensive Poverty Reduction Strategy and Action
Plan to assist the Government in achieving a significant reduction in poverty and inequality, to
target public expenditures to improve the nutrition, health and education of the most
disadvantaged - the rural population, indigenous communities and children. These latter actions
will help to ensure that the growth process stimulated by the Public Policy Reform Program
results in measurable decreases in a level of poverty and inequality in Panama.
46.   Risks. The risk that the actions to be backed by the proposed PPRAL will not
materialize is judged to be modest. As mentioned above, all the loan conditions for Board
presentation regarding the second round of tariff reductions and consolidations, the reformed
SIACAP regulations, the regulations for the Competition Law, and the Poverty Reduction
Strategy have been fulfilled. On the political front, Panama is preparing for a change in
Administration that will take place in September 1999. So far, the Government has continued
efforts to deepen and consolidate its economic and social reforms, with no signs of policy
reversals or slowdown in the implementation of reforms. Should the opposition win the May
1999 elections, there is a risk that reform momentum could slow and, in a worst case scenario,
some reforms in the overall Public Policy Reform Program could be halted or reversed.
However, the risk of broad backtracking is slight, for a number of reasons. First, the new
Administration will need to maintain progress in economic reforms in order to ensure investor
confidence, especially in a the year when the Canal reverts to Panama. There is full awareness
across Panama's political spectrum that without considerable private foreign investment, the
country will be unable to ensure the efficient operation of the Canal and develop the economic
potential of the Interoceanic Region. Second, equally important for Panama's future economic
and social prospects will be the support of the international community, especially the
multilaterals, which would be affected in the event of major policy reversals. Third, as the
results of the Poverty Assessment have begun to emerge, there is a growing public awareness in
Panama that dealing with poverty and inequality in a sustainable manner will require a
comprehensive set of policy reforms and targeted interventions.
47.   The Bank will take a number of steps to mitigate risks. First, as was done during the
previous transition, there will be intensive discussions with the new economic and social teams
prior to the change in Government. The relatively long period between the elections and the
change in Government affords a good opportunity to work intensively with the incoming
authorities on the reform agenda and proposed Bank support. In addition, the proposed PPRTAL
will provide a useful vehicle to tailor analytical support needed by the incoming team and
continue work on the technical aspects of social and economic reforms. The current Government
has confirmed it will provide every assistance to facilitate this transition dialogue. Second, the
Bank and Government are planning a concerted effort to further dissemination of the results of
the Poverty Assessment to build consensus on the policy reforms needed to sustain a determined
attack on poverty and inequality. A full understanding of the causes of poverty and broad
consensus on its possible solutions would substantially reduce the risk that a new set of policy



- 18 -
makers would backtrack on social reforms or opt for highly populist and unsustainable
approaches. We would work with the authorities to avert policy reform reversals through
implementation of the Country Assistance Strategy. However, if reform momentum were to be
lost and significant policy reversals were to occur, we would shift to a lower case lending
program of about US$40 million per year, devoted exclusively to human capital development
and the safety net, but on a less ambitious scale than in the FY-99-01 CAS base case (para. 9).
VI. RECOMMENDATION
48.   I am satisfied that the proposed loan complies with the Articles of Agreement of the Bank
and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
By
Caio K. Koch-Weser
Attachments                                       Washington, D.C. October 29, 1998



ANNEX A
Letter of Development Policy



Annex A
Page 1 of 7
Republic of Panama
Ministry of Planning and Economic Policy
Office of the Minister
P.O. Box 2694, Panama 3
PANAMA
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
(English Translation of the Original Document in Spanish)
September 16, 1998
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
World Bank
Washington, D.C.
Dear Mr. President:
This letter describes the Economic Reform Program that the Government of the Republic
of Panama anticipates as well as the measures that will be implemented in the period of
one year in order to consolidate the progress attained since the beginning of our
government. The government requests the continuing technical assistance program from
the World Bank in order to face the future challenges and to ease the transition period of
the program.
Background
1.  Since the second half of this century some of the economic sectors among which
we can mention agriculture and industry, have developed along the lines of the imports
substitution model. These sectors whieb at present represent over 20% of the economy
generate more than 40% of the employment. During the same period the rest of the
economy developed based on policies aimed at the international market and with little
state intervention, these sectors among which stand out the Colon Free Zone and the
Bank Center generate relatively little employment but represent a high percentage of
economic activity and exports.
2.   The implementation of a protectionist model in a reduced market resulted in the
medium-term in slow economic growth and of use of the sectors involved. In addition,
the sectors dedicated to the domestic market imposed surcharges to the rest of the
economy, diminishing their international competitivity.
3.   Another adverse effect of the economic policies followed during the last decades
was the loss of efficiency in the use of economic resources in general, which impacted
negatively in the generation of economic growth and employment.



PANAMA                                                           Annex A
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY                                    Page 2 of 7
4.   Even though Panama has a high income per capita, the slow generation of well paid
employment, the high levels of internal prices in relation to the international ones
resulting from a low-competitivity environment, the restrictions to entry to various
activities and the rents derived from this situation, are some of the most important causes
for the bad income distribution and for the high level of poverty in the country.
5.   At the beginning of the administration on September 1994 and based on the
campaign platform, the citizenry was presented with a government program entitled:
Public Policies for Integral Development:  Social Development with Economic
Efficiency 1994-1999. In it were structured a series of actions through which the
country's economic and social problems would be dealt with.
6.   The difference between this program and previous strategies is that as result of a
clear identification of the situation, the starting point has been the acknowledgement that
the origin of the economic problems lies in the development style followed over decades.
The historical analysis of the economic development in Panama concluded that the lack
of competition in wide sectors of the economy is the cause of its slow growth. This
absence of competition in turn results from the application of economic policies that were
not market oriented, combined with the application of fiscal incentives aimed at
promoting specific activities.
The Economic Program
7.   The fundamental objectives of The Social Development with Economic Efficiency
Program is to increase the economic growth in a low inflation environment, and to
correct the causes for the bad income distribution and poverty in Panama.  These
objectives will be attained by generating greater efficiency in the economy through the
introduction of microeconomic policies that will promote or improve the functioning of
markets in all the economic sectors, and increase the efficiency and equity of economic
expenditure.
8.   The 1994-99 Public Policies Program  was designed based on five general
guidelines:
a.   Perfectioning of the market economy
b.   Trade Policy
c.   Privatizations
d.  Fiscal discipline, and
e.   Poverty and Social Policy
9.   The Perfectioning of the Market Economy. Even though Panama has a free
enterprise economy, the same is not a synonym of a competitive market economy. The
strong protection that existed and that is still maintained in a reduced number of
activities, together with the application of focalized fiscal incentives has promoted a low
competitive environment that has prevented the entry of new enterprises in various
economic areas and at the same time that has maintained higher than international prices.



PANAMA                                                            Annex A
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY                                      Page 3 of 7
10.  Among the first measures utilized to guide the economy towards competitive
markets can be mentioned the enactment of the Law of Universalization of Tax
Incentives and the Law of Defense of Competition and Consumer Affairs. With the first
law the encouragement of activities based on fiscal incentives concept was abandoned,
while with the second one, the foundation for the development of economic activities
within a clear competitive environment were established.
11.  Trade Policy. In order to achieve the opening of the protected goods markets, to
promote competition between domestic and imported products to generate greater
efficiency in domestic production, the reduction of prices, quality improvement, and to
improve the allocation of resources in the economy, two rounds of gradual tariff
reductions were performed. To consolidate the establishment of free prices all the quotas
and previous import permits were eliminated together with the price control system.
12. Privatization. With the new vision of the role of the State in the economy,
concessions were granted and public sector activities were privatized. The objective of
this measure is not to substitute a public monopoly with a private one. What is sought,
with the corresponding regulations, is to introduce competition in activities that were
until now in the hands of the State, attract new investments and frontier technology, to
benefit users and the economy in general.
13. Fiscal discipline. In addition, the executive initiated a program aimed at managing
more efficiently the public finances and to restructuring the external debt to adapt its
payments to the flow of fiscal income. In Panama, an adequate financial management is
important since in our monetary system it is the fiscal position and not the balance of
payments position what determines the capacity to service the public debt, which in turn
influences the assessment that is done of the country at an international level.
14. Poverty and Social Policy. As one of the instruments to fight poverty, the
magnitude of the investment that the government has made towards various social sectors
with the objective of expanding public services and improve their quality and fair
distribution has been a priority interest and attention of the present administration.
Therefore, in 1997, the public social expenditure reached the equivalent to 21.4% of
GDP; one of the highest levels in Latin America. Reflecting the priority assigned by the
government to the social sector, the public social expenditure has grown in a sustained
basis at 8.2% annually between 1994 and 1997.
15. In addition, the government has assigned a growing amount of resources (0.5% of
GDP in 1994 versus 1.0% in 1997) to specific compensatory and investment programs
aimed to benefit mainly low income groups such as FES,  PROINLO,   Community
Works, Social Development (Circuit) and XXI Century.
16.  It is worth noting that since 1994 the government has also emphasized investments
in road infrastructure along the length and width of the country to improve access to
production zones and in specific programs such as land titling, development of
indigenous areas (Ngobe-Bugle, Kuna Yala, Embera and Waunan), reduction of rural
poverty, and housing.



PANAMA                                                            Annex A
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY                                      Page 4 of 7
Macro-fiscal aspects of the program.
17. Developments under the 1998 economic program have been favorable. Panama has
fulfilled all the performance criteria under the program with the International Monetary
Fund. The real Gross Domestic Product increased by 4.4% in 1997, faster than
anticipated, and it is projected to continue growing at the same rate during 1998.
Inflation was lower than 1.0% during the period 1997-1998, while the unemployment rate
fell from about 13.5% in mid 1997 to 12% in mid 1998. The total public sector deficit
was lower than it was programmed for 1997 and its outturn until August indicates that the
fiscal target for the end of September 1998 will be attained. The current account deficit
reached what was projected for 1997 and, as anticipated, it is expected to remain at about
3.5% of the GDP in 1998.
18. The program for 1999 is based on a growth of real GDP of about 4.0% in 1998-
1999 with an inflation rate of 0.5% to 1.0% per year. As originally envisioned, the total
deficit of the non-financial public sector will be within the order of 0.7% of GDP in 1998
and 1.0% in 1999, with savings in the public sector of 2.5% of GDP, and public
investment diminishing from 4.5% of GDP in 1997 to 3.0% of GDP in 1999 reflecting
the privatizations. While the current Income and Expenditure were accelerated due to
temporary factors during the first half of 1998, their growth is projected to diminish
during the second half of 1998 and 1999 to the originally projected levels.
Recent Measures.
19. The government will deepen the modernization processes in the health and
education sectors. In the health sector a strategic alliance was established between the
Ministry of Health and the Social Security Fund to integrate the provision of services to
the population from both institutions and to establish new modalities of resource
management that include the separation of the financing and the rendering of services
aspects as well as subcontracting from the private sector. In education, Law No. 28 of
August 1", 1997 was approved, which sets the basis for the reorganization of the
recruiting and personnel transferring system, as well as transfers functions at regional and
local levels in the design, execution, follow up, and evolution of educational activities.
20. Privatization has been utilized as a mechanism to attain greater efficiency in the
economy by introducing competition in activities previously in the hands of the State. In
the ports sector concessions were granted to the private sector for the construction of
three new container ports in the Atlantic sector, while at the same time the Balboa Port
and Cristobal Port were privatized. In the telephone sector, 49% of the National
Telecommunications Institute stocks were sold, and bands A and B of cellular telephony
were given in concession to the private sector. The operation of the trans-isthmic railway
was also privatized.
21. During the first half of 1998 the progress and deepening of the economic reforms
program continued. On January 1st. the second round of trade reforms came into force
whereby in addition to the reduction of the tariff ceiling, the existing tariff dispersion was
reduced by the establishment of five tariff levels: 15%, 10%, 5°/O, 3% and 0%. The
banking system was reformed in March and the Superintendency of Banks was created



PANAMA                                                            Annex A
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY                                      Page 5 of 7
whereby an important effort was made to consolidate the Panamanian banking system
through the adoption of international norms related to the banking business (Basle
Agreement).
22. In the area of privatization, following the approval of the restructuring laws of the
Institute of Hydraulic and Electrification (IRHE) and of the Institute of National
Aquaducts and Drains (IDAAN), the IRHE was divided into eight enterprises for their
future privatization. In May of this year, a cabinet resolution established concessions as
the modality for the participation of the private sector in drinking water and drainage
service. On July 3rd 1998, the General Law for the Environment was enacted whereby
the legal and institutional framework to face the serious problem of environment
pollution is established, and which includes among others, issues of water, land erosion,
and Panama Bay's contamination.
23. In addition to pro-competition measures of mercantile and legal nature, the
government is putting forward other actions aiming to extend the principles of
competitive market towards other areas. To this end, the Ministry of Health, by means
of a Ministerial Resolution, modified some requirements for the acquisition of medicine
registrations which were considered obstacles for competition in the sector. In addition, a
study of road freight transportation has been commissioned from the private sector which
will be used as a basis for designing legislation promoting competition and efficiency in
the sector. Likewise a study evaluating the existence of legal barriers to foreign
investment in various sectors of the economy is about to be completed. The adoption, in
the medium term, of a new trade reform aimed to increase competitivity in the economy
in preparation for the future union of our country to the Free Market Area of the
Americas (ALCA) is being evaluated.
24. The public finances have also been strengthened through the improvement in tax
administration, expenditure control, a major restructuring of the external debt with
commercial banks, and the petroleum debt agreement with Mexico and Venezuela. In the
medium term, non-financial public sector income and expenditures will fluctuate around
a declining trend in view of the reduction of public sector participation in the economic
activity. The initial cost of these measures will be reflected in the reduction of income
and therefore of savings in the public sector due to the privatizations, the reforms in
personnel administration, and the cost of the Social Benefits Complementary Fund for
Public Servants.
25.  Other measures aimed to strengthen government finances including the Social
Security Fund are the approval of a law eliminating the Social Benefits Complementary
Fund for Public Servants which showed a deficit. This fund was replaced by a self-
financing individual account pension plan and with voluntary contributions (SIACAP),
currently being organized. In the area of social security, the government obtained the
assistance of the International Organization for Work (OIT) to carry-out a study
determining the actuarial strength of the Social Security Fund. The report was received
in the end of June this year, and is presently being evaluated by a private sector,
government, and workers' committee.



PANAMA                                                            Annex A
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY                                      Page 6 of 7
Future economic and social policies measures
26. In the area of poverty, in 1997 the government executed a Living Standards
Measurement Survey (LSMS) to assess the status and causes of poverty and inequality in
the country, the impact of economic and social policies on the poor, and the incidence of
public expenditure. Such survey was completed through an intense process of interviews
with the communities themselves. Based on the results of the LSMS, a new poverty map
is being prepared to target government measures for direct support to vulnerable groups,
and a Poverty Reduction Strategy 1998-2003 was prepared, the plan of action of which
will be utilized to prioritize such interventions. This strategy was approved by the Social
Cabinet in September 1998. In the matter of privatization, the Government sold 51% of
the stock of three electric distribution companies in September 1998, and the four
electrical plants will be sold in October this year. In connection to IDAAN, the Cabinet
Board approved in May the concession of all activities at national level via a sole
enterprise. According to the work schedule, the adjudication of the IDAAN concession
must be completed by January 1999 and the private operator shall assume management in
April 1999. After these privatizations the competition among different enterprises and
concessionaries will be promoted within the norms established by the Public Services
Regulating Entity, which will result in higher quality of services and better prices. In
addition, the Government is ready to privatize the sugar mill La Victoria at the end of
1998 and the International Airport of Tocumen next year.
27.  To continue with the public sector reform program and continue to strengthen its
financial position the Government will undertake a series of actions such as: the
privatization or liquidation of the National Mortgage Bank and the Agricultural
Development Bank. In connection to SIACAP, the same will begin operations during the
first quarter of next year, after hiring the Registering Payroll Enterprise and the
Investment Management companies towards the end of this year.
28. In the area of poverty, the Government plans to implement the Action Plan of the
Poverty Reduction Strategy 1998-2003. The specific actions that the Government will
put forward in 1999 are in three fundamental areas. First, actions applicable to all sectors
such as mechanisms of targeting expenditure. Second, actions to improve the capacity of
income generation among the poor (increase its human, physical and financial capital).
Finally, specific actions to compensate and/or alleviate the situation of the most
vulnerable groups are described in detail in the attached Supplementary Letter.
29. Lastly, we reiterate that the problems troubling our economy and their terrible
social and human consequences have a structural origin, which has been aggravated by
economic policies which have contributed to the lack of economic efficiency and
inequality in the distribution of benefits. Since the beginning, the current Administration
has understood that only by creating conditions that increase competitivity in the
economy through the exercise of a market economy, a greater growth in the national
production and employment will be generated, and the causes of poverty and bad income
distribution will be fought effectively.



PANAMA                                                           Annex A
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY                                     Page 7 of 7
The continuity of the reform program requires the technical assistance necessary to
consolidate what has been attained to date and to advance in the deepening of the
measures.
We consider that the reasoning put forward in this document supports adequately
the need to carry out the Public Policies Reform Loan (PPRAL) project.
With my highest consideration and appreciation,
Sincerely,
(Signed)
Guillermo 0. Chapman Jr.
Minister
Seal reads: Republic of Panama, Office of the Minister, Ministry of Planning and
Economic Policy



ANNEX B
Supplementary Letter: 1999 Action Plan for Poverty Reduction



PANAMA                                                               Annex B
SUPPLEMENTAL LETTER                                                 Page 1 of 6
Republic of Panama
Ministry of Planning and Economic Policy
Office of Minister
P.O. Box 2694, Panama 3
PANAMA
SUPPLEMENTARY LETTER:
1999 ACTION PLAN FOR POVERTY REDUCTION
(English Translation of the Original Document in Spanish)
September 25, 1998
Note DPS-D-No. 079
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Dear Mr. President:
The following letter describes the main actions that the Government of Panama will
undertake in 1999 in order to fulfill its Poverty Reduction Strategy 1998-2003. The
new approach to poverty reduction rests on two fundamental and complimentary pillars:
first, the introduction of reforms aimed at increasing economic growth in such a way as to
generate income and lower the cost of living; and, secondly, improve the efficiency and
equity of public spending in order to guarantee that the poor will be able to take
advantage of the opportunities created by the economic growth.
The Letter of Development Policy describes in detail the actions contained in the
Public Policy Reform Program aimed at promoting greater economic growth, allowing
the problems of poverty and unequal income distribution to be confronted. The efforts
toward privatization, commercial reform, developing a climate of competition and
orderly management of public finances has had a positive impact on the economy. The
decreasing output growth rate the country has experienced since the beginning of the
1990s has been reversed, starting in 1996. Economic growth was 2.4% in 1996, 4.4% in
1997, and 4.0% is expected in 1998. Output growth has allowed a reduction of more than
one percent in the unemployment rate between June of 1997 and June, 1998. More
significantly, a high proportion of the new employment originated in the private sector.



PANAMA                                                               Annex B
SUPPLEMENTAL LEWTER                                                 Page 2 of 6
Regarding commercial reform, the effects of price reductions have begun to be
observed not only in alimentary goods, but also in construction materials, primary
materials and other non-durable products.  Undoubtedly, the principal or main
beneficiaries of price reductions will be the group of consumers with the least resources,
given that they use a greater portion of their incomes to buy food. On the other hand, the
agricultural producers' profit loss essentially affects non-poor groups of society. It is
worth noting that these reductions in profit and revenues (profit and revenues that were
originated by the lack of competition in the areas of agriculture, industry and commerce)
will help to correct the unequal income distribution in the medium- and long-term.
In this letter, we will summarize the key actions the Government plans in 1999 in
order to improve efficiency and equity in public expenditure. The specific actions
planned in 1999 are in three fundamental areas: first, general actions applicable to all
sectors; second, actions to improve the capacity of income generation among the poor;
and third, actions to compensate and/or alleviate living conditions of the most vulnerable
groups. The actions are described below in detail.
I. General Actions in 1999
In the process of formulating the 1999 budget, the Government will take into
consideration the findings of the Living Standards Measurement Survey (LSMS) of 1997
and the goals of the Poverty Reduction Strategy 1998-2003.
Although the Government of Panama has taken important steps to combat poverty
through public spending, due to problems of inefficiency and inequity, the results
obtained do not reflect the high level of spending. In order to deal with this problem, the
Government conducted an in-depth analysis of public expenditure in areas most relevant
to the poor, including the articulation between policy and budget priorities, the different
stages and levels (from central to local) of the public expenditure management system
(from budget planning to auditing), and an evaluation of cost effectiveness (attaining
objectives/goals, products and results).
In order to target public spending on the poor, the Government began in 1998 to
construct a new poverty map combining the data from the latest public Census on
Population and Living with the data from the Living Standards Measurement Survey of
1997. The map, which will be completed in November of 1998, will be used for the
compensatory and social investment programs of the Social Emergency Fund (SEF),
starting in 1999, as well as to expand the economic compensation program for school
attendance and the pre-school education plan of the Ministry of Education. Moreover,
we hope that the above-mentioned study of public expenditure identifies additional
options for reallocating resources within those sectors most related with poverty
reduction (for example, education, health, housing, drinkable water and environmental
sanitation in rural and indigenous areas).
Another general action that the Government will undertake in 1999 is the
establishment of follow-up systems of the Strategy: (a) by monitoring poverty and living
conditions, beginning with the preparation of the Living Standards Measurement Survey
(LSMS) of 2000; and (b) each public institution responsible for the implementing



PANAMA                                                                 Annex B
SUPPLEMENTAL LETTER                                                   Page 3 of 6
programs/projects and actions of the Strategy elaborating an annual Operational Plan,
identifying the specific geographic areas of intervention or target groups for each activity,
its cost, objectives and definition of quantitative result indicators.
Lastly, the Government will continue in its efforts to communicate, disseminate
and discuss the proposed Strategy in order to raise public awareness of the problems and
government actions, to provide information on actions planned over the next years, and to
promote participation of local communities, NGOs and civil society.
II. Actions for Improving the Earning Capacity of the Poor in 1999
Education. To improve cost effectiveness, the Ministry of Education instituted the
following measures in 1998: (i) increased the school calendar from 180 to 200 days and
class time from 35 to 45 minutes; and (ii) increased the maximum students per classroom
from 25 to 35 in kindergarten and the first three years of grade school; and from 35 to 40
in middle school, effective next school year. In 1999, the Government will move forward
in the decentralization of the education sector with various measures, including: (i)
having 100% of the enrollment process and selection of teachers take place at the
regional offices of the Ministry of Education, or at regional school councils; (ii) creating
school councils in 110 pilot centers in basic education; and (iii) designing mechanisms
for the transfer of funds to regional offices, and for monitoring of teacher attendance.
To improve equity in access, the following measures will be implemented:
(i) increase pre-school coverage of the poor by the creation of 100 new family pre-
school centers, adding to the 200 already in existence;
(ii) develop a Mother-to-Mother Program in 50 communities, located in San Blas,
Bocas del Toro, Panama Oeste and Los Santos, as well as developing 40 allied
programs through regional and national broadcasts on health, nutrition, and other
topics to support the expansion of non-formal pre-school education;
(iii) provide 5,099 new scholarships for primary and secondary education to poor
children according to income indicators in 185 of the poorest townships;
(iv) also, in addition to coordinating the scholarship program, begin an economic
compensation program in the towns with the highest poverty and dropout rates by
giving one Balboa per school day, or 200 Balboas a year, to each student who
attends school. This measure will benefit 10,000 children in total. The program
began in the third semester of 1998 in a pilot project in the district of Baru, which
suffers high unemployment, with an estimated annual cost of 900,000 Balboas, and
contributes to increase the internal efficiency of the system;
(v) regarding the improvement of school infrastructure, in 1999, 246 school centers
with be repaired, located in 185 of the poorest towns.
In order to improve the quality of education, in 1999, the Government: (i) will
complete and oversee the application of the experimental phase of a new curriculum in all



PANAMA                                                                    Annex B
SUPPLEMENTAL LETTER                                                      Page 4 of 6
grades of general basic education and middle school, in 110 basic education and 25
middle school pilot centers, respectively; (ii) 149,668 textbooks will be loaned to students
at the pre-middle school level; 89,363 teacher guides and 47,385 recreational books,
along with reference books, complementary books and educational materials for libraries
will be provided to 97 school centers of the 185 of the poorest towns; and (iii) 2,185
students in indigenous zones will benefit from reading materials in their maternal
language (specifically, the Kuna, Ngobe and Embera ethnic groups); 121 schools will
receive children's songbooks and storybook packets containing topics relevant to the
indigenous areas.
Health. In 1999, the Government will put into effect the management and care
model of San Miguelito Hospital, in the scope of the pilot Health Reform project. On the
other hand, 676 health providers will be trained to strengthen the health care program in
28 of the poorest districts. In the health centers, 130,000 children under the age of five
will be provided service for anemia and vitamin A, as well as 52,000 pregnant mothers
and 347,000 school-aged children.
Vocational Training. In this area, various actions will be taken: (i) the National
Institute for Professional Training will provide 1,226 training events in its 16 centers, to
benefit 20,179 people, of which 1,670 live in rural and indigenous areas, and will receive
training in five existing centers in these areas; and (ii) modernization of the training
system through a pilot project linked with the private sector. It is hoped that some 105
small enterprises will participate, which would help finance the training. Also in this
program, some 700 youth requesting training are expected to participate.
B. Physical Capital
Land Entitlements. In 1999, in order to ease the use of physical capital and access
to credit of the poor, the Government awarded 3,500 property titles covering 45,300
acres. In the province of Veraguas, a pilot project will continue land entitlement,
including the official land registry of 39,000 lots, modernization of the expedition
process, and registration of property titles in the province.  Preparation of a new
entitlement program at the national level will also begin in 1999, using the lessons
learned form the Veraguas pilot project.
Housing. In 1999, the Ministry of Housing in rural areas: (i) will effect the
measurement and legalization of 5,000 lots; (ii) deliver 4,900 PARVIS subsidies; and
(iii) provide 600 material loans and construct 50 block houses. In urban areas, the
Ministry of Housing: (i) will effect the measurement and legalization of 4,000 lots; (ii)
deliver 2,940 PARVIS subsidies; and (iii) provide 900 material loans, creating over the
year a total of 18,390 housing solutions for families with limited resources.
Basic Infrastructure. To improve the provision of basic infrastructure to the poor
in rural areas, multiple actions will be taken: (i) construction or improvement of 220
rural aqueducts and 10,600 latrines; (ii) 97 km of paved roads, 16 bridges and 21 fords
will be constructed or rehabilitated by the Ministry of Public Works, with a total
estimated investment of 13.7 million Balboas, almost a 60% increase in the average of
the last three years. Additionally, through other public institutions, 165 km. of roads will



PANAMA                                                                     Annex B
SUPPLEMENTAL LETTER                                                       Page 5 of 6
be repaired, and 27 small bridges will be built in extremely poor areas; (iii) in the area of
irrigation, 8 systems will be rehabilitated and 20 mini-irrigation works will be built to
benefit poor farmers; (iv) the PROINLO and Community Works programs have
allocated 78% of their annual budget for small works mainly in transport, health,
education and housing, with the active participation of the local communities and
governments. These programs target 441 rural communities, where 41% of the country's
total population lives. As indicated above, the Emergency Social Fund will use the new
poverty map in 1999 to target the poor in its infrastructure program. Approximately 100
new projects will be included, along with 250 training or community organization events,
to ensure the sustainability of the projects.
Reforestation. The following activities will take place in the area of reforestation:
(i) reforestation of 393.5 acres with 2.2 million of seedlings on diverse farms, watersheds,
and eco-regions of the provinces of Panama, Colon, and Cocde; (ii) establishment of 13
nurseries to produce 290,000 seedlings to reforest protected areas in the central zone of
the country; (iii) initiate 2,250 producers in soil conservation practices; and (iv) in
indigenous areas, integrate 200 communities in reforestation projects by creating 300
cooperatives and/or family nurseries to produce seedlings, for the reforestation of 100
river beds, 68 acres with timber-yielding trees and 108 acres with fruit trees.
C. Financial Capital
Concerning credit, (i) the Social Emergency Fund will provide 1.5 million Balboas
in micro and small credits through financial intermediaries, benefiting micro-enterprises
in the rural and urban areas; and (ii) through a variety of rural development projects
targeted in areas of extreme poverty. Some 2.5 million Balboas of credit for investment
will be made available, through the organization of sustainable development committees,
producers associations, and individual loans to small producers.
In the scope of agricultural training and technical assistance for the small
producers, the following actions are programmed:  (i) 79 seminars on sustainable
agriculture production techniques directed to producers, providers, technicians and
producers' organizations; other training activities will be also developed, such as visits to
sites, apprenticeships and courses for producers; (ii) development of the use of animals
in plowing for some 2,000 producers; (iii) training of 200 producers in irrigation with the
goal of increasing and diversifying production for the external market; (iv) establishing
800 parcels (400m per average) of rice fields; and (v) develop 30 agriculturally
sustainable cooperatives and 165 projects for small producers of livestock and
agriculture.



PANAMA                                                               Annex B
SUPPLEMENTAL LETTER                                                Page 6 of 6
mI. Actions to Compensate and/or Alleviate the Situation of the Most Vulnerable
Groups
In the area of school nutrition programs, the Government has planned in 1999:
(i) based on the poverty map, increase coverage of the SEF lunch program, to serve
100,000 children in 30 of the poorest districts of the country, and create support for this
program through nutritional training in 20 communities; and (ii) the Ministry of
Education will expand its school lunch program in schools with extended days, by
allocating resources to the schools, based on the minimum cost per student. The Parents'
Associations will manage both the program and the funds. This model may be used in
the future for restructuring other modalities of school nutrition of the Ministry of
Education.
Through the nutrition program for pregnant mothers and children under five, the
Ministry of Health will serve 20,000 mothers and 70,250 children in 28 of the poorest
districts, by providing enriched cream and other basic foods.
By extending the aid to vulnerable groups, the Social Emergency Fund will transfer
approximately 600 thousand Balboas to initiate new program modalities through non
governmental organizations in order to compensate the many vulnerable groups,
including homeless children, the elderly poor, and indigenous groups.
In 1999, the Government, through the Ministry of Youth, Woman, Child and
Family, will pilot a program of Integrated Child Development Centers for children under
four, in several of the towns indicated by the poverty map. The program aims to protect
the vulnerable from intra-family violence, and ease the entry of poor women in to the
labor market.
Sincerely,
(signed)
Rene Luciani L.
Acting Minister
Seal reads: Republic of Panama, Office of the Minister, Ministry of Planning and
Economic Policy



ANNEX C
Matrix of Policy Actions



Panama: Proposed Public Policy Reform Program Loan
Matrix of Policy Actions
.n  ~0licy~ACt                                g
L Macroeconomic Framework
*  Maintenance of a Satisfactory Macroeconomic     Ongoing    Ongoing   Condition of Board Presentation. Condition has been met. The Government
Framewvork                                                           has made good progress, satisfactory to  the Bank, in  meeting  its
macroeconomic targets for 1997 and 1998.
IL Trade Reform
*  Approval of WTO  Protocol and  associated         July
legislation.
*  Issue regulations for the WTO  and Associated              December
Legislation
*  Reduction of all imports tariffs on selected products    July  August   Condition of Board Presentation. This condition has been met. A Bank
from 20-50% ad valorem to 10% ad valorem, in                          mission in August 1998 confirmed the satisfactory implementation of Cabinet
compliance with the Borrower's Cabinet Decree No.                    Decree No. 37.
37, dated July 24, 1997.
*  Reduction of all imports tariffs to a maximum of  November   August   Condition of Board Presentation. This condition has been met. A Bank
15% ad valorem, with the exception of tariffs on                     mission in August 1998 confirmed the satisfactory implementation of Cabinet
automobiles, milk and milk products, rice and                        Decree No. 68.
consolidation of all such reduced tariffs into 5 rates
(15%, 10%, 5%1., 3% and 0%/O) in compliance with
the Borrower's Cabinet Decree No. 68, dated
November 12, 1997.



Panama: Proposed Public Policy Reform Program Loan
Matrix of Policy Actions
7707.,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
IIL Domestic Competition Reform
*  Entry into effect and initial implementation,            September  Condition of Board Presentation.  This condition has been met. The
satisfactory to the Bank, of the Borrowveres                       regulations, satisfactory to the Bank, were issued by Executive Decree No. 31
Executive Decree No. 31 (dated September 3, 1998)                  on September 7, 1998, containing regulations to Title I (on monopolistic
regulating Law No. 29 dated Februan 1, 1996 on                     practices and other provisions of Law 29).
Competition Policy.
IV. Social Security Reform
*  Approval of Lawv No. 8 creating the Private Pension   February
Svstem for Public Employees (SIACAP)
  Entry  into effect and initial implementation,              July    Condition of Board Presentation. This condition has been met. The revised
satisfactory to the Bank, of the Borrower's                        regulations, satisfactory to the Bank, were issued by Executive Decree No. 32,
Executive Decree No. 32, dated July 6, 1998, issued                 on July 6, 1998.
to support social security reform activities of
SIACAP.
V. Poverty Reduction Strategy And Policies
*  Adopt a Poverty Reduction Strategy, satisfactorv to      September  Condition of Board Presentation. This condition has been met. The Poverty
the Bank, by means of a Cabinet Resolution.                        Reduction Strategy, satisfactory to the Bank, was signed as Cabinet Resolution  o ¢
No. 134 on September 17, 1998.                                            (D
*  Issuance by the Ministry of Planning and Economic        September  Condition of Board Presentation. This condition has been met. A
Policy of the Borrower, of an action plan letter,                   Supplementary Letter, satisfactory to the Bank, signed on September 25, 1998,
satisfactory to the Bank, setting forth the specific                outlines the actions planned to implement the Poverty Reduction Strategy.
actions for implementation of such strategy during
1999.



ANNEX D
Statistical Tables
1-) Panama At A Glance
2-) Key Macroeconomic Indicators
3-) Non-Financial Public Sector External Financing
4-) Status of Bank Group Operations in Panama



Annex D. I
Page I of 2
Panama at a glance
Latin   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                         America   middle-
Panama   & Carlb.  Income       Development dlamond-
Population, mid-year (millions)                       2.7       494     2,285                Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atfas Method, US$)                  3,080     3,880     1,230
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                      8.4     1,917     2,818
Average annual growth, 1991-97                                                                     T
Population (%)                                        1.8       1.7       1.2     GNP                             Gross
Labor force (9%)                                      2.5       2.3       1.3      p                              Gross
per                           primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1991-97)                             capita            I         enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)  37                  .. I
Urban population (% of total population)              56        74        42
Life expectancy at birth (years)                      74        70        69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)              21         32       36
Child mainutrition (% of children under 5, urban)      7         12                         Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                88         73        84
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                   9         13       19
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  106      ...      1           -Panama
Male                                                                   116              Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                                 113
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976     1986      1996      1997
Economic ratlos
GDP (US$ billions)                           2.0      5.6       8.2       8.8
Gross domestic investmentUGDP                        17.2      23.6      25.4                    Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP             ,      36.5      38.2      38.9
Gross domestic savings/GDP                           22.0      23.8      24.3
Gross national savings/GDP                           16.2      22.0      22.4
Current account balance/GDP                          -1.8      -1.6      -3.0     Domestic
Interest payments/GDP                        2.9      5.6       4.8       3 4     Savings                     Investment
Total debtlGDP                              68.7    86.6       84.8      85.7     Svn
Total debt servicetexports                    ,      11.4      21.9      33.8
Present value of debttGDP                                      74.6
Present value of debtlexports                                 140.7
Indebtedness
197646  1987-97     1996      1997   1998401
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 3.7      4.3      2.5       4.4       4.6            Panama
GNP per capita                      0.7      2.1      1.5       2.6       3.1              Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services       2.5      1.4      4.0      12.8       5.8
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976    1986       1996      1997     Growth rates of output and Investment1%)
(% of GDP)                                                                        so
Agriculture                                           8.6       7.5       7.1    40-
Industry                                             15.6      16.8      16.9    30.
Manufacturing                                      10.9       8.5       8.6    20 '
Services                                             75.8      75.7      76.0    10o
Private consumption                                  57.5      57.6      56.7   -10    92   93   94   95  9f   97
General govemment consumption                        20.5      18.6      19.0                _GDI         0  GDP
Imports of goods and services                        31.8      38.0      40.0                      _
197646  1987-97      1996      1997     Growth rates of exports and Imports (0h)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                  4.0      1.8       1.3      -1.2    40
Industry                                     0.7      5.8       3.2       3.9    30 -
Manufacturing                              2.4      4.5        0.7      3.6    20 -
Services                                     3.1      4.3       2.5       5.2    10s 
Private consumption                          5.8      3.1       2.9      -0.5                            9S   93   97
General govemment consumption                5.2    -0.2        3.4       5.1    -o 
Gross domestic investment                   -7.8    19.3       -3.7      15.1    20
Imports of goods and services                1.9      4.9      -0.9      15.0            -Exports         a  Imports
Gross national product                       2.8      4.0       3.2       4.3
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
* The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Annex D. I
Page 2 of 2
Panama
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976     1986      1996      1997      Inflation (%)
DomesUc pricesi
(%/ change)6 
Consumer prices (average)                                                                 .50.5  133 1.33
Implicit GDP deflator                         4.5      0.3        1.7       2.0    3
2
Nonfinancial Public Sector finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                o
Current revenue                                 ..      ..       27.4      27.3            92   93    94    95   96    97
Current budget balance                         ..        .        4.0       3.9             -     GDP deflator    a  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                        ..       ..        0.4      -0.3
TRADE
(US$ millions)                               1976     1986      1996      1997      Export and Import levels (US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                            ..    756        1,566     1,764     3,500
Bananas                                       ..     153        184       181     39000
Sugar                                         ..      20         23        27     2500. 
Manufactures                                  ..    483       1,076     1,212     2000 
Total imports (cif)                                  1,310      2,566     2,891     1600      r
Food                                          ..     151        233      257      190D0  _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Fuel and energy                               .        6212     302       341      soo0
91  92  93  94  95  96  97
Export price index (1995= 100)                 ..       ..       104       101
Import price index (1995=100)                  ..       ..        94        92                o1 Exports    G Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                      ..       ..        110      110   |
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                              11976    1986       1996      1997      Current account balance to GDP ratlo (%)
Exports of goods and services                   ..   2,051      3,149    3,413      0
Imports of goods and services                   ..   1,785      3,135    3,510          91   92  93          99  19 97
Resource balance                                .      266         14      -98    .1
Net income                                            -498       -300     -331    -2
Net current transfers                          ..    133          153      163
Current account balance (bef. grants)          ..    -99         -132     -266
Financing items (net)                          ..    159         352       375
Changes in net reserves                         ..     -60       -220     -110   |, 
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)         ..       76      1,017     1,145
Conversion rate (DEC, localWUS$)              1.0       1.0       1.0       1.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976    1986       1996      1997
(US$ millions)                                                                      Composition of total debt, 1997 (US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        1,345    4,859      6,990     7,525
IBRD                                         88      438       199       209                       A: 209 C: 144
IDA                                           0        0         0         0                                   53
Total debt service                            102      515        956     1,525           G:21                   E:365
IBRD                                          7       64        44        44
IDA                                           0        0         0         0
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                               0        0         0        71
Official creditors                           69       77       -142      184
Private creditors                           253       15        58       130
Foreign direct Investment                   -11      126       275       848
Portfolio equity                              0     -102         0         0                               F: 4,118
World Bank program
Commitments                                  12      100        65        51     A-IBRD                        E-Bilateral
Disbursements                                24       85        69        53     B - IDA   D - Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                          2       33        31        29     C - IMF                       G - Short-termn
Net flows                                    22       52        37        25   1_1
Interest payments                             5       31        13        15
Net transfers                                17       21        25        10
Development Economics                                                                                                10/29/98



Amnex D.2
Page ] of2
Panama - Key Macroeconomic Indicators
Prelindnary               Projection
1992     1993      1994      1995      1996     1997      1998      1999      2000      2001
Production and Prices (annual percent changes)
GDPatcurrentprices                            13.7       9.2      6.6       2.2       4.3       6.5       5.0       5.0       5.3      6.2
GDP at constant 1982 prices                    8.2       5.5      2.9       1.8       2.5       4.4       4.0       4.1       4.5       5.0
GDPDeflator                                    5.i       3.6      3.7       0.5       1.7       2.0       1.0       0.8       0.8      1.1
Consumer price index (end of period)           1.6       1.0      1.3       0.8       2.3      (0.5)      0.5       1.0       1.0       1.2
Unemployment rate (in percent)                14.7      13.3     14.0      14.0      14.3      13.4        ..
Real GDP per capita                            6.2       3.5      1.0       -0.1      0.9       2.8       2.4       2.7       3.1       3.6
National Accounts (percent of GDP)
Gross domestic investment                     19.7      24.1     24.5      26.2      23.6      25.4      27.0      27.3      27.4     27.6
Public Sector                                3.1       4.0       3.4      3.4       3.8       4.4       4.2       3.0       2.9       2.9
Private Sector                               16.5     20.1      21.1     22.8       19.8     21.0      22.8      24.3      24.5      24.6
Gross national savings                         15.4     22.0      24.1     22.8       22.0     22.4      22.6      23.6      25.1      25.5
Public Sector                                4.6       2.6       3.7      3.5       4.2       3.3       2.9       2.0       3.4       3.7
Private Sector                               10.8     19.4      20.4      19.3      17.8     19.1      19.7      21.6      21.7      21.8
Nonfinancial Public Sector (percent of GDP)
Revenue                                       30.4      28.3     28.5      29.2      27.6      27.5      27.0      26.4      27.5     27.3
Expenditure                                   28.7      29.7     28.2      29.0      27.2      27.8      27.7      27.4      27.1     26.5
Current                                     25.6      25.8      24.7     25.6      23.4      23.4      23.6      24.4      24.2      23.6
Capital                                      3.1       4.0       3.4      3.4       3.8       4.4       4.2       3.0       2.9       2.9
Overall Balance                                1.6       -1.4     0.3       0.2       0.4       -0.3      -0.7      -1.0       0.4      0.8
Financing                                      -1.6      1.4      -0.3      -0.2      -0.4       0.3      0.7        1.0     -0.4      -0.8
External                                       0.2      2.2       1.5       2.6      -1.8       5.2      4.8       0.8       0.4      -0.8
Domestic (net)                                -1.9     -0.8      -1.9      -2.8       1.4      -4.9     -4.1        0.3     -0.7       0.0
Central Government (percent of GDP)
CurrentRevenue                                 19.1     18.7      17.6      18.6      18.7      18.2      17.6      18.0      18.7     18.5
TaxRevenue                                   12.5      11.9     11.8      12.5      11.9      11.9      11.6      12.2      12.9      12.8
Nontax Revenue                                6.6       6.8      5.7       6.1       6.8       6.3       6.0       5.8       5.8       5.7
Total Expenditure                              21.5     22.2      20.7      20.6      18.6      19.4     22.1      20.4      20.0      19.4
CurrentExpenditure                           19.7      19.3     18.5      18.6      16.1      16.9      19.4      18.1      17.8      17.2
Capital Expenditure                           1.8       2.8      2.2       1.9       2.5       2.5       2.7       2.3       2.3      2.2
Savings 2                                      -0.6     -0.6      -0.9       0.0       2.6       1.4     -1.8       0.0       0.9       1.3
Overall Balance 3                              -2.2     -3.5      -3.1      -1.8       0.2     -0.4      -4.0      -2.4      -1.3      -0.9
Financing                                       2.2      3.5       3.1       1.8      -0.2       0.4      4.0       2.4       1.3       0.9
External (net)                                 2.4      3.7       3.0       3.4      -1.2     -4.9       -1.8      0.5       0.3      -0.6
Domestic (net)                                -0.2     -0.2       0.1      -1.6       1.0      5.3       5.8       1.9       1.0       1.5
Balance in Trust Fund for Development 4'        0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      78.0    749.6   1,324.6   1,359.6   1,394.6   1,429.6
Money and Credit (in percent of initial stock of liabilities to the private sector)
Net domestic assets of the banking system      13.0      8.3       8.4       8.4       5.0      10.3     13.0       9.2       9.4       9.5
Public sector(net)                            -2.9     -5.5      -5.1      -3.6       2.6     -2.1      -3.6        1.9     -0.3       0.1
Privatesector                                 19.4     19.0      14.2      11.9       6.9      12.6     17.0       7.8       9.6       9.6
Liabilitiestotheprivatesector                  23.7     15.3      17.9       8.2      8.1       15.3     10.5      10.5      10.5      10.5
Interest rates (period average)
Commercial lending rate (one year)            10.6      9.6      10.2      10.6      10.5      10.2       ..        ..
Deposit rate (six month)                       5.5      4.9       5.5       6.5       6.4      6.2        ..        ..
10/31198



Annex D.2
Page 2 of2
Panama - Key Macroeconomic Indicators
Preliminary               Projection
1992     1993      1994      1995      1996     1997      1998      1999      2000      2001
Balance of Payments (in millions of U. S. dollars)
Current Account (as % of GDP)                  -4.3     -2.2      -0.4      -3.4      -1.6     -3.0      -4.4      -3.7      -2.3      -2.1
Overallbalanceofpayments                      175.6   -242.4    -98.2   -253.2    399.8        130.4    -57.8       -4.1      -8.8     26.8
Change in reserves (including IMF)             82.2   -100.8   -133.2   -103.1    -219.5   -109.7        32.8      -26.8     -24.2    -30.8
External Debt Stocks and Flows
PublicExternal Debt(incl. IMF)IGDP             76.6     76.0      73.2      71.8      64.5     57.8      59.5      57.1      54.6      51.5
TDS/Exportsofgoods&services"                   20.3      7.6       9.3       8.4      21.9     33.8       14.6      12.9     13.1      12.5
TDS/Central Government Revenue                 56.3     20.5      28.4      25.5      61.9     95.4      38.4      33.4      32.7      30.8
Memorandum item
Real Effective exchange rate (annual change)  -1.0     -1.9      -4.0      -1.8       0.4      0.8
GDP at current prices (in millions of Balboas)  6,641  7,253    7,734     7,906     8,244     8,780    9,218     9,676    10,193    10,824
Sources: MIPPE, World Bank and IMF staffestimates.
" In 1997 and 1998, the increase in debt service (DS) reflects commercial debt restructuring involving retirement of Brady bonds.
/ Revenue less current expenditure.
31 Revenue and grants, less expenditure.
The Trust Fund for Development invests divestment proceeds abroad and transfers its investment income to the central government to finance development
projects, including social projects.
10131198



Annex D.3
Panama - Nonfinancial Public Sector External Financing
(in millions of US dollars)
Program "                Projection
1997    1998          1999   2000    2001    2002
External Financing: NFPS                       189.1   392.5           16.4   14.5   -76.5   -21.9
1. NET DISBURSEMENTS                           221.2   388.3           -3.9   -9.4  -101.3   -48.0
Disbursements                                 1498.9   666.3         236.4  252.9   185.0   680.0
Policy                                       180.5   214.1           93.0   69.7      0.0     0.0
IFI's excl. IMF                             103.1   161.0           40.0   30.0      0.0     0.0
World Bank                                  33.1    61.0            0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0
IDB                                        70.0   100.0           40.0   30.0      0.0     0.0
IMF                                          45.8    53.1           53.0   39.7      0.0     0.0
Japan Cofmancing                             31.6      0.0           0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0
Project financing                            104.7   152.3          143.4  183.2   185.0   180.0
World Bank                                   20.2    36.5           41.3   46.6    50.0    45.0
IDB                                          74.6    72.0           70.5   90.0    90.0    90.0
FIDA                                          2.2     1.3            1.6    1.6      0.0     0.0
Bilateral                                     7.7    42.5           30.0   45.0    45.0    45.0
Taiwan                                         0.0      0.0           0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0
Financing of DDSR                              0.0      0.0           0.0    0.0      0.0      0.0
Other                                       1200.0   300.0            0.0    0.0      0.0   500.0
Released Collateral                            13.7     0.0           0.0    0.0      0.0      0.0
Repayments                                    1277.7   278.0         240.3  262.3   286.3   728.0
Principal due                               1227.5   291.7          240.3  262.3   286.3   728.0
Cash repayments                            1227.5   291.7          240.3  262.3   286.3   728.0
Accrual of principal arrears                  0.0      0.0           0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0
DDSR cost and Elliott cost                     12.8     0.0           0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0
Cost of bond issues                            8.7     0.0            0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0
Collateral proceeds held abroad               28.7   -13.7            0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0
2. ARREARS (NET)                               -67.8   -15.0            2.0    2.0      2.0     2.0
Accumulation of arrears                         4.3      4.0           2.0    2.0      2.0     2.0
Principal                                      0.0     0.0            0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0
Interest                                       4.3     4.0            2.0    2.0      2.0     2.0
Cash payment of arrears                       -71.1   -19.0            0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0
Restructuring of arrears                        -1.0    0.0            0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0
3. RESCHEDULING AND / OR
INTEREST CAPITALIZE                           35.7    19.2           18.3   21.9    22.8    24.1
Current Maturities                            34.7    19.2           18.3   21.9    22.8    24.1
Arrears                                         1.0     0.0           0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0
4. OTHER                                         0.0      0.0           0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0
Proceeds of Global Bond                         0.0     0.0            0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0
Proceeds Japan cofinancing                      0.0     0.0            0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0
5. DIVESTMENT PROCEEDS                         671.6   575.0           35.0   35.0    35.0    35.0
6. TRUST FUND                                  -671.6  -575.0         -35.0  -35.0   -35.0   -35.0
Source: IMF, preliminary data used for 1997.
"Extended Fund Facility, approved in December 1997. Revised figures.
10/31/98



Status of Bank Group Operations in Panama
Operations Portfolio
Difference
Between expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                  and actual               Last PSR
Fiscal                                                                                                                      disbursements a/    Supervision Rating b/
Project ID    Year               Borrower                        Purpose
IBRD          Cancellations   Undisbursed  Orig    Frm Rev'd   Dev Obj            Imp Prog
Number of Closed Projects: 33
Active Projects
PA-PE-7844      1994   REPUBLIC OF PANAMA               ROADS REHABILITATION               60.00                0.00            24.60         13.58       0.00       S             S
PA-PE-7846      1995   REPUBLIC OF PANAMA                RURAL HEALTH                      25.00                 0.00           18.71         16.00       0.00       S             S
PA-PE-7832      1996   REPUBLIC OF PANAMA                EDUCATION SCTR                    35.00                0.00            20.77         -1.94       0.00       S             S
PA-PE-7847      1997   REPUBLIC OF PANAMA                RURAL POV & NAT RES               22.50                 0.00           20.98          2.28       0.00       S             S
PA-PE-7837      1997   REPUBLIC OF PANAMA                SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND            28.00                 0.00           26.00          8.26       0.00       S             S
PA-PE-51124     1998   REPUBLIC OF PANAMA                UTILITIES RESTRUC TA               12.70               0.00            11.30          1.62       0.00       S             S
PA-PE-53706    1999   REPUBLIC OF PANAMA                 SECOND RQADS REHAB.                85.00                0.00           85.00          0.00       0.00
PA-PE-40179    1999   REPUBLIC OF PANAMA                 HEALTH PILOT                        4.30               0.00             4.30           .60       0.00
Total                                                                                     272.50                 0.00          211.66         40.40       0.00
Active Projects       Closed Projects          Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                  60.84              655.63              716.47
of which has been repaid:                  0.00              503.38              503.38
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                 272.50              152.25              424.75
Amount sold                      :                0.00                9.21                9.21
Of which repaid              :                 0.00                9.21                9.21
Total Undisbursed                :              211.66                0.00              211.66
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system was introduced (HS - highly Satisfactory, S - satisfactory, U - unsatisfactory,
HU - highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data as of September 30, 1998.



Annex D.4
Page 2 of 2
Panama
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of September 30, 1998
(In US Dollar Millions)
Held                             Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval           Company           Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1997               Banco General S.        15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995               Manzanillo              20.69    0.00    0.00   27.00   20.69    0.00    0.00   27.00
Total Portfolio:                35.69    0.00    0.00   27.00   35.69    0.00    0.00   27.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Equity   Quas   Partic
1998               CORREDOR SUR            20.00    0.00   15.00   35.00
1999               SUINTERNACIONAL    20.00    5.00    0.00   40.00
Total Pending Commitment:       40.00    5.00   15.00   75.00
Note: Values do not reflect off-balance sheet items such as guarantee and risk management products.
10/26/98



MAP SECTION



IBRD 29549
82                                           82'                                                                                                                                     79'                                           78'                                           7'
Nombre de                                           CARIBBEAN
P8eG rl fo  j  *      oA   oo    S  , 4
83-                                          82-                                           81                                           80'                                           70'                                          78'                                           77'
UNITED STATES OP A4ER CA
RICA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ALNI
P A N A M A                                                                                                                                                                             " r                              -'.  \  e THE bAHAMAS OdCE A N
T RA NS P ORTAT I ON  A ND  R EULIEF                                                                    °   PTOVWNC CAPITALLS-    PAVED ROADS                                                                                   -            E, lCB-A.__' DOMINICAN
G*     NATIONAL CAPITAL                           -'        GRAVEL AND DIRI ROADS                              .O                         c  - 
83 80       0       60      T0      10hOM3 FR 8 l8V2J                                          PORTS OR LANDING PLACES                               ELEVATIONS IN PRET                            4EXCO ' TSIL2                    Co8;5b18A      Doo
Ri-    AIRPCGRTS/LANDING STRIPS                    [7          81 00  300                                   GUATEMLVAfTRAc" '  NIC0AU                  g_
Ths 008p 888 p,oduceod heMPDbyg Un 808 fo~  TL,, Wold938 39,888D TTSSST500 COTTA RLCA' .,,BVNZE> 
8888888.    ~         ~        ~         ~         ~         ~        ~         ~        ~        ~         ~        ~        ~        ~        ~       ~        ~       ~      ~        00~~~~   rN
Ihs;o or84,,, e88, o088888,88300  880.,r8o r rm0888                                   -s-o   NTRRNATONAL ROUNDARIES _, 0 > J   
T.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RC
p ... t. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0381
uJgrilent~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~d                                                       4- Gh leg IsaL of on ferfoy or an nnooeei a/                    m  a                                                 AAAfI                               -
0ceeneouhbudre                                                                                           C E A N                                                                                                                      <L                          RZL



