Report No. PID7069
Project Name                     Panama-Public Policy Reform Adjustment...
Loan (PPRAL)
Region                           Latin American and the Caribbean
Sector                           Public Sector Management Adjustment
Project ID                       PAPE50608
Borrower                         Republic of Panama
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Planning and Economic Policy
Ministerio de Planificaciun y Polmtica
Econumica
Vma Espana y Calle 52 Este
Apartado Postal 2694
Panama 3, Republica de Panama
Tel:     (507)263-4311
Fax:     (507)264-2620
Date PID Prepared                November, 1998
Appraisal                        August 10, 1998
Board Date                       November 19, 1998
1.      Country and Sector Background. Although it was once one of the more
prosperous and stable economies in LAC, in the 1970s Panama adopted highly
protectionist and distortionary policies that ultimately stifled growth,
generated a large external debt, created a highly dualistic economy,
exacerbated poverty, and led to a marked increase in inequality. In the
1980s, these distortions and confrontation with the U.S. plunged the economy
into a severe crisis. In 1987-88, the Government ceased to service its
commercial debt, and fell into arrears.   By end-1989, GDP had fallen by 16%,
mismanagement and external sanctions had demonetized the economy, and
unemployment had climbed to 20%. Since 1990, the country has come a long way
towards achieving a political and economic recovery. In the first several
years, growth was based mainly on a boom in construction and other
nontradables, and arrears accumulation. By 1994, GDP reached pre-crisis
levels, but in the absence of fundamental structural changes in the economy,
growth fell back to the modest 2% trend of the previous two decades and
poverty continued to fester. Subsequently, over the past four years, the
Government has undertaken many of the critical reforms needed to stimulate
more broad-based growth and begin attacking widespread poverty. It dismantled
a labyrinth of trade barriers and price controls; undertook a far-reaching
privatization program and issued anti-trust and consumer protection
legislation; concluded a Debt and Debt Service Reduction (DDSR) accord which
restored Panama's access to international financial markets; and strengthened
public finances, having downsized the state and external debt.
2.     Objectives. The PPRAL would support the Government's Public Policy
Reform Program, which aims to lay the groundwork for accelerating growth
within a stable macroeconomic environment, and for achieving a significant
reduction in poverty and inequality.
3.     Project Benefits. In addition to supporting the Government's fiscal
program and financing plan, the PPRAL would focus on those areas where impact



on growth, fiscal sustainability, poverty and inequality is expected to be
significant. Accordingly, benefits of the PPRAL include: (i) providing an
enabling environment for private sector-led growth by maintaining a stable
macroeconomic framework and improving the functioning of markets by starting
implementation of the Competition law, which removed all remaining price
controls and established the anti-trust and consumer protection framework;
(ii) enhancing fiscal sustainability by implementing a private, supplementary
fully-funded voluntary pension scheme to replace the deficit generating
Complementary Fund; (iii) increasing the economy's overall efficiency over the
medium-term, and impacting positively on poverty through trade reform; and
(iv) developing a comprehensive Poverty Reduction Strategy and Action Plan to
assist the Government in achieving a significant reduction in poverty and
inequality, to target public expenditures to improve the nutrition, health
and education of the most disadvantaged - the rural population, indigenous
communities and children.
4.     Description. The proposed PPRAL would support a subset of the components
of the Government's Program, including measures to: (i) deepen the trade
reform; (ii) implement social security reform as it relates to the private
pension regime for state employees; (iii) implement domestic competition
reform to complement trade reform; and (iv) adopt and initiate implementation
of an agreed Poverty Reduction Strategy and Action Plan.
5.     Financing. The loan amount is US$61 million with one single tranche to
be disbursed upon effectiveness. The loan would be a single currency loan in
dollars with a fixed interest rate with 12 years maturity, including a 3 year
grace period.
6.     Implementation. All conditionality has already been met before Board
presentation. The responsible agency would be the Ministry of Planning's
Public Policy Unit, which has overall responsibility for designing,
implementing and monitoring the Government's reform program, and to line
agencies directly responsible for implementing components of the program to be
supported by the PPRAL. A planned technical assistance loan of about US$10
million would be a companion operation to the proposed PPRAL. It would provide
support to institutions for designing and implementing policy reforms on the
current agenda, and for preparing reforms that could be tackled by the next
administration following the May 1999 elections.
7.     Lessons Learned. Since the early 1990s, the Bank has    supported policy
reforms and debt reduction efforts essential for Panama's economic recovery.
Beginning in 1994 with the present Government, Panama has made solid advances
in restructuring its economy. Indeed, this country, which only several years
ago was an outlier in the LAC region on many fronts (protection, state control
of the economy, few coherent development efforts), has experienced a major
turnaround and is now among the best regional performers in many areas. As
structural changes were put in place, the debt burden reduced and the economy
began to respond, the Government directed its attention towards addressing the
root causes of poverty. To support this effort, the Bank has followed a
collaborative and process-oriented approach with the Government in
implementing an LSMS and preparing the Poverty Assessment. The Bank's effort
to design the Poverty Assessment as a process and a teaching tool, rather than
the preparation of a document, has produced encouraging results. The process
has allowed the Government to own and internalize the analysis and
conclusions, facilitated the transfer and absorption of considerable knowledge
- 2-



on survey design and poverty analysis, and nourished an active policy dialogue
with the Bank on the preparation and design of the Government's Poverty
Strategy and Action Plan. The Government's Poverty Strategy and Action Plan,
which is already being implemented, constitutes the base on which the Bank's
proposed Country Assistance Strategy is framed.
8.     Poverty Category. The project includes the adoption and implementation
of an agreed Poverty Reduction Strategy and Action Plan. This includes
improving the targeting and efficiency of public expenditures, to achieve a
significant reduction in poverty and inequality.
9.      Environmental Aspects.   The project (category C in accordance with
Operational Directive 4.01) will have no adverse environmental impact.
10.    Contact Point:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.    (202)458 5454
Fax No.          (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending November 20, 1998.
- 3 -



