         International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
                  International Development Association           87365
                     International Finance Corporation
                Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
                        FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
                        CONFIDENTIAL
                                                                       EDS98-511
                                                                 November 18, 1998


Board Meeting of November 19, 1998
Statement by Mr. Paulo Gomes
                 PANAMA - Country Assistance Strategy
               and Public Policy Reform Adjustment Loan
     I welcome this opportunity to discuss the CAS for Panama.   The
CAS document presents a candid and high quality analysis of the
economic situation of the country.      It highlights Panama’s main
economic, financial and social problems, the objectives and policies
of the government to tackle these problems, and the valuable
collaboration and support of the Bank.
      The CAS document clearly reflects the current situation in Panama
and proposes a coherent strategy for the forthcoming years.         The
previous CAS 1995-98      was based on four main areas: macroeconomic
stability to promote investment and to achieve economic growth; social
efforts in health, housing, education and social security, investment
in   human   resources   and  poverty   alleviation;  advance  in   the
internationalization of the economy, in trade and finance, to achieve
a   broader   and   effective   integration   to  the  world   economy;
modernization of the public administration to improve its efficiency.
     The present CAS builds on the previous CAS. It incorporates all
the main outcomes and emphasizes on the major problems and challenges
to be tackled at the medium and long terms, notably the causes of
poverty and inequality in Panama.      Therefore, the poverty issue
remains central to any strategy aiming at solving Panama’s economic
and social problems.
     Because of its key geographic location, Panama’s economy is
service-based, heavily weighted toward banking, commerce, and tourism,
hence has strong links to international markets.     The manufacturing
and agriculture sectors have become inefficient under protectionist
policies until late 80’s. But, after several years of slow and little
growth, the economy of Panama began feedbacking to the reforms
launched by the current government.      In 1997, GDP rose to 4.4%,
despite the effects of El Nino, unemployment was brought down from
14.3% in 1996 to 13.4% in 1997, and inflation was totally under
control at 1½ % per year.

     Panama’s government is committed to deepen and widen structural
reforms and to maintain prudent fiscal and budgetary policies in a low
inflation context in order to promote sustainable growth, generating
employment and reducing poverty. The government intends to pursue its
efforts in order to attain a GDP of 5% between now and 2000, and to
                                                                     2


     improve the effectiveness of health and education services by
     investing enough resources in these areas. Its poverty strategy and
     its action plan are very relevant to achieve the poverty reduction
     objective.
          Panama   has  indeed   established  a   track  record   of  sound
     macroeconomic, and implemented a strong adjustment program in recent
     past years. Also, the debt and debt service reduction (DDSR) loan in
     1996 and related measures to support the debt reduction helped to
     reduce the external debt, to restore the creditworthiness of Panama
     and to regain access to the international capital markets on favorable
     terms. Panama’s IMF three years program approved in December 1997 is
     being satisfactorily implemented, which is another added-value.
     Briefly, let me concur with the paper that this is a big turn-around
     for Panama to be now among the best regional performers in a number of
     areas.
          Given           the important role that the private sector plays in poverty
     reduction,           I think it is crucial that the Bank group develop this
     sector to            become the engine of growth in Panama, now that the
     environment          is being consolidated.
            Due to the participatory approach in the preparation of this CAS
     and the strong ownership by the government, there is a link between
     the government and Bank frames.     Thus, there is a clear indication
     that CAS priorities and the proposed program are pretty relevant
     response to Panama’s development needs.    The strategy of the Bank is
     framed on the government’s strategy and action plan.     The thrust of
     the Bank’s future program is to assist Panama in effectively
     implementing its poverty strategy and action plan.        Therefore, I
     support it, and I go along with the lending program for the next 3
     years.
          In terms of risks, as mentioned in the paper, it is never easy to
     foresee and control the political ones.         Nevertheless, if the
     government maintains the momentum of economic reforms and stays alert
     and committed, the risks deriving from economic crisis could be
     minimized.
          With regard to the public policy reform adjustment loan (Doc.
     R98-265), I support it in order for Panama to consolidate what has
     been attained to date and to continue to carry out public policy
     reforms.
          Finally, I appreciate the candor of this CAS and its broad
     consultative and participatory nature. I commend Management and Staff
     for their contribution and support. I wish to Panama’s authorities a
     great success in the implementation of their program.




The electronic version of the document is provided for convenience. (The official record is the version printed by the Corporate
Secretariat). This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its
contents may not otherwise be disclosed without the consent of the Executive Director concerned.
