                                         Document of
                                     The World Bank




                                                                   Report No: 26259-EC

                        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                              (SCL-40660; TF-29208; TF-51227)

                                             ON A

                                            LOAN

                           IN THE AMOUNT OF US$10.7 MILLION

                                              TO

                                THE REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR

                                           FOR A

                                JUDICIAL REFORM PROJECT




                                         June 30, 2003




Poverty Reduction and Economic Managmenet Sector Management Unit

Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                     (Exchange Rate Effective January 9, 2000)

                             Currency Unit = US$

                                   FISCAL YEAR
                                January    December

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADR           Alternative Dispute Resolution
ANFJ          Asociacion Nacional de Facultades de Jurisprudencia
BIRF          Banco Internacion de Reconstrucion y Fomento
CEPAM         Centro Ecuatoriano para la Promocion y Accion de la Mujer
CNJ           Consejo Nacional de la Judicatura
CSO           Civil Society Organization
FUNDESA       Fundacion Para el Desarrollo Social Andino
ICB           International Competitive Bidding
ONG           Organizacion No Gubernamental
NBF           Non-Bank Financed
NCB           National Competitive Bidding
NGO           Non-Governmental Organization
PCU           Project Coordination Unit



                            Vice President:   David de Ferranti
                         Country Director     Marcelo Giugale
                          Sector Manager      Ronald E. Myers
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:       Maria Dakolias

                                          ECUADOR
                              JUDICIAL REFORM PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            13
6. Sustainability                                                                16
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 17
8. Lessons Learned                                                               19
9. Partner Comments                                                              21
10. Additional Information                                                       33
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             34
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             35
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             37
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             38
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             40
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                41
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            42

Project ID: P036056                                                      Project Name: EC JUDICIAL REFORM
Team Leader: Maria Dakolias                                              TL Unit: LEGLR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: June 30, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: EC JUDICIAL REFORM                                       L/C/TF Number: SCL-40660; TF-29208;
                                                                                                     TF-51227
   Country/Department: ECUADOR                                                            Region: Latin America and
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Law and justice (100%)
                  Theme: Law reform (P); Legal services (P); Judicial and other dispute
                            resolution mechanisms (S); Land management (S); Access to law
                            and justice (S)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    08/24/1994                                        Effective: 01/01/1997              03/20/1997
   Appraisal:    09/18/1995                                            MTR: 09/01/1997                07/02/1999
    Approval:    07/18/1996                                         Closing: 06/30/2002               11/30/2002

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          MINISTRY OF FINANCE/PROJECT COORDINATION UNIT
                      Other Partners:      Supreme Court

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 David de Ferranti                              Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:               Marcelo Giugale                                John Panzer
Sector Manager:                 Ronald E. Myers                                Krishna Challa
Team Leader at ICR:             Maria Dakolias                                 Maria Dakolias
ICR Primary Author:             Maria Dakolias; Beth Anne
                                Dabak


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:L

Institutional Development Impact:SU

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:S


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                   S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time:

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
        The objective of the Judicial Reform Project was to strengthen the Borrower's
administration of justice through actions to: (a) increase the effectiveness of and transparency in
the judicial process; (b) expand the use of alternative dispute resolution (ADR) mechanisms within
the court system; (c) improve the access to justice by the public, in general, and women, in
particular; and (d) foster initiatives on court reform, legal research and education.

        These objectives were adopted based on the findings of the World Bank's Ecuador Judicial
Sector Assessment (Report No. 12777, dated August 19, 1994) as well as the Ecuadorian
Government's "Integral Plan" for Judicial Reform of 1995. The project focused on improving the
administration of justice in the first instance courts in Quito and Guayaquil, as well as increasing
access to justice throughout the country as a means to promote greater social equity.

3.2 Revised Objective:
Not applicable.

3.3 Original Components:
The original components of the project were:
   l A Case Administration and Information Support program: This component supported: (a)
        carrying out of the design and implementation of a caseflow management program to
        reduce disposition times in the pilot trial courts of Quito and Guayaquil; (b) establishment
        and operation of public access information centers to complement these pilot trial courts;
        (c) carrying out of a records management program for the pilot courts, including the
        establishment and operation of a records management system; (d) development and
        application of standardized legal forms for the judicial procedures in the pilot courts. (e)
        establishment and application of performance standards for the pilot courts; (f)
        development and application of operational manuals for court management in the pilot
        courts; (g) development and implementation of training programs for the pilot courts
        (including a training-for-trainers program); (h) automatization of the pilot courts,
        including the acquisition and utilization of the required computer software and hardware
        and provision of necessary training; and (i) development and implementation of a court
        management information system for the Borrower's trial courts.

   l A Court-Annexed Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) program: The component, as
        originally designed, was to establish pilot mediation programs in Quito and Guayaquil;
        their objective was to complement the changes being made in the pilot courts, offering the
        judges an alternative dispute resolution tool by allowing them to refer selected cases to a
        court-annexed mediation unit. Under this component, judges as well as professional and
        administrative mediation staff received training on mediation, and information on
        alternative dispute resolution was disseminated to the general public and to legal
        professionals.

l A Program for Law and Justice: The original Program for Law and Justice had a number of
    activities designed to create broader support for judicial reforms throughout the country.
    These activities included: activities to promote civil society's role in judicial reform through


                                                   - 2 -

    the Special Fund for Law and Justice; a fund for court reform to modernize and decentralize
    the administration of justice (the Fondo Judiciales); a program to modernize the National
    Property registry for both real and commercial property; professional development for the
    judiciary; improvements in legal education; and pilot legal services for poor women.


l An Infrastructure Program:         The project's infrastructure program had two activities: the
    development of a national strategy for courthouse facilities, including a five year construction
    and maintenance plan; and the remodeling of priority judicial facilities, including the pilot
    courts in Quito and Guayaquil.

l Project coordination and administration: A project coordination and administration unit,
    ProJusticia, was established to carry out the Government's five year plan for the Judiciary, as
    well as manage donor activities in the sector. This unit was to be staffed with the necessary
    technical personnel to successfully implement the Bank's project.
3.4 Revised Components:

Component                                                     Cost                          Rating
CASE ADMINISTRATION                                           $5,138,349.00                 HS
COURT ANNEXED ALTERNATIVE
  DISPUTE RESOLUTION MECHANISMS;                              $ 799,438.00                  S
PROGRAM FOR LAW AND JUSTICE;                                  $1,750,955.00                 HS
INFRASTRUCTURE;                                               $1,911,535.00                 S
PROJECT ADMINISTRATION                                        $1,099,723.00                 S

        The Case Administration component was revised to include first instance courts in
Cuenca. In addition, a second version of the case management system software was developed,
which served to fine tune the first version based on hands-on experience with it.

        The Court-Annexed Alternative Dispute Resolution Mechanism was also revised to
include the selected first instance courts in Cuenca.

         Under the Program for Law and Justice component, the modernization of the property
registry was dropped because the Government went ahead with many reforms on its own prior to
project approval and implementation.          Similarly, the component court reform (Fondo de
Judiciales) began, but was discontinued due to a lack of government counterpart in the wake of
the economic crisis.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
        During appraisal, the Bank raised concerns about the Judiciary's capacity to carry out
a free-standing judicial reform project.        Prior to project approval and effectiveness, the
Ecuadorian Government established a project coordination unit, ProJusticia, through a
Presidential Decree.      The Decree named ProJusticia as the coordinating body for the
Government's and other donors' efforts in the reform and modernization of Ecuador's judicial
system.    ProJusticia was staffed with technical consultants and was mandated to provide
important technical, financial, and administrative support to carry out the Bank's project.


                                                 - 3 -

Furthermore, the Presidential Decree stipulated that ProJusticia implement the project on behalf
of the Executive and the Judiciary. This was a deliberate choice because at the time of project
approval, the Ecuadorian Government was concurrently carrying out a larger Bank-financed
public sector reform project (Modernization of the State Technical Assistance Loan, Ln.
3822-EC, approved in 1995, US$20.0 million). The project benefited from important synergy
with the larger public sector project in the early stages of implementation.

         ProJusticia's joint reporting was also an important factor for ensuring ample institutional
capacity to manage the project.          The Judiciary's institutional capacity to implement a
Bank-financed project was extremely low at project inception. Furthermore, ProJusticia played a
crucial coordinating role due to the large number of donors and stakeholders involved in the
development and implementation of the Government's Five Year Plan
(Plano Integral de Reforma) for the Judicial Sector.

         During the course of the project, the Judiciary's capacity to implement the project
increased significantly. The National Judicial Council's Organic Law was passed in 1997. The
project implementation became the sole responsibility of the Judiciary that same year; the
Supreme Court President became the head of the project through another Presidential Decree.
This introduced new volatility into the project, as the leadership of the Supreme Court changes
every two years; re-election of Court Presidents is prohibited.

         The project foresaw the need for short-term, tangible results to accompany longer term
objectives. Within any legal and judicial reform project, project objectives can often only be met
or realized over the long term. This places the achievement of many project objectives well
beyond the time frame of a standard, less complex World Bank investment project. Furthermore,
in order to successfully undertake reforms in the sector, judicial and legal sector
institutions--generally characterized as conservative and resistant to change--need persuading
before agreeing to reforms.

       The Ecuador Judicial Reform Project set a number of modest goals for the project's five
years of implementation. These goals were designed to have clear outcomes, build ownership for
the activities undertaken, and induce cultural change to underpin the reforms. Toward that end,
the project focused on small goals to augment the transparency of the Judiciary through improved
case management procedures and tools (such as ADR) to reduce times to disposition, to improve
the public's perception of the Judiciary, and increase the public's consensus for the rule of law.
While the project was successful in largely achieving these goals--and in some cases superseded
them--delays occurred due to economic crises, personnel changes in ProJusticia, and political and
institutional volatility.

    The project's Advisory Committee had early difficulties in ensuring the project had the
necessary support. However, the Advisory Committee and ProJusticia consolidated Judicial
support for the project over its life. The Advisory Committee was established prior to project
approval, and was comprised of representatives from all branches of government (e.g., the
President of the Republic, the President of the Supreme Court, the President of Congress, the
Fiscal, and the Prosecutor General).         Despite wavering support from the formal judicial



                                                 - 4 -

institutions, ProJusticia was generally diligent in ensuring that the technical aspects of the project
remained on track. ProJusticia worked closely with the Bank to find flexible solutions to certain
problems in order to meet project milestones (e.g., disbursement, procurement).

    Nevertheless, sustained communication between the project's various stakeholders could have
improved the project's overall impact. Individual members of key institutions were extremely
involved in specific project components        However, at project closing, it appears that these
individuals communicated very little about their activities, or those of the project to their
colleagues. Members of the Supreme Court and Judicial Council were involved in the planning,
design and implementation of the case management system implemented in Quito, Guayaquil, and
Cuenca. Individual members of these bodies were instrumental in creating groups at the local and
national level to support the reforms.

    At certain times, the Bank--rather than the Judiciary or ProJusticia--acted as a main catalyst
for consensus within the Judiciary. The Bank team met with the Advisory Committee to inform
them of project's progress, to request that they make key decisions, and also requested ProJusticia
to brief them more often on project activities.           However, ProJusticia's reluctance--until
recently--to call upon the Advisory Committee impacted the Committee's understanding of the
project, its results and the reforms themselves. Toward the end of the project, this trend reversed
due to the leadership of a progressive and dynamic Supreme Court President; the project enjoyed
its greatest success in this period.

    At project completion, there was clear project ownership on the part of the Judiciary.
Moreover, the Judicial Council, with some lobbying from ProJusticia, was able to ensure that
political and financial support for project aspects ­ such as the case management system and ADR
centers ­ remained.

    The project foresaw a potential for instability due to political fragmentation during the life
of the project. At the time of appraisal, the main risks were perceived to be political in nature, in
line with parliamentary and presidential elections. Indeed, with seven Presidents of the Republic
over the five years of project implementation, it can be said that the Executive's overall impact on
the project was small. The biggest risk to the project, however, proved to be in the Judiciary
itself. The fragmentation of the Judiciary's support--due to a newly created National Judicial
Council, the changing leadership of the Supreme Court, and regional loyalties--created
instabilities that were difficult to overcome.

    The project design at appraisal ensured that implementation remain the responsibility of the
Judiciary, with support from the Executive. This insulated the project from the country's political
cycle and an initial lack of institutional capacity in the Judiciary. The Judiciary's institutional
capacity did increase with the creation of the National Judicial Council. At the same time, the
creation of this new judicial institution augmented the political tensions within the Judiciary,
which is a common tendency in countries which establish Judicial Councils.

    By concentrating on the purely political aspects, the original project design may have
underestimated the need for consensus building beyond all the staff of the selected pilot courts.



                                                 - 5 -

The project focused a great deal of its attention on promoting a change culture with the judges.
The Quito union was extremely vocal in early their disapproval of the proposed corporative model
developed to complement the new case management system.                 The cities of Guayaquil and
Cuenca had very different experiences.          In Guayaquil, the head of the Guayaquil Judges'
Association was one of the judges that participated in the pilot case management component.
This judge was one of the biggest supporters of the case management improvements, and as a
result of his leadership, there was little opposition by the unions. In the case of Cuenca, there was
unanimous support by all participating judges, which also assuaged any tensions or misgivings by
the court personnel union. Moreover, the same, dynamic member of the Judicial Council oversaw
the implementation of the case management component, which resulted in a positive outcome in
both cities.

         In recent years, the Quito union has become more supportive of institutional changes.
However, the Quito pilots have demonstrated that without the clear ownership and understanding
of all court personnel, reforms cannot be sustained by judges alone. The pilot courts must
involve all levels of court personnel--and provide room for career growth--for proper buy-in from
all staff.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

    The project had a tangible impact on the three project objectives. The case management
component was able to effectively reduce times to disposition. Taking into consideration the
experience of all pilot courts, including the less successful results recorded in Quito, the pilot
courts have nonetheless accounted for an 85 percent reduction in the average duration of a case.
See below data reflecting the average duration of a civil case in Quito.


                     Court             Previous Average       Average in the pilot stage

                      First                  1,185 days                  266 days

                     Second                  1,207                       175

                     Third                   1,732                       332

                     Fourth                  1,260                       297

                      Fifth                  1,096                       204

                    Eleventh                 1,717                       422

                    Twelfth                   840                        236




    This reduction was significantly higher in Cuenca (135%), where the corporate model was



                                                  - 6 -

most successful. See below the Supreme Court's clearance rate statistics for the Project's pilot
courts. Clearance rates refer to the ratio of cases disposed to cases filed during a given year.( See
also Legal and Judicial Sector at a Glance, Worldwide Legal and Judicial Indicators,
www.worldbank.org/ljr).


                 City                     % in 2000                 % in 2001

                Quito                           8.56                   27.38

                Guayaquil                       19.10                  54.29

                 Cuenca                        44.00                  134.66


         See below annual data collected from six district civil courts, collected from the President
of the Supreme Court's report to the National Congress, Statistical Annex, Quito 2002.


   District                    1998                                           2001

             Number    Incoming    Cases        Percen   Number     Incoming    Cases     Percent
             of        Cases       Disposed     t        of         Cases       Disposed
             Courts                                      Courts

Quito           22       33725        13576      40.25      23        21539       12416       57.64

Cuenca          19       15195        12693      83.53      20         8201       14712      179.39
Azoques          9        4298        3324       77.33        9        2669        4334      162.38
Portoviejo      24       11144        4778       42.87      24         6838        7444      108.86
Babahoyo        14        3881        2231       57.48      14         3614        1888       47.75
Guayaquil       30       24338        8207      33.72       30        15979       19089      119.46



       The problem of delay and backlog has begun to be successfully addressed through the
implementation of a new case management system. Taking into consideration the experience of
all pilot courts, including the less successful results recorded in Quito, the pilot courts have
nonetheless accounted for an 85% reduction in the average duration of a case. Since 2001, there
has been a reversal of case backlogs in both large urban centers (Quito, Guayaquil, Cuenca), and
predominantly rural areas. (Azogues, Loja, Portoviejo). Since 2001, however, this trend has been
reversed and in many cities the number of cases disposed is higher than the number of filed cases.
See below Quito District Civil Courts case flow.(Farith Simon et al, Final report of a study
conducted for the World Bank in October 2002 by a team led by the Foundation Esquel on the
application of civil justice. (Hereinafter "Uso de la justicia"). This study was conducted as a
component of a five country comparative study completed by Linn Hammergren, Uses of
Empirical Research in Refocusing Judicial Reforms: Lessons From Five Countries, World Bank,
2002, unpublished paper, on file.)




                                                  - 7 -

                     Year    Number of     Incoming Cases    Cases Disposed
                             Courts
                      1998        21            33,725            13,576
                      1999        25            31,278            13,020
                      2000        25            25,266            12,930
                      2001        25            21,539            12,416


        See below Civil Courts backlog ( 2001) collected from the President of the Supreme
Court's report to the National Congress, Statistical Annex, Quito 2002.



              District         Incoming             Cases            Backlog
                                 Cases            Disposed

              Pichincha          21,629             12,948           195,199

               Guayas            15,964             19,134           194,588

               Azuay             9,201              14,622            51,151

               Total             46,794             46,704           440,938


        A system regulating court fees was established in March 2002 to eliminate illegal "fees"
levied on unsuspecting individuals and to minimize the requirement of payment for judicial
services. Following the Judicial Council's establishment of court fees, the number of cases has
decreased. Compounding the cost of litigation is the requirement that parties be represented by
lawyers. The law does not permit pro se representation regardless of whether a party is able to
afford an attorney. This effectively denies access based on economic status. Accessibility also
implies that people must have physical access to the courts so courthouses should accommodate
the disabled. Additionally, translators should be provided for those who do not speak Spanish,
the official language in court proceedings, which is often a significant issue for the indigenous
population. Despite many of these concerns, citizens, the private sector as well as many
organizations representing various social causes have often found the judicial system to be a
channel through which their conflicts can be resolved.

        The project instituted central--rather than individual-- files into the pilot courts, resulting
in an additional 10,000 m2 of court space and the creation of court information centers to serve
the public as well as economies of scale. The court information centers allow the parties to a case
to consult with a computerized database on where their case is in the system, rather than dealing
with a clerk or other judicial employee. Certainly this has had an impact on transparency within
the courts. Physical changes to the layout and design of the courts have also emphasized greater
transparency, including the installation of cameras in judges' chambers.

        The fact that many of the reforms implemented by the project became national policy is
significant, including the court-annexed mediation centers. The project has enriched the dialogue


                                                 - 8 -

on the rule of law within society, which is evidenced by the growing acceptance of mediation, the
recognition of women's rights, and the progress made on unifying teaching criteria at the nation's
law schools.

        Not all of the project's reforms have been embraced universally or uniformly by all judges,
court personnel and stakeholders. Greater ownership of the reforms can still be inculcated
through improved communications between the courts, and closer supervision by the Judicial
Council and judicial leadership. For example, many of the achievements made in Guayaquil and
Cuenca in the adoption of the case management system and mediation centers should be studied
and replicated in Quito. In addition, continued support from the law faculties and the legislative
branch is needed to deepen the dialogue on the rule of law in Ecuador.

        It is, perhaps, too soon to tell if changes introduced under the project will hold over time.
Nevertheless, a tangible cultural change has taken place within the judiciaries in Guayaquil and
Cuenca, and also within the national judicial leadership. The National Judicial Council was fully
implemented during the course of the project. It has adopted many of the project's key reforms
and made them policy. There have been real efficiency gains in those courts participating in the
case management system, most notably in Cuenca. Certain sectors of society are increasingly
using the court-annexed mediation centers.         Of the three cities, the Cuenca court-annexed
mediation centers have been embraced and integrated the best into the judiciary. Important spaces
were created for civil society within the judicial reform process--which helped improve the
delivery of legal services to marginalized groups--particularly women. Finally, the creation of
new teaching materials and methods, and the unification of law school criteria and curricula was a
relatively small component of the project, but has the potential for a long-term, substantial impact.

        The project provided an important mechanism for civil society to participate in judicial
reform process through the Program for Law and Justice.              When the first Judicial Sector
Assessment was undertaken in 1994, domestic violence and legal aid was a pressing legal social
problem, but the Judiciary was reluctant to include these in its reform program. After they were
incorporated into the project design and implemented, they also became priorities for the Judiciary
by the end of the project. The Program for Law and Justice clearly met its objective to improve
civil society's participation in judicial reform by partially financing 40 activities with local CSOs
under the Special Fund for Law and Justice; creating a forum for the deans of the country's law
schools, and providing some financing for courts to undertake demand-driven physical,
procedural, and technology improvements to their operations.

4.2 Outputs by components:

    Under the project, a case management system--which introduced procedural and manual
changes to the system, and designed and implemented a corresponding computerized system--
was installed in the pilot courts. Based on the pilot courts' experience with the first version, a
second version was also created. The Judiciary financed a significant portion of this second
version's development. At project appraisal, only 26 courts in the cities of Guayaquil and Quito
were included. The Cuenca courts were added during the signing of the main contract for case
administration in 1997. With the inclusion of Cuenca, and the later replication of the pilot courts,
the number of courts rose to 71 courts. The courts that implemented the case management


                                                 - 9 -

system were able to reduce the overall times to disposition by roughly 33 percent, to 202 days.
This component also helped purge an average of 41.5 percent of inactive cases within the pilot
courts of these three cities; Quito had the highest number of inactive and purged cases, at 83,647
or over 71 percent of their total case load. Central files were introduced within the pilot courts,
and 467 staff were trained on new procedures and tools in the implementation of the corporative
model.

    The judges involved, moreover, view the adoption of corporative courts, improvements in
case flow, as well as rationalization of court functions as a positive step. The judges in Quito
viewed the corporative courts as better (57 percent) than the traditional courts; in Guayaquil 46
percent said the changes introduced were much better, while 54 percent said they were merely
better. In Cuenca, 80 percent of the judges responding said that the changes were much better.
Moreover, the 60 percent of the pilot court judges in Cuenca and 81 percent in Guayaquil felt that
the public's satisfaction with the courts is average. This can be compared to the pilot court
judges in Quito responding that their perception was that 43 percent of the public found their
services average, and 43 percent found them to be poor.

    Perhaps the truer test of whether the reforms are successful is the project's "demonstration
effect". Based on the pilot case management system's initial successes, "satellite" first instance
courts in Durán, Milagro, El Triunfo, Santa Elena, Libertad, Salinas and La Troncal adopted the
physical and organizational aspects of the case management pilot. These courts implemented the
changes with the courts' own funds and limited involvement from the Bank-funded project.
Agreements were also made with the Superior Courts of Chimborazo, Bolívar, Cañar, Loja and
Imbabura to modify the court's computerized case management system based on the lessons of
the pilot system developed under the project. These adaptations were fully funded by the courts.

    Pilot, court-annexed mediation centers were implemented in the cities of Quito, Guayaquil and
Cuenca. The centers' start up was delayed for approximately six months due to the recision of the
component's main implementation contract. Under a second contract, the mediation centers were
equipped, staffed and trained. In many cases, staff were trained upwards of 100 hours--well
above the 24 hours regularly provided to the mediators' American counterparts. From July 2002
to January 2003, the three centers received 417 mediation cases, and reached agreements in 136
of those cases.

    The judiciary's acceptance of these court-annexed mediation centers varies from city to city.
In the city of Cuenca, 173 new mediation cases were received and 300 hearings were held during
the judicial recess in the months of August and December 2002. This demonstrates a clear need,
as well as the level of acceptance by the public. The Guayaquil Bar Association has shown a
growing acceptance and appreciation of mediation. These reforms had the least impact on Quito,
where the Bar Association and the courts view the centers as competitors.

    Given the growing importance of mediation, as well as the low cost to operate the centers
(roughly US$8,000/month), the National Judicial Council moved to adopt the centers and finance
their operating costs in 2002. The Controller General's Office conducted an independent audit of
the centers and found them to be of high quality and extremely important for Ecuador.



                                               - 10 -

    The Program for Law and Justice provided financing for a variety of activities involving civil
society and non-judicial stakeholders. Under the Special Fund for Law and Justice, 40 activities
with civil society organizations (CSOs) were financed, with the grants averaging US$51,061. The
Fund required that all CSO activities provide at least 20 percent counterpart financing and provide
a plan for medium term sustainability. Under this program, 61,369 people directly benefited from
legal services and basic legal education, with another 184,107 indirect beneficiaries. This signals
an eightfold increase in the number of direct beneficiaries estimated prior to the program's
inception (7,500). Over the course of the project, and during the economic crisis, the Fund was
able to maintain the same level of activities with its civil society counterparts. At the same time,
the demand-driven proposals from the courts declined notably due to the lack of available
government counterpart.

    While a program to modernize the property registry was originally included in the project
design at appraisal, the Government moved forward quickly on its own to study the national
property registry. The Government implemented many reforms prior to project approval and
implementation.     As a result, this component was dropped from the Bank's project during
implementation.

    The Program for Law and Justice also included a professional development activities and
consisted mainly in developing specific courses and applications for the courts. As no official
judicial training school exists in Ecuador, a conscious choice was made to support the work of the
country's law faculties. Training for the judges focused on judicial ethics, and did not include
training offered in conjunction with the case management component. This complemented the
Inter-American Development Bank's assistance for judicial training.

    The Program for Law and Justice also sponsored a study on the status of legal education in
Ecuador, undertaken by the association of the deans of the nation's law faculties (Asociación
Ecuatoriana de las Facultades de Derecho). The study precipitated the establishment of the
Association, and marked the first time many of the law school deans met. The Association
developed a five year plan for legal education in Ecuador, which included in its vision the creation
of a career path in law, as well as outlined specific curricula to be developed. The Law Faculty
Association became an agent for change, professionalizing legal education by unifying teaching
criteria, creating minimum standards for law schools and proposing a system for their
accreditation to ensure the quality of their graduates.

    In addition, seminars and workshops were created and delivered to law professors under this
subcomponent. The objective of these seminars was to present new teaching methods and
techniques.    These activities were also important in presenting the new course content the
Association developed under the project.           Nevertheless, the locus of the changes--the
Association--may not be sustainable in the long-term, as the Association depended largely on
external financing as well as personal relations for its sustainability. The current deans are very
committed to the changes developed and implemented, but future changes in leadership can
undermine the personal commitment to the reforms. Moreover, the public nature of the largest
law schools and budget shortfalls throughout the government make sustainability of this



                                                - 11 -

Association uncertain.

        FUNDESA and the Fundación María Guare provided integrated services under the Special
Fund for Law and Justice. One of the Fund's most successful experience involved the
"Promotores de Justicia y Derechos de Machala" in El Oro province. This project, directed by
young people, promoted civic education about rights and laws in schools. The project was
adopted on a provincial level, and was successfully replicated. Furthermore, the Fund created a
Mediation Center and free legal aid in the City of Ambato, a component of a project presented by
the Fundacion para el Desarrollo Social Andino (FUNDESA). Through an agreement with the
Superior Provincial court of Tunguragua, this center was annexed to the court, and approximately
40 percent of the cases received by the Center came from the courts.

    Finally, the Program for Law and Justice directly targeted legal aid for poor women.
Ecuadorian CSOs competed to provide these services in the cities of Quito and Guayaquil. The
city of Cuenca was later included when the pilot courts in Cuenca were added to the project. All
three contracts provided comprehensive legal services to poor women. These centers were run by
two CSOs (CEPAM in Guayaquil and Quito, and Corporación Mujer a Mujer in Cuenca) and
provided legal services and other complimentary services to 20,194 women. The CSOs were
selected due to their long history of providing legal services to women. The financing received
under the Fund allowed these CSOs to increase their activities by extending their working hours
and hiring additional staff to handle cases. However, they were unable to keep up with the
demand for services.

        The centers were important in providing legal information and advice, as well as
complementary services including medical and psychological support. The rationale behind
providing these services was to bring about a more holistic change in the users' lives. Support
groups were established for victims of domestic violence. Often paternity cases were brought and
decided, which led to legal recognition and allowed children to receive support; child support was
often negotiated through mediation (except in those instances were domestic violence was
present) and/or brought before a judge. The CSOs also provided legal education to judges
themselves, informing them on a number of relevant international conventions and treaties which
Ecuador was a party to, when relevant to a case. Many of the users cited a higher sense of
self-esteem, a more secure future for their children, and the dedication of the center's staff to their
case as important factors in their ultimate outcomes.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

        While it is difficult to fully estimate the economic impact of a judicial reform project --
particularly one with such diverse components as the Ecuador Judicial Reform Project, an
economic study was carried out to analyze the economic impact of legal aid on poor women, one
of the activities included under the Program for Law and Justice. The results of this study,
outlined in Impact of Legal Aid: Ecuador, show that those women using the services of CEPAM,
reported an increase in support received by $10 a month per child. (Impact of Legal Aid:
Ecuador, page36)       Moreover, the legal aid interventions reduced the probability of severe
physical violence by 17 percentage points (p. 39) and also increased the probability of attending
school by 4.8 percentage points. (p. 40)


                                                 - 12 -

4.4 Financial rate of return:

Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

      The project had a wide-ranging impact on the institutional capacity of the Judiciary, as there
were a number of institutions that benefited from the project. The project influenced a number of
judicial actors, including the Supreme Court, the Judicial Council, the pilot courts in Quito,
Guayaquil, and Cuenca, as well as the indirect beneficiaries -- the remaining courts in the country
that did not participate in the pilot or replication.

    With regard to the Supreme Court, the overall impact of the project fluctuated over the life of
the project. A Supreme Court President--elected every two years, and ineligible for re-election,
served as the head of ProJusticia from 1997 onward. With the exception of one two-year period,
the project enjoyed both the cooperation and support of the Supreme Court. Toward the end of
the project, the Supreme Court was particularly committed to the project, leading reforms and
ensuring judicial support. Through the current Supreme Court President's leadership, many of
the reforms undertaken by the project are being institutionalized.
    The Judicial Council, which was created and fully implemented during the life of the project,
also played a varying role with regards to the project. One member of the Judicial Council was
designated by the President of the Supreme Court to liaise with ProJusticia. This member served
continuously throughout the project, which has ultimately benefited the project. Despite repeated
attempts from ProJusticia and the Bank to include greater participation by all Supreme Court and
Judicial Council members in implementation activities and coordination meetings, the Judicial
Council has at times reluctantly supported regional interests vis-à-vis the project.

    The project's effect on the courts of first instance was very positive in many of the pilot
courts, particularly those in Guayaquil and Cuenca. These courts were particularly involved in the
redesign of their case management system and the development of their annexed ADR system.
The outcome in these courts has been extremely positive. The Quito pilot began with resistance
by court staff unions in Quito due to initial misperceptions regarding the objective of the pilot
case management system. While a strong lobbying effort was undertaken with these personnel by
ProJusticia to explain the rationale of the pilot, and other positive interactions, in the end, the
Quito pilot courts appeared to continue to resist change. This is not so unusual of a pilot project
seeking to implement far-reaching, integrated changes.

    With the exception of Quito, the courts in Cuenca and Guayaquil have firmly embraced the
pilot models. This has been demonstrated by their use of own funds to ensure proper funding to
maintain the case management system and the corportative model, and to expand such efforts
throughout the court system and the development of complementary computer programs.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:




                                                     - 13 -

        The economic crisis of 1999, and the resulting dollarization of the national economy had a
significant, negative impact on the project. As the international community was somewhat slow
to provide a solution to the extreme cash flow problems of the national government during
dollarization, certain aspects of the project requiring local counterpart funds--primarily the
infrastructure and provision of (local) goods for the case management system--lagged behind
schedule. Dollarization also negatively impacted the salaries of the consultants employed under
the project, including those in ProJusticia.          This meant a loss of morale for many of the
consultants employed under the project.

        Unemployment rose to over 16 percent, and the annual inflation rate reached 60 percent in
the five years the project was implemented. At the same time the poverty rate rose from 29.2
percent in 1995 to 69 percent in 2000; the number of people in extreme poverty rose to 34
percent in 1999.        Poverty was highest in the rural areas, amongst the indigenous and
Afro-Ecuadorian populations; an increase in domestic violence has been correlated to economic
crises and a rise in poverty levels. The government's priorities have certainly shifted over the life
of the project. The project reacted to these changes, and reoriented some of the reforms to more
clearly address changing needs.

        For example, the Program for Law and Justice re-channeled some of its money from the
decentralization and modernization of the courts under the Fondo de Judiciales to other, more
viable project components. During this time as well, the Special Fund for Law and Justice was
able to continue its activities as the counterpart requirements came directly from the Civil Society
Organizations. The CSOs were better equipped to provide this counterpart than even the national
government. However, many of the beneficiaries of the CSO activities did suffer from the
dollarization of court judgments, as the financial value of alimony / child support was drastically
reduced with dollarization. (see Focus Group Results in Impact of Legal Aid: Ecuador, page 44.)

        Despite the best intentions of the current judicial leadership, it will take more time to
overcome resistance to change in a number of important areas. With the exception of Cuenca, the
mediation centers need to persuade the judges that they are a useful complement to the courts
rather than a competitor. Toward that end, the effort undertaken to build support amongst other
potential users--including the Guayaquil Bar Association--should be applauded, increased, and
replicated in areas with more resistance to change, such as Quito. By including mediation within
the curriculum at the law faculties, and providing law students with hands-on practical use of
mediation, a longer term support for legal and judicial reform may materialize.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

        There were a number of government actors involved in the project; the Ministry of
Finance and Public Credit, the Executive Branch, the judicial leadership--the Supreme Court and
the National Judicial Council--which headed the project.            At certain junctures in project
implementation, there was a lack of leadership by the President of the Supreme Court.

        Over the life of the project, governmental support for the project wavered; this was due
primarily to changes in leadership in the Supreme Court, as well as the institutionalization of the
National Judicial Council. The Judicial Council delayed a decision in selecting temporary offices


                                                    - 14 -

for court staff involved in the pilot case management system. This put the remodeling of the
Quito courts behind schedule, creating uncertainties and apprehension among the court staff, and
ultimately leading to a lesser implementation of the component in that city. Moreover, the
Judicial Council's unwillingness or inability to manage the administrative details of the project
meant that at times ProJusticia did many aspects of the government's own work.

        The main objective of the Program for Law and Justice was to create "spaces for
dialogue" between civil society and the judiciary regarding judicial reform. The judiciary was, for
the most part, open to the CSOs suggestions and requests. A number of individual members of
the Judiciary and Judicial Council were involved in the development and implementation of certain
activities under the program. Nevertheless, to improve the overall impact of the component,
greater government involvement would be recommended.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

        ProJusticia has played an important role in coordinating many of the reforms under the
project. At times, key positions in ProJusticia were unstaffed. Fluctuations in these positions
during important times in project implementation caused miscommunications and delays.
Moreover, ProJusticia had to balance the demands of the project with those of other donors and
stakeholders, due to their coordinating role. This problem was most acute during early project
implementation.

        Despite these pressures, ProJusticia played a relatively consistent facilitating technical
role. The overall results of the replication phase could have been disseminated further for a
greater impact if ProJusticia and the Government both had placed greater emphasis on the
dissemination of the results. From the minimal dissemination that was done, first instance and
Superior courts in the provinces did implement their own version of the replica as noted above.
They were able to creatively adopt the physical aspects of the pilot courts by rearranging furniture
and using temporary dividers. Several Superior Courts also under took this physical rearranging
and made minor investments to adapt the case management software to the work of the Superior
Courts. These pilot replications should be encouraged to the greatest extent possible by the
Government to further maximize the reforms and support court innovations at low costs.
Furthermore, they may be instrumental in providing incentives for courts to fully implement their
own models, such as in Quito.

        Fluctuations in ProJusticia's staffing, and lack of qualified staff at certain points in project
implementation created unnecessary delays, particularly in the case management and infrastructure
components.       These delays impacted the amount of time dedicated to creating consensus
amongst the many stakeholders over the project's objectives, activities, and results. As a result,
critical periods of time were lost in the reform process. Without plausible, timely explanations
from the judicial leadership and ProJusticia regarding delays, misconceptions arose from the
Judiciary that were later hard to dispel.

        For example, ProJusticia could have also built more flexibility into the infrastructure
component during early implementation. ProJusticia's relatively sudden decision to implement this
component themselves did ultimately save money, but at the expense of time. Time could have


                                                    - 15 -

been better allocated to building consensus for the reforms, and ensuring that the judges' needs
were addressed. Instead, the judges and court personnel in Quito grew frustrated with the
proposed pilot reforms.

        The mediation centers also lost roughly one year of productive work due to ProJusticia's
decision to rescind its contract with ILANUD to design and implement the centers. While this
situation may have been difficult to avoid, the ultimate result a one year delay in implementation
of the centers. With better planning and more flexibility, ProJusticia and the judicial leadership
could have used this time to promote an understanding and consensus for mediation among the
various judicial actors (e.g., judges, lawyers, public).

        The implementation delays in the mediation component could have longer term effects,
such as unpredictability of future funding. While the Mediation Centers were formally adopted by
the Judicial Council, the centers could physically disappear and many of the potential benefits of
the court-annexed programs could be lost. Therefore, the Judiciary's leadership must continue
playing an important role in educating the stakeholders and general public on the benefits of
mediation. This means working actively with judges to improve their understanding of mediation
as a complementary measure, rather than a competitive one.

        ProJusticia has the ability to help shape the climate of opinion about the mediation centers.
Moreover, ProJusticia can assist the Judicial Council in promoting and monitoring the field of
mediation, to assess the quality of the experimental centers and mediation more generally, to help
support and conduct training programs, and to continue to push the existing centers to improve
the quality of their own statistics and self-evaluation indicators. This kind of work will be
important in maintaining the credibility of the centers in particular and mediation more generally.

        With regard to the Program for Law and Justice, ProJusticia supported the CSOs by
providing significant technical and administrative inputs to proposals, and in training the CSOs on
proper procurement and disbursement/accounting procedures. The level of planning that was
required by the CSOs to be eligible for funding introduced many to ideas regarding longer term
sustainability and financial planning. ProJusticia's facilitating role ensured the CSOs' trust.
Despite its small number of staff, ProJusticia was able to self-manage the Fund, and showed
leadership in project management. The Fund, and ProJusticia's management of it, have provided
many lessons that can easily be replicated elsewhere.

5.4 Costs and financing:
        The total project cost was estimated realistically.          During the course of project
implementation, economic conditions required reallocation among expenditure categories was
able to cover the shortfalls.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

        The case management system in both Guayaquil and Cuenca appear to be sustainable over
the long term. The changes made in Guayaquil appears to particularly well situated to continue,



                                                 - 16 -

despite continued national economic difficulties. The judges and staffs in both courts are strongly
committed to the reforms undertaken.            The courts in Quito, however, are another matter.
Supervision and assistance to the Quito pilot courts will need continued, intensive involvement in
the Judiciary to overcome the court's resistance to change.

         With respect to the ADR component, a basic conclusion is that the centers are on a good
trajectory toward successful institutionalization in Ecuador. The Judicial Council recently voted
to fully integrate the existing centers into its annual budget, thereby ensuring their continued
work.

         However, the level of success for the near future will depend on renewed financial support
for a number of years, which is well beyond the time frame of this report. One option for the
center is to charge a modest fee to the Center's users.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

         The Project Coordination Unit was successful in lobbying for sufficient funds for the
transition of a number of project components to regular (non-Bank financed) operations despite a
difficult economic situation. This includes the case management components, particularly in the
cities of Guayaquil and Cuenca. The financial situation of the court-annexed mediation centers is
precarious despite a very favorable review by the Contraloría of the Republic of Ecuador and the
continued support of the Supreme Court President and ProJusticia. There is a divided opinion
regarding the value of mediation within the Judicial Council, despite the relatively inexpensive
cost of continued operation and support among many judges. The success of the centers in
providing quality and efficient mediation services and increasing the demand for those services has
not yet translated into full acceptance.

         The limitations of the mediation programs do not stem from poor design or staff
weaknesses. They reflect the initial "outsider" nature of the programs. They have had to compete
for a position in the judicial system, and the obstacles were formidable. Most of the judges and
their staffs knew very little about mediation, saw the center as a potential threat. Moreover, most
judges and court personnel did not feel any personal stake in the program. There is evidence that
the attitude is changing, albeit slowly.

         The key for the success of mediation is to continue the momentum that the three centers
generated and help also to build the field of mediation generally. The mediation centers are
themselves transitional arrangements toward greater institutionalization, including the creation of
more centers and the expansion of the field of mediation and greater integration within the judicial
system. Above and beyond the formal court-annexed centers, the Special Fund for Law and
Justice provided grants to community groups--principally for train-the-trainer activities to create
community mediators. These groups were well received in the community, and as a result, were
successful.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:



                                                  - 17 -

        The Bank's performance in the identification of the project was satisfactory. It worked
closely with the Government in tailoring the Bank's product to the Government's priorities while
ensuring coordination with other donors. The Bank underestimated certain risks at appraisal,
which is discussed in section 3 above.

7.2 Supervision:
        The Bank's performance during the supervision phase of the project was also satisfactory.
Given the fact that certain key positions in ProJusticia were unstaffed at times, or did not meet the
legal and judicial reform profile, the Bank responded by increasing its supervision efforts.
Additionally, when a second phase of the case management component was first proposed by the
Government, the Bank responded by sending a highly qualified case management/information
technology consultant to review the Government's proposal and make recommendations to the
Bank.

        During the economic crisis of 1999-2000, the international community was slow in
responding to procurement and disbursement problems. As a result, certain aspects of the project
requiring local counterpart funds--primarily the infrastructure and provision of (local) goods for
the case management system--lagged behind schedule.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
        Overall, the Bank's performance was satisfactory from project preparation through
implementation. The stability of the Bank's project team provided steady guidance to the
Borrower for successful project implementation.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance during project preparation was satisfactory. The Government was
relatively open to legal and judicial reform, as well as civil society's participation in the reform
process. The Government's overall capacity to design and implement these reforms was low, and
reflected limited experience with implementing a comprehensive legal and judicial reform
program.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
    Prior to project implementation, the Government established ProJusticia as the project's
implementing agency via Presidential Decree. Additionally, an Advisory Committee was
established to oversee project implementation; this Committee was comprised of representatives
from all three branches of government. During this phase of the project, the government's
performance was satisfactory.

    During implementation, the government's performance varied, due to changes in leadership
and tensions between the Supreme Court and the National Judicial Council. However, the
Supreme Court President also serves as the President of the Judicial Council thereby ensuring
coordination for the project. This has resulted in greatly improved ownership of the project, as
well as achieving the project's milestones and objectives. In this respect, the current Supreme
Court President has used his influence to make key appointments and to take administrative action
required to meet the project's objectives.



                                                 - 18 -

7.6 Implementing Agency:
         ProJusticia's performance as an implementing agency has depended to a great degree on
the consultants appointed to work on the project. Issues such as the economic crisis and
dollarization, created unforeseen delays.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
    Given the fact that the government and project unit have been able to overcome certain vested interests,
and that they made up for lost time for delays caused by the economic crisis and other previously discussed
factors, the Borrower's performance has been satisfactory. In the past two years, there has been an
emerging consensus among the different institutional actors involved in legal and judicial reform. More
precisely, the Supreme Court President has exercised leadership on the Court and in the Judicial Council to
make key project management decisions. Through his actions, he has legitimized the concept of legal and
judicial reform as a key and necessary element in achieving Ecuador's broader development objectives.

8. Lessons Learned

The project was successful in achieving its goals and objectives. As a number of the problems
faced by the Judicial Reform Project are universal to all judicial reform work, there are a number
of important lessons that can be gleaned from this project. These include:

·        Combining a top-down with a bottom-up approach has ensured that Ecuador's dialogue
on the rule of law has expanded to non-judicial and non-governmental groups. The participation
of these groups has ensured that new areas have been squarely placed on the government's
agenda for reform. What is perhaps notable about the Ecuador project is that the Judiciary has
been generally very receptive to maintaining a dialogue with civil society on the rule of law. The
lack of other strong governmental actors (e.g., Executive, Ministry of Justice) in Ecuador has
meant the momentum for reform has been concentrated within the Judiciary. This is, perhaps,
unique to Ecuador.

·        Support for judicial reform projects is crucial, but can take considerable time to facilitate.
Often a more programmatic, staged approach is necessary to build the necessary support for
sustainable reforms. By building on relatively small steps, the Ecuador Judicial Reform project's
objective was to gradually encourage the judiciary's understanding of, and interest in, the reforms
by the end of the project through this approach.

·        The integral service model adopted for the legal services pilots for poor women also
ensured that women: (a) knew their rights, (b) had the opportunity to exercise them; and (c)
provided them with the tools and support to make life-lasting changes to create positive economic
impacts on them and their dependents. In the case of the pilot courts and the women, both
perceived these improved service delivery, and this translated into better perceptions of justice.

·        The project concentrated on formal justice in Ecuador's most populous cities--Quito (the
capital), Guayaquil, and Cuenca. However, the Ecuadorian Judiciary should ensure that future
reforms or replications of these reforms are implemented throughout the nation's courts to ensure
that second class justice does not arise between urban and rural populations. Because of the
focus on formal justice, the project addressed the access to justice in the entire country--involving
stakeholders in the design and implementation--through the Program for Law and Justice. The


                                                   - 19 -

Special Fund for Law and Justice provided grants to CSOs to provide legal aid and legal
information, bridging the existing institutional capacity gaps. Similarly, the project also engaged
the law schools on the status of legal education throughout the country. This marked the first
programmatic attempt to define the quality and outcomes in Ecuador's law schools. These latter
activities covered many regions in the implementation of the first phase of a five-year program,
and may help in the long term to promote lawyers and judges to further the reforms throughout
the country.

·       The Ecuador Judicial Reform project has demonstrated that the real locus for change can
and may reside well outside the country's capital. In fact, the reforms undertaken in the city of
Cuenca, and to a lesser extent, Guayaquil, appear to be much more sustainable than the same
reforms to the Quito courts. The concentration of vested interests in Quito slowed the pace of
project implementation, and consequently, the reforms. The Ecuadorian Judiciary should place
considerable energy on replicating the successes of Cuenca, as it most closely approximates the
ultimate objectives of the project--a judiciary providing quality, modern services in an efficient
manner, with services (e.g., ADR, legal aid) that complement the courts and provide greater
access to the citizens. Quito was much less successful for a number of reasons outlined above.

·       The project has also demonstrated the tremendous effort the Judiciary will still need to
uniformly implement the changes to the criminal procedure code enacted in 2001. While the Bank
project has provided the Judiciary with concrete experience in implementing major judicial
reforms, the country simply does not have the capacity to carry out these reforms. It needs
significant donor assistance and financing to complete this task. Moreover, the medium-term
effect of this change is likely to impact the sustainability of the Bank project. The amount of
effort and level of resources needed for this reform will likely dominate the judiciary's agenda for
the medium-term. Furthermore, the lack of a national judicial training center will increase the
overall need for resources. The short-term effect of this will be an erosion of public confidence in
the judiciary--diminishing many gains made during the project.

·       The project reinforced the notion that infrastructure and computerization alone cannot
carry a judicial reform program for they are tools more than they are incentives. This was clearly
illustrated in Quito's pilot courts. Furthermore, they do not provide the proper incentives for the
judiciary's dedicated support and involvement in the reforms. At best, they should be marketed as
one of many tools that can potentially improve disposition times.

·       New judicial institutions are slow to build both credibility and support; toward that end,
projects should not place undue emphasis on their potential leadership of a project. The National
Judicial Council was, for the most part, supportive of the Judicial Reform Project throughout its
implementation. However, many of the tensions that arose during between the Judicial Council
and Supreme Court were part of the growing pains of a new institution.

l       Similarly, the adoption of new tools--such as ADR--take considerable time to be accepted
    and fully institutionalized. The pace for the successful development of a more general
    mediation community depends on the general progress of judicial reform. While there appears
    to be a growing acceptance for these new services in Cuenca and Guayaquil, there is a strong



                                                 - 20 -

    need for continuing to educate and engage the judiciary on the merits of ADR.
    Misperceptions on ADR still exist, and many within the Judiciary see ADR as a competitor to
    the courts. The inclusion of law students as ADR interns is particularly important, as they will
    be the new generation of lawyers and judges.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:


English Summary: The Ecuador Judicial Reform Project marked the initiation of a process to
improve the administration of justice throughout Ecuador. It is important to underscore that the
Project was designed around the fundamental areas identified in the Government's Integrated
Reform Plan (Plan Integral). Additionally, the participation of different sectors of civil society in
the process provided crucial support for the Project's development and implementation. A
fundamental lesson to be learned for future projects is the need to develop a program of public
information to accompany the reform process in order to share both information and progress
achieved. The supervision provided by the Bank identified and quickly overcame implementation
obstacles particularly with respect to maintaining project continuity throughout project
implementation despite frequent changes in the government. The technical qualifications of
ProJusticia staff and that of the Bank's evaluation and supervision teams were a crucial element in
the project's overall ability to meet its objectives.

INFORME FINAL DE CIERRE DEL PROYECTO                                 DE MODERNIZACION Y
FORTALECIMIENTO DE LA ADMINISTRACION DE JUSTICIA EN EL ECUADOR


El 19 de septiembre de 1996, la República del Ecuador y el Banco Internacional de
Reconstrucción y Fomento (BIRF) firmaron el contrato de préstamo BIRF No. 4066-EC por US$
10,700,000 para financiar parcialmente el Proyecto de Modernización y Fortalecimiento de la
Administración de Justicien en el Ecuador, a cargo de la Unidad de Coordinación para la Reforma
de la Administración de Justicia en el Ecuador, PROJUSTICIA.

Los objetivos del proyecto consistieron en:

·       Incrementar la eficacia y transparencia en el proceso judicial
·       Mejoramiento de la infraestructura de los tribunales del país.
·       Expandir el uso de mecanismos alternativos de resolución de disputas dentro del sistema
judicial
·       Mejorar el acceso a la justicia por parte del público en general y de las mujeres en
particular.
·       Fomentar iniciativas de reforma del sistema judicial, investigación legal y educación.

A fin de cumplir con estos objetivos del proyecto se desarrolló mediante cuatro componentes
principales. A continuación, se procederá a la evaluación de cada componente en conformidad
con sus objetivos, diseño e implementación.




                                                  - 21 -

1. PRIMER COMPONENTE: GESTION DEL DESPACHO JUDICIAL

Considerando que los estudios de observación, de la situación de la administración de justicia en
el Ecuador durante las décadas del 80 y 90, resaltaron que los juzgados presentaban una
insuficiente organización administrativa, incluyendo una falta total de técnicas adecuadas de
manejo de causas, la cual se agudiza en los juzgados de primera instancia de las ciudades con
mayor carga poblacional del país. Por lo tanto, dentro del staff appraisal report (SAR), se
decidió intervenir en la reestructuración organizacional de las oficinas judiciales así como insertar
el apoyo informático, de tal manera que las cortes puedan disponer de los casos en forma
oportuna, justa y eficiente.

Para la ejecución de este componente, en su primera etapa, se recurrió a la contratación de una
firma consultora; luego del proceso de selección se suscribió un contrato con el consorcio DPK
Consulting ­ Escuela de Negocios del Pacífico, el 27 de agosto de 1998. La firma consultora,
realizó varios talleres para identificar las causas de demora procesal y la definición de un
programa de reducción del atraso. Con los insumos obtenidos, se creó un marco conceptual y de
operación con nuevos procedimientos que se puedan replicar a nivel nacional.

Del diagnóstico de situación inicial, se procedió al diseñó una nueva organización de los juzgados
con definición y distribución de funciones y, un diseño físico para los despachos. La nueva
organización para el despacho judicial tiene las siguientes características:

-       Separar las funciones netamente judiciales, de trámite judicial, con las de apoyo
administrativo, de manera funcional y física.
-       Crear conjuntos corporativos de entre 3 y 6 juzgados (de acuerdo a las necesidades y
particularidades del área geográfica), respetando y manteniendo la independencia jurisdiccional de
cada juzgado, pero aprovechando modernos conceptos de organización en la atención al público y
de archivos para mejorar la eficiencia.
-       Respetar el rol y autoridad del juez para organizar los procesos jurisdiccionales.
-       Atender al público en un área apropiada con personas especializadas.
-       Crear una función de apoyo administrativo que coordine las tareas de trámite de los
procesos y atención al público optimizando el espacio físico en áreas comunes.
-       Introducir elementos modernos de control del movimiento de expedientes a través de
nuevos registros, libros de control y sistema de archivo.
-       Aprovechar los avances tecnológicos para ayudar en el manejo de flujo de casos y de
información al público para mantenerlo al día sobre el estado de su causa.
-       Evitar contactos innecesarios e inapropiados entre el público y los funcionarios judiciales.

El sistema de gestión se basa en el principio de corporatividad como mecanismo de optimización
de recursos humanos y físicos para la administración de justicia. Para la aplicación del nuevo
diseño organizacional, los presidentes de las Cortes de Justicia de Quito, Guayaquil y Cuenca
seleccionaron 26 juzgados, 14 civiles y 12 penales. En estos juzgados se intervino en una primera
etapa denominada "Piloto".




                                                - 22 -

Los sistemas organizacionales propuestos e institucionalizados son: Sistemas de Administración
de Casos, en los cuales se ha instaurado áreas de servicios comunes y criterios de trabajo en
equipo; Sistemas de Estadísticas Judiciales, el cual facilita la eficiencia de la administración de las
causas, identificando fácilmente la demora en los trámites judiciales; y el Sistema de Manejo de
Registros.

Se instauró la creación de un archivo común a los juzgados que conforman un módulo
corporativo, con ayudantes judiciales dedicados exclusivamente a su manejo, así como un sistema
único de numeración e introducción de la tarjeta de control de movimiento de expedientes, y la
aplicación de procedimientos uniformes para controlar el movimiento de causas.

Por otra parte, con el objetivo de contar con un verdadero inventario de causas pendientes,
reducir el número de casos        inactivos y desarrollar procedimientos para una depuración
permanente. Se depuraron el 49.61% del total de los expedientes censados en las ciudades de
Quito, Guayaquil y Cuenca hasta mayo del 2000. Con posterioridad a mayo del 2000, los
funcionarios    judiciales continuaron con la labor de depuración del 50.39% de expedientes
pendientes, este proceso de depuración se ha institucionalizado en la Función Judicial, pues se
trata de una operación constante y permanente.

Además, se produjo la incorporación de la herramienta informática como apoyo a la gestión de
causas, para lo cual se adquirieron 739 computadora y 12 servidores, que fueron distribuidos e
instalados en los juzgados del Plan Piloto y de Réplica y en los juzgados distritales de Ibarra,
Guaranda, Azogues, Riobamba y Loja; y al desarrollo de programas (software) de gestión
judicial.

Una vez definido el diseño de la red, se procedió con especificaciones técnicas para el
equipamiento informático a los 26 juzgados piloto (hardware, software y redes); y la dotación de
herramientas de productividad (Office) y el sistema de información legal.

La capacitación que recibieron los funcionarios de los juzgados corporativos incluía no solo la
parte conceptual del nuevo modelo, es decir las que tienen que ver directamente con el manejo de
las herramientas organizacionales e informáticas introducidas, sino además una capacitación de
motivación, calidad y servicio al usuario que sirvieron para la adopción institucional del modelo.

Una vez que la consultora terminó la vigencia de su contrato, Projusticia inició y ejecutó una
segunda etapa llamada de "Replica", esta etapa no estaba pautada originalmente, pero atendiendo
los resultados obtenidos en la primera etapa y con los insumos proporcionados, así como la
necesidad de replicar el modelo, se incorporaron 43 judicaturas, 27 civiles y 16 penales de las
mismas Cortes de Justicia de Quito, Guayaquil y Cuenca, con esta inclusión las cortes de justicia
de Cuenca y Guayaquil corporativizaron el 100% de sus judicaturas civiles y penales.

Además, dentro de la etapa de réplica, se evaluó el alcance del software de seguimiento de causas
y se obtuvo una nueva versión del sistema informático, más adaptado a las necesidades de los
funcionarios en el nuevo rol de sus actividades. Este sistema fue desarrollado por el equipo
informático contratado por Projusticia y fue revisado y evaluado por los consultores expertos que



                                                - 23 -

conformaron las misiones de monitoreo y evaluación del Banco Mundial, quienes realizaron
importante precisiones de orden técnico. Actualmente, el sistema forma parte de la Función
Judicial, institucionalizando la adopción de la herramienta informática en la organización funcional
de la judicatura.

Los aspectos positivos generados por la aplicación de la herramienta informática han sido el
cambio de la cultura organizacional para introducir la tecnología de información y transformar los
procesos de registro, control y comunicación de los datos relacionados con las causas civiles y
penales, por efecto de la modernización de la función judicial. Por otra parte, la implantación y
funcionamiento de las redes de datos en los juzgados corporativos de Quito, Guayaquil y Cuenca
ha permitido generar información oportuna y confiable sobre la producción y productividad de los
juzgados.

La aplicación completa del modelo ha arrojado resultados positivos, con una tendencia de
mejoramiento permanente, lo cual demuestra una mejora sustancial en el manejo y flujo de causas.
En este sentido, los tiempos procesales de tramitación de causas en lo juzgados corporativos se
han reducido en más de un 35%, en comparación con el tiempo original observado al comienzo
del proyecto que estaba por encima de 320 días por causa. En este punto es necesario aclarar que
al instaurarse el sistema procesal oral en el área civil, el tiempo de tramitación por causa se
reducirá aún más.

Esta percepción también es constante en el mejoramiento de la producción de los juzgados
corporativos, los civiles han mejorado en un 50%, y en los juzgados corporativos penales en un
90%, tomando en consideración que el área penal ha sido la que mayor impacto tiene con la
depuración permanente de archivos que facilita terminar causas por el mecanismo de prescripción.
(Anexo 1: cuadros estadísticos de resultados obtenidos)

Principales Lecciones Aprendidas y Recomendaciones:

Podemos comenzar constatando que actualmente en los 69 juzgados pilotos de las ciudades de
Quito, Guayaquil y Cuenca existe una nueva realidad en la administración de justicia. Es necesario
afirmar que en cada ciudad, por una serie de factores, existe un nivel de desarrollo diverso. Esta
diversidad de experiencias ha sido importante para enriquecer la reflexión sobre lo que se realizó
en la etapa de réplica.

Los elementos positivos y comunes en las tres ciudades, se representan especialmente en el hecho
de que estos juzgados funcionan en un ambiente moderno, con una infraestructura arquitectónica
que se adecua a las necesidades del recurso humano y de los varios elementos técnicos del
sistema. Jueces, funcionarios judiciales y usuarios en general cuentan con elementos tecnológicos,
tanto hardware como software, que facilitan la gestión del despacho y el acceso de la información.
En este contexto se cuenta con un Sistema Automático de Tramitación de Causas, que entrelaza a
la oficina judicial con otras dependencias, como la Oficina de Sorteo de Causas y la Oficina de
Citaciones; con lo cual se busca que el sistema se convierta en un esquema integral. Sin embargo
es necesario impulsar una constante actualización de los flujos utilizados en cada materia para
adoptar los cambios que se presenten en su diseño, como ocurrió con la incorporación del Nuevo



                                                - 24 -

Código de Procedimiento Penal, para lo cual fue necesaria una readecuación del sistema
informático en esta materia, por parte del equipo de consultores informáticos de Projusticia. Este
grupo de consultores actualmente forma parte de la Función Judicial.

Un elemento importante en este proceso es que las autoridades de la Corte Suprema de Justicia y
del Consejo Nacional de la Judicatura han adoptado, como política para el desarrollo
administrativo y organizacional del futuro, los elementos de la corporatividad, por lo cual es
necesario impulsar que el Consejo Nacional de la Judicatura apruebe el Reglamento de
Funcionamiento de los Juzgados Corporativos, esta aprobación formal del modelo por parte del
Consejo potencializará los resultados obtenidos, los niveles de aceptación por parte de los
sectores involucrados y eliminará dificultades formales.

Dentro del aspecto organizacional se ha introducido un sistema de estadísticas judiciales que
permite la fácil detección de "cuellos de botella" en el despacho, así como la toma de decisiones
de política institucional sobre la base de datos concretos y no sobre meras percepciones. En este
contexto, dentro del proyecto se elaboró el primer sistema aplicable a la Gestión del Despacho de
los "Indicadores de Desempeño". Estos estándares deben ser revisados y adoptados por el
Consejo Nacional de la Judicatura, para ser utilizados como guías en el análisis de desempeño de
cada juzgado, respetando el contexto particular que motive el resultado dentro del período de
medición; sin perjuicio que con el transcurrir del tiempo, el desempeño de todos los juzgados debe
acercarse a los estándares definidos.

Como todo proyecto que involucre cambios estructurales, es necesario contar desde su inicio con
una estrategia de difusión dirigida a todos los actores tanto para dar a conocer el contexto general
del proyecto, como para familiarizarlos con la entrada en funcionamiento del nuevo sistema y
potencializar el uso de cada una de las herramientas incorporadas. En este proceso fue
fundamental vincular a los Colegios de Abogados pues este gremio puede constituirse en un
factor importante en el impulso o crítica del nuevo sistema, en distintas etapas del proyecto se ha
logrado una vinculación proactiva de los Colegios de Abogados de Quito, Guayaquil y Cuenca.

Uno de los puntos de mayor preocupación, para la positiva ejecución del proyecto, fue el
cumplimiento oportuno del cronograma general, por lo cual es fundamental la coordinación inicial
y la planificación estricta de cada una de las actividades, tomando en consideración los plazos de
entrega de obras, equipos, insumos y procesos de capacitación, pues el atraso en la ejecución de
uno de estos elementos ocasiona un efecto en cadena que afecta el avance de todos los
componentes; en este aspecto es necesario analizar que la ejecución de obras de infraestructura
siempre está sujeta a suspensiones involuntarias, para lo cual fue necesario el uso de medidas
correctivas de recuperación de tiempo con la finalidad que las expectativas positivas, que se
generan con mucho esfuerzo, no se pierdan por la postergación de la entrada en funcionamiento
del sistema.

Respecto a la adquisión de sistemas informáticos, se recomienda agilizar los trámites de no
objeción por parte del Banco Mundial, pues esto pues esto puede producir un retraso en el
cronograma establecido. Además, se debe considerar que estos equipos tienen un factor de
obsolescencia bastante rápido que implica concretar su adquisición lo antes posible.



                                                - 25 -

Anexo 1: Documento sobre Lecciones Aprendidas en la primera fase de ejecución del
componente de gestión del despacho.

2. SEGUNDO COMPONENTE: INFRAESTRUCTURA FISICA DE LAS JUDICATURAS


El objetivo de este componente consiste en adaptar el recurso físico a los requerimientos del
programa de modernización de la Función Judicial, mejorando las condiciones de infraestructura
de las judicaturas de mayor carga procesal en el Ecuador.      Este componente se ejecutó con el
objeto de complementar los objetivos del componente de gestión del despacho judicial.
Adicionalmente, se procedió a la remodelación de un edificio para las oficinas del CNJ.

Se definieron como meta la intervención de 7.200 m2, sin embargo se intervino en 17.209m2,
que representan el 239% de la meta planteada.

El proyecto en su planificación inicial contempló una inversión en infraestructura de US $
2'800.000. La inversión efectivamente realizada en obras civiles en las tres ciudades, alcanza la
suma de US $ 1'527.000. En promedio se ha invertido por juzgado US $ 22.130, y por m2. un
valor de US $ 89.

En instalaciones especiales, para climatización, redes de voz y datos, sistemas de control de
accesos, audio y video, en las tres ciudades, se ha invertido un total aproximado de US $
1'335.000, lo que da un promedio por juzgado de US $ 19.347 y por m2. un promedio de US $
78.


3. TERCER COMPONENTE: MEDIACIÓN JUDICIAL

La saturación de casos existente en el sistema de cortes, genera una necesidad de crear espacios
de solución de conflictos, en función de lo que la Ley de Arbitraje y Mediación crea la figura de la
derivación procesal, que implica un recurso potencial          que contribuye a la descarga y
descongestión de casos que se tramitan en las judicaturas del país.


Los objetivos primordiales del componente consistieron en el establecimiento de Programas
Pilotos de Mediación anexos a las Cortes de Justicia de las ciudades de Quito y Guayaquil; y el
entrenamiento en mecanismos alternativos de solución de conflictos a mediadores participantes en
los programas piloto de Quito y Guayaquil; capacitación a jueces para referir casos a mediación;
difusión de la información al público e información general a profesionales interesados en el tema.




                                               - 26 -

Estos objetivos superaron su ámbito de ejecución, atendiendo a la demanda de escenarios que
permitan facilitar el acceso a la justicia en el resto de judicaturas del país, razón por la que el
Proyecto Piloto amplió su cobertura a la ciudad de Cuenca.           En la actualidad, las Cortes
Superiores de Justicia de las tres ciudades cuentan con Oficinas de Mediación, que se encuentran
debidamente equipadas y cuya infraestructura física ha sido adaptada atendiendo a las necesidades
logísticas de cada Centro Judicial.

ProJusticia, coordinó el desarrollo de las actividades previstas en este Componente, bajo la
ejecución de dos contratos de consultoría, uno con ILANUD durante el período comprendido
entre septiembre de 1998 y noviembre de 1999; y otro, con el Consorcio Corporación
Latinoamericana para el Desarrollo ­ Universidad Católica Santiago de Guayaquil durante el
período comprendido entre junio de 2000 y junio 2001. Posteriormente, a partir julio de 2001
hasta junio de 2002, ProJusticia asumió directamente la administración de las Oficinas de
Mediación Judicial.

Un elemento importante dentro de las actividades realizadas en el Proyecto de Mediación
Judicial constituyó el desarrollo de varios modelos de derivación de causas aplicados por los
jueces que participaron en el proceso desde sus inicios y con la incorporación progresiva de
nuevos juzgados.

Dentro de la fase piloto se elaboraron los siguientes productos: Manual de Difusión; Manual del
Mediador; Manual Operativo; Documento Borrador del Reglamento para los Centros de
Mediación y Estrategia de Comunicación; lo que constituye la base para consolidar la continuidad
y réplica del Proyecto a lo ancho de todo el país.

La gestión de los Centros de Mediación propició la suscripción de Convenios de Pasantías con
universidades y/o organizaciones no gubernamentales, lo que ha significado un aporte adicional en
las actividades desarrolladas que cuentan con la colaboración y práctica, tanto de estudiantes de
Derecho, como de personal capacitado en el área de mediación específicamente.

Los indicadores de gestión registran un avance progresivo, en cuanto al número de ingreso de
casos, acuerdos alcanzados y valores óptimos en los tiempos promedio de duración de la
mediación, logrando día a día mayores niveles de satisfacción, tanto en lo relacionado a los jueces
que realizan las derivaciones, como a los ciudadanos que concurren a resolver sus controversias
en estos espacios.

Las Oficinas de Mediación mantienen un promedio de atención de 45 casos mensuales
aproximadamente, funcionando al máximo de su capacidad instalada, promedio que debe intentar
aumentarse con la difusión de los servicios y la derivación directa por parte de los jueces. Es
importante recalcar, que si bien existen valores promedio del ingreso de casos a las Oficinas de
Mediación Judicial, existen fluctuaciones mes a mes que, por factores externos, presentan un
ligero aumento o disminución con relación a los valores referenciales.

Las Oficinas de Mediación de la Función Judicial realizan procesos de mediación, con un



                                               - 27 -

promedio de cinco horas efectivas de trabajo que se desarrollan en dos o tres audiencias de
mediación en un lapso referencial de quince días. Los datos mencionados, de acuerdo al Anexo
No. 2, demuestran las bondades y ventajas que ofrece la mediación, tanto al Sistema Judicial,
como a la ciudadanía en general.

A partir del mes de julio de 2002, por decisión del Consejo Nacional de la Judicatura, las oficinas
de Mediación son administradas y financiadas por este órgano administrativo. Es importante
mencionar que las distintas misiones del Banco Mundial trabajaron conjuntamente con Projusticia
para lograr este objetivo.

Principales Lecciones Aprendidas y Recomendaciones:

La Función Judicial cuenta actualmente con un modelo de derivación judicial a mediación,
completamente probado y en funcionamiento, el cual resulta eficaz y efectivo para el servicio a los
ciudadanos. Por esta razón, es importante que la Función Judicial reconozca formalmente a estos
Centros de Mediación para que continúen con su trabajo de manera adecuada. El apoyo a los
Centros incrementará la confianza de los jueces para proceder a la derivación de causas,
agilizando los procesos judiciales.

Es importante trabajar conjuntamente con el CNJ, organismo que tiene a su cargo el registro de
centros de mediación y su debida aprobación. Esta institución no ha recibido instrucción alguna
sobre el tema, el cual ha quedado relegado ante las múltiples funciones de este organismo, lo cual
podría concluir en la proliferación de toda clase de centros de mediación sin regulación alguna
para los mismos.

Resultaría de gran impacto la elaboración de proyecto sobre el reglamento correspondiente a la
Ley de Arbitraje y Mediación que regule algunas de las disposiciones previstas en esta Ley,
fomentando la calidad en la aplicación de la misma.

Es necesario fomentar la difusión de los métodos alternativos para la solución de conflictos en la
población. Los centros de mediación han realizado un importante trabajo al respecto, pero aún es
insuficiente, de las encuestas realizadas se deduce que la población conoce poco sobre la utilidad
de estos mecanismos.

4. CUARTO COMPONENTE: PROGRAMA DERECHO Y JUSTICIA

El Programa tiene como objetivo principal promover la participación de la sociedad civil en el
proceso de reforma de la administración de justicia, mediante proyectos específicos que faciliten el
acceso a la Justicia. A través de este Programa se canalizaron proyectos provenientes de la
sociedad civil y de los operadores judiciales, orientados a mejorar los problemas de la población
respecto al acceso a la justicia, investigación con miras al planteamiento de reformas del sistema
normativo, educación e información legal y reformas a las cortes a través de la modernización y
descentralización, por medio de una variedad de proyectos que examinan necesidades
particulares.




                                                - 28 -

El presupuesto invertido en este Programa fue de            1.640.268,47 con una contrapartida de
402.165,48 proveniente de los aportes directos de las instituciones beneficiadas.

Se ejecutaron 40 proyectos que llegaron a un total de 61.369 beneficiarios directos, distribuidos
de la siguiente forma: Fondo de Derecho y Justicia (Sociedad Civil): 37.890, Fondo de Judiciales:
500 Servicios Legales y Alternativos para Mujeres de Escasos Recursos Económicos: 20.194,
Educación Legal: 285 y Desarrollo Profesional: 2.500

De acuerdo a los datos establecidos previa y posteriormente a la ejecución del Programa Derecho
y Justicia se obtiene un universo de beneficiarios directos correspondiente a 68.869 personas,
equivalente a un 100%. Antes de la implementación de los proyectos del Programa Derecho y
Justicia se atendió a una población de 7.500 personas, equivalente al 11,52%; culminada la fase de
implementación de los proyectos mencionados se registra un número de beneficiarios directos
correspondiente a 61.369, equivalente al 89%.

El Programa mencionado se encuentra distribuido en los siguientes subcomponentes:

1.      Fondo para la Sociedad Civil: Mediante el cuál se promovió la participación de la
sociedad civil en el proceso de reforma de la administración de justicia mediante proyectos
específicos que facilitaron el acceso del ciudadano a la justicia. Los resultados obtenidos, en
múltiples casos, superarón los indicadores propuestos inicialmente, garantizando en muchas
ocasiones, la continuidad de los proyectos. Estos resultados se encuentran desglosados por
proyecto en el cuadro correspondiente al Anexo 3 de este documento.

2.      Fondo de Judiciales: Estos proyectos se desarrollaron en los Distritos Judiciales de
distintas provincias con el objeto de realizar la modernización y gestión del despacho judicial.

3.      Educación Legal: Este proyecto fue único en su género, lo ejecutó la Asociación
Nacional de Facultades de Jurisprudencia (ANFJ), la cual emprendió un proceso de diagnóstico
de la educación legal, en base al cual se diseñó de un plan quinquenal de acciones para mejorar la
calidad de la educación legal en el Ecuador.

4.      Desarrollo Profesional: Este programa fue ejecutado directamente por Projusticia y re

5.      alizó actividades para "capacitar capacitadores", preparando al profesorado de las
Facultades de Derecho en el desarrollo de nuevas metodologías y contenidos que resulten en una
mejora sustancial y práctica en la calidad de la enseñanza y formación de los profesionales
universitarios. Se diseñaron nuevas cátedras universitarias y, además, se ejecutaron actividades de
actualización y capacitación a magistrados, jueces y funcionarios judiciales en temas legales
trascendentales que faciliten la práctica diaria en los Tribunales.

6.      Servicios Legales y Alternativos para Mujeres de Escasos Recursos Económicos: El
objetivo principal de este subcomponente estuvo centrado en mejorar e incrementar el acceso de
las mujeres de escasos recursos económicos al sistema de administración de justicia,
contribuyendo a la democratización del conocimiento y aplicación del derecho, para mejorar su



                                                 - 29 -

condición y posición en la sociedad. El proyecto presenta un número de 20.194 beneficiarias
directas de los servicios legales y alternativos, los resultados obtenidos mediante la ejecución del
proyecto han superado las metas propuestas tanto en la cantidad de beneficiarias como en la
calidad de los servicios prestados.

Principales Resultados Obtenidos:
Casos atendidos dirigidos a personas de 15.118
escasos recursos económicos (servicios
legales y alternativos Como servicios
alternativos    se    entenderán     servicios
psicológicos,      sociales     o     médicos
(alternativo a los servicios legales))
Consultas legales                              9.204
Casos y consultas atendidos, dirigidos a 20.194
mujeres de escasos recursos económicos
(servicios legales y alternativos)
Mediaciones logradas Se debe considerar 2.102
que los proyectos estuvieron dirigidos
principalmente a la creación de los centros
de mediación y la capacitación a su personal
y, en la última fase, la apertura del servicio
de mediación al público
Beneficiarios del servicio de mediación        3.980
Talleres y Seminarios realizados               442
Personas capacitadas                           10.770
Campañas radiales                              12
Equipos de capacitación formados               25
Módulos      de    Capacitación     elaborados 25
(incluye materiales de capacitación)
Investigaciones        (incluye       cátedras 14
universitarias)
Oficinas abiertas para atención al público en 12
promoción de derechos, asistencia legal y
servicios alternativos, entre otras
Bases de datos elaboradas                      8
Convenios con instituciones públicas y 40
privadas para la ejecución de actividades
conjuntas
Publicaciones realizadas                       20

Principales lecciones aprendidas y recomendaciones:

La ejecución de este componente produjo resultados relevantes que permitieron visualizar la
importancia de que la reforma judicial vincule a la sociedad civil y a la Función Judicial con el



                                                 - 30 -

propósito de conseguir un verdadero acceso a la justicia. En esta forma, este Programa permitió
una mayor comprensión entre los sectores involucrados, lo que les permitirá trabajar con mayor
coordinación en el futuro.

Los parámetros de selección dispuestos en los instructivos del Fondo se han cumplido a cabalidad,
y han sido de gran utilidad en la selección de proyectos. Es importante mencionar que, a pesar de
que el Panel Consultivo constaba con personas expertas en género para la revisión de los
proyectos, en el Fondo del año 2.001 se procedió a realizar una evaluación del enfoque de género
más específica en cada uno los proyectos, la cual resultó muy interesante y permitió equilibrar los
resultados de los proyectos beneficiando a hombres y mujeres.

De la experiencia adquirida se observa la necesidad de poner énfasis en el asesoramiento y
orientación a las instituciones beneficiarias, en cuanto a la elaboración de propuestas, tanto en la
parte técnica como en la financiera.

Del análisis realizado el 72.5% de los proyectos presentados han continuado ejecutándose en las
instituciones pertinentes, una vez terminado el financiamiento otorgado, existe un 20% que se
continúa parcialmente y, un 7,5% que, por diferentes circunstancias no pudieron continuar. Esta
continuidad del proyecto constituye un aspecto muy importante que debe ser analizado desde la
presentación del proyecto, pues en este momento se puede solicitar todas las garantías que
permitan que las actividades continúen al finalizar el financiamiento. Sin embargo, los resultados
nos demuestran que el trabajo realizado permitió un porcentaje de continuidad significativo.

Se ha producido un importante intercambio de conocimientos y tecnología que ha permitido a las
instituciones compartir su experiencia y aprender de proyectos similares. Esto ha producido
excelentes resultados permitiendo la conformación de pequeñas redes de apoyo entre instituciones
que realizan labores similares.

Es importante mencionar, que se ha creado un modelo integral de servicios (legales, psicológicos,
sociales y médicos) que ha sido utilizado tanto en las instituciones que prestan servicios a mujeres
como en las demás instituciones que atienden a población de escasos recursos económicos. El
trabajo de las instituciones que prestan estos servicios permiten una notable mejora en la calidad
de justicia que se imparte pues, al no poseer fines de lucro, se han dedicado todos los esfuerzos a
conseguir fallos justos de acuerdo con los casos planteados. Inclusive, estas instituciones han
impulsado la aplicación de los convenios internacionales. El modelo mencionado ha permitido la
concientización de la población, y las mujeres especialmente, sobre sus deberes y derechos y, su
capacidad de aplicarlos en los casos que lo ameriten.

Dentro de los programas establecidos con el objetivo de difundir los derechos y deberes
ciudadanos, se trabajo con sectores de niños, jóvenes, mujeres y población en general obteniendo
importantes resultados.    Como una política del Fondo Derecho y Justicia, estas actividades
formaron parte de los proyectos, en calidad de un componente imprescindible, esta política ha
permitido que las organizaciones desarrollen áreas de difusión y capaciten al personal a cargo
como capacitadores para multiplicar los conocimientos adquiridos.




                                                - 31 -

La introducción de cátedras universitarias, constituyó una experiencia enriquecedora y acogida
con mucho entusiasmo por las Facultades de Derecho. Los requisitos para el diseño de las
cátedras fueron incrementándose con cada experiencia, produciendo como resultado diseños más
completos con materiales útiles y bien elaborados.         Anexo 4: Documento sobre Lecciones
Aprendidas en la ejecución del componente Programa Derecho y Justicia.

La ejecución de Programa mencionado pone de manifiesto el beneficio del trabajo conjunto entre
la sociedad civil y la Función Judicial en el proceso de reforma judicial emprendido. Además, el
apoyo del Banco Mundial ha sido primordial en este aspecto, pues se necesitó una gran capacidad
de entendimiento de la realidad local para apoyar ciertas actividades en el sector de la sociedad
civil, referentes al acceso a la justicia de los ciudadanos, en áreas no financiadas por otros
organismos internacionales, gracias a lo cual se obtuvo excelentes resultados.

Sostenibilidad futura y propuestas de continuidad del Proyecto:

Los esfuerzos de sostenibilidad de los logros alcanzados por el Proyecto en su primera fase, se
han orientado hacia la institucionalización de las actividades dentro de la Función Judicial. En este
sentido se han alcanzado los avances necesarios. Actualmente, al cierre de la primera fase, el
modelo de gestión judicial está incorporado como política de la Función Judicial, al punto que el
mismo ha sido replicado en algunos juzgados con financiamiento propio de la Institución. De esta
manera, en la medida de la disponibilidad de recursos, la Función Judicial seguirá replicando el
modelo corporativo en los diferentes distritos judiciales del país. Esto a su vez representa un
contexto muy favorable para la continuidad y apoyo de un nuevo proyecto en esta materia.

Asimismo, el funcionamiento de los Centros de Mediación implementados en la ejecución del
Proyecto de Reforma Judicial, está asegurado de forma definitiva en la ciudad de Cuenca, con la
incorporación de Funcionarios Judiciales en el equipo del mencionado Centro. En los casos de
Guayaquil y Quito, los centros continúan con su normal funcionamiento, bajo la responsabilidad
de la Función Judicial, y se preveé su continuidad bajo los mismos mecanismos que en la ciudad
de Cuenca. Se está realizando una intensa actividad de capacitación al interior de la Función
Judicial para que sus propios miembros puedan asegurar la continuidad de este servicio. En
cuanto al Programa Derecho y Justicia el 72,5% de los proyectos de acceso a la justicia por parte
de los ciudadanos se encuentran en funcionamiento y, se espera puedan expandir sus actividades
en el futuro.

El desempeño de ProJusticia ha sido examinado por la Contraloría del Estado, por los Auditores
externos así como por las periódicas misiones del Banco Mundial de evaluación del proyecto con
resultados altamente satisfactorios. Dentro de estas actividades se destaca la alta calidad técnica
de las misiones del Banco, por lo que se recomienda realizarlas con mayor frecuencia, de manera
que no existan períodos demasiado largos entre una y otra visita.

Respecto al área económica financiera el Anexo 5 de este documento muestra la evolución
presupuestaria del Convenio de Préstamo BIRF-4066-EC al 10 de febrero de 2.003, de lo cual se
concluye que se ha cumplido satisfactoriamente con la contraparte nacional requerida para la
ejecución del préstamo y los gastos correspondientes se han ejecutado dentro de los rubros que



                                                - 32 -

comprendía cada categoría del convenio.

Sobre la continuidad del Proceso de Reforma del Sector Justicia, la consolidación del
funcionamiento del Comité Consultivo para la Reforma de la Administración de Justicia del
Ecuador, será un factor determinante en la definición del mismo como una política de Estado. El
apoyo logístico que la Función Judicial brindará a la Unidad de Coordinación, es un mensaje de
compromiso cuya valoración facilitará la obtención de nuevos recursos nacionales o de
cooperación internacional para la continuidad.

Es importante destacar la necesidad de una ágil actualización del plan de reformas que orienten las
nuevas acciones de modernización del Sector.

En relación a nuevas líneas de acción se destaca el fortalecimiento de los elementos fundamentales
de la Carrera Judicial, esto es la consolidación del Sistema de Capacitación permanente, la
evaluación del desempeño y sistema disciplinario. Junto a estos elementos resulta necesario
impulsar la cobertura a nivel nacional del nuevo modelo de gestión del despacho bajo el modelo
corporativo, lo cual permitirá afianzar el proceso en todo el país. En este mismo sentido, sobre la
base de los resultados obtenidos en la primera fase es importante culminar la implementación de
Centros de Mediación adscritos a la Función Judicial a nivel nacional. Otro aspecto de particular
importancia es la implementación de sistema de oralidad procesal que manda la constitución, lo
cual implica una intervención de grandes dimensiones que puede constituir uno de los ejes de la
segunda fase del Programa de Reform

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                 - 33 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                     1
               Indicator/Matrix                  Projected in last PSR    Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Development of pilot mediation programs;
improve judicial education and information
2. Improve time to dispose of cases; improve
records management system; improve
management information systems;
strengthen training for judges and court
personnel in case administration; improve
uniformity in court proceedings.
3. Development and implementation of a
special fund; strengthen the government's
ownership and build consensus for the
reforms; improve public access to information




Output Indicators:
                                                                     1
               Indicator/Matrix                  Projected in last PSR    Actual/Latest Estimate
% increase in people with limited resources
benefitting from legal services




1End of project




                                                       - 34 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                             Appraisal       Actual/Latest       Percentage of
                                                             Estimate           Estimate          Appraisal
                       Component                             US$ million      US$ million
Case Administration and Information Support                      4.52                5.14              1.13
Alternative Dispute Resolution Mechanism                         1.36                0.80              0.59
Program for Law and Justice                                      3.55                1.75              0.49
Infrastructure                                                   2.80                1.91              0.68
Project Coordination Unit and Fund Management                    1.11                1.10              0.99

Total Baseline Cost                                             13.34               10.70
 Physical Contingencies                                          0.38
 Price Contingencies                                             0.59
                         Total Project Costs                    14.31               10.70
                  Total Financing Required                      14.31               10.70


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                        1
                                                  Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB               NCB                 2           N.B.F.       Total Cost
                                                                    Other
1. Works                            0.00              3.60           0.40             0.00            4.00
                                   (0.00)             (1.80)        (0.20)            (0.00)         (2.00)
2. Goods                            2.90              0.00           0.80             0.00            3.70
                                   (2.50)             (0.00)        (0.60)            (0.00)         (3.10)
3. Services                         0.00              0.00           5.90             0.00            5.90
Technical Assistance,              (0.00)             (0.00)        (5.40)            (0.00)         (5.40)
Training
4. Incremental Operating            0.00              0.00           0.70             0.00            0.70
Costs
                                   (0.00)             (0.00)        (0.20)            (0.00)         (0.20)
   Total                            2.90              3.60           7.80             0.00           14.30
                                   (2.50)             (1.80)        (6.40)            (0.00)        (10.70)
The above figures are from Table 3 of the Project's SAR.
The Goods - Other figure includes LIB and Shopping
The Civil Works - Other figure includes works procured through the provision of three quotations.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                       1
                                                  Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB               NCB                 2         N.B.F.        Total Cost
                                                                   Other
1. Works                            0.00              1.64           0.40             0.00           2.04
                                   (0.00)            (1.26)         (0.12)           (0.00)         (1.38)
2. Goods                            2.44              0.00           0.80             0.00           3.24
                                   (2.25)            (0.00)         (0.60)           (0.00)         (2.85)
3. Services                         0.00              0.00           6.32             0.00           6.32



                                                   - 35 -

  Technical Assistance,                   (0.00)             (0.00)            (6.22)            (0.00)           (6.22)
  Training
  4. Incremental Operating                 0.00               0.00              0.52             0.00              0.52
  Costs
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.25)            (0.00)           (0.25)
      Total                                2.44               1.64              8.04             0.00             12.12
                                          (2.25)             (1.26)            (7.19)            (0.00)           (10.70)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Project Financing Plan        10.70         3.61                                                         0.0      0.0



  The Staff Appraisal Report (No. 15385-EC) did not provide this cost breakdown. Therefore, the total
  figures are included in the above table.




                                                          - 36 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not applicable.




                                      - 37 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              4/3/1995                11     TASK MANAGER (1);
                                             JUDICIAL SECTOR
                                             SPECIALIST (3); LEGAL
                                             SPECIALIST (3);
                                             OPERATIONS ANALYST (2);
                                             PROCUREMENT (1);
                                             FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                             (1)
              7/10/1995                 5    TASK MANAGER (1);
                                             JUDICIAL SECTOR
                                             SPECIALIST (2); LEGAL
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             OPERATIONS ANALYST (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              01/22/1996                6    TASK MANAGER (1);
                                             JUDICIAL SECTOR
                                             SPECIALIST (3); LEGAL
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT (1)


 Supervision

              07/03/1997                1    TASK MANAGER (1)                 S               S
              11/13/1998                1    TASK MANAGER (1)                 S               S
              03/12/1999                5    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             JUDGE (1); GENDER/CIVIL
                                             SOCIETY (1);
                                             INFRASTRUCTURE (1);
                                             INFORMATION SYSTEM (1)
              07/02/1999                2    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             INFORMATICS (1)
              11/16/1999                4    TASK MANAGER (1); LEGAL          S               S
                                             ASPECTS (1);
                                             INFRASTRUCTURE (1);
                                             JUDICIAL ASPECTS (1)
              04/20/2000                3    TASK MANAGER (1); LEGAL          S               S
                                             ASPECTS (1);
                                             INFRASTRUC/PROCURE (1)
              11/24/2000                3    TEAM LEADER (1); V.P. &          S               S
                                             GENERAL COUNSEL (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (1)
              11/24/2000                6    TASK MANAGER (1);                S              HS
                                             PROCUREMENT (1);
                                             RESEARCH ASSISTANT (1);



                                              - 38 -

                                                  GENDER SPECIALIST (1); CT
                                                  MANAGEMENT SPECLIST
                                                  (1); JUDGE/JUDICIAL
                                                  REFORM (1)
               11/16/2001                     5   TASK MANAGER (1); SR.                   S             HS
                                                  COUNSEL (1); CASE/COURT
                                                  MANAGMENT (1);
                                                  LAW&JUST. PROG/GENDER
                                                  (1); JUDGE/MEDIATION (1)
               05/08/2002                     3   TASK TEAM LEADER (1);                   S             HS
                                                  JUD. SECTOR SPECIALIST
                                                  (1); OPERATIONS SUPPORT
                                                  (1)


 ICR
               2/10/2003                     9     TASK TEAM LEADER (1);                  S             HS
                                                   JUD. SECTOR
                                                   SPECIALIST (4);
                                                   OPERATIONS ANALYST
                                                   (1); PROCUREMENT (1);
                                                   FMS (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                       Actual/Latest Estimate
                                       No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation
  Appraisal/Negotiation                                                    270,883
  Supervision                                                              503,195
  ICR
  Total
The amounts provided for appraisal also include the costs associated with the Identification/Preparation
phase; SAP did not differentiate between the two phases. Similarly, the costs indicated for Supervision
were similarly aggregated to with the ICR costs in SAP.




                                                   - 39 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 40 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU
Most of the Bank's prior reviews and clearance have been timely produced. However, the
Borrower complained about a Bank's delay in producing a clearance for bidding documents for
computers, specifically for reviewing technical specifications.
6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 41 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

World Bank. (2003) Impact of Legal Aid: Ecuador.

World Bank (2003) Judicial Sector Assessment (Revised).

Marcela Rodriguez (2000) Empowering Women: An Assessment of Legal Aid Under Ecuador's Judicial
Reform Project.

World Bank (1994). Judicial Sector Assessment.

Dabak, Beth Anne, Alicia Arias Salgado and Franco Sanchez (2003) Ecuador Judicial Reform Project
Special Fund for Law and Justice -- Lessons Learned. (draft).




Impact of Legal Aid Final PDF.PDF



Empowering-Women-web.pdfEcuador Sector Assessment 1994.pdf



Ecuador Assessment_FINAL_June 26, 2003.pdf




                                                 - 42 -

- 43 -

