Page  1
The World Bank 
1818 H Street N.W. 
(202) 477-1234 
I
NTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
 
Washington, D.C.  20433 
Cable Address:  INTBAFRAD 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
 
U.S.A. 
Cable Address:  INDEVAS 
 
October 11, 2002 
 
His Excellency 
Heinz Moeller 
Minister of Foreign Affairs 
Quito, Ecuador 
 
Re:  Japan Social Development Fund Grant (Law and Justice for the Poor 
Project) (TF051227:)
.
Dear Sir: 
 
I
am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the 
Bank) to
 indicate the Bank’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by Japan under the 
Japan Social Development Fund, to make a grant in an amount not exceeding one million seven 
hundred and eighty thousand United States Dollars (US$1,780,000) (the Grant) to the Republic of 
Ecuador (the Recipient). 
 
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient's request of financial assistance for the 
project described in paragraph 1 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement (the Project) and on the terms 
and conditions set forth in the said Annex.  The Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement 
below, that it is authorized to contract and withdraw the Grant for the said Project and on the said 
terms and conditions. 
 
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by signing, 
dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon receipt by the Bank of 
the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter Agreement will become effective 
as of the date of the countersignature. 
 
Very truly yours, 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
/s/Isabel Guerrero 
Director 
Country Management Unit - Bolivia, Ecuador and Peru 
Latin American and the Caribbean Region 
 
AGREED: 
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR 
 
By /s/Embajador Byron Morejón 
Name Byron Morejón 
Title Ministro de Relaciones Exteriores, Encargado 
 
Date: November 15, 2002 
Page  2
ANNEX
Objectives, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant 
 
1. Description 
of 
the 
Project
1.1 
The objective of the Project is to improve access to alternative means of dispute 
resolution and qualified legal representation for poor rural and urban communities, indigenous 
peoples, women and children in the territory of the Recipient, as a complement to the Bank-
financed Afro-Ecuadorian Peoples Development Project (Loan No. 4277-EC) and Poverty 
Reduction and Local Development Project (Loan No. 3840-EC). 
1.2. 
The Grants consists of the following Parts, each of which includes the following activities 
(the Activities): 
Part A
:
Indigenous Justice
Effective implementation of indigenous justice in the territory of the Recipient through: 
(a) clarification of the applicable legal framework and development of implementing regulations; 
(b) a national process to build indigenous dispute resolution mechanisms consistent with 
indigenous customary law, human rights and gender equality; and (c) educational programs for 
indigenous communities on available legal processes, and formal and informal dispute resolution 
mechanisms (these Activities are estimated to cost US$350,000 equivalent). 
Part B
:
Peace Culture
Development of a peaceful culture of dispute resolution, through the design and 
implementation of a training program in elementary schools in rural and marginal urban areas, 
involving children, teachers and parents (these Activities are estimated to cost US$375,000 
equivalent). 
Part C
:
Alternative Dispute Resolution Services
Strengthening of alternative dispute resolution mechanisms, through support of mediation 
centers managed by non-governmental organizations (NGOs), including: (a) development of a 
clearinghouse to share experiences and knowledge, identify and support best practices, and 
encourage national collaboration; (b) design of educational programs, training resources and a 
service hotline to support mediation centers; and (c) preparation of a strategy for the creation of a 
national association of alternative dispute resolution service providers (these Activities are 
estimated to cost US$450,000 equivalent). 
Part D
:
Public Defense Services
Support
 to the Recipient’s Association of Law School Deans and local bar associations to 
create an inter-institutional working group to develop a mechanism to provide qualified legal 
representation for indigent defendants, including: (a) preparation of a list of public interest 
lawyers, and provision of training to such lawyers; (b) development of a network of experienced 
lawyers; (c) development of incentives for private practitioners to serve as public defenders; and 
Page  3
-3- 
August 21, 2002 
 
(d) dissemination of information on public defense services in local communities (these Activities 
are estimated to cost US$500,000 equivalent). 
Part E
:
Audit
Audits referred to in paragraph 5.1 (b) (i) of this Annex. (these Activities are estimated to 
cost US$30,000 equivalent). 
Part F
:
Monitoring and Evaluation
Development of Project management tools, including baseline and periodic statistics 
(these Activities are estimated to cost US$75,000 equivalent). 
2. Implementation 
Generally
2.1. 
The Recipient shall: (a) carry out the Project, through 
Unid
ad de Coordinación para la 
Reforma de la Administración de Justicia 
(PROJUSTICIA), with due diligence and efficiency, in 
accordance with the Project operational manual (the Operational Manual); (b) promptly provide the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for that purpose; (c) furnish all information 
covering the Project and the use of the proceeds of the Grant as the Bank shall reasonably request; 
(d) from time to time exchange views with the Bank's representatives on the progress and results of 
the Project; and (e) take all necessary measures required to enable the Bank to visit the territory of 
the Recipient for purposes related to the Grant.  Without limitation on the foregoing, the Recipient 
shall, if the Bank shall so request, prepare and furnish to the Bank promptly upon completion of the 
Project a report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, on the results and impact of the 
Project. 
 
2.2. 
The Recipient undertakes that, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, subgrants (the 
Subgrants) for eligible subprojects (the Subprojects) will be made to NGOs acceptable to the 
Bank, in accordance with competitive and transparent procedures satisfactory to the Bank, as 
prescribed in the Operational Manual, and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in 
paragraph 2.3 of this Letter-Agreement. 
 
2.3 
Subgrants shall be made on terms whereby the Recipient shall obtain, by written 
agreement with an NGO (the Subgrant Agreement), rights adequate to protect the interests of the 
Recipient and the Bank, including the right to: 
 
(a) 
require the NGO to carry out and operate the respective Subproject with due 
diligence and efficiency, and in accordance with sound technical, financial, managerial and 
administrative standards and practices, and to maintain adequate records 
(b) 
require that: (i) the consultants’ services to be financed out of the proceeds of any 
Subgrant shall be procured in accordance with the procedures set forth in Attachment I to this 
Letter Agreement; and (ii) such services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the 
respective Subproject; 
 
(c) 
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank, if the Bank shall so 
request, the sites included in the respective Subproject, the operation thereof, and any relevant 
records and documents; 
Page  4
-4- 
August 21, 2002 
 
(d) 
require that the NGO shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers such 
insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound business 
practice; 
 
(e) 
obtain all such information as the Recipient and the Bank shall reasonably 
request relating to the foregoing; and 
 
(f) 
suspend or terminate the right of the NGO to the use of the proceeds of the 
Subgrant upon failure by such NGO to perform any of its obligations under any Subgrant 
Agreement. 
 
2.4 
The Recipient shall exercise its rights under each such Subgrant Agreement in such 
manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Recipient and the Bank; (ii) comply with its 
obligations under this Letter Agreement; and (iii) achieve the objectives of the Project. 
 
3. Procurement
3.1. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the consultants’ services 
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by 
the provisions of Attachment I to this Annex. 
3.2. 
The Recipient shall ensure that any facilities relevant to the Project are at all times operated 
and maintained in accordance with appropriate practices and that any repairs or renewals of such 
facilities are promptly made as needed. 
4. 
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
4.1. 
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by the Bank on its books in 
the name of the Recipient (the Grant Account), and may be withdrawn therefrom by the Recipient in 
accordance with the provisions of this Section 4, for expenditures in respect of Subgrants, and the 
reasonable cost of services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant. 
 
4.2. 
The expenditures for the following Categories of items may be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Grant and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Project: 
 
Category 
Amount of the Grant 
Allocated (in US$) 
 
%
of  
Expenditures to 
be Financed 
(1) Consultants’ services 
75,000 
85% 
 
(2) Training 
909,000 
100% 
(3) Subgrants 
766,000 
100% of amounts disbursed 
(4) Audits referred to in 
paragraph 5.1 (b) (i) hereof 
30,000 85% 
 
TOTAL 
 
1,780,000
For the purposes of this paragraph, the terms: 
Page  5
-5- 
August 21, 2002 
 
(a) 
“training” means the cost of: (i) per diem and travel expenses of trainees; (ii) 
rental of training facilities and equipment; (iii) training materials; and (iv) training fees; and 
(b) 
“travel” means the cost of per diem and travel expenses of the staff of 
PROJUSTICIA required for the implementation of the Project. 
4.3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4.2 above: 
 
(a) 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account: (i) for payments made for 
expenditures prior to the date of signature of this Letter Agreement by the Bank; (ii) on account of 
payments for any taxes levied by or in the territory of the Recipient; (iii) on account of expenditures 
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for services supplied from such 
territories; or (iv) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities if such payment or import, to 
the Bank’s knowledge, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; 
 
(b) 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account after December 31, 2005 or 
such later date that the Bank shall establish by notice to the Recipient (the Closing Date); and  
 
(c) 
If, in the Bank’s opinion, an amount of the Grant allocated to any of the items in the 
table in paragraph 4.2 above will be insufficient to finance the expenditures for such item, the Bank 
may, by written notice to the Recipient, reallocate to such item an amount of the Grant then allocated 
to another item which, in the Bank’s opinion, will not be necessary to meet other expenditures. 
 
4.4. 
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, it shall 
deliver to the Bank a written application for withdrawal of such amount in the form specified by the 
Bank.  Withdrawal applications shall be: (a) signed on behalf of the Recipient by the Executive 
Director of PROJUSTICIA or such other person as he or she shall have authorized in writing; and (b) 
accompanied by such evidence in support of the application as the Bank shall reasonably request.  
Authenticated specimen signatures of the person authorized to sign withdrawal applications shall be 
provided with the first application bearing his or her signature.  Each withdrawal application for an 
amount of the Grant and its supporting evidence must be sufficient in form and substance to satisfy 
the Bank that the Recipient is entitled to withdraw such amount from the Grant Account and that 
such amount is to be used in the carrying out of the Project.  The Bank shall pay the amounts 
withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account only to or on the order of the Recipient. 
 
4.5. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) services of consulting firms under contracts 
costing less than US$75,000; (b) services of individual consultants under contracts costing less than 
US$30,000; and (c) training, Subgrants and audits, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Recipient. 
 
4.6. 
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the Grant.  The 
Bank, at the Recipient’s request and acting as an agent of the Recipient, shall purchase with the 
currency of the Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account such currencies as shall be required to pay 
for expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.  Whenever it shall be necessary, for 
the purposes of this Letter Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, 
such value shall be as reasonably determined by the Bank. 
 
4.7. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Recipient may open and maintain in U.S. 
Dollars a special deposit account (the Special Account) in its Central Bank or a commercial bank on 
Page  6
-6- 
August 21, 2002 
 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including (in the case of a commercial bank)  
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the 
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Attachment II to this Annex. 
 
5. Accounts 
and 
Audits
5.1. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to 
the Bank, adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources 
and expenditures related to the Project. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient shall: (i) have the records, accounts and financial statements referred 
to in subparagraph (a) above and the records and accounts for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year: (A) certified copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited; and (B) an opinion 
on such statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and 
in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other 
information concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, 
as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant Account 
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: (i) maintain or cause to be 
maintained, in accordance with subparagraph (a) above, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least one (1) year after the Bank has received the audit report for the 
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable the 
Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such records and accounts are 
included in the annual audit referred to in subparagraph (b) above and that the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals. 
 
6. Suspension 
and 
Cancellation
6.1. 
The Bank may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of the Recipient to 
make further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the following events has occurred and is 
continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to comply with any of its obligations herein specified; or (b) 
the right of the Recipient, or any other entity to which the Bank has made a loan with the guarantee 
of the Recipient, to make withdrawals under any loan agreement with the Bank or any development 
credit agreement with the International Development Association shall have been suspended. 
 
6.2. 
The Bank may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient to 
make further withdrawals from the Grant Account: (a) at any time after the right of the Recipient to 
make withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have been suspended pursuant to the provisions of 
paragraph 6.1 above; or (b) if the Recipient shall have failed to take action, satisfactory to the Bank, 
within six (6) months after the effective date hereof, to carry out the Project.  
 
7. 
Disclosure of Information
Page  7
-7- 
August 21, 2002 
 
7.1 
The Bank may disclose this Letter Agreement and any information in connection thereof 
pursuant to the Bank’s policy on disclosure of information. 
Page  8
-8- 
August 21, 2002 
 
Attachment I  
 
Consultants’ Services 
Section I
.
Consultants’ Services
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Sections I 
and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997, January 1999 
and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the following provisions of this Section and Sections II and III of this Schedule. 
 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of 
consultants. 
 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  The short list of 
consultants for services under paragraph 1.2 of the Annex, estimated to cost less than 
US$200,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. Quality-based 
Selection
Services for of consulting firms under paragraph 1.2 of the Annex shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. Least-cost 
Selection
Services of consulting firms for the audits referred to in paragraph 5.1 (b) (i) of the 
Annex to this Letter may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
3. 
Single Source Selection
Services of consulting firms under Parts A and D of paragraph 1.2 of the Annex may, 
with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 
through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
4. Commercial 
Practices
Page  9
-9- 
August 21, 2002 
 
Services to assist NGOs in the carrying out of Subprojects under Parts A through D of 
paragraph 1.2 of the Annex shall be procured under established private sector or commercial 
practices acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.12 of the 
Consultant Guidelines and as prescribed in the Operational Manual.
 
5. 
Individual Consultants
Services under paragraph 1.2 of the Annex in tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to 
individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.4 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost estimates, 
contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be furnished to the 
Bank, for its review and approval, prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for 
proposals. Such plan shall be updated every six (6) months during the execution of the Project, 
and each such updating shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval.  Selection of 
all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan (as updated 
from time to time) as shall have been approved by the Bank. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost $75,000 equivalent or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3, and 5 of Appendix 
1
to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $30,000 or more, the report on the comparison of the 
qualifications and experience of candidates, and the terms of reference and terms of employment 
of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract 
shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.  The provisions of paragraph 
3
of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall also apply to such contracts. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Section II
.
Special Provisions
In addition and without limitation or restriction to any other provisions set forth in this 
Schedule or the Consultant Guidelines, the following provisions shall govern all employment of 
consultants: 
1. 
Foreign consultants shall not be required to be locally registered as a condition of 
participation in the selection process. 
Page  10
-10- 
August 21, 2002 
 
2. 
Foreign consultants shall not be required, either directly or indirectly, to give any 
participation in or share of any consulting contracts to any local firm or person. 
 
3. 
Foreign consulting firms shall not be required, as a condition to provide services, to be 
registered in Ecuador with a minimum capital different from that required for Ecuadorian firms. 
 
4. 
Foreign consultants, either individuals or firms, shall not be required to pay fees to the 
Ecuadorian Consultants’ Association that are different from those required for Ecuadorian 
consultants. 
 
5. 
No consultant financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall, at the time he or she is 
carrying out his or her contractual obligations as consultant, hold civil service office or any other 
position in any agency of the Recipient, nor shall such consultant have any right to re-entry into 
any such office or position upon the conclusion of his or her consulting services. 
 
Section III
:
Internal Approvals
With respect to any employment of consultants to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant, any approval of documents or requests of proposals or contracts required under the laws of 
the Recipient shall be given only by PROJUSTICIA. 
 
Page  11
-11- 
August 21, 2002 
 
Attachment II 
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Attachment: 
 
(a) 
the term "eligible Categories" means the Categories (1) through (4) set forth in the 
table in paragraph 4.2 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant allocated 
from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 4.2 of 
the Annex to this Letter Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to US$ 200,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Attachment. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in 
accordance with the provisions of this Attachment. 
 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been 
duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the 
Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
The Recipient shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit into the 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Recipient shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account at such intervals as 
the Bank shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 
4
of this Attachment for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each such request, the Bank 
shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.  All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Grant Account under the eligible items, and in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other 
evidence. 
 
Page  12
-12- 
August 21, 2002 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient shall, at 
such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other 
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Attachment, the Bank shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals should 
be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account; 
 
(b) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period of time 
specified in paragraph 5.1 (b) (ii) of the Annex to this Letter Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph in respect of the audit of the records 
and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its intention to suspend 
in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant 
to the provisions of paragraph 6.1 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall equal the equivalent of twice 
the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Grant 
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of 
this Attachment; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Recipient shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may 
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) 
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account 
shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the 
Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount. 
Page  13
-13- 
August 21, 2002 
 
David F. Varela 
M:\Varela\Varela-2002\Ecuador\Law and Justice for the Poor\ECUADOR-Law and Justice for the Poor (JSDF Letter Agreement) 
Final 1.doc 
August 26, 2002 6:08 PM
 
