Page  1
May 8, 2000
Sr. Jorge Guzmán Ortega 
Minister of Finance and Public Credit 
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit 
Avenida 10 de Agosto y Jorge Washington 
Quito Ecuador
Re: 
Loan No. 4066-EC (Judicial Reform Project)Second Amendment to the 
Loan Agreement and Amendment to the Supplemental Letter 
(Performance Indicators)
Dear Sir:
Please refer to the Loan Agreement (the Agreement) between the International 
Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and the Republic of Ecuador (the 
Borrower), dated September 19, 1996 (the Loan Agreement), as amended.  Pursuant to our 
discussions contained in the Aide Memoires signed on November 15, 1999 and April 20, 
2000 between the Bank and the Borrower, we are pleased to inform you that the Bank 
hereby agrees to amend the Loan Agreement as follows: 
1.
The table in Schedule 1, paragraph 1 is hereby amended and replaced to read in 
its entirety as per the Attachment A to this letter.
2.
In Schedule 1, paragraph 3 is hereby amended and replaced to read in its 
entirety as follows:
"3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no 
withdrawals shall be made : (a) in respect of payments made for expenditures 
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $1,070,000, may be made on account of payments made for 
expenditures before that date but after October 1, 1995; and (b) in respect of 
payments made for expenditures under Category 2 for a specific replication 
court unless and until the Bank has received satisfactory evidence that (i) 
the system of a waiver for court fees related to the poor has been revised 
with rules satisfactory to the Bank, and (ii) the current rules to access case 
files 
are revised to allow case access by litigants in a manner satisfactory 
to the 
Bank."
3.
In Schedule 2 the following paragraphs are hereby amended:
(a)
Part A, paragraph 1 is hereby amended and replaced to read in its 
entirety as follows:
"1.
Carrying out of a caseflow management, training and infrastructure 
program that includes the development and implementation of delay reduction 
pilot projects in the trial courts of Quito, Guayaquil, and Cuenca."
(b)
Part A, paragraph 7 is hereby amended and replaced to read in its 
entirety as follows:
"7.
Development and implementation of training programs for trial 
courts in Quito, Guayaquil and Cuenca on case administration matters not 
covered under other Parts of the Project (including training-for-trainers 
program)."
(c)
In Part A, a new paragraph (10) is hereby inserted to read in its 
entirety as follows:
"10. 
Carrying out a caseflow management, training and infrastructure 
program that includes the development and implementation of delay reduction 
pilot projects in the trial courts in Quito, Guayaquil, Cuenca, and other 
decentralized courts as agreed to with the Bank and not otherwise included in 
Part A.1 of Schedule 2." 
(d)
Part C, paragraph 1(d) is hereby deleted in its entirety. 
(e)
Part C, paragraph 2 is hereby deleted in its entirety.
(f)
Part D, paragraph 2 is hereby amended and replaced to read in its 
Page  2
entirety as follows:
"2.
remodeling of priority judicial facilities related to pilot 
courts." 
4.
The Supplemental Letter referred to in Section 1.02 (f) is hereby amended and 
replaced in its entirety to read as per the Attachment B to this letter. Please 
confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendment by signing and dating this letter in 
the spaces provided below.  
This amendment letter may be executed in two counterparts, each of which shall 
be an original.  Upon your confirmation, please return one fully executed original to 
us.  The provisions of this amendment letter will become effective as of the date 
first above written upon receipt by the Bank of one fully executed original of this 
amendment letter.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Andrés Solimano 
Director Country Management Unit - Ecuador 
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
CONFIRMED:
REPUBIC OF ECUADOR
By /s/ Luis G. Iturralde M.
(Authorized Representative)
Date:
July 28, 2000
Attachment A
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
  % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Consultants’
4,600,000
100%
services (including
auditors services) and
training
(2)
Works
2,000,000
80%
(3)
Goods
2,800,000
100% of foreign
expenditures, 100%
of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost), and
80% of local expenditures 
for other items procured 
locally
(4)
Incremental
  200,000
90%
Operating Cost
(5)
Unallocated
1,100,000
Page  3
TOTAL
      10,700,000
Attachment B
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Performance indicators have been developed for the project in order to measure 
the success of the reforms that will be implemented.  Data for the indicators will be 
gathered annually from those courts participating in the reform and compared to the 
initial benchmarks.  The necessary data will be collected and analyzed by the 
statistics department and reported to the project unit as well as to the Supreme 
Court.
1.
The percentage change in the number of people with low incomes directly 
benefiting from the project’s legal aide services.
2.
The percentage change in the number of cases resolved by the pilot mediation 
program compared to the total number of cases resolved.
3.
The percentage change in the quality of services within the model courts, as 
measured by user surveys.
4.
The percentage decrease in the average number of days the judicial process takes 
in the first instance pilot courts.
5.
Equivalent square meters that represent the cooperative courts and judicial 
services as a management indicator for the infrastructure component.
