Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 17228-PH
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$10 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR A
SZOPAD SOCIAL FUND PROJECT
FEBRUARY 26, 1998
Rural Development and Natural Resources Sector Unit
Philippines Country Management Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective as of November 17, 1997)
Currency Unit = Peso
US$ 1.00      =  34.05 peso
I peso       =  US$0.029
FISCAL YEAR
Government: January I - December 31
IBRD:       July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS       -  Country Assistance Strategy
DO        -  Development Objective
DBM       -  Department of Budget and Management
ERR       -  Economic Rate of Return
GOP       -  Government of Philippines
ICB       -  Intemational Competitive Bidding
IP        -  Implementation Progress
LBP       -  Land Bank of the Philippines
LBPF      -  Land Bank of the Philippines Foundation
LGUs      -  Local Government Units
MDF       -  Municipal Development Fund
MIS       -  Management Information System
MNLF    -  Moro National Liberation Front
NCB       -  National Competitive Bidding
NEDA      -  National Economic and Development Authority
NGOs      -  Non-Governmental Organizations
NPV       -  Net Present Value
O&M       -  Operations and Maintenance
SA        -  Special Account
SOE       -  Statement of Expenditure
SPCPD    -  Southern Philippines Council for Peace and Development
SPDA      -  Southern Philippines Development Authority
SZOPAD  -  Special Zone for Peace and Development
Vice President           :Jean-Michel Severino, EAP
Country Director         :Vinay Bhargava, EACPF
Sector Manager           :Geoffrey Fox, EASRD
Task Team Leader         :Franlk Byarnugisha, EASRD 



PHILIPPINES
SZOPAD SOCIAL FUND PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
A. Project Development Objective ...................                                          ............................................2
1. Project development objective and  key  performance indicators ..............                                            ...................2
B. Strategic Context ...............................................................2
1.  Sector-related  CAS  goal supported  by  the project .......................................................2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy .................................                                         .         .        3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices ..............................3
C.  Project Description  Summary  ..............................................................4
1. Project components ...............................................................4
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project ....................................4
3.  Benefits and target population  ..............................................................5
4.  Institutional and  implementation  arrangements ...........................................................5
D. Project Rationale ...............................................................7
1. Project alternatives considered  and reasons for rejection  ......................                                   ......................7
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies ......8
3.  Lessons learned  and  reflected  in proposed  project design .....................                                  ......................8
4.  Indications of borrower commitment and ownership  ...............................                                     ...................9
5. Value added  of Bank  support in this project ...............................................................9
E. Summary Project Analyses ..............................................................                                                      10
1. Economic ..............................................................                                                               10
2. Financial ..............................................................                                                               10
3. Technical ..............................................................                                                                10
4. Institutional ..............................................................                                                           10
5. Social ..............................................................1 1
6. Environmental assessment ..............................................................                                                12
7. Participatory approach ..............................................................                                                  12
F. Sustainabity and Risks ..............................................................                                                         12
1. Sustainability ..............................................................                                                         12
2. Critical risks ..............................................................                                                          13
3. Possible controversial aspects ..............................................................                                          14



Paee No.
G. Main Loan Conditions ........................                              14
1. Effectiveness conditions ..................... 14
2. Other .....................                                            14
H. Readiness for Implementation ........................                      15
I. Compliance with Bank Policies ........................                     15
Annexes
Annex la      Project Design Summary
Annex lb      Performance Indicators
Annex 2a      Detailed Project Description
Annex 2b      Targeting and Eligibility Criteria
Annex 3.      Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4.      Financial Summary
Annex 5.      Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A.      Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table B.      Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C.      Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Annex 6.      Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 7.      Documents in Project File
Annex 8.      Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 9.      Philippines at a Glance
Map IBRD 29355



Philippines
SZOPAD Social Fund Project
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Region
Date: February 26, 1998                            Task Team Leader: Frank Byamugisha
Country Director: Vinay Bhargava                   Sector Manager: Geoffrey Fox
Project ID: PH-PE-51386   Sector: Social           Program Objective Category: Poverty Reduction
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Project    Program of Targeted Intervention:   X] Yes  [ ]_No
Project Financing Data             [X1 Loan        [] Credit      [] Guarantee    [] Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 10.0
Proposed terms:                       [   Multicurrency      [X] Single currency, dollar
Grace period (years): 5          [   Standard Variable  [   Fixed          [X]  LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 20
Commitment fee: 0.75%
Service charge: 0.0%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                             Local             Foreign          Total
Government                                                  4.72               0.00            4.72
IBRD                                                        4.67               5.33            10.00
Beneficiaries                                               0.61               0.00             0.61
Total          10.00               5.33           15.33
Borrower: Republic of the Philippines
Responsible agency(ies): SZOPAD Social Fund
Estimated disbursements (Bank FYIUS$M):  1998     1999        2000      2001
Annual 1.0        3.0         4.0       2.0
Cumulative 1.0       4.0         8.0        10.0
Proposed coverage: Special Zone for Peace and Development (14 provinces and 9 cities in Mindanao and Palawan
province)
Project implementation period: 04/01/1998 to 12/31/00. Expected effectiveness date: 07/31/98
Closing date: 12/31/01



Page 2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
Overall Obiective
The overall goal of the project is to facilitate the Borrower's efforts to implement the development provisions of the
peace agreement signed on September 2, 1996 between the Government of Philippines (GOP) and the Moro National
Liberation Front (MNLF) through speedy financing of local development initiatives in the Special Zone for Peace and
Development (SZOPAD).
Specific Objective
The objective of the project is to increase the access of the population in the poor and most conflict-affected areas of
SZOPAD to basic economic and social infrastructure, services and employment opportunities.
MIS data, disaggregated by province/municipality, will be maintained in order to monitor the percentage of
infrastructure, services and employment opportunities provided in the poor and most conflict-affected areas of SZOPAD.
Two sets of indicators would be tracked in order to monitor the progress of the project: (i) the number of basic economic
and social infrastructure facilities completed and in service; and (ii) the number of employment opportunities created.
These indicators would be monitored regularly through the MIS (see Section C, para. 4 and Annex lb).
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: 15362-PH   Date of latest CAS discussion: 04/04/96. A CAS update will be presented on
March 24, 1998.
The Bank's assistance strategy for the Philippines gives high priority to poverty reduction through assisting the design
and implementation of effective and efficient policies for poverty reduction while upgrading the quality of social services
to the poor. For more than 20 years, the civil war did not permit development assistance, particularly investment in
infrastructure and institutional capacity, to be delivered in SZOPAD; consequently, it has the highest concentration of
poor people in the country. For example, the poverty incidence in SZOPAD (51.2%) is significantly higher than for the
whole country (35.7%) and for the other regions of Luzon (37%) and Visayas (37.7%). The signing of the peace
agreement has provided an opportunity to engage in development assistance for the SZOPAD. During the December
1996 Consultative Group Meeting in Tokyo, the Government agreed with the donors to refocus donor assistance on
Mindanao in support of the implementation of the development aspects of the peace agreement.
The Bank's assistance strategy for Mindanao emphasizes enhanced lending and speedy disbursements in Mindanao,
paiticularly in SZOPAD areas. The proposed SZOPAD Social Fund Project provides a mechanism for the quick and
efficient financing of development activities in the region; it comprises one of three legs of the Bank's assistance strategy
for Mindanao. The other two legs include: financing of investment projects that take a longer time to prepare and are
based on the priorities identified in the Govemment of Philippines Development Framework and Investment Priority Plan
for SZOPAD (Mindanao); and fast-tracking (i.e. expediting disbursements) ongoing Bank projects with components in
SZOPAD. The three legs complement each other.



Page 3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The Government's Development Framework for Mindanao identifies a number of development issues relating to the
Mindanao Region, and SZOPAD in particular. These include:
* high incidence of poverty prevailing in many SZOPAD areas;
* lack of livelihood/employment opportunities especially for the poor in the rural areas and for those dependent
on agri-based occupations;
* shortages of basic services and facilities in depressed areas such as water, primary health care, quality basic
education, electricity, and housing facilities; and
* limited infrastructure and institutional capacity, due to armed conflict, leading to reduced accessibility and
participation of the marginalised groups and the poor in the development process.
Accordingly, the government's development strategy for Mindanao focuses on:
*   provision of livelihood and employment opportunities especially for landless tenants, crop farmers, fisher folk,
indigenous people and women;
-   improvement of access to basic infrastructure and services in depressed areas and communities; and
*   strengthening institutional mechanisms for planning, implementation, and monitor.ng for better govemance.
Past government assistance to Mindanao has not achieved its objectives adequately due, inter alia, to poor capacity
of both national and local government agencies; consequently, large parts of the region remain underserved with
respect to basic economic and social infrastructure and services. Since local agencies might be better able to
respond to local demands, the government is increasingly supporting decentralized approaches to development
including the establishment of the Social Fund, as a mechanism to provide rapid and effective financing for small
sub-projects proposed by local governmental and non-governmental entities, including comnmunity groups.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
A key sector issue that will be addressed by the project is the decentralization of the delivery of infrastructure and
services. The project supports the Government's decentralization approach to poverty reduction, and encourages local
involvement in the identification and management of small scale projects that benefit the poor. Top-down approaches of
central line ministries supported in the past have not been fully successful in efficient and equitable provision of basic
infrastructure and services in Mindanao. The Social Fund Project encourages local input in development initiatives.
Unlike past development programs, where the government was a major, if not the only, player, the Social Fund Project
seeks to involve a wider range of entities in service provision such as non-governmental organizations and community
groups.
A strategic choice made by the govemment is that the project should focus on social and economic infrastructure and
services instead of directly supporting the livelihood needs of ex-MNLF combatants. The latter are being supported
under other projects funded by UNDP, USAID, AusAID and CIDA. While future support to livelihood activities by the
Bank is not ruled out, at present, the other donors who are already supporting these activities are expected to meet this
need. The Social Fund project, therefore, focuses on the delivery of physical infrastructure and services and the
generation of employment opportunities. The aim is to improve access to infrastructure and services in underserved areas
of Mindanao while creating jobs that provide quick income transfers. The Bank's proven track-record in undertaking such
activities speedily and efficiently through Social Funds in emergency situations justifies the present focus of this project.



Page 4
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3for a detailed cost breakdown):
Component                    Category      Cost Incl.   % of Total     Bank-         % of
Contingenci                 financing     Bank-
es (US$M)                   (US$M)    financing
Financing for Sub-Projects. The Social Fund  Physical         12.3      80.0           8.25            83
will provide grant financing to Local
Government Units (LGUs), Non-Governmental
Organizations (NGOs), and Community Groups
for small scale social and economic
infrastructure such as rural roads, rural water
supply and sanitation, small scale irrigation
schemes, communal clinics and schools.
Financing will also be made available for
supplies, equipment and technical services
related to the delivery of community services
such as teaching materials and supplies, medical
equipment and supplies, and essential medicines.
Grant financing is appropriate as the project is
supporting the provision of public goods.
Sub-projects (up to a maximum cost of
US$250,000 each) will be appraised against a
set of pre-determined eligibility criteria.
Eligibility criteria were developed during project
preparation, and are included in the Operations
Manual. The project will benefit population
groups in SZOPAD in the Southern Philippines,
with priority being given to poor people and
areas most affected by the conflict. As evidence
of commitment to the project, the beneficiaries
will be required to make a minimum contribution
of 5 percent to the capital costs of subprojects in
cash and materials and/or through participation
in project design and supervision.
Institutional Support for the Social Fund. This   Institution  3.0    20.0              1.75           17
component will finance services of Social Fund   Building;
contracted staff, vehicles, office equipment and   and Project
operating expenses, as well as technical   Management
assistance and training to help improve the
Social Funds' operations capacity and internal
procedures
Total                                                         15.3      100.0          10.0           100
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project supports implementation of the development provision of the peace agreement through support for provision
of quick and visible benefits to the underserved and conflict-affected populations in SZOPAD. Because of the
emergency nature of the project, it does not attempt to support policy and institutional reforms that typically would
require more time to prepare and implement.



Page 5
3. Benefits and target population:
Major project benefits include:
*  construction and/or rehabilitation of infrastructure and provision of specific services:
*  creation of short-term employment opportunities; and
*  building local capacity for participation in and management of development projects.
More broadly, the project will facilitate the Government's efforts to implement the peace agreement by bringing quick
and visible benefits to the underserved and conflict-affected populations in SZOPAD. It will also strengthen the capacity
of local governments to manage development.
Project Target Population. The project will cover population groups in the 14 provinces and 9 cities of SZOPAD with an
estimated population of 10 million. It will target poor and most conflict-affected areas of SZOPAD, with priority given
to MNLF areas and lumad communities (indigenous peoples). The project will adopt three targeting mechanisms to
ensure that project benefits reach poor areas and poor groups within SZOPAD. First, through geographic targeting, it
will establish limits on the share of resources going to each province based on the province's relative access to basic
services and other available poverty indicators as well as its population. This will ensure that the better-off provinces do
not corner SZOPAD resources while depriving the relatively less well-off provinces. Second, also through geographic
targeting, a ranking of municipalities within each province will be established based on available poverty indicators and
will be used to prioritize subproject proposals for appraisal. Third, through self targeting, the subproject menu will be
restricted to basic and primary level services in order to ensure that poor groups who are the main users of such services
would receive a greater proportion of the benefits. There is also a maximum ceiling on the size of subprojects of
US$250,000 each.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation Period: The project will be implemented over three years, with a possibility for a roll over, expansion
and/or replication.
Project Management: The Social Fund was established under the office of the President on October 1, 1997 through
Executive Order No. E0445. It will appraise and finance sub-project proposals from sponsoring entities (see the
next section). The Executive Order provides for the constitution of a Social Fund's Board of Directors, chaired by the
Executive Secretary and including the Secretaries of Finance and Budget and Management, the Director General of
the National Economic and Development Authority (NEDA) and the chairman of the Southern Philippines Council for
Peace and Development (SPCPD); the Board has the Executive Director of the Social Fund and the Presidential
Adviser on the Peace Process as non-voting ex-officio members. The Board, which is mandated to establish the
Social Fund's financial policies and guidelines and review and approve its annual work and financial plans and
budgets, will meet every three months and as may be necessary to resolve issues emerging from the operations of the
Social Fund.
The President will designate members of the Executive Committee (upon recommendation of the Board) which will
be chaired by a permanent representative of the SPCPD and will include the Executive Director as a non-voting ex-
officio member, permanent representatives of the 5 voting members of the Board of Directors, a representative from
the NGOs and a representative from the private sector. The Executive Committee will represent the Board of
Directors in carrying out the Board's policies and approving sub-projects. The Executive Director who will serve as
the chief executive of the Social Fund will head a Management Office, composed of administrative and technical
personnel, and responsible for managing and administering the day-to-day operations of the Social Fund. The
Executive Committee shall meet every two weeks or as often as may be necessary to review and approve sub-project
proposals. The Management Office will serve as the Secretariat of the Executive Committee.
The Fund's Executive Director shall establish the Operational Units (Finance and Administration, Promotion and
Outreach, Appraisal, Supervision and Legal) and Support Units (Internal Audit and MIS) and appoint the required
staff to assist him in carrying out the Fund's operations and administration.



Page 6
Sub-project Sponsors. The Social Fund itself will not propose sub-projects. It will not be involved in sub-project
identification, preparation, and implementation. Instead, the Social Fund will invite sub-project proposals from
sponsoring entities including:
* Local Government Units (LGUs);
* Non-govemmental Organizations (NGOs); and
* Community Groups
The sub-project sponsors will be responsible for identifying, designing, and implementing sub-projects.
Project Coordination: The Social Fund will be responsible for ensuring the overall coordination among the different
sub-project activities. In addition, it will be responsible for ensuring coordination and consistency of Social Fund
activities with sectoral standards and priorities. Such coordination and consistency will be achieved through the
following ways:
*   During sub-project appraisal, Social Fund staff will consult and coordinate with local government staff to
ensure there is no overlap with planned or ongoing activities;
*   Lists of all eligible sub-projects will be submitted to the local departments of the relevant line ministries
and to local governments (in cases where the subproject sponsor is not a local government) for their non-
objection within 10 working days;
* Where existing technical standards available from the respective line ministries conform to sectoral best
practice, these will be used by the Social Fund; where they do not, the Social Fund will develop them in
coordination with the relevant line ministries;
*   The policy-setting body of the Social Fund, i.e. the Board of Directors, is made up of representatives of
relevant national government agencies (and a representative of the SPCPD) who will ensure overall
coordination of Social Fund activities with government programs; and
*  Agencies that are responsible for the operations and maintenance of the Social Fund-financed investments
will be appropriately consulted and evaluated in order to ascertain their commitment and capacity.
Project Oversight (policy guidance. etc.): The Social Fund, through its Board of Directors, will retain responsibility
for overall project oversight and will be responsible for monitoring sub-project activities and for conducting impact
evaluations. Adequate mechanisms will be in place to ensure that lessons of experience feedback into the Social
Fund's decision-making processes.
Accounting. Financial Reporting and Auditing Arrangements: As it is intended that the Social Fund have autonomy
for the purpose of project implementation, accounting and financial control arrangements have to be established for
the Social Fund from scratch. A draft Personnel, Finance and Administration Manual was submitted and reviewed by
the Bank as part of the project appraisal process. Among other things, the Manual describes in detail the internal
control procedures, governing accounting principles, arrangements for maintaining separate project accounts and
administrative procedures governing internal management of the Fund. The Manual is based on the principles
developed by the Commission on Audit of the Republic of the Philippines, with Bank support, for project accounting
and financial information systems for foreign assisted projects. A computerized accounting system based on the
manual is being developed and is required to be operational as a condition of loan effectiveness. The local branch of
an internationally recognized public accounting company has been retained to advise the Project Preparation Team in
setting up the accounting system.
The project accounts and the Social Fund annual financial statements shall be prepared on the basis of generally
accepted accounting principles. The financial statements and the project accounts shall be audited by an independent
auditor acceptable to the Bank. The annual financial statements shall also include a summary of Special Account (SA)
activities and disbursements made under statement of expenditure (SOE) procedures. The independent auditors shall
be required to express a separate opinion on the operations of the SA and SOE procedures.



Page 7
Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements: The Social Fund will deploy two mechanisms/instruments for project
monitoring and evaluation (see also Annex lb for performance indicators):
* Management Information System (MIS). The computerized MIS will track three kinds of variables:
- financial indicators (e.g. amounts contracted and amounts disbursed).
- operational speed indicators (e.g. number of weeks between receiving sub-project proposals from sub-
project sponsoring agency and conveying sub-project approval/rejection decision; and number of
weeks between sub-project approval and first disbursement).
- physical indicators (e.g. number of clinics rehabilitated; kms of roads constructed and number of jobs
created).
Appropriate disaggregation of the above data (e.g. by type of sub-project and by geographic location)
will be maintained.
* Sample Surveys. Quantitative surveys will be conducted on a sample of sub-projects to determine the
targeting effectiveness of the project and to establish the overall development impact of sub-project
activities. These surveys may be contracted out to local or international consultants. The impact of sub-
project activities, including the level of satisfaction of beneficiaries, will also be ascertained through
qualitative Beneficiary Assessments.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Two alternatives to a Social Fund were considered but rejected for the reasons explained below:
(a)    Designing a new standard investment project.
A normal Bank investment project usually takes over one year to prepare and disburses over a 5-7 year period. This time
frame was considered inappropriate for responding urgently to the post-conflict situation in Mindanao and quickly
demonstrating the gains from peace.
(b)    Channeling funding to LGUs through the Municipal Development Fund (MDF).
The MDF could have been used to channel resources to LGUs. However, it was considered necessary not to restrict the
project to LGUs but, instead, to tap all existing capacity -- local governmental and non-governmental -- in order to
provide basic infrastructure and services speedily. The Social Fund provides a mechanism for doing so.
With the Social Fund model, various options were considered with respect to its institutional framework:
-   establishing the Social Fund as a subsidiary of the Southern Philippines Development Authority (SPDA);
-   establishing the Social Fund as a new subsidiary of the Land Bank of the Philippines (LBP), and
-   establishing the Social Fund as a subsidiary of the LBP Foundation (LBPF).
None of these options could ensure the speedy and efficient functioning of the project and the effective achievement of
its objectives.



Page 8
2. Major related projectsfinanced by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing and planned):
Sector issue               Project          Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation Development
Progress      Objective
(IP)          (DO)
Bank-financed
Beneficiary participation in  Second Communal      S               S
irrigation management       Irrigation Project
Operation and maintenance   Second Rural Roads     S               S
Project (closed; ICR
done)
Improvement of education    Third Elementary       S               S
quality                     Education Project
Poverty reduction           Proposed Mindanao      Not Applicable  Not
Rural Development                      Applicable
Project
Increasing access to portable    First Water Supply  S             S
water and sanitation        and Sanitation Project
(closed; ICR done)
Other development agencies
Emergency recovery          USAID - Emergency      Not Applicable  Not
Livelihood Assistance                  Applicable
Program
Emergency recovery          UNDP - Emergency       Not Applicable  Not
Assistance for                         Applicable
Development of Basic
Services, Livelihood and
Job Creation Program
for MNLF Soldiers and
their Families
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The above projects have generated country-wide lessons, particularly the need for beneficiary participation and firm cost
recovery measures. A recent review of the Social Fund portfolio commissioned by the Bank's Quality Assurance Group
"Portfolio Improvement Program: Review of the Social Funds Portfolio, World Bank, 1997" found that Social Funds
have proven to be effective instruments for responding to emergency situations through the provision of basic
infrastructure while rapidly creating short-term employment opportunities. The review synthesized lessons learnt and best
practices from across 34 countries where Social Funds are currently operating. The proposed project incorporates the
lessons learnt and international best practices identified in the Review with respect to, inter alia, targeting the poor and
sustainability of subprojects. It also incorporates best practice approaches to beneficiary participation and cost recovery
drawn from past experiences in the Philippines. The preparation of the project involved key stakeholders, notably: (i) the
Department of Budget and Management (DBM) which was involved in discussions of the project concept and design to
ensure that the often encountered problems of lack of counterpart funds do not hinder project progress; and (ii) SPCPD, a
new organization with no experience in managing development projects, which was provided an opportunity to learn on
the job during project preparation.



Page 9
Specifically, the operational lessons incorporated in the design of the proposed project are:
*  autonomy for the Social Fund with control over the sub-project approval process in order to avoid political
interference;
* streamlined procurement and disbursement rules and regulations to ensure speedy implementation;
* competitive salaries for Social Fund staff to attract highly competent and motivated individuals;
*  detailed operational manual, computerized MIS to track project inputs and outputs, standardized accounting
procedures, regular and rigorous auditing, and quantitative and qualitative evaluations of Social Fund outcomes, all
aimed at ensuring transparency, accountability, and development effectiveness (see Block 1, Section 4 on
monitoring and evaluation arrangements);
*  mechanisms for sector coordination with line ministries that are flexible enough not to compromise the
independence and efficiency of the Fund (see Block 1, Section 4 on project coordination arrangements); and
*  incorporation of sustainability conditions in the design of the Social Fund to ensure a continued flow of sub-project
benefits.
At the conceptual level, two main lessons of experience are incorporated in the design of the present project. First, the
Social Fund is one element of a much broader development strategy. The Social Fund project is one of three legs of the
Bank's assistance strategy for Mindanao. The other two legs include the financing of selected investments based on the
priorities identified in the Government of Philippines Development Framework and Investment Priority Plan for
SZOPAD; and the fast-tracking of ongoing Bank projects with components in Mindanao. The three legs complement
each other within the overall framework of the proposed pro-poor macroeconomic policies. Second, the role and time
frame of the Social Fund should be and have been explicitly thought through. The SZOPAD Social Fund Project is an
emergency operation designed to disburse over a three and half year period. Its main role is to facilitate the
implementation of the first phase of the peace process through the speedy provision of basic infrastructure while also
creating employment opportunities. Towards the end of the first three years, the appropriateness of a roll-over,
expansion, or replication of the project will be examined. Meanwhile, concurrent operations are being supported by
UNDP and other donors to build local governmental capacity. If adequate capacity is not built-up in LGUs within the
time frame of the SZOPAD Social Fund project or if LGUs find that their comparative advantage lies in focusing on
broader policy issues rather than in directly managing small scale investments, a longer term role may emerge for the
Social Fund. If so, the design of the Social Fund will be significantly altered to reflect its changed role and objectives.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Following a World Bank's fact finding mission for support to the Development of Mindanao in February 1997, the
Government of the Philippines expressed a strong interest in the idea of a Social Fund as a mechanism to respond to the
urgent need for financing of infrastructure and employment generating activities in the poor and conflict-affected areas of
Mindanao. In a follow-up World Bank identification mission in June 1997, the Government of the Philippines and the
SPCPD endorsed the creation of a Social Fund as an autonomous entity and agreed on arrangements for preparation and
processing of a Social Fund project for SZOPAD. GOP has shown satisfactory evidence of its commitment to the project
in at least two ways: (i) high level officials were significantly involved in the decisions which led to initiating the project
particularly in the programming discussions with World Bank management; and (ii) GOP prepared and issued promptly
the Executive Order necessary to establish the Social Fund.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
There are three ways in which Bank's support adds value to the project:
* The Bank loan will act as seed capital for leveraging co-financing from other donors.
* The Bank will bring international experience from past and ongoing social funds in other post-conflict countries to
bear on the design and implementation of the Social Fund in Mindanao.



Page 10
* The Bank's involvement will ensure international standards of transparency and accountability in the operation of
the Social Fund and will also result in high standards in monitoring and impact evaluations.
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 7)
1. Economic:
The actual activities that will be financed and, hence, the benefits cannot be accurately quantified as the project is
demand-driven. NPV and ERR are not relevant for Social Fund projects. Average costs per relevant unit will be
compiled for each municipality by type of infrastructure, updated regularly, and used as efficiency indicators to appraise
subprojects.
2. Financial (see Annex 4):
Financing of the project's investment and recurrent costs is easily manageable as the US$10 million from the World Bank
is certain; so is the US $4.72 million counterpart contribution from GOP since it is already included in the 1998 Budget
appropriation. The US $0.61 million contribution from beneficiary communities and sponsoring agencies is also judged
certain as financing methods which include cash, kind and beneficiary participation in project design and supervision are
flexible and affordable. Following completion of the project (during the operational period), the financing requirements
will mainly be for O&M which will be met by beneficiary communities, absorbed into the budgets of their relevant local
governments, and/or under the responsibility of the line agencies (in cases where O&M is not devolved to LGUs).
Fiscal impact: During project implementation, US$4.72 million (US$2.8 million plus US $1.92 million in taxes and
duties) will be contributed by GOP to the project; the full amount was included in the 1998 Budget appropriation. This
claim on the budget is judged as manageable and will not cause undue burden. After project completion, the demands on
the government budget will be minimal as the O&M costs of subprojects are not expected to be sizable and will largely
be financed by beneficiary communities. The only demand on the budget will be the servicing of the US $10 million loan
which will commence after the five year grace period. Again, the burden of servicing such a small debt is judged
manageable.
3. Technical:
The project will focus on supporting small-scale social and economic infrastructure subprojects which are not technically
difficult. During subproject selection, a key appraisal criteria will be technical soundness of the subproject. The
technical criteria have been developed for each subproject type based on the existing norms available from the respective
national government agencies to ensure sectoral coherence and compatibility; where the norms and standards are
inconsistent with sectoral best practices, the Social Fund will adopt modified ones. Technical appraisal will confirm that
the project design and specifications comply with these norms. It will also ensure that infrastructure, equipment and
other inputs are consistent in scale, quality, cost, and content with the proposed activities of the subproject and that
implementation is technically feasible.
4. Institutional:
Institutional Assessments were conducted during the preparation of the SZOPAD Social Fund Project. They shed light on
the strength and weaknesses of existing governmental and non-governmental institutions in Mindanao. The information
generated was used as a basis to design Social Fund's outreach and training program geared to strengthening the weaker
sponsoring entities. The Bank will regularly assess the institutional performance of the Social Fund itself and take
necessary actions through the project's institutional support component or through other appropriate channels.



Page I 1
a. Sponsoring and Implementing entities: Institutional appraisal criteria will be established to ensure that sponsoring
entities whose sub-project proposals are selected have the capacity to successfully implement the subprojects and to
ensure that appropriate arrangements for operation and maintenance are made, once completed. The appraisers would
confirm the nature and amount of the beneficiaries' counterpart contribution to the project, which must total a minimum 5
percent of the subproject cost, and would gain assurances that operational and maintenance costs of the subprojects will
be covered. During appraisal, the appraisal staff will also be required to consult and coordinate with the LGUs to ensure
that there is no overlap with other planned or ongoing activities. As the Social Fund will also undertake supervision of
implementation of subprojects through its Supervision Department, supervision efforts would be stepped up for the
subprojects whose sponsors are relatively weak. During the implementation phase, the performance of the different
implementing entities, including contractors, will be monitored; those entities whose performance is found wanting will
not be contracted to undertake future Social Fund sub-projects. Such a follow-up on the capacity of sponsoring and
implementing entities will also help to target the Social Fund's outreach and training activities to specific institutions in
need.
b. Project management: Capacity for project management was assessed right from the beginning of conceptualization
of the project. As the institutions (dominated by SPCPD) recently established under the Peace Agreement have no
experience in managing development projects, particularly those financed by external donors, it was found necessary to
establish an interim special institution -- the Social Fund -- to manage the project while building the capacity of existing
more conventional organizations. To ensure that the Social Fund is established and run efficiently, the hiring of the key
staff of the Social Fund will be preceded by a careful review of the candidates' qualifications and experience by the
management of the Social Fund in consultation with the World Bank. And to ensure that high quality personnel are hired
and retained, the Social Fund would hire staff on a contract basis and offer them remuneration packages that are
competitive with those offered in the private sector. To further enhance the quality of project management, an MIS will
be established to facilitate project management (see section 4).
5. Social:
As the project targets poor and most conflict-affected areas with priority given to MNLF areas and lumad
comnunities, the Social Fund staff would gather data on the number of direct beneficiaries of the project with
disaggregation by categories including: indigenous peoples; and MNLF ex-combatants and their families,
widows, and orphans. The employment opportunities generated by the project would also be monitored. In
addition to data gathering for purposes of monitoring project impact, an initial assessment is being done as part
of project pre-implementation, involving a scoping and mapping of communities with MNLF combatants,
lumads and the poor and their needs. This would be used as a basis for detailed planning of promotion and
outreach activities. In addition, during implementation, special attention would be paid to: (i) resettlement;
and (ii) indigenous peoples.
(i) Resettlement. No land acquisition, demolition of houses/structures and displacement of persons are
anticipated. Should these be necessary, they would be kept to a minimum. Sub-project proposals that would
require demolishing houses or acquiring land would be carefully reviewed and their adverse impacts minimized
through alternative designs and/or alignments. Proposals that require more than minor expansion along rights of
way would be reviewed carefully and the affected persons appropriately compensated according to the agreed
upon guidelines for compensation and/or land acquisition contained in the Operations Manual which conform to
the World Bank's OD 4.30, and a resettlement plan (where necessary) approved by the Bank.



Page 12
(ii) Indigenous Peoples. The screening and appraisal unit of the Social Fund will provide additional attention in
reviewing and appraising subprojects involving communities with indigenous groups. The government
Department for Indigenous Affairs and the Office of the Southern Cultural Communities will be consulted.
Project guidelines on indigenous peoples have been included in the Operations Manual. Project staff,
particularly those in the appraisal unit will be provided orientation on the World Bank's OD 4.20 and training
on development for indigenous populations.
6. Environmental assessment: Environmental Category  [IA   [XI B   [IC
Environmental assessment will be undertaken on all projects according to routine environmental appraisal criteria
although given the nature and small-size of sub-projects, no significant environmental impacts are anticipated. If
necessary, technical assistance will be provided to the Social Fund to develop environmental assessment policies and
procedures, and the capacity to undertake them. If adverse impacts are foreseen, necessary mitigating measures, if not
already planned, would be incorporated into the sub-project design at appraisal. The Social Fund may also reject sub-
project proposals on the ground that they involve excessive environmental risk. It is also possible that some of the sub-
projects financed by the Social Fund have a direct positive effect on the environment as, for example, in the case of
drainage, sanitation or water conservation sub- projects. This project is assigned a "B" environmental classification
7. Partiipatory approach:
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups: One of the eligibility criteria for sub-project selection is that
beneficiary communities are involved in decision-making related to and/or management of various aspects of the sub-
project as appropriate; this is in line with the demand-based design of the project. During project preparation, direct
consultations were conducted with representative groups of LGUs, NGOs, cooperatives and private organizations
including contractors. As an appraisal criteria, beneficiary communities and/or their sponsors are required to contribute a
minimum of 5 percent of the sub-project costs in the form of undertaking specific tasks related to sub-project preparation,
implementation, supervision, and operations and maintenance and/or cash, materials, equipment and other contributions
specified by sub-project activities. Beneficiary participation and contributions are necessary to ensure that the activities
truly reflect beneficiary "demand" and commitment to the subproject.
b. Other key stakeholders: National Government Agencies, particularly the Department of Finance, Department of
Budget and Management, National Economic and Development Authority and the President's Office were closely
involved in shaping the project concept, designing implementation arrangements particularly the preparation of the
Executive Order for establishing the Social Fund, and in processing the project. SPCPD played a critical role in
overseeing and managing the project preparation process. During project preparation, intensive consultations were
carried out with the donors involved in the financing of SZOPAD.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The project would be economically, institutionally, and environmentally sustainable. Sub-project appraisal
criteria include some factors aimed at ensuring economic sustainability of subproject benefits: (i) the operations
and maintenance (O&M) cost implied by the subproject can be effectively met and the sponsor possesses
adequate know-how about maintenance; and (ii) the sponsors and/or beneficiaries are required to contribute
toward the subproject capital costs in the form of cash, kind, and participation in subproject design and
supervision. Funding for O&M for infrastructure investments by LGUs should not be burdensome because: (i)
investments will be focused on rehabilitation of infrastructure which had run into disrepair because of the civil
war; (ii) the LGUs will be receiving funds from the central government, the so-called IRA allocations under the
local government code, which could be used for maintenance; and (iii) funding requirements will not be large
as the investments are not expected to be large for any of the LGUs. Moreover, there is a follow-up Mindanao



Page 13
Rural Development Project, now under preparation, which will complement this project and help ensure
sustainability of investments. Furthermore, the appraisal criteria include institutional and environmental analysis
that would aim to ensure institutional and environmental sustainability (see sections 4 and 6 above). The project
includes financing to support strengthening of the Social Fund, sponsoring agencies and community groups to
enable them fulfill their obligations for project appraisal, implementation, supervision, and sustainability.
Institutional strengthening is necessary even for some LGUs and local NGOs. While the LGUs have been found
to possess comparative strengths in areas including commitment to development, local knowledge and
implementation of small projects (under decentralized responsibilities), the LGUs in conflict-affected areas lack
experience in handling donor-assisted projects and their requirements. Similarly, local NGOs have strong
points related to their good knowledge base of the local conditions and experience in implementing small-scale
projects, but they are dominated by Christian NGOs, pointing to the need to develop and give opportunities to
Muslim NGOs. These weaknesses are recognized by the project and will be addressed through some
institutional strengthening support which comes with the promotion and financing of sub-projects, particularly
in targeted areas of the project.
2. Critical Risks: (see fourth column of Annex 1):
Project outputs to development objectives
Risk                 Risk Rating               Risk Minimization Measure
Politicization of the Social Fund    Low                GOP's undertaking to promote and ensure
autonomy of the Social Fund, well-specified
and publicized eligibility and appraisal
criteria, computerized MIS to ensure
transparency and accountability, accurate and
uptodate records of Social Fund operations
and finances.
Lack of sustainability of created    Low                Project design includes sustainability measures
infrastructure                                          including upfront beneficiary contributions,
evidence of commitment to O&M from
sponsoring agencies and relevant government
agencies, involvement of beneficiaries in
decision making in subproject planning and
implementation, and sound subproject
eligibility criteria.
Project components to outputs
Peace collapses                      Moderate           Project supports implementation of Peace
Agreement and is designed as an emergency
operation to demonstrate quick and visible
development benefits from peace.
Overall project risk rating          Moderate           There is strong commitment from central
government and SPCPD to implement the
project successfully and make the Peace
Agreement work.



Page 14
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
The undertaking by GOP to promote and ensure autonomy of the Social Fund might be unpopular to implement among
specific groups. However, autoncrny of the Social Fund is considered critical for the project to operate with speed and
efficiency and in a transparent and accountable way. Concurrent projects are expected to develop capacity in the public
sector to function with speed and efficiency as well.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
*  an agreement to be entered into between the Social Fund and the Borrower to the effect that the latter will
make the proceeds of the loan available to the Social Fund, on a non-reimbursable grant basis, as well as
other resources, including counterpart funds, needed by the Social Fund to carry out the project;
* establishment of a data base of unit costs of the project for each geographical zone; and
* establishment of a computerized accounting system.
2. Other:
* the Social Fund would approve only those sub-projects that meet the eligibility criteria contained in the
Operations Manual satisfactory to the Bank;
* no change would be made to the Operations Manual without Bank approval;
* the Social Fund would, no later than August 31, 1998, appoint a director for each of its essential operating
units (including Finance and Administration, Promotion and Outreach and Appraisal) with qualifications
and experience, and functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank;
*  project implementation would include a joint mid-term review to be conducted no later than June 30, 1999;
* the Social Fund would ensure sustainability of the project by obtaining evidence of commitment to and
ownership of the subprojects by beneficiaries (applicants and sponsors) in the form of an upfront
contribution of a minimum of 5 percent to subproject costs and, for public projects, by obtaining evidence of
commitment to O&M support from the relevant government agencies. During the project's mid-term
review, progress in implementing O&M measures would be assessed and appropriate action taken to ensure
project sustainability;
* a subproject agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, would be entered into by the Social Fund and each
applicant for sub-project funding;
* the Social Fund would review and update the subproject unit cost database at least once every six months;
*  selected performance indicators, agreed with the Bank, would be used to monitor the Social Fund's
performance and impact;
* annual financial audits will be conducted by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank and will follow
TORs in accordance with appropriate auditing principles, as approved by the Bank, and such audits will be
submitted to the Bank within 6 months of the close of each fiscal year;
* the Social Fund would, by November 10 of each year, starting November 1998, furnish to the Bank for its
review and comments an annual work plan and implement it thereafter taking into consideration the
comments from the Bank; and
* the Social Fund would ensure that the following reporting arrangements are met: (i) submission to the Bank
of a semi-annual report on January 31 and July 31 of each year, commencing on January 31, 1999; (ii)
submission to the Bank of a quarterly progress report based on the computerized MIS, on January 31, April
30, July 31 and October 31 of each year, commencing with October 31, 1998; (iii) submission to the Bank,
by June 30, 1999, a report for the project's mid-term review, integrating the results of the monitoring and
evaluation activities including the performance indicators agreed with the Bank; and (iv) submission to the



Page 15
Bank, within 6 months after project completion, of the Fund's contribution to the Implementation
Completion Report that will evaluate the project's performance
H. Readiness for Implementation
The SZOPAD Social Fund is already established. The Policies and Guidelines of the Social Fund have already
been approved by the Social Fund's Board of Directors. The Executive Director of the Social Fund is already
appointed; he has already advertised for hire the key staff positions of the Social Fund. There is financing
available from a PHRD Grant to support the operations of the Social Fund until the Bank loan is approved.
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Task Team Leader: Frank Byamugisha
Sector Manager: Geoffrey Fox
Country Director: Vinay Bhargava



Page 16
Annex la
Philippines SZOPAD Social Fund Project
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary            Key Performance Indicators'           Monitoring and         Critical Assumptions
Supervision              and Risks
CAS Objective                                                                                  (CAS Objective to
Bank Mission)
Poverty reduction.              1. 60 percentage of beneficiaries   1. Beneficiary assessment
reported improved living standards.    and impact study.
Better standard of living.
2. 60 percentage of beneficiaries  2. Beneficiary assessment
Peace agreement facilitated.      perceived project as a genuine      and impact study.
attempt by GoP to assist them.
Project Development Objectives                                                                 (Development
Objectives to CAS
Objective)
Access to basic economic and    1. No. of local schools renovated and   1. MIS tracking of physical   1. Infrastructure and
social infrastructure, services and  operational.                     outputs.                   services are utilized
employment opportunities in the                                                                  by beneficiaries.
SZOPAD improved by community
groups, LGUs, NGOs and private   2. No. of local health clinics     2. As above.               2. Infrastructure and
sector with assistance from the   renovated and operational.                                     services provided to
Social Fund.                                                                                     appropriate target
groups.
3. No. km of roads rehabilitated and    3. As above.          3. Infrastructure will be
expanded.                                                     well operated and
maintained after
project is over.
4. No. of small irrigation systems  4. As above.
facilities rehabilitated and
expanded.
5. No. of water supply and sanitation   5. As above.
facilities rehabilitated and
expanded.
6. No. of employment opportunities    6. As above.
created.
7. No. of community groups received   7. As above.
training in community management
and hygiene education.
l Baseline and targeted values would be developed before the project is launched, with the latter divided into values expected at mid-term, end of
project and full impact; the exercise would take into account the fact that the project is demand-driven.



Page 17
Narrative Summary            Key Performance Indicators'         Monitoring and        Critical Assumptions
Supervision              and Risks
Project Outputs                                                                             (Outputs to
Development
Objectives)
1. Social Fund established and  a) Operational, financial and     a) Manuals for operation,    1. Social Fund enjoys
operational.                   administration systems and        finance and                political support but
procedures established.           administration.            is not politicized.
b) Fund screening, appraisal process   b) Screening, appraisal and
and disbursement procedures       disbursement criteria.
established.
c) Monitoring and supervision     c) Monitoring and
procedures established.           supervision reports.
d) Staff and facilities in place.  d) List of staff, office
building and equipment.
e) SF makes approval/rejection of a    e) Approval letters.
subproject application/ proposal
within one month of receiving it.
f) Routine quarterly project progress   f) Quarterly project reports.
reports issued by PMU.
2. Demand driven Social Fund   a) Value (US$) of sub-projects funded  a) MIS tracking.      2. Counterpart funding
subprojects established and    for local schools' renovation and                            of $5.33M (25% of
operational.                   operation.                                                   $10M) available and
b) Value (US$) of sub-projects funded  b) MIS tracking.        on time.
for local rural health units and
barangay stations' renovation and
operation.
c) Value (US$) of sub-projects funded  c) MIS tracking.
for local road rehabilitation and
expansion.
d) Value (US$) of sub-projects funded  d) MIS tracking.
for small irrigation system
rehabilitation and expansion.
e) Value (US$) of sub-projects funded  e) MIS tracking.
for water supply and sanitation
facilities rehabilitation and
expansion.
3. Demand-driven capacity      a) Value (US$) of sub-projects funded  a) MIS tracking.
building and technical         for selected social services in
assistance provided.           technical capacity building,
community management, hygiene
education and operation and
maintenance.                    b) Community training
b) No. of people received training in  records and reports.
technical skills, community
management, hygiene education and
operation and maintenance.
4. Social Fund promotion and                                      a) Workshop and quarterly
outreach prograrn implemented.  a) All mayors in the 14 SZOPAD    project reports.
provinces and 9 cities informed of
project through provincial
workshops and meetings.         b) Outreach implementation
b) Special targeted promotion and   plans and reports.
outreach conducted in MNLF and
lumad inhabited areas.



Page 18
Narrative Summary            Key Performance Indicators'           Monitoring and         Critical Assumptions
Supervision               and Risks
Project Components/                                                                            (Components to
Activities                                                                                     Outputs)
[See Annex 2a for a detailed
description.]
1.                                                                                            1. Peace situation
a) Recruit and train staff.     Institutional Support: US$M         a) List of staff; training  continues.
reports.
b) Set up screening, appraisal and   Technical Assistance: US$M     b) Operational manual.
disbursement procedures.
c) Set up financial disbursement    Infrastructure sub-projects: US$M  c) Financial and
mechanisms.                                                         administrative manuals.
d) Set up procurement procedures.  Equipment sub-projects: US$M     d) Procurement reports.
e) Set up monitoring and                                            e) Monitoring and
supervision procedures.       Services sub-projects: US$M           supervision reports.
f) Establish MIS.                                                   f) MIS data
2.
a) Develop technical criteria,                                      a) Technical reports.
standard designs, costings, and
contracting qualification.
b) Set up coordinating and                                          b) Memos/letters of
working mechanisms with                                             agreement.
sectoral line agencies in
government.
3.                                                                 a) Training modules and list
a) Develop appropriate technical                                      of qualified training
assistance programs in:                                             institutions.
- health clinic renovation and
operation;
- schools renovation and
operation;
- road rehabilitation and
maintenance; and
- irrigation systems, water
supply and sanitation facilities
improvement and operation
and maintenance.
b) Conduct training.                                               b) Training reports; field
visits.
4.
a) Design one general and one                                       a) Outreach modules.
targeted outreach program.
b) Conduct general outreach                                         b) Quarterly progress
program in all SZOPAD                                              reports.
provinces.
c) Target and select poorer                                         c) Targeting plan and list of
municipalities and depressed                                        areas.
areas.
d) Conduct targeted outreach in                                     d) Quarterly progress
above municipalities and poor                                       reports.
areas.



Page 19
Annex lb
Philippines SZOPAD Social Fund Project
Performance Indicators
Indicators                                               Unit         Year 1  Year 2   Year 3
Implementation:
1. Operational, financing, administration systems & procedures    %   100
established
2. Monitoring and supervision procedures established     %            100
3. Appropriate staff, equipment and facilities in place               90      100
4. Time taken for appraisal and approval of eligible subprojects    Weeks  16  12      8
from date of receipt
5. Time between subproject approval and first disbursement  Weeks     8       6        6
outputsoutcomes 
1. Percentage of beneficiaries reported improved access to  %                 30       60
facilities & services under the project                          .
2. Percentage of targetted communities received promotion and    %    60       100
outreach service
3. Number of employment opportunities created            Man/month  7,000   19,000  26,000
4. Number of basic facilities completed:*
(a) local schools renovated and operational              Unit         40      100      137
(b) local clinics renovated and operational              Unit         10      35       50
(c) roads rehabilitated and expanded                     Unit         15      50       80
(d) water suply & sanitation facilities rehabilitated & expanded    Unit  30  100    1200
(e) small scale irrigation rehabilitated & expanded      Unit         10      30       60
* As a demand-driven project, individual targets are less important than the overall project targets



Page 20
Annex 2a
Philippines SZOPAD Social Fund Project
Project Description
1. Financing for Sub-Projects - US$12.3 million
The Social Fund will provide grant financing to Local Government Units (LGU), Non-Governmental Organizations
(NGOs), or Community Groups for small scale social and economic infrastructure and services such as rural roads, rural
water supply and sanitation, small scale irrigation schemes, communal clinics and schools. Financing will also be made
for supplies, equipment and technical services, related to the delivery of community services such as teaching materials
and supplies, medical equipment and supplies, and essential medicines. Grant financing is appropriate as the project is
supporting the provision of public goods which the private sector cannot provide. Sub-projects (up to a maximum cost of
US$250,000 each) will be appraised against a set of pre-determined eligibility criteria. Eligibility criteria were developed
during project preparation, included in the Operations Manual and have been appraised. The project will benefit
population groups in the Special Zone of Peace and Development (SZOPAD) in the Southern Philippines with priority
being given to poor people and areas most affected by the conflict. As demonstration of their commitment to the project,
the sponsoring entities and/or beneficiaries will be required to make a minimum contribution of 5 percent to the capital
costs of subprojects in cash and materials and/or through participation in project design and supervision.
2. Institutional Support for the Social Fund - US$3.0 million
This component will finance services of Social Fund contracted staff, equipment and operating costs, as well as technical
assistance and training to help improve the Social Funds'operational, managerial and administrative capacity.



Page 21
Annex 2b
Philippines SZOPAD Social Fund Project
Targeting and Eligibility Criteria
Targeting. The Social Fund Project would cover all the 14 provinces and 9 cities of SZOPAD which has a
population of nearly 10 million. While beneficiaries in the whole of SZOPAD can submit applications and
proposals for financing from the Social Fund, priority in promoting Social Fund activities and in financing
would be given to poor municipalities especially those with MNLF combatants and their families as well as the
lumads (the indigenous peoples).
Subproject Eligibility Principles. The following principles will be used to screen subprojects for eligibility for
financing under the Social Fund:
*  subproject benefits the poor;
*  subproject generates social and/or economic benefits;
*  the sponsoring entity is capable of effectively managing the implementation of the subproject;
*  subproject meets "cost per unit" and "cost per beneficiary" ceilings established by the Social Fund;
*  subproject is labor-intensive or otherwise generates a significant social impact;
*  the financial, technical and institutional requirements for the operations and maintenance of the subproject
are in place;
*  beneficiary communities are involved in decision making related to and/or management of various aspects
of the subproject such as subproject design, implementation and supervision, as appropriate;
-  beneficiary communities and/or their sponsors contribute a minimum of 5 percent of the subproject costs in
cash, kind or other relevant form including participation in design and supervision; and
-  subproject is additional to existing or planned public investments.



Page 22
Annex 3
Philippines SZOPAD Social Fund Project
Estimated Project Costs
Project Cost Component                         Local         Foreign         Total
-------------------US $ million--------------------
Institutional Support
Salaries and Fees                               1.55           0.17            1.72
Vehicles and Equipment                          0.02           0.32           0.35
Operating Expenses                              0.14           0.27           0.40
Technical Assistance and Training               0.12            0.46          0.58
Sub-total Institutional Support                 1.83            1.22          3.05
Social Fund Sub-projects
Social Infrastructure                           3.91            2.88          6.79
Economic Infrastructure                         2.24            1.67           3.91
Equipment                                       0.44            0.14           0.58
Social Services                                 0.78            0.23           1.01
Sub-total Sub-Projects                          7.37           4.91           12.28
Total Project Costs                             9.20            6.13          15.33



Page 23
Annex 4
Philippines SZOPAD Social Fund Project
Financial Summary
(US$ Million, Year ending December 31)
Implementation Period
-_____________  1998  1999         2000
Project Costs
Investment Costs                           3.91              6.15              3.14
Recurrent Costs                            0.69              0.75              0.69
Total                                    4.60             6.90              3.83
Financing Sources (% of total project costs.
less taxes and duties)
IBRD                                      75                75                75
Co-financiers                              0.00              0.00              0.00
Government
- Central                                 20               20                20
- Local
User Fees/Beneficiaries                    5                 5                 5
Total                                  100                100             100



Page 24
Annex 5
Philippines SZOPAD Social Fund Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
Procurement Methods (Table A): All procurement for the implementation of sub-projects would be
undertaken by the applicants, with assistance from the sponsoring agencies. Procurement of items for the
Social Fund itself will be undertaken by the Social Fund. Procurement of civil works and goods would be done
using the World Bank Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, dated January 1995 and
revised January and August 1996 and September 1997.
a. Civil Works: No international competitive bidding (ICB) is expected under the proposed project given the
small size of subproject contracts -- the maximum subproject cost is US$250,000, with an average subproject
cost estimated to be around US$25,000. Contracts of civil works estimated to cost US$50,000 or more would be
procured according to National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures acceptable to the Bank. Some of the
Philippines' NCB procedures, such as procedures of advertising and eligibility for participation of foreign
contractors, are not acceptable to the Bank; these would be addressed through a side letter. About US$3.5
mnillion of civil works (infrastructure) contracts are expected to be awarded through NCB. Civil works contracts
estimated to cost less than US$50,000 would be procured through direct contracting, based on a strict
application of unit costs supplied by the Social Fund. Direct contracting is justified given the prevalence of
small scale, labor-intensive works in scattered and remote areas and would also encourage contractors to expand
their operations to these areas. The problem cannot be overcome by packaging groups of subprojects for
procurement purposes as this is unlikely to be possible except under circumstances in which a sponsoring
agency has applied for a package of investments. Direct contracting would be allowed up to an aggregate
amount of about US$7.3 million. To ensure cost efficiency, direct contracting would be made to strictly adhere
to the costs provided in the provincial cost data base kept by the Social Fund which would be updated regularly.
All cost estimates for subprojects will have to fall within the cost limits determined by the data base. This has
proved an effective tool for controlling subproject costing and procurement in other Social Funds. As an
additional safe guard, the SZOPAD Social Fund would limit the total value of contracts that can be awarded
through direct contracting to any one contractor to US$300,000. These direct contracting guidelines are
included in the Operations Manual.
b. Goods: Goods and equipment to be procured under the project's institutional support component include
vehicles, computers and office equipment. Under the subprojects component, they include tools, furniture and
basic equipment for health clinics, schools and other facilities. Sizable packages (greater than US$100,000) of
goods and equipment suitable for procurement under ICB are not anticipated. Contracts of less than
US$100,000 and totaling about US$280,000 would be procured according to NCB procedures acceptable to the
Bank while contracts of less than US$50,000 and totaling about US$350,000 would be procured according to
national shopping procedures acceptable to the Bank. Vehicles to cost no more than US$120,000 under the
institutional support component would be procured through the UN Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office
as these are urgently needed.



Page 25
c. Consultants services and Training: About US$580,000 would be allocated to consultants services and
training under the project. The selection and appointment of consultants would be done in accordance with
Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, dated January 1997, and
using the Bank's Standard Form of Contract for Consultants' Services, dated June 1995, and the Standard
Request for Proposal, dated July 1997. The selection of firms would be based on quality and cost while the
selection of individual consultants would be based on quality as reflected in the qualifications and experience.
Consultancy services provided by NGOs, very small assignments or assignments in remote areas and costing not
more than US$50,000 equivalent in total, would be procured through single source selection.
d. Salaries and Fees of Contracted Staff. About US$1.7 million would be allocated to the payment of
salaries and fees of personnel contracted to run the Social Fund. The contracting of these professional and
technical personnel would be done according to the Guidelines: Selection and Employmerit of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers, dated January 1997 and revised in September 1997. They would be selected based on
their qualifications and experience.
e. Operating Costs. About US$400,000 would be allocated to covering the costs of operating the Social Fund,
including staff travel and office utilities. These would be funded by the Borrower and procured using its own
procurement procedures.
Prior Review Threshold (Table B): All civil works and goods contracts procured according to NCB (over
US$50,000 equivalent) and the first ten (10) civil works contracts under US$50,000 equivalent would be subject
to the Bank's prior review. Prior review of civil works and goods include bidding documents, evaluation
reports and contracts. Since many contracts of civil works are expected to be small and procured through direct
contracting, prior review for civil works contracts would cover about 45 percent of the value of civil works. As
contracts of goods are anticipated to be small and procurement would be done mainly through national
shopping, prior review would cover only about 40 percent of the value of goods' contracts. Prior Bank review
would also be required for contracts of individual consultants estimated to cost US$50,000 or more and for
firms estimated to cost US$100,000 or more. Prior review procedures would apply regardless of the value of
consultants' contracts with respect to draft letters of invitation and contracts, terms of reference, sole source
selection, qualification criteria, evaluation reports, award proposals and final contracts when substantial
differences to the original draft are made. For contracting the professional staff of the SZOPAD Social Fund,
prior review would only be required for management positions.
Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Disbursement of the proceeds of the loan would be made against expenditure categories as shown in Table C.
Use of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs):
For all sub-grants, all contracts for goods below US$50,000, all services of contracted staff of the Social Fund,
all training and all consultants' contracts below US$50,000 equivalent for individuals and US$100,000
equivalent for firms, withdrawal applications will be supported by Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). For
consulting firms' contracts over US$100,000 equivalent and individual consultants' contracts over US$50,000
equivalent, withdrawal applications would be supported by full documentation and signed contracts.



Page 26
Special account:
In order to facilitate disbursements, a Special Account would be established in a commercial bank specifically
designated for this purpose by the Borrower's central bank and on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
The account would be established in US currency with an authorized allocation of US$1,000,000 equivalent, with
an initial withdrawal of US$500,000 and the balance to be withdrawn when the amounts disbursed and committed total
US$4.0 million. The Social Fund would submit replenishment applications for the Special Account on a monthly basis,
or when the account is drawn down by 30 percent of the initial deposit, whichever occurs first. Replenishment of the
Special Account would follow Bank procedures. The Special Account would be audited annually, as will the project
accounts, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. Retroactive financing would be provided up to US$1 million
equivalent for eligible expenditures made after January 1, 1998.



Page 27
Annex 5, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements2
(in US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                   Procurement Method a/
NCB    National    Direct    Other b/  Total Costs
Shopping  Contracts               (Including
Contingencies)
1. Institutional Support
Contract staff Salaries and                                       1.73         1.73
Fees
(1.00)       (1.00)
Vehicles and Equipment         0.13      0.10                    0.12          0.35
(0.10)    (0.05)                  (0.10)        (0.25)
Operating Costs                                                   0.40         0.40
(0.00)       (0-00)
Consultancy Services:
Technical Assistance                                          0.43         0.43
(0.35)       (0.35)
Training                                                      0.15         0.15
(0.15)       (0.15)
2. Subprojects
Infrastructure Subprojects     3.45                6.33                        9.78
(2.25)               (4.13)                     (6.38)
Services Subprojects                               0.95                        0.95
(0.66)                    (0.66)
Equipment Subprojects          0.15      0.25                                  0.40
(0.06)    (0.20)                                (0.26)
Unallocated                                                                    1.15
(1.00)
Total                       3.73      0.35      7.28           2.82        15.33
(2.41)    (0.25)    (4.79)        (1.60)       (10.05)
Notes: a/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.
b/ Includes consultant services, services of contracted staff of the Social Fund,
training, incremental operating costs of the Social Fund and the UN Inter-Agency
Procurement Services.
2For details on presentation of Procurement Methods refer to ODI 1.02, "Procurement Arrangements for Investment Operations."
Details on Consultant Services can be shown more easily in the Table Al format (additional to Table A, where applicable).



Page 28
Annex 5, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure       Contract Value         Procurement       Contracts Subject
Category            (US$)                Method                to
(Threshold)                             Prior Review
1. Works
Less than 50,000    Direct Contracting    First 10 contracts
More than 50,000    NCB                   All contracts
2. Goods
Less than 100,000    NCB                  All Contracts
Less than 50,000    National Shopping     None
3. Services
Individual         Less than 50,000    Consultants'           All
Qualifications
More than 50,000    Consultants'          All
Qualifications
Firms               Less than 100,000    Quality and Cost-Based  All
Selection
More than 100,000    Quality and Cost-Based  All
Selection



Page 29
Annex 5, Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category            Amount in         Financing
US$million        Percentage
A. Sub-grants in support of subprojects      7.50              70
B. Goods                                     0.30       90% of foreign
expenditures, 90%
of local
expenditures (ex-
factory costs) and
75% of local
expenditures for
other items
procured locally
C. Consultants' services and Training        0.45              100
D. Services of Contracted Staff of the Social  1.00            80
Fund
E. Unallocated                               0.75
Total                                       10.00



Page 30
Annex 6
Philippines SZOPAD Social Fund Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$)                      Planned             Actual
(At final PCD stage)
382,000 (Revised)       279,000
B. Project Schedule                     Planned                 Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)   5 months           5 months
First Bank rnission (identification)   06/01/1997              06/01/1997
Appraisal mission departure             11/19/1997             09/12/1997
Negotiations                            01/15/1998              02/10/1998
Planned Date of Effectiveness          07/31/1998               07/31/1998
NOTE: Project Budget at final PCD stage was $228,714.
Prepared by: A team headed by the Southern Philippines Council for Peace and
Development (SPCPD)
Preparation assistance: PHRD Grant
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
NAME                                   SPECIALTY
Frank Byamugisha                       Task Manager
Wael Zakout                            Co-Task Manager
Mary Judd                              Anthropologist
Wijaya Wickrema                        Financial and Accounting Specialist
Soniya Carvalho                        Economist
Maria Thereza Quinones                 Community Participation Specialist
Cecilia Vales                          Procurement and Disbursement Specialist
Hoi-Chan Nguyen                        Lawyer
Vimala Abraham                         Disbursement Officer
Christopher Chamberlin                 Peer Reviewer
Alexander Marc                         Peer Reviewer
Jacob Bregman                          Peer Reviewer
Nat Colletta                           Peer Reviewer
Kathryn Cherrie                        Task Assistant
Brenda Phillips                        Task Assistant



Page 31
Annex 7
Philippines SZOPAD Social Fund Project
Documents in the Project File
A. Project Implementation Plan
1. Operational Manual (3 Volumes)
2. Finance and Administratiion Manual
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1. Project Supervision Plan
2. Project Procurement Plan
3. Cambodia: Social Fund Project, May 11, 1995, Staff Appraisal Report No. 14010-KH
4. Cambodia: Operations Manual, May 15, 1995
5. World Bank, Portfolio Improvement Program - Social Funds Review, March 1997.
C. Other
1. Executive Order establishing the Social Fund



Page 32
Annex 8
Philippines SZOPAD Social Fund Project
Statement of Loans and Credits
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PHILIPPINES
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS /a
(As of June 30,1997)
Amount (US$ million)
Loan or                                                                                           (less cancella0ons) /b
Credit      Fiscal                                                                                                 Undis-
Number      Year       Borrower                           Purpose                          IBRD         IDA_b      bursed
One hundred and sixty-five Loans and seven Credits closed.                                6,445.60      171.18        0.60
Of which SALs, SECALs and Program Loans
1903         1981      Republic of the Philippines         SAL I                            199.96
2266          1983     Republic of the Philippines         SAL II                           302.25
2277         1991      Republic of the Philippines         Environment & Natural Res. Mgt.               66.00
2469         1985      Republic of the Philippines         Agriculture Sector Inputs        150.00
2787         1987      Republic of the Philippines         Economic Recovery Program        300.00
2956         1988      Republic of the Philippines         Program for Govt. Reform         200.00
3049         1989      Republic of the Philippines         Financial Sector                 300.00
3149          1990     Republic of the Philippines         Debt Management Loan             200.00
3539          1993     Republic of the Philippines         Economic Integration Loan        200.00
1.852.21      66.00
3099          1989     Republic of the Philippines         Health Development                70.10                   2.50
3204          1990     Republic of the Philippines         Coconut Farms Development        120.95                  58.83
3242          1990     Republic of the Philippines         WS/Sewer/Sanitabon I              47.93                   6.63
3261          1991     Republic of the Philippines         Communal Irrigaton II             46.20                  23.12
3360 (S)      1991     Republic of the Philippines         Env. & Natural Res. Mgt.         158.00                  23.42
3430         1992      Republic of the Philippines         Highway Management               150.00                  90.41
3435          1992     Republic of the Philippines         Engineering & Science Educ.       61.00                  14.68
3439         1992      Natonal Electdrif. Adm.             Rural Electdrificaton             91.30                  46.31
3455         1992      Republic of the Philippines         Municipal Development III         68.00                  44.18
2392         1992      Republic of the Philippines         Second Vocatonal Training                     36.00      15.75
2506         1993      Republic of the Philippines         Urban Health & Nutrition                      70.00      59.36
3603         1993      Republic of the Philippines         Tax Computerization               63.00                  36.12
3607         1993      Republic of the Philippines         Irrigaton Operaton Support II     51.30                  31.33
3626          1993     Philippines Nabonal Power Corp.     Power Transmission & Rehab.       51.60                   4.98
3700         1994      Nabonal Power Corporation           Leyte Cebu Geothermal            147.00                  33.72
3702         1994      Philippines Nabonal Oil Co.         Leyte Cebu Geothermal             64.00                  16.15
3745         1994      Subic Bay Metropolitan Authority    Subic Bay Freeport                40.00                   6.78
3746         1994      National Power Corporabon           Leyte Luzon Geothermal           113.00                  48.73
3747         1994      Philippine Nabonal Oil Co.          Leyte Luzon Geothermal           114.00                  72.72
3852         1995      Republic of the Philippines         Womens Health & Safety            18.00                  17.62
3938         1996      Land Bank of the Philippines        Rural Finance ll                  50.00                  29.28
3939         1996      Land Bank of the Philippines        Rural Finance II                  50.00                  32.52
3940         1996      Land Bank of the Philippines        Rural Finance II                  50.00                  22.81
3996         1996      Nabonal Power Corporaton            Transmission Gfid Reinforcement  100.00                  90.02
3997         1996      Natonal Power Corporabon            Transmission Gid Reinforcement   150.00                 147.23
4019-         1996     Metro. Water Works & Sewerage System   Manila 2nd Sewerage            57.00                  57.00
4108          1997     Republic of the Philippines         Third Elementary Educaton        113.40                  113.40



Pagc 33
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PHILIPPINES
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS /a
(As of June 30,1997)
Amount (US$ million)
Loan or                                                                                           (less cancellations) h
Credit      Fiscal                                                                                                 Undis-
Number      Year      Borrower                            Purpose                          IBRD          IDA/b     bursed
4109          1997     Republic of the Philippines         Agrarian Reform                   50.00                  50.00
4110          1997     Republic of the Philippines         Water Resources Development       58.00                  58.00
4111 ^^      1997      Subic Bay Metropolitan Authority    Second Subic Bay                  60.00                  60.00
Total-                                                                      8,659.38     277.18     1,314.21
of which has been repaid                                                    3,241.00       13.45
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                              5.418.38     263.72
Amount sold                 31.35
Of which repaid            31.35
Total Undisbursed                                                           1.238.Z5 7.             1314.21
/a The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on all IBRDllDA-financed projects in executon, which is updated twice
yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31. Amounts are presented net of cancellations.
b Principal amounts in US$ equivalent at date of negotatons, and undisbursed amounts in equivalent are valued at exchange rate applicable on the date
of this statement.
(S) Indicates SAIJSECAL Loan and Credits.
Not yet effective.
Not yet signed.
Total Approved, Repayments, and Outstanding balance represent both active and inactve Loans and Credits.



Philippines at a glance                                                           2/238
Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            East mkldle-
Philippines    fAsia  incme       Development diamond*
Populaton mid-1996 (millions)                       70.0     1,726    1,125
GNP per capita1S998 (US$)                          1,190       890    1,750                Ufe expectancy
GNP 1996 (Illions' US$)                             83.3     1,542    1,967
Average annual:growth, 1990-96
Population (%)                  ~2.2                           1.3      1.4
Laborfore (%)                                        2.7       1.3      1.8     GNP                            Grass
per                           primary
Most,recent^estimate (lAtest year availablesince1989)                           capita                      enrollment
Poverty: headcount index % otpopulaion:               54
:Urban population(%ttotal populationl000 t )         54        31       56
Ufeexpectancyatbrth(years)                            66       68       67
Intant mortality (per 1,000 Ii ye births)   tf ; 00 t: 0; j ; 0 9  39 t: t: ii j 0 440  41: 0 E    Access to safe water
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)            30
Access to saftwater (W fpo% qlatn,):    84                      77
Illiteracy(% of populationage 15+) :                   5        17
Gross prlmaryenrollment (% ot schoolagepopulation)   111        117:    04                 ppies
Male                                                 .* 120          105                Lower-middle-income group
Female                                              I.11             101
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975 I  1985;    1905    1996
Economic ratIoe'
GDP 0(bilionsIUS$)                         15.0    30.7       74.2    83.8
Gross domesilJc nvestmentlGDP.             30.9    15.3       22.2    24.7
Exports o. goods aservicesGOP:             21.0    24.0       36.4     46               Opennessofeconomy
Gross domestIc savings/GOP                 24.8    17.4
Gross national savings/GDP                 26.6   i 15.9      17.8    20.0
Current account balance/GDP                 -6.2     - 0.1    -4A      -4.7
Interest payments/G)P                       0.8      3.1       2.8              Savings                    Investment
Total deWGOP                               27.8    86.6       53.2    49.2:
Total debt servicelexports                 14.4    31,6       16.5:   14.7
Present value'of debtIGOP'-                            .
Present value of debt:exportsss
197584.5 1986-96    1995      o196  1997-05
(average iannualgrowEth)                                                             - E : E:   f:f:  :;:::::0;: 0g; -0y :g00:i ;:X :: ;0 0 0 0 g4   g;f 0 0  ;:i 0: :0;;  Philippines
GOD3.                                       3.2      4.8       5.       55
GNP peri ta                        0.3      1.5      2.5       4.4      as                Lower-middle-income group
Exports:tof.goods and services      7.6     8.7    12.0       23.9    10.5    _                                    , _
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975    1985      1995    1996
(% of GDP)                                                                      Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
Agriculture                                30.3    24.6       21.6    21.4      20
Industry                                   34.6    35.1       32.1    31.7      10
Manufacturing                             25.7    25.2       23.0    22.6
Services                                   35.0    40.4       46.3    46.9    n o-                 93   94   95   96
Private consumption                        64.5    75.0       74.2    73.9    -20
General government consumption             10.7      7.6      11.4    11.7               -GDI    0-GDP
Imports of goods and services              27.1    21.9       44.2    53.9   I
1975-85  1986-96     1995    1996
(average annual growth)                                                         Growth rates of exports and Imports (V.)
Agriculture                                 2.2      1.7       0.8      3.0    2S
Industry                                    2.6      3.3       7.0      6.3    20D_
Manufacturing                              1.8      3.2       6.8     5.6    15-.
Services                                    3.8      3.8       5.0      6.5    o0
Private consumption                         3.3      4.1       8.5      5.3     s-
General govemnment consumption              0.4      4.6       5.4      5.2     0            I
Gross domestic investment                   -0.4     6.9       3o      15.6     4*           92      93   94   9s   96
imports of goods and services               3.9    12.3       16.0    21.1              -Exports  ---Imports
Gross national product                      2.7      3.8       5.0      6.9
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates.
- I he diamonds snow tour key Indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. it data are missing, tile diamond will
be incomplete.



Philippines
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Diomeatic pfes                            1975    t985       1995    1996      Iflaton
(% change)                                                                     20
Consumer prices                             6.8    23.1        8.1      8.4    is
Implicit GDP deflator                       9.3    17.6        7.5     8.9    10
Govemnment finance                                                              o
(% of GDP)                                                                             91   92   93   94   95   96
Current revenue                              ..    12.1       18.5    19.5
Current budget balance                       ..      2.4       2.5     3.1             -     GDP de.   0 CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                      ..       ..      -1.4    -0.4
TRADE                                                                          _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _  _
(mlions US$)                                       o985      1995    1996       Exprt and import levels (mill. USS)
Total exports (fob)                          ..   4,629    17,447   20,543      35.0O
Coconut oil                                 ..    347        826      571     30,000
Sugar                                              185        74      139     25,00D
Manufactures                                ..   2,539    13,868   17,106     20,00D
Total imports (cif)                          ..   5,111    26,391   31,885  15,5r
Food                                        ..     256     1.204    1,578     l0,000
Fuel and energy                                  1,452     2.481    3,008      50
Capital goads                               ..     769      8,029   10.472       0
9B0  91  92  93  94  95  96i
Export price index (1987=100)                ..      81        124     124
Import price index (1987=100)                ..      63        124     126                0 Exports   S Imports
Terms of trade (1987=100)                    ..    127         100      99
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975    1985      1995    1996
(millions US$)                                                                  Current account balance to GDP ratio t%)
Exports of goods and services             3,000    6,864    21,978   28,566     0 o
Imports of goads and services             4,116    5,961    33,314   42,254        90 |                 991   |929
Resource balance                          -1,116    903   -11,336  -13,688    .1              U|          | 
Net income                                 -126   -1,317     7,157    9,185   |2
Net current transfers                       318     379       882      589                                     MLI3
Current account balance,                                                      | 4X1 1L                       L
before official capital transfers         -923     -35    -3,297   -3,914
Financing items (net)                       912     867      3,928    8,021     1L
Changes in net reserves                      11    -832       -631   -4,107   | 
Memo: .
Reserves including gold (mill. US$)       1,458    1,098     7,762   11,745
Conversion rate (loca/tUS$)                 7.2    18.6       25.7    26.2
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975    1985      1995    1996
(millions US$)                                                                  Composition of total debt, 1996 (mill. USS)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed      4,171   26,639    39,445   41,214
iBRD                                      238    2,421     5,002    4,666                         A
IDA                                        17      84        183     193                        4666  B
7969           193 
Total debt service                          457    2,534     5,337    5,778                                 405
IBRD                                       26     285       790      766
IDA                                         0        1        3        3                                   3079
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                            72      139       276
Official creditors                        185      381      -648        ..                                 E
Private creditors                         348     776      1,166       ..                                1 12085
Foreign direct investment                  98       12     1,478    1,600          12817
Portfolio equity                            0       0      1,961    1,333
World Bank program
Commitments                               114      104       168     528      A-IBRD                     E-Bilateral
Disbursements                              94     276        402     457      B - IDA    D - Other muLtilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                       12      110      415      426      C - IMF                    G - Short-term
Net flows                                  82      166       -13      31   1                           _
Interest payments                          14      176      378      343
Net transfers                              68      -10      -391    -312
Development Economics                                                                                           2/23/98



MAP SECTION



lID                                    I20-                                    1220
PHILIPPINES                                                            12                                  0 2             CHINA
SPECIAL ZONE OF PEACE AND
DEVELOPMENT IN SOUTHERN                                                                        BND)ViEAMo
PHILIPPINES (SZOPAD)                                                             2-- -                                                  (-o--
SZOPAD BOUNDARY                                                                                                                          8     .                           P1000
PROJECT AREA                                                                                                                  M ALAY    A
PAN-PHIUPPINE HIGHWAY
OTHER RAbIN ROADS                                                      1nd
FERRIES
+       LNTERNATIONAI AIRPORTS                                                                                                                        I N  D  0  N  E  5  I A
MAJOR PORTS                                                                           V-.N';-10
RIVERSApn
RIVERS      19CiYi  I            6 >Aparrl  /                                             ~~ ~ ~~~~               ~~~~ ~~100  110  12P'  AUSTRLALIA  IbO'
*  PROYINCE CAPITALS                          0000 Coi'Y                                                                                                               ASRAI
IS'                Sa    REGION CAPITALS                                                                  2                                                                                126 
-----   PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                 I        R                                                          I                                       I .                  T
108   0                              r~~~~~~~~~ ~~hu .R  opoooo by h. Mop 000190~ U11 oY Th.o Wond Bo-R
REGION BOUNDARIES                         Vgoo'                     S     .TOYOOOOIRr TRbOwm pR,d RcO2                                            d OEM       OIhof O O2         ohOf  E
thmlo-oopd   olo-ply,ooAoh.p-olPThi,W-old 8.kOnG-p, 0
Regions and Provinces                                       LobumpI  P -oo'H bud- m                                                                                                              .oooo ny
Llooondo,                                               G0~~~~~~~~~~. ~10
I    Roooo                                          llornm                  sx    1        -             0.t 0so
3  boo UmnS/ o,                                                                       9 t >
4  Ponoo-nA                                                            M      I  u
CAR   Cordillr AdO,jni-ooosio  R.gi-                          ST. P.n 7odo'      71
7  Bon0oOl                                                      -               C g  6  .   I S
11Cocyc  VollY -F0S 0X    1 22
_ I  Co0n(o                                                         2        tlu I T00 COY
9. Nuevc.l.c V.1Ibo .   III                                                     p
IX    Wof- Mono ....iodonoo                 U               'I               PoOlbo
1T  B-o1-S=   bo00,                            iolondo
9  F -I, 9                  57  Z.-nbooo0o del So,      OlonoopooHIEO2  I
X    No.th... Mi.donoo ....                        0          S- i
NCR   Notio..1 Copitol RRgion              I2  *-                          vML2N          '      *
IV    S-o!h-r, TogOL1g             ol  '      Ce                       Tre0       s      D n ,nSdn0Coo,                  o,o P-ng-lb-n
?  0o.00gr.               XI   SOUH ern Mi,d.nao                             _,. i.  _                                   0L00
14        C2  Dnm Al                                                    N sugboV       Lp                                -    f14
25                             63. RooD- So
-                6S~~~~O  So,b Conbol        Lobon                    BohngooC,lF'V                        =          ASbn          s10doe
Cg  Toloonon                   67  e Ibn KEldono           Ilni                                             0>CoIo  000     -Ioo
31 E ~~~XII   Conlool Miooiono(5 .CoooPOn                                                      I     m       -P 000             0aTnbgoi 
6g  Lontod8lNi                             0000        -         .t     ondoqo1 - -
V    Booloodlo                    69  Nm6 C  bob                             *iv                           _   . -     /           L,oo Ldg--pi C.y
~~~~~~~.t- fMisn    r.d-r>                          A                    idr                        s~\srS                V         A i
Iwr ;-  . ii 7-                           M-c-                      Mgtbnob;on                         Bob         -6
ARMM  AoItonroow,o   R       f               *C:loon0                   ,              -           Amin oyo T         B             52    - Polopog
VI     Wooloon V.ooyol                Mosli., Miodaiooo        S3'  5bOyo:h                                                                   bo .    S
12~ ~ ~~~~7 B.1              S  Lnob mS                                > <                                                     Mooboleo \            owIbyogo   0Owo,2
12'                        07~~~~~~~~~~~ mooTo,o              B                    ,,,0o                                                                 0   0801OI                                  2
Vll   C nFral Vi yus                       ~~~CobsonW  0:n                                    Nob:;             P>oo --ze                 )oToHlg   S
e       s:                                                                                                                -                                    Ium:lW   dsisbeci:/   Nb 31-  {  jLb7nm-
X ~   ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~~cno *aCI !oina -                                                               Y,I \o       -         gsa  c<  
VIII booboro Viyoo .            DEVELOPMENT IN SO0THERN                                                      ,fo --                                                     Polo           I
PHLPIE0SOAD1                                                                                     *               ,oooil  080  Aboyog ,;ou
MA AY I C.0,lo',, I' -                              ITe' . s,00ooI I                                                                          1 tT                       _
77 ,.. 0Sig,,   6                                              B         S       Utgo
3 ~ ~ ~ ~   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ o~                        PtO0OR                                                                 V        6] 00oo                         20                  0   IOEES          r
CI  Iooood     I                I   C                             I
ai~ ~       ~        ~~~~~              Poll Ponoo C          1o 0                                    I2                                      126Y                                    126 o>
'~   I~9                                                                                                  01. *TnnoNJoooIV  d.                       2 L
-  Booob,Poool                                                                                      1100                       o - R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o<,00.. D-9.1I
',   .',~~~Pooopooid    lo-
N~~~'[. Pni,-. City                            Negpo                J. T.~~~~~~~~~p000IO
C                                                                                               I'    Coooyoo   0,0-                     -    01~~~~~~~~~~~~~wo
MALAYSIA             To~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, To.                                                                                B~~~~~~~~oy 
------                      PHILIPPINES                      (SZOPAO                                                                                            TY                 30 IILOIBETRSD
a-                     11~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
Cl                                                                                                                                                                        Nol~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0  0~~~~~,  110'       iTT'                                    122'                                                                            120                      1.00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~X



