Report No. PIC5534
Project Name                      Philippines-Mindanao Emergency Social Fund
Region                            East Asia and Pacific
Sector                            Rural Development
Project ID                        PHPE51386
Borrower                          Republic of the Philippines
Implementing Agency               Director of International Finance Operations
Department of Finance (Add Address)
5/F Executive Tower Building
Central Bank Complex, Manila
Tel. (632)523-3230
Fax (632) 522-0164
Date of Initial PID               August 29, 1997
Date of this PID                  August 29, 1997
Appraisal Date                    November 15, 1997
Projected Board Date              February 15, 1998
Background
1.      On September 2., 1996, the Government of the Philippines and
the Moro National Liberation Front (MNLF) signed a Peace Agreemnt
ending a long-running conflict in Mindanao, Southern Philippines.
The peace agreement brought with it the establishment of the
Southern Philippines Council for Peace and Development (SPCPD) and
the Special Zone of Peace and Development (SZOPAD). The Government
of the Philippines has agreed with its donors to refocus
development assistance in support of implementation of the Peace
Agreement, specifically to to accelerate development in the SZOPAD
areas. As part of its assistance program, the World Bank has agreed
to finance an Emergency Social Fund Project.
Project Objectives
2.      The overall goal of the project is to facilitate the
Government's efforts to implement the first phase of the peace
agreement signed on September 2, 1996 between the Government of
Philippines (GOP) and the Moro National Liberation Front (MNLF)
through speedy financing of local development initiatives. The
specific objectives of the project are to:
-- support the provision of basic economic and social
infrastructure and services; and
-- enhance local involvement in the identification and
management of small-scale development initiatives.
Project Description
3.      This project will include two components The first component



will support subprojects, through a Social Fund which will provide
grant financing through Local Government Units (LGU), Non-
Governmental Organizations (NGOs), and Community Groups. Theses
subprojects will be composed of small scale social and economic
infrastructure and services such as rural roads, rural water supply
and sanitation, small scale irrigation schemes, communal clinics
and schools. Financing will also be made for supplies, equipment
and technical services, related to the delivery community services
such as teaching materials and supplies, medical equipment and
supplies, essential medicines and technical assistance for small
business development. Sub-projects (up to a maximum cost of
US$70,000 each) will be appraised against a set of pre-determined
eligibility criteria. Eligibility criteria will be developed during
project preparation. The project will benefit population groups in
the Special Zone of Peace and Development (SZOPAD) with priority
being given to poor people and areas most affected by the conflict.
4.      The second component, an institutional support for the Social
Fund, will finance Social Fund staff salaries, vehicles, office
equipment and operating expenses, as well as technical assistance
and training to help improve the Social Funds' Operational Capacity
and internal procedures.
Project Costs and Financing
5.      The project costs are tentatively estimated at US$14.0 million
of which the World Bank will finance with a loan of US$10.0 million.
Benefits and Target Population
6.      Major project benefits include:
-- construction and/or rehabilitation of infrastructure and
provision of specific services:
-- creation of short-term employment opportunities; and
-- increased local participation in development projects.
More broadly, the project will facilitate the Government's efforts
to implement the peace agreement by bringing quick and visible
benefits to the underserved and conflict-affected populations of
Mindanao. It will also strengthen the capacity of local governments
to manage development. The project will cover population groups in
the 14 provinces and 9 cities of SZOPAD, with greater focus on poor
people and areas most affected by the conflict.
Lessons from Previous Bank Operations
7.      Lessons Learned and Reflected in Proposed Project Design.
While the above projects have generated country-wide lessons,
particularly the need for beneficiary participation and firm cost
recovery measures, none of the lessons have specific relevance to
SZOPAD as these projects did not have any significant support there
because of insecurity. A more relevant source of lessons to draw
upon are the Social Fund Projects supported by the Bank. A recent
review of the Social Fund portfolio commissioned by the Bank's
- 2 -



Quality Assurance Group found that Social Funds have proven to be
effective instruments for responding to emergency situations
through the provision of basic infrastructure while rapidly
creating short-term employment opportunities. The proposed project
incorporate international best practice relating to the design of
Social Fund Projects with emergency objectives as well as
approaches to beneficiary participation and cost recovery drawn
from past experiences in the Philippines.
8.      At the conceptual level, the main lessons of experience
incorporated in the design of the present project are two. First,
the Social Fund is one element of a much broader development
strategy. The Social Fund project is one of three legs of the
Bank's assistance strategy for Mindanao. The other two legs include
the financing of selected investments based on the priorities
identified in the Government of Philippines Development Framework
and Investment Priority Plan for SZOPAD; and the fast-tracking of
ongoing Bank projects with components in Mindanao. The three legs
complement each other. Second, the role and time frame of the
Social Fund should be and have been explicitly thought through up
front. The Social Fund Project is an emergency operation designed
to disburse over a two-year period. Its main role is to facilitate
the implementation of the first phase of the peace process through
the speedy provision of basic infrastructure while also creating
employment opportunities. Towards the end of the two-year period,
the appropriateness of a roll-over, expansion, or replication of
the project will be examined. Meanwhile, concurrent operations are
being supported by UNDP and other donors to build local
governmental capacity. If adequate capacity is not built-up in LGUs
within the time frame of the Social Fund project or, if a different
role is sought for LGUs, a longer term role may emerge for the
Social Fund. If so, the design of the Social Fund will be
significantly altered to reflect its changed role and objectives.
9.      At the operational level, the main lessons incorporated in
the design of the proposed project are:
-- an independent legal existence for the Social Fund with
control over the sub-project approval process in order
to avoid political interference;
-- streamlined procurement and disbursement rules and
regulations to ensure speedy implementation;
-- competitive salaries for Social Fund staff to attract
highly competent and motivated individuals;
-- detailed operational manual, computerized MIS to track
project inputs and outputs, standardized accounting
procedures, regular and rigorous auditing, and
quantitative and qualitative evaluations of Social Fund
outcomes all aimed at ensuring transparency,
accountability, and development effectiveness (see
Block 1, Section 4 on monitoring and evaluation
arrangements);
-- mechanisms for sector coordination with line ministries
that are flexible enough not to compromise the
independence and efficiency of the Fund (see Block 1,
- 3 -



Section 4 on project coordination arrangements); and
-- incorporation of sustainability conditions in the
design of the Social Fund to ensure a continued flow of
sub-project benefits.
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements
10.     The project will be implemented over two years, with a
possibility for a roll over, expansion and/or replication. It will
be executed by a Social Fund to be created as an independent entity
under the office of the President. The Social Fund will be created
as an autonomous institution under the Office of the President and
will appraise and finance sub-project proposals from executing
entities (i.e. LGUs, NGOs, and Community Groups). The President of
the Philippines will appoint the Board of Directors and of the
Social Fund. The Board of Directors will be the policy-setting body
of the Social Fund. The Board of Directors will meet every six
months and approve the policies, procedures and budget of the
Social Fund.
11.     The President will appoint also members of the Executive
Committee (upon recommendation of the Board) including the
Executive. The Executive Committee will represent the Board of
Directors in carrying out the Board's policies and approving sub-
projects. The Executive Director who will serve as the chief
executive of the Social Fund will be responsible for managing and
administering the day-to-day operations of the Social Fund. The
Executive Committee shall meet every two weeks or more frequently
as the Chairman of the Executive Committee may determine.
12.     The Executive Director of the Fund shall appoint the staff of
the Social Fund's Operational Units, i.e. Finance and
Administration, Outreach, Appraisal and Supervision, to carry out
the day-to-day operations of the fund. He or she will also appoint
he staff of two Support Units, namely, Operations and
Administration Advisory Unit and Internal Audit.
13.     Sub-project Sponsoring Agencies. The Social Fund itself will
not propose sub-projects. It will not be involved in sub-project
identification, preparation, and implementation. Instead, the
Social Fund will invite sub-project proposals from executing
entities which will include:
-- Local Government Units (LGUs);
-- Non-governmental Organizations (NGOs);
-- Community Groups
14.     The sub-project sponsoring agencies will be responsible for
identifying, designing, and implementing sub-projects. In some
cases, they will not themselves implement the sub-projects but will
contract them to "implementing agencies", e.g. contractors in the
case of civil works.
15.     Project Coordination. The Social Fund will be responsible for
ensuring the overall coordination of sub-project activities. Its
- 4 -



institutional structure will enable it to perform such
coordination. There are a number of measures to ensure coordination
and consistency of Social Fund activities with sectoral standards
and priorities.
-- During sub-project appraisal, Social Fund staff will
consult and coordinate with local government staff to
ensure there is no overlap with planned or ongoing
activities;
-- Lists of all eligible sub -projects will be submitted to
the relevant line ministries for their non-objection
within 10 working days;
-- Where existing technical standards available from the
respective line ministries conform to sectoral best
practice, these will be used by the Social Fund; where
they do not, the Social Fund will develop them in
coordination with the relevant line ministries;
-- The policy-setting body of the Social Fund, i.e. the Board
of Directors, will include central and local government
representatives who will ensure overall coordination of
Social Fund activities with Government programs; and
-- Where the government agencies are to meet the operations
and maintenance costs of the Social Fund-financed
investments, they will be appropriately consulted and
evaluated in order to ascertain their commitment.
16.     Project Oversight. The Social Fund will retain responsibility
for overall project oversight and will be responsible for
monitoring sub-project activities and for conducting impact
evaluations. Adequate mechanisms will be in place to ensure that
lessons of experience feedback into the Social Fund's decision-
making processes.
17.     Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements.           The Social Fund
will deploy two mechanisms/instruments for project monitoring and
evaluation:
--  Management Information System (MIS). The computerized MIS
will track three kinds of variables:
- financial indicators (e.g. amounts contracted and disbursed).
- operational speed indicators (e.g. number of weeks
between receiving sub-project proposals from sub-project sponsoring
agency and conveying sub-project aproval/rejection decisions;
and number of weeks between sub-project approval and first disbursement).
- physical indicators (e.g. number of clinics rehabilitated;
and kms of roads constructed).
-- Sample Surveys. Quantitative surveys will be conducted on
a sample of sub-projects to determine the targeting
effectiveness of the project to establish the development
impact of sub-project activities. These surveys may be
contracted out to local or international consultants. The
impact of sub-project activities will also be ascertained
through qualitative Beneficiary Assessments. In addition,
these Assessments will also be used to determine the level
- 5 -



of satisfaction of beneficiaries with sub-project activities.
Contact Point:           Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 458-5454
Fax No.:   (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending September 5, 1997.
- 6 -



