Page  1
June 6, 2001
Mr. Alberto Romulo
Secretary
Department of Finance
Department of Finance Building
Roxas Blvd
Manila, Republic of the Philippines
Re: Japan Social Development Fund (JSDF)
Grant Assistance to Indigenous People, Women and Widows in 
the Special Zone on Peace and Development (SZOPAD)
Grant Number TF 026568 (Recipient-executed)
Dear Secretary Romulo: 
I am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the Bank) to indicate the Bank’s agreement, as administrator of grant 
funds provided by Japan under the Japan Social Development Fund, to make a grant in an 
amount not exceeding one million five hundred thousand United States Dollars 
(US$1,500,000) (the Grant) to the Republic of the Philippines (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient's request for financial 
assistance with the project described in paragraph 1 of the Annex to this Letter 
Agreement (the Project) and on the terms and conditions set forth in the said Annex.  
The Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement below, that it is authorized to 
contract and withdraw the Grant for the said Project and on the said terms and 
conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon 
receipt by the Bank of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this 
Letter Agreement will become effective as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Vinay Bhargava
Country Director, Philippines
East Asia and Pacific Region
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
By /s/ Alberto G. Romulo
Secretary, Department of Finance
Date: June 6, 2001
ANNEX
Objectives, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant
1.
Description of the Project
1.1
The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient (in relation to the 
SZOPAD Social Fund Project, Loan Number 4300-PH) in addressing the economic and social 
needs of the under-served and vulnerable groups in the Special Zone on Peace and 
Development (SZOPAD) by providing grant assistance to: (a) support empowerment of and 
improvement to the living condition of target beneficiaries, such as indigenous 
people, women and widows in SZOPAD, through the provision of organization development 
Page  2
assistance, skills and livelihood training and credit assistance for micro-enterprise 
activities; and (b) support the capacity building and development initiatives of 
non-governmental organizations and public organizations, which support 
community-initiated sustainable poverty alleviation subprojects. 
1.2.
The Project consists of the following Parts, each of which includes the 
following activities (Activities):
Part A:
Livelihood Credit Assistance 
Assist indigenous people, women and widows ("Beneficiaries") in 
developing livelihoods or establishing micro-enterprises through a program of 
sub-projects ("Sub-projects") under which grants ("Sub-grants") are provided to 
intermediary organizations ("Intermediary") for on-lending to the Beneficiaries 
for such purpose.   The said activity is estimated to cost one million United 
States Dollars (US$1,000,000).
Part B: 
Livelihood Training and Capacity Building
Develop skills of the Beneficiaries in line with needs of the labor 
market and develop organizational, marketing and financial management 
capabilities of the Beneficiaries to ensure the viability and sustainability of 
micro-enterprises to be established under Part A above, through the provision of 
consultants’ services, workshops and training.   The said activities are 
estimated to cost in total five hundred thousand United States Dollars 
(US$500,000).
2.
Implementation Generally
2.1.
The Recipient shall: (a) carry out the Project through the Recipient’s SZOPAD 
Social Fund, with due diligence and efficiency; (b) promptly provide the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for that purpose; (c) furnish all 
information covering the Project and the use of the proceeds of the Grant as the Bank 
shall reasonably request; (d) from time to time exchange views with the Bank's 
representatives on the progress and results of the Project; and (e) take all necessary 
measures required to enable the Bank to visit the territory of the Republic of 
Philippines for purposes related to the Grant.  Without limitation on the foregoing, 
the Recipient shall, if the Bank shall so request, prepare and furnish to the Bank 
promptly upon completion of the Project a report, in form and substance satisfactory 
to the Bank, on the results and impact of the Project.
2.2
In carrying Part A of the Project, the Recipient shall: 
(a)
Prepare a sub-project operations manual (“Operations Manual”), acceptable to the 
Bank, for the implementation of Part A of the Project, which Operations Manual shall 
include the procedure and criteria for appraisal and selection of Sub-projects, 
procurement procedures, reporting requirements, terms and conditions governing the 
Sub-grants and standard documentation.  The Recipient shall not amend such Operations 
Manual without the agreement of the Bank.
(b)
Enter into a Sub-project agreement with an Intermediary selected in 
accordance with and on the terms and conditions set out in the Operations Manual 
before making any proceeds of the Grant available to said Intermediary.
2.3
The Recipient shall ensure that the Intermediaries and Beneficiaries are 
selected according to criteria acceptable to the Bank, including the following:
(a)
An Intermediary should: (i) be registered with an appropriate government 
agency; (ii) be controlled by Philippine nationals and be operating within SZOPAD; 
(iii) have at least 2 (two) years’ experience in managing and implementing programs 
similar to those proposed under a Sub-project; (iv) have a well-established and 
systematic financial management system and audited financial reports for the last two 
(2) consecutive years; and (v) have existing partnerships or collaborations with 
Beneficiaries.
(b)
A Beneficiary should contribute a minimum of five percent (5%) of the 
total Sub-project cost, in cash or kind.
3.
Procurement
3.1.
 Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods and 
Page  3
consultant’s services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Attachment I to this Annex.
3.2.
The Recipient shall ensure that all imported goods to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant shall be insured against hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and that any 
indemnity for such insurance is payable in a freely usable currency to replace or 
repair such goods.  The Recipient shall ensure that any facilities relevant to the 
Project are at all times operated and maintained in accordance with appropriate 
practices and that any repairs or renewals of such facilities are promptly made as 
needed.
4.
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
4.1.
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by the Bank on 
its books in the name of the Recipient (the Grant Account), and may be withdrawn 
therefrom by the Recipient in accordance with the provisions of this Section 4, for 
expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.
4.2.
The expenditures for the following Categories of items may be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Grant and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the 
Project:
Amount of the
   % of 
Grant Allocated
Expenditures
Category 
(in United States Dollars) to be Financed
(1)
Sub-grants under
   714,000
95% of amount
Part A of the Project
disbursed
(2)
Consultants' services
   786,000
100%
and workshops
TOTAL
 1,500,000
4.3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4.2 above:
(a)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account: (i) for payments 
made for expenditures prior to the date of signature of this Letter Agreement by the 
Bank, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding US$100,000, may be 
made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after March 1, 
2001; (ii) on account of payments for any taxes levied by or in the territory of the 
Recipient; (iii) on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is 
not a member of the Bank or for goods produced in or services supplied from such 
territories; (iv) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any 
import of goods if such payment or import, to the Bank’s knowledge, is prohibited by a 
decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter 
of the United Nations; or (v) for payments made for expenditures under Category (1) 
until an Operations Manual, acceptable to the Bank, has been adopted by the Recipient;
(b)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account after December 31, 
2001 2002 or such later date that the Bank shall establish by notice to the Recipient 
(the Closing Date); and 
(c)
If, in the Bank’s opinion, an amount of the Grant allocated to any of the 
items in the table in paragraph 4.2 above will be insufficient to finance the 
expenditures for such item, the Bank may, by written notice to the Recipient, 
reallocate to such item an amount of the Grant then allocated to another item which, 
in the Bank’s opinion, will not be necessary to meet other expenditures.
4.4.
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, 
it shall deliver to the Bank a written application for withdrawal of such amount in 
the form specified by the Bank.  Withdrawal applications shall be: (a) signed on 
behalf of the Recipient by the Minister of Finance
or such other person as he or she 
shall have authorized in writing; and (b) accompanied by such evidence in support of 
the application as the Bank shall reasonably request.  Authenticated specimen 
signatures of the person authorized to sign withdrawal applications shall be provided 
with the first application bearing his or her signature.  Each withdrawal application 
for an amount of the Grant and its supporting evidence must be sufficient in form and 
substance to satisfy the Bank that the Recipient is entitled to withdraw such amount 
Page  4
from the Grant Account and that such amount is to be used in the carrying out of the 
Project.  The Bank shall pay the amounts withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant 
Account only to or on the order of the Recipient.
4.5.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) Sub-grants costing less than 
US$50,000 equivalent each, and (b) consultants’ services and workshops under contracts 
costing less than US$50,000 equivalent each, under such terms and conditions as the 
Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
4.6.
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the 
Grant.  The Bank, at the Recipient’s request and acting as an agent of the Recipient, 
shall purchase with the currency of the Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account such 
currencies as shall be required to pay for expenditures to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant.  Whenever it shall be necessary, for the purposes of this 
Letter Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, such 
value shall be as reasonably determined by the Bank.
4.7.
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Recipient may open and 
maintain in United States Dollars a special deposit account (the Special Account) in a 
commercial bank specially authorized by Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Attachment II to this Annex.
5.
Accounts and Audits
5.1.
(a)
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect in accordance with sound 
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Project.
(b)
The Recipient shall: (i) have the records, accounts and financial 
statements referred to in subparagraph (a) above and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing standards 
acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to 
the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited, 
and (B) an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the Bank 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: (i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with subparagraph (a) above, records 
and accounts reflecting such expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least one year after 
the Bank has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable the 
Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such records and 
accounts are included in the annual audit referred to in subparagraph (b) above and 
that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with 
the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon 
to support the related withdrawals.
6.
Suspension and Cancellation
6.1.
The Bank may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of the 
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the following 
events has occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to comply with any 
of its obligations herein specified; or (b) the right of the Recipient, or any other 
entity to which the Bank has made a loan with the guarantee of the Republic of 
Philippines, to make withdrawals under any loan agreement with the Bank or any 
development credit agreement with the International Development Association shall have 
been suspended. 
6.2.
The Bank may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the 
Page  5
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account: (a) at any time after 
the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have been 
suspended pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 6.1 above; or (b) if the Recipient 
shall have failed to take action, satisfactory to the Bank, within six months after 
the effective date hereof, to carry out the Project. 
Attachment I 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 
(the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Prequalification
Bidders for _____________ shall be prequalified in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for __________________ shall be grouped in 
bid packages estimated to cost $__________ equivalent or more each.
(c)
Two-stage bidding procedure
The bidding procedure for ____________________ shall be carried out in two 
stages in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.6 of the Guidelines.
(d)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Republic of 
Philippines and works to be carried out by domestic contractors.
(e)
Dispute Review Board
Each contract for works estimated to cost $50,000,000 equivalent or more shall 
include the provisions for a dispute review board set forth in the standard bidding 
documents for works referred to in paragraph 2.12 of the Guidelines.
(f)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Page  6
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
Limited International Bidding
Goods/works estimated to cost less than $_____________ equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $_____________ equivalent, and goods, which 
the Bank agrees can only be purchased from a limited number of suppliers, regardless 
of the cost thereof, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods/works estimated to cost less than $______________ equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $_____________ equivalent, may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of 
the Guidelines.
3.
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000______________ equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $264,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of international/national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
2.
Direct Contracting
Goods/works which [should be procured as an extension of an existing 
contract/must be purchased from the original supplier to be compatible with existing 
equipment/are of a proprietary nature/must be procured from a particular supplier as a 
condition of a performance guarantee/are required to respond to natural disasters] and 
costing less than $10,000 equivalent per contract or less in the up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $450,000, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
5.
Force Account
Works which meet the requirements of paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines, and 
costing $________ equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, with the Bank's prior 
agreement, be carried out by force account in accordance with the provisions of said 
paragraph of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
(b) 
With respect to each of each the first five (5) contracts for goods 
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the following 
procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping procedures, 
the Recipient shall provide to the Bank a report on the comparison 
Page  7
and evaluation of quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under direct 
contracting or shopping procedures, the Recipient shall provide to 
the Bank a copy of the specifications and the draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Consultants’ Services
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers", published by the Bank in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines), and the 
following provisions of this Section I.
Part B: Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix I thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraph 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section,] consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services for _________ under paragraph 1.1 (_) of 
the Annex], estimated to cost less than US$200,000 equivalent per contract, may 
comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 
2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Quality-based Selection
Services for __________________ under paragraph 1.1 (_) of the Annex] [shall] be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services for ____________________ under paragraph 1.1 (_) of the Annex] may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Least-cost Selection
Services for ____________________ under paragraph 1.1 (_) of the Annex estimated 
to cost less than US$200,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
4.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Page  8
Services for Activities under paragraph 1.2 ____________________ under paragraph 
1.1 (_) of the Annex estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent per contract 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
Services for Activities under paragraph 1.2 ____________________under paragraph 
1.1 (_) of the Annex estimated to cost less than US$10050,000 equivalent per contract, 
may with the Bank’s prior agreement, , with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
6.
Service Delivery Contractors
Services to be provided by social workers/medical personnel under paragraph 1.1 
(_) of the Annex shall be in procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to the 
Bank.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for Activities under paragraph 1.2 __________ under paragraph 1.1 (_) 
of the Annex that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant 
Guidelines may be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
Attachment II
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Attachment:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means the Categories (1) and, (2) and (3) 
set forth in the table in paragraph 4.2 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 4.2 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement; 
and
Page  9
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to US$150,000 
to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Attachment.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Attachment.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
The Recipient shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a 
deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account 
and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall 
have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Attachment for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.  All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the Grant Account under the eligible categories, and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by 
said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Attachment, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in paragraph 5.1 (b) (ii) of the Annex to this Letter 
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to 
said paragraph in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special 
Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 6.1 of the 
Annex to this Letter Agreement; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall equal the equivalent 
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Grant shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Recipient.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that 
the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the 
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Attachment; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
Page  10
to the Bank, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
