Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4300 PH
Loan Agreement
(SZOPAD Social Fund Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated April 8, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4300 PH 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated April 8, 1998, between REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B)
the Project will be carried out by the SZOPAD Social Fund (the Fund) with 
the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make 
available to the Fund the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, as amended 
Page  2
through December 2, 1997 (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms wherever used in this 
Agreement have the following meanings: 
(a)
“Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas” means the central bank, an agency of the 
Borrower, and any successor thereto; 
(b)
“DBM” means the Department of Budget and Management, an agency of the 
Borrower, and any successor thereto; 
(c)
“DOF” means the Department of Finance, an agency of the Borrower, and any 
successor thereto; 
(d)
“Executive Order” means Executive Order No. 445 issued by the President 
of the Republic of the Philippines on October 1, 1997 establishing the Fund; 
(e)
“Fund Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and the Fund, in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.01 (b) of this 
Agreement; 
(f)
“LGUs” means local government units, political subdivisions of the 
Borrower at the provincial, city or municipal level; and “LGU” means any such local 
government unit;
(g)
“NEDA” means the National Economic and Development Authority, an agency 
of the Borrower and any successor thereto; 
(h)
“NGOs” means non-governmental organizations, and “NGO” means any such 
organization; 
(i)
“Operations Manual” means the manual referred to in paragraph 5 of 
Section I of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, adopted by the Executive Committee of the 
Fund on February 27, 1998 and setting forth the operational procedures of the Fund in 
respect of the eligibility, preparation, appraisal, financing, implementation and 
supervision of Sub-project;
(j)
“Peace Agreement” means the agreement entered into between the Government 
of the Philippines and the Moro National Liberation Front on September 2, 1996 for the 
cessation of armed conflict in the southern region of the Philippines; 
(k)
“Personnel, Finance and Administration Manual” means the manual referred 
to in paragraph 6 of Section I of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, adopted by the 
Executive Committee of the Fund on February 27, 1998 and setting forth the Fund’s 
administrative and financial procedures, including its accounting, financial reporting 
and auditing procedures; 
(l)
“Policies and Guidelines” means the policies and guidelines of the Fund 
adopted by its Board of Directors on February 9, 1998, and referred to in paragraph 4 
of Section I of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
(m)
“SPCPD” means the Southern Philippines Council for Peace and Development 
established by Executive Order No. 371 on October 2, 1996; 
(n)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(o)
“Sponsors” means LGUs, NGOs or community groups which shall apply for 
grants from the Fund to carry out Sub-projects in accordance with the procedures of 
the Operations Manual and the terms and conditions of their respective Sub-project 
Agreements; and “Sponsor” means any such entity; 
(p)
“Sub-grants” means grants made from the proceeds of the Loan to eligible 
Sponsors to finance the respective Sub-projects in accordance with procedures and 
Page  3
criteria established in the Operations Manual and pursuant to the terms and conditions 
of the relevant Sub-project Agreements; and “Sub-grant” means any such grant; 
(q)
“Sub-projects” means specific development projects approved for financing 
under Part A of the Project in accordance with procedures and criteria established in 
the Operations Manual and pursuant to the terms and conditions of the relevant 
Sub-project Agreements; and “Sub-project” means any such Sub-project; 
(r)
“Sub-project Agreements” means the agreements referred to in paragraph 9 
of Section I of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, to be entered between the Fund and the 
Sponsors in respect of Sub-projects to be financed from the proceeds of the Loan; and 
“Sub-project Agreement” means any such Agreement;
(s)
“SZOPAD” means the Special Zone of Peace and Development established by 
Executive Order No. 371 on October 2, 1996; and 
(t)
“SZOPAD Social Fund” and “Fund” mean the entity established by the 
Executive Order on October 1, 1997 to support the development of the SZOPAD.
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to ten 
million dollars ($10,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for amounts paid 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be paid) by the Fund: (i) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for Part B of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; and (ii) on account of withdrawals made by a 
Sponsor under a Sub-grant to meet the reasonable cost of goods and services required 
for a Sub-project in respect of which the withdrawal from the Loan Account is 
requested. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain a 
special deposit account in a commercial bank specifically authorized for this purpose 
by the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, 
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.  Deposits 
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period 
from and including an 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the 
next following Interest Payment 
Date. 
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.06 
of this 
Agreement. 
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
Page  4
interbank 
offered rate for six-month deposits in dollar for 
value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the 
Interest Payment Date occurring 
on or next preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage 
per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) one half 
of one 
percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 
average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or other 
reference rates, for six-month 
deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum. 
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable June 15 and December 
15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, 
shall cause the Fund to carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of the 
Fund Agreement, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, managerial, economic, financial and environmental practices; shall 
take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, 
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable the Fund to carry out 
the Project, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent 
or interfere with the carrying out of the Project by the Fund.
(b)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to the Fund on 
a non-reimbursable grant basis, under a fund agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and the Fund, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by 
the Bank which shall include the terms and conditions set forth in Section I of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Fund Agreement in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Loan and the objectives of the Project, and, except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Fund 
Agreement or any provision thereof. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Page  5
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the 
continued achievement of the purposes of the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Fund to establish and maintain a 
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements, all in accordance with accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, 
consistenly applied, adequate to reflect its operations and financial condition, and 
to register separately the operations, resources and expenditures for and in 
connection with the carrying out of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause the Fund to: 
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank 
consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year as so 
audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements and a report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably 
requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records, accounts 
and financial statements, and the audit thereof, and 
concerning said auditors, 
as the Bank may from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V 
Page  6
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
The Borrower or the Fund shall have failed to perform any of its 
obligations under the Fund Agreement. 
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that the Fund will be able to perform its obligations under the Fund Agreement.
(c)
Any of the following: (i) the Peace Agreement, (ii) the Executive Order, 
(iii) the Fund Agreement, (iv) the Policies and Guidelines, (v) the Personnel, Finance 
and Administration Manual, or (vi) the Operations Manual, shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the 
ability of the Fund to perform any of its obligations under the Fund Agreement. 
(d)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of the Fund or for the suspension 
of its operations.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
any event specified in paragraphs (a) and (c) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice 
thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and 
(b)
the event specified in paragraph (d) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions: 
(a)
the Fund Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and the 
Fund; 
(b)
the Fund has furnished to the Bank a data base of unit costs for the 
SZOPAD, satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(c)
the Fund has put into effect a computerized accounting system 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Fund Agreement has been duly 
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and the Fund, and is legally binding upon the 
Borrower and the Fund in accordance with its terms. 
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Secretary of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Page  7
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Department of Finance
Department of Finance Building
Roxas Blvd.
Manila
Republic of the Philippines
Cable address: 
Telex:
SECFIN
40268 CB-CONF
Manila
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
By /s/ Salvador Enriquez 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Vinay Bhargava 
Acting Regional Vice President 
East Asia and Pacific
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
    Amount of the
   Loan Allocated
    % of
   (Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
Page  8
(1)
Sub-grants under
     7,500,000
70%
Part A of the Project
(2)
Goods under Part B
       300,000
90% of foreign
of the Project
expenditures, 90% of
local expenditures (ex-
factory costs) and
75% of local
expenditures for 
other items procured
locally
(3)
Consultants'
services and training
under Part B of the Project:
(a)  Services of con-     1,000,000
80%
     tracted staff of
     the Fund
(b)  Other
              450,000
100%
(4)
Unallocated
750,000
                          ________
TOTAL                   10,000,000
                        ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$1,000,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1), (2) and (3) set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures 
before that date but after January 1, 1998.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: 
(a)
Sub-grants; 
(b)
goods under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent; 
(c)
consultants’ services under contracts with firms or individuals costing 
less than $100,000 equivalent or costing less than $50,000 equivalent, respectively; 
and 
(d)
training; all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower to improve access for the 
population affected by the conflict in the Special Zone for Peace and Development and 
for the poorer communities therein to basic economic and social infrastructures and 
services and to greater employment opportunities, through the rapid mobilization of 
Page  9
resources.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective:
Part A:
Sub-projects
Financing of specific development projects, including the provision of supplies, 
equipment and technical services, for the following: 
1.
Construction, rehabilitation and improvement of small scale social and economic 
infrastructures, including farm-to-market roads, rural water supply and sanitation 
systems, small scale irrigation schemes, communal schools and clinics; and 
2.
Delivery of basic community health and education services.
Part B:
Institutional Support for the Fund
Strengthening of the operational, managerial and administrative capacity of the 
Fund through the provision of equipment, consultants’ services and training.
******
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2000. 
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule
           Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
   (Expressed in Dollars)*
December 15, 2003
210,000 
June 15, 2004
215,000 
December 15, 2004
225,000 
June 15, 2005
230,000 
December 15, 2005
235,000 
June 15, 2006
245,000 
December 15, 2006
250,000 
June 15, 2007
260,000 
December 15, 2007
265,000 
June 15, 2008
275,000 
December 15, 2008
285,000 
June 15, 2009
290,000 
December 15, 2009
300,000 
June 15, 2010
310,000 
December 15, 2010
320,000 
June 15, 2011
325,000 
December 15, 2011
335,000 
June 15, 2012
345,000 
December 15, 2012
360,000 
June 15, 2013
370,000 
December 15, 2013
380,000 
June 15, 2014
390,000 
December 15, 2014
405,000 
June 15, 2015
415,000 
December 15, 2015
425,000 
June 15, 2016
440,000 
December 15, 2016
455,000 
June 15, 2017
465,000 
December 15, 2017
480,000 
June 15, 2018
495,000
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in dollars to be repaid, except 
Page  10
as provided 
in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and in September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
(b)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 of this Part C, (i) works 
estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $3,500,000 equivalent, and (ii) goods estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $280,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2.
Direct Contracting 
Works costing less than $50,000 equivalent per contract up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $7,300,000 equivalent, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines, 
provided that the total value of contracts awarded to any one contractor under the 
provisions of said paragraph of the Guidelines shall not exceed $300,000 equivalent. 
3.
National Shopping 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 4 of this Part B, goods estimated to 
cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed $350,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
national shopping procedures, in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 
3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Procurement from UN Agencies Vehicles under Part B of the Project, in an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $120,000 equivalent, may be procured through the UN 
Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
Page  11
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review 
(a)
With respect to each contract for (i) works and (ii) goods, estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to the first ten (10) contracts for works estimated to cost 
less than $50,000 equivalent the following procedures shall apply: (i)
prior to the 
execution of any contract procured under direct contracting, the Borrower shall 
provide to the Bank a copy of the specifications and the draft contract; and (ii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. 
The short list of consultants under Part B of the Project, estimated to cost less than 
$200,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Single Source Selection Services (i) provided by NGOs, (ii) for very small 
assignments, or (iii) for assignments in remote areas, and costing $50,000 equivalent 
or less in the aggregate, may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
2.
Individual Consultants Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth 
in paragraph 5.01 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts 
awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 
through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
Page  12
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review 
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000 the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 5 
Terms and Conditions of the Fund Agreement 
Terms and Conditions of Sub-project Agreements
Section I  Terms and Conditions of the Fund Agreement
The Borrower shall enter into a Fund Agreement with the Fund, satisfactory to 
the Bank, said Fund Agreement to include, inter alia, the following terms and 
conditions: 
1.
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to the Fund on a 
non-reimbursable grant basis.
2.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
cause its responsible line agencies to cooperate with and support the 
Fund in the carrying out of the Project by, inter alia: (i) reviewing proposed 
Sub-projects and giving their no-objection or explanation for their objection, as the 
case may be, within ten (10) working days of submission of the Sub-project proposal 
from the Fund; and (ii) in the event the relevant Sub-project is within their 
jurisdiction, undertaking the obligation to operate and maintain such Sub-project; and
(b)
ensure and promote the autonomy of the Fund in the carrying out of the 
Project, including in: (i) the selection, appraisal, financing and supervision of 
Sub-projects; and (ii) the internal administration and management of the Fund. 
3.
(a)
The Fund shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs at all 
time with due diligence and efficiency, in accordance with sound administrative, 
managerial, economic and financial practices, under the supervision of qualified and 
experienced managerial personnel assisted by competent staff in adequate number who 
shall be provided with appropriate functions, responsibilities and resources 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
Page  13
(b)
The Fund shall, by no later than August 31, 1998, appoint a director for 
each of its essential operational units, with qualifications and experience, and 
functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank, said essential operational 
units to include, inter alia, the Finance and Administration Unit, Promotion and 
Outreach Unit and Appraisal Unit. 
4.
The Fund shall not amend, delete, suspend, or waive any of its Policies and 
Principles, without the prior concurrence of the Bank.
5.
The Fund: 
(a)
shall continue to maintain in effect the Operations Manual satisfactory 
to the Bank and shall carry out its operations in accordance with the provisions 
thereof, including: (i) operational procedures for the eligibility of Sponsors and of 
Sub-projects and the appraisal and financing criteria therefor; (ii) procedures for 
procurement, disbursement, supervision and impact evaluation in respect of eligible 
Sub-projects; (iii) policy and procedures to provide compensation and rehabilitation 
for persons whose property or livelihood is adversely affected by the implementation 
of any Sub-project; (iv) policy and procedures to ensure the participation of 
indigenous peoples in the design and implementation of Sub-projects; (v) cost-sharing 
arrangements between the Fund and the Sub-project beneficiaries; and (vi) procedures 
for the monitoring and reporting of Sub-project activities; 
(b)
shall not amend, delete, suspend or waive any part of the Operations 
Manual without the prior approval of the Bank;
(c)
shall ensure that the proposal for each infrastructure Sub-project under 
Part A.1 of the Project is approved only if: (i) an analysis of the environmental 
effects of such Sub-project has been undertaken; and (ii) if applicable, an 
environmental impact assessment or other environmental requirement provided for under 
Philippine laws, satisfactory to the Bank, shall have been undertaken, and mitigation 
measures designed, on the basis of environmental standards acceptable to the Bank as 
set forth in the Operations Manual; 
(d)
shall ensure that the proposal for each infrastructure Sub-project under 
Part A.1 of the Project incorporates a plan for the appropriate compensation and 
rehabilitation of persons whose property or livelihood is affected by such 
Sub-project, in accordance with principles acceptable to the Bank and set forth in the 
Operations Manual, and that such plan has been approved by the Bank; and 
(e)
shall ensure that the proposal for each Sub-project involving communities 
with indigenous population incorporates mechanisms for the participation of indigenous 
peoples in the design and implementation of such Sub-project, in accordance with 
policy and procedures acceptable to the Bank and set forth in the Operations Manual, 
and that such plan has been approved by the Bank.
6.
Until completion of the Project, the Fund shall: 
(a)
continue to maintain in effect the Personnel, Finance and Administration 
Manual  satisfactory to the Bank and shall not modify the provisions thereof without 
prior consultation with the Bank; 
(b)
comply with the accounting, financial reporting and auditing procedures 
set forth in such Manual; 
(c)
by September 30, 1998, develop and, thereafter, maintain a computerized 
management information system satisfactory to the Bank, in accordance with the 
provisions of such Manual; and 
(d)
maintain a computerized accounting system satisfactory to the Bank in 
accordance with the provisions of such Manual. 
7.
The Fund shall review and update the unit cost data base at least once every six 
months and shall provide the Bank with such data base promptly upon completion of its 
review and update. 
8.
The Fund shall comply, and shall cause the Sponsor for each Sub-project which 
Page  14
has been approved for financing under Part A of the Project, to comply with the 
provisions for the procurement of goods, works and consultants’ services set forth in 
Section 3.02 of and Schedule 4 to this Loan Agreement.
9.
The Fund: (a) shall enter into a Sub-project Agreement with the relevant Sponsor 
in regard to each Sub-project approved for financing through a Sub-grant under Part A 
of the Project, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank which shall 
include those set forth in Section II of this Schedule; and (b)
shall not make 
available the proceeds of a Sub-grant for financing a Sub-project until the 
Sub-project Agreement has been entered into with the relevant Sponsor. 
10.
The Fund shall exercise its rights under each Sub-project Agreement in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Fund and the Bank and to accomplish the 
purposes of the relevant Sub-grant, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Fund shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive such Sub-project Agreement or any 
provision thereof.
11.
The Fund shall: 
(a)
carry out the work plan for 1998 approved by its Board of Directors, in a 
manner satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(b)
by November 10 of each year, starting in November 1998, furnish an annual 
work plan to the Bank for its review and comments and, thereafter, put such plan into 
effect taking into consideration the Bank’s views on the matter. 
12.
The Fund shall prepare and furnish to the Bank on January 31, April 30, July 31 
and October 31 of each year, commencing on October 31,1998, a quarterly report based 
on the management information system referred to in paragraph 6 (c) of this Section I, 
in respect of the implementation of Sub-projects and the evaluation of the impact 
thereof.
13.
The Fund shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with performance indicators acceptable to 
the Bank, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; 
(b)
(i)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and 
furnish to the 
Borrower and the Bank, on January 31 and July 31 of 
each year, commencing on 
January 31, 1999, semi-annual reports, 
integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to sub-paragraph (a) 
of this paragraph 
13, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the 
Project during the period preceding the date of each such report and setting 
out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period 
following such date; and 
(ii)
review with the Borrower and the Bank each report referred to in 
sub-paragraph 
(b) (i) of this paragraph 13, and, thereafter, take 
all measures required to 
ensure the efficient completion of the Project 
and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof during the 
period following the date of such report, based 
on the conclusions 
and recommendations of the said report and the view of the 
Borrower and 
the Bank on the matter;
(c)
(i)
by June 30, 1999, prepare under terms of reference satisfactory to 
the Bank 
and furnish to the Borrower and the Bank, a report 
integrating the results of 
the monitoring and evaluation activities 
performed pursuant to sub-paragraph 
(a) of this paragraph 13, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the 
Project during the period 
preceding the date of such report and setting out 
the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project 
and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such 
date; and 
Page  15
(ii)
review with the Borrower and the Bank the report referred in 
sub-paragraph (c) 
(i) of this paragraph 13, and thereafter take all 
measures required to ensure 
the efficient completion of the Project 
and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period 
following the date of such report, based on the 
conclusions 
and recommendations of the said report and the views of the 
Borrower and the Bank on the matter; and 
(d)
assist the Borrower in preparing the plan referred to in Section 3.03 (a) 
of the Loan Agreement for the continued achievement of the objectives of the Project.
Section II  Terms and Conditions of Sub-project Agreements 
1.
The Fund shall not disburse a Sub-grant to finance any Sub-project, unless the 
relevant Sponsor has entered into a Sub-project Agreement with the Fund, under terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank which shall include, inter alia, those set 
forth in the following paragraphs of this Section II. 
2.
The amount of the Sub-grant shall not exceed ninety-five percent (95%) of the 
estimated aggregate costs of the eligible Sub-project. The beneficiaries of such 
Sub-project shall be required to contribute at least five percent (5%) of the total 
Sub-project costs, in material or cash or in services in the design and supervision of 
the Sub-project.
3.
The Sponsor undertakes in respect of its respective Sub-project to: 
(a)
implement such Sub-project with due diligence and efficiency, in 
accordance with sound administrative, economic, financial, engineering and 
environmental standards and practice and pursuant to the Sub-project proposal approved 
by the Fund; 
(b)
ensure that goods, works and consultants’ services financed out of the 
Sub-grant shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement; 
(c)
ensure that all goods and services financed under the Sub-grant shall be 
used exclusively for the purposes of such Sub-project; 
(d)
furnish to the Fund and the Bank any relevant documents, records and 
reports in respect of such Sub-project, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank 
may reasonably request; 
(e)
furnish the Fund and the Bank with an operation and maintenance plan to 
ensure the sustainability of such Sub-project, in accordance with the guidelines and 
standards set forth in the Operations Manual, and thereafter, carry out, or cause to 
be carried out, such plan; and 
(f)
carry out, where applicable: (i) mitigation measures designed on the 
basis of environmental standards acceptable to the Bank; (ii) a plan for the 
appropriate compensation and rehabilitation of persons whose property or livelihood is 
affected by the Sub-project; and (ii) a plan for the participation of indigenous 
peoples in the design and implementation of the Sub-project.  Both plans shall be in 
accordance with policy and procedures acceptable to the Bank and set forth in the 
Operations Manual.
4.
The Fund shall have the right: 
(a)
to inspect by itself, or jointly with the Bank and/or the Borrower, any 
facilities or sites included in an eligible Sub-project, and to examine the goods 
financed out of the proceeds of the Sub-grant, and records and documents relevant to 
the performance of the obligations of the Sponsor under the Sub-project Agreement; 
(b)
to obtain all such information as the Bank may reasonably request 
relating to the carrying out of a Sub-project, to the administration, operations and 
financial condition of the respective Sponsor, and to the benefits derived from such 
sub-project; and
Page  16
(c)
to suspend the rights of the Sponsor of a Sub-grant upon failure by such 
Sponsor to perform any of its obligations under its Sub-project Agreement.
SCHEDULE 6 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent 
of $4,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify. 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
Page  17
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be. 
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
