Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-6593-ZA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 90.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
FOR AN
ECONOMIC RECOVERY AND INVESTMENT PROMOTION CREDIT
JUNE 6, 1995
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Zambian Kwacha (K)
US$1 = K820 (April 1995)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BOZ              Bank of Zambia
CBI              Cross Border Initiative
CEM              Country Economic Memorandum
CG               Consultative Group for Zambia
CIR              Country Implementation Review
CPPR             Country Portfolio Performance Review
CSPF             Civil Service Pension Fund
DBZ              Development Bank of Zambia
ERC              Economic Recovery Credit
ERIP             Economic Recovery and Investment Credit
ESAC             Economic and Social Adjustment Credit
ESAF             Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
GDP              Gross Domestic Product
IBRD             International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA              International Development Association
IMF              International Monetary Fund
LASF             Local Authorities Superannuation Fund
LUSA             Lusaka Stock Exchange
MMMD             Ministry of Mineral and Mining Development
MMD              Movement for Multiparty Democracy
NEAP             National Environmental Action Plan
NEDC             National Economic and Development Committee
NSSRI            National Social Security Reform Implementation
PER              Public Expenditure Review
PFP              Policy Framework Paper
PIRC             Privatization and Industrial Reform Credits
PTA              Preferential Trade Agreement
RAP              Rights Accumulation Program
RPED             Regional Project for Enterprise Development
SCC              Systematic Client Consultation
SEC              Securities Exchange Commission
VAT              Value Added Tax
ZCCM             Zambia Consolidated Copper Mines
ZESCO            Zambia Electricity Supply Company
ZIMCO            Zambia Industrial and Mining Corporation
ZNPF             Zambia National Provident Fund
ZPA              Zambia Privatization Agency
ZSIC             Zambia State Insurance Company
ZRA              Zambia Revenue Authority



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Zambian Kwacha (K)
US$1 = K820 (April 1995)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BOZ              Bank of Zambia
CBI              Cross Border Initiative
CEM              Country Economic Memorandum
CG               Consultative Group for Zambia
CIR              Country Implementation Review
CPPR             Country Portfolio Performance Review
CSPF             Civil Service Pension Fund
DBZ              Development Bank of Zambia
ERC              Economic Recovery Credit
ERIP             Economic Recovery and Investment Credit
ESAC             Economic and Social Adjustment Credit
ESAF             Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
GDP              Gross Domestic Product
IBRD             International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA              International Development Association
IMF              International Monetary Fund
LASF             Local Authorities Superannuation Fund
LUSA             Lusaka Stock Exchange
MMMD             Ministry of Mineral and Mining Development
MMD              Movement for Multiparty Democracy
NEAP             National Environmental Action Plan
NEDC             National Economic and Development Committee
NSSRI            National Social Security Reform Implementation
PER              Public Expenditure Review
PFP              Policy Framework Paper
PIRC             Privatization and Industrial Reform Credits
PTA              Preferential Trade Agreement
RAP              Rights Accumulation Program
RPED             Regional Project for Enterprise Development
SCC              Systematic Client Consultation
SEC              Securities Exchange Commission
VAT              Value Added Tax
ZCCM             Zambia Consolidated Copper Mines
ZESCO            Zambia Electricity Supply Company
ZIMCO            Zambia Industrial and Mining Corporation
ZNPF             Zambia National Provident Fund
ZPA              Zambia Privatization Agency
ZSIC             Zambia State Insurance Company
ZRA              Zambia Revenue Authority
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I



ZAMBIA
ECONOMIC RECOVERY AND INVEFSrMENT PROMOTION CREDIT
Table of Contents
Page
SU[MARY  ..........1-11.......................................  i
PART I: THE ECONOMY                .............................                       1
A. Background  .............................................    1
B. Recent Economic Performance .................................   2
Part H: ZAMBIA'S ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM  ...................... .                          6
A. Macroeconomic Policy .......................................   6
B. Structural Policy  ..........................................   7
C. External Flnancial Requirements ................................ 9 
PART mII: THE PROPOSED CREDIT                     ..................                 10
A. The ERIP Reform Program and Links to the Country Assistance Strategy    ....  10
B. The ERIP Reform Program  ...................................  11
1. Macroeconomic Stability and Flscal Policy ..........................  11
2. Continuing Financial Sector Reforms  .............................  13
3. Social Security Reform .......................................  15
4. Mining Sector Reform  .......................................  16
C. Disbursement, Procurement and Auditing ..........................  18
D. Program Management and Monitoring ........             .....................  19
E. Environmental and Poverty Impact ..........            ....................  20
F. Impact Evaluation and Beneficiary Assessment ......          .................  20
G. Benefits and Risks .........................................  21
PART IV: BANK GROUP OPERATIONS  ..........                 ..      ...............  22
A. IDA Operations ...........................................  22
B. Implementation Issues .......................................  23
C. EFC and MIGA Activities .....................................  24
PART V: COLLABORATION WIT IF.                                            .     25
PART VI: RECOMM1ENDATION  ...............                      ..................  25
This operation was prepared by a team consisting of Emile B. Sawaya (Principal Private
Sector Development Specialist and Task Manager, AF1MI); John Todd (Principal Economist,
AF1M[); Lloyd McKay (Senior Economist, AFIMI); Elena Folkerts-Landau (Principal Financial
Specialist, AFIMI); John E. Strongman (Principal Mineral Economist, IENIM); Paul Dyson
(Senior Mining Engineer, IENIM); Said N. Al Habsy (Senior Counsel, LEGAF); Elizabeth Adu
(Principal Counsel, LEGAF); Dan Mozes (Senior Financial Specialist, FSD); Monika Queisser
(Financial Specialist, FSD); Ellah Chembe (Economist, AF1ZM); Maria Teresa Benito (Research
Analyst, AFIMI); Biin Neyapti (Research Analyst, AF1MI). Secretarial support was provided
by Ms. Adriana Arriagada (AFIMI). Ms. Phyllis Pomerantz (AFlC2) is the Country Operations
Manager, and Ms. Katherine Marshall (AF1DR) is the managing Department Director.



ZAMBIA
ECONOMIC RECOVERY AND INVESTM  PROMOTION CRED1T
Table of Contents (cont'd.)
ANNEXES
ANNEX A - Social Indicators
ANNEX B - Key Macroeconomic Indicators
ANNEX C - Balance of Payments and Financing Requirements
ANNEX D - Summary Statement of Loans and IDA Credits
ANNEX E - ERIP Matrix of Policy Conditionality
ANNEX F - Evolution of Policy Reform Conditionality
ANNEX G - Performance Indicators
ANNEX H - Supplementary Data
ANNEX I - Letter of Development Policy



ZAMBIA
ECONOMIC RECOVERY AND INVESMENT PROMOTION CREDIT
SUIMMARY
Borrower/Beneficiary:     Republic of Zambia
Executing Agencies:       Ministry of Finance
Ministry of Mines and Mineral Development
Ministry of Labor and Social Security
Amount:                   SDR 90.0 million (US$140 million equivalent), on standard IDA
terms, with 40 years maturity.
Description:              This proposed adjustment Credit would support a reform
program that includes the following components: (a) macro-
economic stabilization, with emphasis on continued restraint on
and increased effectiveness of public expenditures (including
protection of social sector allocations) and remaining trade and
tax reforms; (b) selected financial sector reforms aimed at
improving the mobilization and allocation of term funds,
especially by insurance companies and pension funds; (c) social
security reforms to establish a new basic pension system and to
ensure the sustainability of contractual saving institutions; and (d)
mining sector policy reforms to update and improve the legal,
fiscal and environmental frameworks to attract new investors,
particularly to copper mining, and the prerequisite preparatory
work to privatize Zambia Consolidated Copper Mines, Ltd.
(ZCCM).
Benefits:                 The policy reforms being supported under this operation aim to
enhance macroeconomic stability, improve the competitiveness
of Zambian products and promote investment in the economy in
general and in the copper mining industry in particular.
Increasing the rate (and the sustainability) of economic growth
will be essential for generating benefits from the economic
reform program and alleviating poverty, the central objective of
IDA's country  assistance strategy.   In particular, the
macroeconomic stabilization objectives and the improved
tariff/tax regime, particularly the VAT, should improve the
prospects for increased economic growth in the short term while
the improved opportunity for term financing and the privatization
of ZCCM should contribute to increased investment and hence
to longer term growth. In addition, the reform of the social
security system and continued strong budget support for the
social sectors should help directly to alleviate poverty.



- 11 -
Risks:                    The proposed ERIP faces external, implementation and political
risks. The external risk relates to Zambia's high dependence on
copper exports and its large debt burden and hence its high
dependence on external assistance. Recent increases in copper
prices help mitigate the former in the short term, and the
measures related to mining sector policy reform and ZCCM
privatization will mitigate the long term risk, but Zambia
remains vulnerable to a large and sudden fall in the world copper
price. To mitigate the risks associated with the dependence on
donor aid, Zambia is taking measures to increase exports and
contain imports in order to reduce that dependence. In the
meantime, the Govermment has shown determined efforts to
implement the reform program and keeps donors well informed.
The Government's economic reform efforts have earned broad
support from the international community which continues to
assist Zambia through the CG process. The implementation risk
relates to Government's administrative capacity to carry out the
reform program. This capacity has improved consistently over
the past few years, but it still remains limited relative to the
scope and complexity of the reform program. To mitigate this
risk, Government continues to be vigilant and to improve its
implementation systems and their staffing. Continued dialogue
and concerted actions among the Government, IDA and the
donor community are also planned. The political risk arises
from the continuing pressure on the Government to show quick
results or to slow down some of the reforms. The Government,
however, appears determined to stay the course and has taken
measures to accelerate the supply response and to shelter the
most vulnerable groups to help mitigate this risk.
Disbursement:             The proposed Credit of US$140 million will assist Zambia in
meeting its external financing requirements during late 1995 and
early 1996. The Credit will be disbursed through the Bank of
Zambia. Disbursement will be in two tranches. The first tranche
in an amount of US$70 million will be released at effectiveness;
the remaining US$70 million will be released when the
conditions of Second Tranche release are satisfied.
Project Identification
Number:                   ZM-PA-3240



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED
ECONOMIC RECOVERY AND INVESTM  PROMOTION CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
1.   I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed International
Development Association (IDA) Credit of SDR 90 million (US$140 million equivalent), on
standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity, to the Republic of Zambia, in support of its
economic reform and structural adjustment program.
2.   The proposed Economic Recovery and Investment Promotion (ERIP) Credit would be the
fifth structural adjustment credit to Zambia since the clearance of Zambia's arrears to the Bank
in March 1991. The principal objective of the proposed Credit is to generate a more vigorous
private sector supply response by assisting the Government's effort to continue stable
macroeconomic policies, improve the tax and tariff regimes, consolidate reforms of financial
sector policies and institutions, reform the social security system, and establish a strategy for
attracting new private capital and management into the mining sector, including the preparation
for privatization of Zambia Consolidated Copper Mining (ZCCM), the Government majority-
owned copper producer.
PART I: THE ECONOMY
A. Background
3.   For most of the 1970s and 1980s, Zambia's economy was heavily controlled, and the
Government's economic strategy relied primarily on the public sector, especially parastatal
enterprises, to undertake investment and generate growth. In the early years, rising copper
revenues masked the inadequacies of the public-sector dominated economy, but when copper
revenues fell sharply in 1975, the necessary adjustments were not made. Instead, Government
borrowed heavily in an attempt to maintain private consumption and the high levels of public-
sector investment and consumption.
4.   As a result, as the 1990s began, the Zambian economy faced many problems. Basic goods
and services were in short supply. The money supply was rising rapidly, and inflation had been
over 100 percent for three years. Military expenditures were rising and social sector expenditures
declining. Tax compliance was low, and the budget deficit was large and increasing. Many
parastatal companies were heavily indebted and sustaining large losses. Private investment had
collapsed, business and consumer confidence had disappeared, and investment in the copper
sector was inadequate to offset declining production levels. External debt was not being serviced,
creating large arrears to multilateral and bilateral institutions. A parallel market in foreign
exchange was flourishing, and asset-holders were shifting their capital abroad and switching to
foreign currency for local transactions. The physical infrastructure was deteriorating. Finally,
Zambia had neither food reserves nor financial resources to deal with natural disasters or other
emergencies.
5.   The present Government was elected in November 1991 with a commitment to reduce
poverty on a sustainable basis through an economic reform program aimed at restoring Zambia's



economic growth prospects by stabilizing the economy, moving toward external viability,
revitalizing the copper sector, promoting the private sector based on free market principles,
extracting the Government from business activity, and reversing the decline in the Zambian social
sector's delivery system and infrastructure. The Policy Framework Paper (PFP) for 1992-94,
adopted in February 1992, outlined the extensive reforms necessary to achieve these aims,
including a sharp reduction in the size of the public sector through a comprehensive program of
privatization and parastatal reform.
6.   Much has been accomplished in the past three years as the Government has implemented
many far-reaching market-oriented reforms. To begin with, the Government liberalized formerly
controlled markets, and, except for utilities, all prices, including agricultural prices, are now
market determined. The Government has steadily reduced its direct role in the economy, thus
opening up increased opportunities for private sector firms and individuals. Subsidies have been
eliminated, and parastatals making losses have either been restored to profitability with increased
efficiency and cost covering prices, or they have been closed. Public spending priorities have
been focussed on social services and infrastructure. All commercial interest rates have been
decontrolled and are now determined by market forces. The foreign exchange market has been
completely liberalized; quantitative restrictions on imports and exports have been eliminated; and
the tariff structure has been compressed and simplified.
7.   Many challenges remain to be met, however, if sustainable economic growth is to be
achieved. Macroeconomic stability will require consistent fiscal and monetary discipline.
Further improvements in the structure of taxes and tariffs will be needed if domestic revenue is
to increase while price incentives improve, and continued improvements in spending allocations
will be needed if vital infrastructure and social service needs are to be met within prudent fiscal
limits. Sustainability will require substantial increases in domestic savings and investment levels
which will in turn require deeper and more efficient financial markets. Of particular importance
to achieving external viability, the long-term decline in copper productivity and output will need
to be reversed with privatization of existing facilities and major private investment in new mines.
Economic reforms to support these actions will be outlined in the next PFP, scheduled for
submission to the Executive Directors in July 1995.
B. Recent Economic Performance
8.   Over the last three years, there has been substantial macroeconomic reform, although
progress was slow at first. Following fiscal setbacks in 1992 and early 1993, money growth
accelerated, and nominal and real interest rates reached historic highs in 1993 and 1994,
increasing the cost of domestic debt service and squeezing the private sector. In addition, the
kwacha appreciated sharply in the second half of 1993, lowering the return on the production of
traded goods. The Government persisted with its stabilization efforts, however, and in 1994,
inflation declined to 35 percent after five years of annual inflation in excess of 100 percent.
Nominal interest rates, which had reached almost 400 percent early in 1994, fell to about
25 percent by the end of the year. With positive real interest rates prevailing from the middle
of 1993, individuals and firms increased their holdings of kwacha-denominated financial assets.
The demand for foreign exchange declined, and the exchange rate stabilized. A major
management reform to strengthen fiscal policy was the implementation of a cash budget, which
restricted spending to current revenues. This facilitated the Government's efforts to restrain
spending in 1994 and played a major role in stabilizing the economy. On the revenue side, the



- 3 -
most important step was the establishment of the independent Zambia Revenue Authority (ZRA)
in April 1994. Since then, tax administration and tax compliance have improved substantially.
9.   Foflowing on 1994's strong performance, however, a serious fiscal gap developed in the
first quarter of 1995 due to disappointing revenue collections and higher than projected
expenditures in several areas. On the revenue side, the major shortfall was in non-tax revenue
where user fees, parastatal dividends, and privatization receipts fell well short of expectations.
Significant shortfalls in tax payments from key parastatals, such as the Zambia Electricity Supply
Company (ZESCO) and ZCCM, also contributed to the problem. This was accompanied by
spending levels that were higher than expected in defense, wages, and interest. Defense spending
overruns were primarily a result of payments made on arrears for commitments made in previous
years. On wages, the overall increase was somewhat above the 30 percent provided for in the
original budget. Interest payments were higher than expected because interest rates increased due
to higher inflation in December and January, driven primarily by higher maize prices (because
of the partial drought affecting the region), and to the increased uncertainty in monetary markets
caused by the problems of Meridien Bank, one of Zambia's largest commercial banks, which in
March 1995 began having difficulties meeting inter-bank settlements.
10.  Initially, the Government tried to contain the situation by cutting spending across the
board, but it recognized that this would not be feasible for any length of time because new arrears
were likely to accumulate and because further reductions in public spending in vital areas, such
as infrastructure and social services, would undermine its economic program. As a result, the
Government has developed, after consultation with the IMF, a revised fiscal plan for the
remainder of 1995 that includes significant revenue enhancement measures and selective
reductions in expenditure. Increased revenues will come from higher excise taxes on fuel,
electricity, sugar, and beer, a one percent fee on all imports to offset the costs of pre-shipment
inspection, and direct withholding on interest and dividend income. Targeted reductions in
spending will be accompanied by increased control over budgetary commitments, including those
of the Ministry of Defense. As for Meridien Bank, after trying unsuccessfully to revive public
confidence, the Govermment officially closed the Bank and put it into receivership in May.
11.  As a result of Zambia's economic program, some progress has been made in moving
towards external viability. Zambia built up its gross foreign exchange reserves from only one
month worth of imports of non-maize goods and services in 1991 to nearly 2.5 months at the end
of 1994 (although this fell back to below two months by end-March 1995 as donor assistance fell
short of expectations in the first quarter of 1995). Improved debt management, including a
commercial debt buy-back operation (supported in part by IDA), reduced the stock of Zambia's
external debt by approximately US$650 million in 1994, although Zambia's external debt, at
US$6.2 billion - nearly twice annual GDP - remains one of the highest in the world. To monitor
Zambia's efforts to mobilize aid and to service external debt on a timely basis, the Government
established a Balance of Payments Support and External Debt Management Group, and by the
end of 1994 was servicing Paris Club and multilateral debt in line with the debt service program.
12.  Over the last three years, Zambia's trade policy has aimed at moving from  an
inward-focused strategy of import substitution dependent on high levels of tariff protection to an
outward-oriented, export-led strategy based on open markets and international competition. To
this end, Zambia has eliminated all direct controls on trade, except for a short list of items
controlled for environmental, health, or security reasons, and has sharply reduced the levels and
dispersion of import duties. A duty drawback system for exporters has also been introduced.



- 4 -
In addition, Zambia has worked closely with regional organizations to promote freer external
trade. It has been a strong supporter of the Cross Border Initiative (CBI) - a regional program
aimed at increasing the flow of trade and investment across borders and thus promoting
competition and increasing efficiency in the domestic product and factor markets of the
participating countries while also decreasing tariff protection vis a vis third parties. The
Government recognized that an increase in the flows of trade and investment across regional
borders would increase the efficiency in all countries and broaden the markets for everyone's
products. As a result, preferences under the Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa
(COMESA) agreement -the successor to the Preferential Trade Agreement (PTA) - are already
being applied, with rates for products from COMESA partners at no more than 40 percent of
non-COMESA rates.
13.   In the financial sector, several reforms were adopted. Barriers to entry into the insurance
industry have been lifted. The new Banking and Financial Services Act updated the provisions
for establishment, capitalization, operation, regulation and supervision of financial institutions;
and amendments to the Bank of Zambia Act have strengthened its power to regulate and supervise
most lending institutions. Both Acts are now in the early stages of implementation. A Securities
Act in 1993 and related regulations set up a Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and the
Lusaka Stock Exchange (LuSE). Trading on the LuSE has been very limited because only a very
small number of companies have fulfilled listing and trading requirements, but activity is expected
to increase significantly over the next twelve months. Plans are also underway to apply
prudential regulation and supervision to contractual savings institutions.
14.  The Government adopted an ambitious privatization and parastatal reform program to
reduce its direct role in business activity. Here, the initial pace of implementation was slower
than originally planned. Among other factors, progress on privatization was impeded by lack of
cooperation from the Zambia Industry and Mining Company (ZIMCO), the government holding
company for the management of parastatals. To facilitate a uniform policy direction in
privatization and to improve the transparency of parastatal management, ZIMCO was closed on
March 31, 1995. With the help of external consultants, the remaining necessary ZIMCO
responsibilities (e.g., monitoring of operating results) have been transferred to the Zambia
Privatization Agency (ZPA) and the Ministry of Finance.
15.  Despite the delays, a sound foundation for privatization has been established. As of April
30, 1995, thirteen companies, accounting for about 6 percent of the total turnover of all
parastatals, had been sold to private owners for K16 billion (about US$21 million). Sales
agreements had been signed for an additional two companies, and preparations to complete the
legal transfers are underway. More than 100 companies, out of a total of 160, have been
approved for sale by the Cabinet. Two major nonviable parastatals - Zambia Airways and the
United Bus Company of Zambia - and some trading companies have been closed and are being
liquidated.
16.  Zambia's macroeconomic stabilization and structural reform efforts over the last four years
have been supported by four IDA adjustment operations (Annex F). The first operation, the
Economic Recovery Credit (ERC, Credit No. 2214), approved in 1991, was the first adjustment
operation after nearly a four-year interruption in Bank support. It was quite comprehensive,
reflecting the need to change course across a broad range of economic policies. The emphasis
was on stabilization to control inflation, liberalization to align economic policies and signals with
Zambia's underlying realities, and on initiating institutional reforms (e.g., civil service reform



and privatization).  The two operations that followed the ERC - the Privatization and
Industrialization Reform Credits (PIRCs, Credit Nos. 2405 and 2523) approved in 1992 and 1993
- contained follow-on actions (e.g., ending consumer maize subsidies), but shifted emphasis
towards privatization and parastatal reform and restructuring. The PIRCs also supported reforms
to business legislation, the setting up of the Lusaka Stock Exchange, and initiatives to promote
private sector investment, including reforming the Investment Code and strengthening the
Investment Center. The fourth adjustment operation, the Economic and Social Adjustment Credit
(ESAC, Credit No. 2577) approved in 1994, followed through on some of the earlier policy
reform plans (e.g., ending public support for Zambia Airways and eliminating maize export
restrictions) and included initiatives in new policy areas, such as supporting the preparation of
a value added tax, developing a more efficient land market, and improving budget allocations and
delivery mechanisms for vital social services.
17.  Despite the accomplishments on macroeconomic and structural reform, the response of
output has been uneven. After a decrease in real GDP of 2.5 percent in 1992 (due to a severe
drought) and an increase of 6.5 percent in 1993 as agriculture recovered, preliminary estimates
are that real GDP declined again, by 5.1 percent, in 1994. This reflected a decline in agricultural
output (due to poor rains early in the year), problems in copper mining (mainly technical and
managerial), and the recession in manufacturing activities due in part to the very tight monetary
policy. However, there are signs of a pickup in economic activity since late in 1994. Cement
sales have been rising as construction activity expands; the index of industrial production was
higher in the second half of 1994 than the first; electricity and water production grew by
9.6 percent in 1994; new businesses are being formed at an impressive rate; and there have been
modest gains in non-government services.
18.  Nonetheless, overall output and growth continue to be constrained in large measure by the
poor performance of the mining sector. Zambia has depended upon mining, particularly copper
mining, for decades. Even after several years of decline, copper mining still contributes nearly
30 percent of GDP, 75 percent of export earnings, and over 10 percent of formal employment.
The sector's performance so far and its problems are synonymous with those of ZCCM which
produces over 99 percent of the copper output in Zambia. ZCCM has experienced progressive
declines in productivity and output, and there has been rapid depletion of proven copper reserves
at existing mining operations over the last decade because of insufficient new exploration and
capital investment. ZCCM's copper output declined from 551,021 tonnes in 1983/84 to 392,182
tonnes in 1993/94, and labor productivity fell from 9.48 tonnes of copper per employee in
1983/84 to 7.67 tonnes per employee in 1993/94. With an average cost of about US$0.80 per
lb in 1994 (excluding all taxes), ZCCM is a high cost producer relative to most world producers
and is no longer in a position to survive an extended period of low copper prices. If no new
mines are developed, Zambian copper production is expected to drop by about half around the
turn of the century due to depletion of existing mines, in particular the Nchanga open-pit mine.
19.  The economy's poor performance has had an adverse impact on the social sectors. The
recently completed Poverty Assessment (November 1994), prepared with significant donor and
Government involvement, revealed increasing indices of poverty over the past decade. About
55 percent of all Zambians, including about 75 percent of those residing in rural areas, are core
poor, i.e., they cannot afford even to cover basic nutritional needs. About 40 percent of all
children younger than five years of age suffer from chronic malnutrition. During the 1980s and
early 1990s, the provision of social services suffered from declining public sector resources, a
worsening distribution of spending within those sectors, and deteriorating administrative capacity.



-6 -
At the same time, the demands on these services grew due to the increasing poverty, several
years of poor rains, and some dislocations of the structural adjustment program. In addition,
critical institutions such as the social security and pension funds faced problems due to high
inflation, poor investment results and management problems. The Government has been working
to reverse these negative trends. It has strengthened overall budget allocations and improved the
distribution of spending within the social sectors in favor of lower cost primary services. A key
element has been the move to decentralize service provision and to make greater use of NGOs,
as was done successfully during the 1992 drought. Budget allocations for the social sectors
increased from 28 percent in 1993 to over 33 percent in 1994, thereby underscoring the
Government's commitment to social sector development. In 1994, policy reform focused on
institutional reorganization and decentralization of service delivery in health and education, the
devolution of safety net measures to local groups (mostly NGOs), and the restructuring of the
water and sanitation sector. The Government is also beginning to reform the social security
institutions and to align pension obligations with available resources.
Part II: ZAMBIA'S ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
20.  The Government's primary objective is to achieve positive per capita income growth in
a stable macroeconomic environment in order to reduce poverty and to improve the general
standard of living. This in turn will require tight control of fiscal and monetary policy, improved
incentives for domestic savings and investment, progress on privatization, and improved delivery
of social services. In addition, for such growth to be sustainable over the longer term, the
Govermnent will need to reduce Zambia's heavy dependence on external assistance (and
vulnerability to external shocks) by increasing and diversifying exports, containing the growth
in imports, reducing external debt, and building external reserves.
A. Macroeconomic Policy
21.  The macroeconomic framework for Zambia's economic adjustment program is designed
to be consistent with the objective of positive per capita income growth, while consolidating
macroeconomic stability and moving toward external viability. GDP growth is likely to be below
2 percent in 1995, due primarily to poor rains and continuing copper production problems, but
a rebound in agricultural production in 1996 could push GDP growth above 6 percent.
Investment is projected to increase from an average of 11 percent of GDP in 1992-1994 to 19
percent of GDP by 1997 as a result of improved business confidence, the Konkola Deep mining
project, and increased availability of credit, which should enable the private sector to respond to
new market opportunities.
22.  The Government intends to continue improving the fiscal position from an overall deficit
of 4.8 percent of GDP in 1994, to an overall deficit of 1.5 percent of GDP in 1995, and an
overall surplus of 1.6 percent of GDP in 1997. Efforts to increase tax collection efficiency will
be intensified. Within the structure of taxation, the reliance on trade taxes will decrease. This
will be offset by increased indirect tax collections from the value added tax (VAT), which is to
be implemented in July 1995. With continued monetary restraint, the annual rate of inflation is
projected to continue to fall from 138 percent in 1993 and 35 percent in 1994, to 25 percent in
1995 and 10 percent in 1996.



- 7 -
23. The share of domestic govermnent expenditure in GDP is projected to decrease from 33
percent in 1994 to 26 percent in 1997, primarily as a result of reductions in interest payments and
expenditure on agricultural marketing. At the same time, the real level of spending on social
services and infrastructure, critical elements for sustainable growth, will continue to increase.
24.   To continue the progress already made in trade reform (paras. 6 and 12), action needs to
be taken in three trade-related areas: (i) lowering tariff levels and reducing rates of effective
protection over the long-term, including efforts to promote freer trade both internationally and
within the region; (ii) implementing special programs to address the problems of exporters,
including the anti-export bias arising from the import tariffs that will remain over this period; and
(iii) addressing instances of negative protection, especially those arising from differential tariff
levels across trading partners and the lack of a common external tariff within the region.
25.  The Government is committed to moving to a tariff structure with the maximum tariff
reduced from its current level of 40 percent to 20-25 percent by 1998. The elimination of the
up-lift factor when the VAT is introduced in July 1995 will reduce overall nominal protection by
about 5 percentage points. Zambia is also prepared to lower COMESA rates further on a
reciprocal basis as part of its broad commitment under the regional CBI program. The next
significant steps in tariff reform will be taken in the context of the 1996 budget. Reductions in
tariff revenues will be compensated by increased revenues from other sources.
26.  Despite substantial progress in improving the business environment, exporters continue to
face serious disadvantages in Zambia, including the high rates of tariffs on imports and the
cascading system of domestic taxation. Besides the introduction of the VAT and reduced reliance
on trade taxes, the Government's policy to facilitate exports includes the market-based
determination of exchange rates, the expansion of credit facilities, and improvements in basic
infrastructure. The introduction of the VAT will provide exporters with quick and complete
refunds of all domestic indirect taxes, including those on services. The duty drawback system
was improved in 1994, but it remains an administratively imperfect instrument despite the
improvements made. Efforts to streamline this system will continue. A one year suspension of
tariffs on selected raw materials that began in January 1995 has lessened the problem of negative
protection arising from the dual tariff structure. Further actions to deal with this problem include
the planned general reduction in tariff levels, further selective decreases in tariffs on material
imports, and regional efforts to achieve more consistent external tariffs.
B. Structural Policy
27.  Economic growth and improved efficiency will require a revitalized private sector. In
addition to maintaining macroeconomic stability, the Government will continue to promote free
and open markets, encourage greater private sector participation in the development of the
financial sector, and increase the pace of privatization, including that of ZCCM.
28.  In order to increase the supply of resources to the private sector, the Government will
continue to reduce the fiscal deficit in order to reduce the public sector's absorption of available
domestic savings. In addition, the virtual elimination earlier this year of the (non-interest
bearing) statutory reserve requirement on commercial bank deposits reduced the difference
between lending rates and deposit rates. Also, in order to encourage the growth of private sector
financial institutions, government monopolies in insurance and building societies have been
eliminated, and the recently passed Unfair Trading Practices Act will ensure that former state



- 8 -
monopolies do not retain an undue advantage. The Zambia State Insurance Corporation is slated
to be sold to the public through public flotation.
29.  The Government also intends to restructure and eventually to privatize the Government-
owned institutions that are currently involved in the mobilization or allocation of term finance,
with a view to ensuring that the role of these institutions conforms to the new policy of leaving
the decisions on the mobilization and allocation of term resources from commercial sources in
the hands of the private sector. Action Plans have been prepared to restructure the Development
Bank of Zambia as an apex institution for industrial finance and to privatize or liquidate the
Zambia Export and Import Bank and the agricultural Lima Bank. The Government will also
introduce regulatory and institutional reforms for insurance companies and pension funds to
ensure their financial integrity, and to enhance their ability to be a source of long-term capital
for investment. The Government has prepared an action plan to reform the social security system
that will align its outlays with the resources available to it.
30.  Parastatal reform will continue to be a vital element in the Government's effort to raise
efficiency and to restore economic growth. The privatization program is all embracing. All
parastatals are for sale, with no restrictions on ownership other than those needed to curtail
monopolies and to encourage broad-based participation. Measures have been taken to accelerate
the privatization process (paras. 14 and 15). To improve its efficiency, the Government has
restructured the ZPA, and it has now approved for sale in 1995 more than 100 of the 160
companies. In addition, the Government is showing flexibility in agreeing to different sale
modalities. Management buy-outs are now possible, and the Government will sell by public
lotation the shares of 14 companies, including such large companies as Zambia Sugar, Zambia
State Insurance, and Zambia Telecommunications.
31.   While diversification away from the copper industry is an important economic goal for
Zambia, the survival of the coper mining industry will be essential for improving Zambia's
foreign exchange and balance of payments position for many years to come. Given the problems
facing the sector and ZCCM, the Govermnent has determined that it will privatize ZCCM (para.
18). The privatization of ZCCM, the largest enterprise in Zambia, has started with the offer for
sale of the Chambishi and Kansanshi Mines. ZCCM itself will be privatized after the completion
of the necessary legal, financial, and technical preparatory work (paras. 64-66). This process is
expected to be completed within the next 24 months. The development of the largest known
unexploited ZCCM copper resource, the Konkola Deep mine, as a separately managed, private
sector driven joint venture, in which ZCCM will have a minority shareholding, is being pursued
on an urgent basis by both ZCCM and the Government.
32. The most powerful long-term tool for the alleviation of poverty is sustainable and widely-
shared economic growth. The recently completed Poverty Assessment points out, however, that
economic growth alone, even if equitably distributed, will not be sufficient to address the very
special problems from which the very poorest segments of Zambia's population suffer, or to
reverse the substantial decline in social conditions that has occurred in Zambia over the past 10
to 20 years. Consequently, the Government's poverty alleviation strategy encompasses several
other critical components in order to achieve the largest possible reduction in poverty. The main
features of this strategy are:



- 9 -
(a)  ensuring a pro-poor macroeconomic framework by reducing inflation, resisting
excessive protection and special privileges to favored producers, accelerating
privatization, and generally encouraging new private sector businesses;
(b) facilitating the poor's participation in the economy by ensuring better market access
for small farmers, directing research and extension efforts at labor-saving
innovations, especially for women, improving access to clean water, and removing
regulatory and infrastructure constraints to small scale economic activity;
(c)  enhancing human resource development by improving budget allocations to and
within these sectors, decentralizimg budget authority to local levels, and improving
the implementation capacity of the relevant ministries; and
(d) improving safety net activities by increasing support for labor-intensive provision of
infrastructure (for the non-incapacitated poor), reforming the public welfare scheme
(for the incapacitated poor), and continuing the process of devolution of
administrative responsibilities to community-based groups and NGOs.
33.  To strengthen the delivery of social services in the areas of health, education, water and
sanitation, and the social safety net, the increased budget shares for social sector spending that
were established in 1994 have been maintained in the 1995 budget and will be continued in 1996
and beyond. Within each sector, significant intrasectoral and geographic reallocations will also
be made to better target the poor. Particular emphasis is being placed on primary education and
cost-effective primary health care services.
C. External Flnancial Requirements
34.  Zambia is a highly indebted country, with a total outstanding debt of about US$6.2 billion,
or about 180 percent of GDP. Annual debt service obligations are on the order of US$375
million. The opportunities for substantial increases in exports over the near term are limited by
the declining production from existing copper mines and the long lead time of new investments.
Therefore, Zambia's success in generating economic growth in the near term will depend on
significant amounts of external debt relief and international assistance, particularly the quick-
disbursing type, to support the policy reforms described above. The Government has been
broadly successful in attracting sufficient donor support to meet its external debt obligations and
to maintain its import requirements so as not to impede the resumption of economic growth. The
Government will need to continue its strong policy performance in order to continue to merit this
support, even as it phases down its reliance on it.
35. Zambia's estimated external financing requirements for 1994 were fully covered at a
Consultative Group (CG) meeting of donors in March 1994. (Details on external finance
requirements are shown in Annex C.) During the first half of 1994, balance of payments
assistance fell somewhat short of debt service requirements, but this was more than offset by
higher-than-expected copper earnings, as the price of copper averaged US$0.91 per pound
compared with the January 1994 projection of US$0.80 per pound. In addition, the Bank of
Zambia (BOZ) limited foreign exchange sales (in response to lower demand) to avoid causing
appreciation in the Kwacha, and this strengthened BOZ's external reserve position.



- 10-
36. For 1995, the external financing requirements were estimated at the December 1994
meeting of the CG to be US$959 million, excluding arrears payments to the IMF (which are
assumed to be offset by an equivalent amount of new money from the Fund). The proposed
ERIP would provide US$140 million, half of which would be disbursed in 1995. On those
assumptions and looking just at balance of payments support, the Bank would be funding US$140
million of the US$285 million in carry over assistance into 1995 (from existing adjustment
operations) and US$70 million (the first tranche of the proposed ERIP) of the US$156 million
needed in new assistance in 1995. Other major donors also continue to provide levels of support
well above what can be expected by a country of Zambia's size, in recognition of Zambia's
exceptional debt burden and the limited short-term prospects for expanding copper production.
Based on the estimates described above (including anticipated new debt relief), the December
1994 meeting of the Zambia CG in Paris concluded that the 1995 external financing gap would
be closed. Since that time, the copper price has been higher than previously estimated, but
copper output has been below expectations, and poor rains are likely to require some additional
food imports. On balance, the projected assistance requirements for 1995 remain about the same
as those estimated at the December meeting of the Consultative Group.
37.  The proposed level of Bank support would be consistent with the leadership role the Bank
has been playing in meeting Zambia's external financing needs. lDA's share in total direct
financial assistance (including balance of payments support and investment projects, but excluding
debt relief) was 30 percent in 1991 (when the Bank's arrears were cleared), 21 percent in 1992
(the year of the drought), 31 percent in 1993, and 37 percent in 1994. Assuming that the first
tranche of the proposed ERIP (US$70 million) is fully disbursed in 1995 (together with the
remainder of PIRC II and ESAC funds), the Bank's share of total external assistance will be
about 36 percent in 1995 and is expected to fall back to 30 percent after that.
PART m: THE PROPOSED CREDIT
A. The ERIP Reform Program and Links to the Country Assistance Strategy
38.  Until mid-1994, macroeconomic stabilization and structural policy reform were the central
concern of the Bank's assistance strategy and the focus of its adjustment lending, economic and
sector work, and aid coordination efforts. By concentrating on reforming the regulatory
framework, accelerating the privatization program, improving the delivery of vital social services,
and emphasizing fiscal discipline in the public sector and financial discipline in the parastatals,
the structural reforms supported by the Bank have played a significant role in creating a policy
environment more conducive to private sector development and efficiency improvements in the
public sector. After nearly four years and four adjustment operations, increasing emphasis is
being placed on the more active promotion of private sector investment and the generation of
economic growth. As has been the case so far, IDA will have a critical role to play in helping
the Government in the design and implementation of its policy reform program (and the
supporting investment program) and in assisting it in mobilizing donor support.
39.  The overall objective of the Bank's assistance strategy in Zambia, as stated in the Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) discussed by the Board in March 1994, has been to promote
sustainable economic growth and to reduce poverty by: (i) supporting macroeconomic stabilization
and structural reform policies; (ii) promoting private sector development and greater public sector



- 11 -
efficiency; and (iii) increasing targeted direct assistance to poor and vulnerable groups. Given
the significant accomplishments over the last three years in macroeconomic and structural
reforms, increasing emphasis will now be needed on stimulating investment, improving efficiency
in the use of scarce public resources, and increasing direct poverty reduction efforts in order to
ensure the sustainability of the reform process and the resumption of growth.
40.  The CAS is based on the assumption that Zambia will continue to implement its economic
reform program and that IDA will provide significant assistance through lending (US$500 -
US$800 million over the next three years), economic and sector work, and aid coordination. If
the economic reform program continues on track and is coupled with vigorous efforts to reform
sector policies and institutions, thus permitting greater reliance on integrated sector investment
programs, lending at or even slightly above the highest figure in the range would be justified (the
high case). If the overall program is on track, but the preparation and implementation of sector
investment programs are proceeding more slowly (because additional time is needed to carry out
sectoral reforms), the lower lending figure in the range would be more probable (the base case).
Adjustment lending would continue to be the mainstay of the program, along with some targeted
poverty interventions. If the Zambian program were to suffer significant policy reversals and
delays, this would occasion a sharp and immediate decline in donor assistance, including that of
the Bank. In that event, Zambia would experience significant shortfalls in the external financing
available to service its large debt, particularly to its multilateral creditors, and the Bank would
most likely be forced to suspend operations in the country (the low case) within a few months.
41.  The proposed ERIP adjustment credit, the fifth in the recent series, would provide support
for continuing macroeconomic and structural policy reforms which are an integral part of the
CAS. It comes at a critical junction in terms of moving Zambia away from short-term crisis
management and preoccupation with the stabilization agenda towards achieving sustainable
growth. Its main objectives are to: (i) consolidate improvements in macroeconomic management,
including the tax and tariff regimes; (ii) enhance the availability of term resources to stimulate
investment; (iii) reform the social security system; and (iv) support the restructuring of and
increase private sector participation in the mining industry in Zambia. The proposed ERIP
conditionality is described below and summarized by components in Annex E.
B. The ERIP Reform Program
1. Macroeconomic Stability and Fiscal Policy
42.  While inflation and interest rates declined sharply in 1994 (para. 8) as a result of a tight
fiscal and monetary stance agreed with the IMF, fiscal and monetary control remain a priority
concern. Both inflation and interest rates increased again in early 1995, due primarily to the
sharp increase in the price of maize because of poor rains and increased reliance on imported
maize, but due also to the fiscal gap that emerged over the first quarter. As a result of spending
cuts and revenue enhancements being adopted in the second quarter, however, fiscal balance is
being reestablished, and the pace of inflation should again diminish. In fact, the rate of inflation
dropped to below one percent in both April and May. As with previous adjustment credits, there
will be agreement on macroeconomic aggregates, including the size of the fiscal deficit and the
growth in reserve money, reached between the Government and the IMF and reflected in the
Letter of Intent under an Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF) program to be
considered by the Fund Board later this year (currently planned for late August 1995). The



- 12 -
overall deficit, i.e., including grants and interest is expected to decrease from 4.8 percent of GDP
in 1994 to about 1.5 percent of GDP in 1995. Assessment of satisfactory macroeconomic policy
will be based on the overall fiscal and monetary objectives of the program, including these
specific benchmarks. Compliance with the fiscal and monetarv program will be a condition of
Second Tranche release.
43.  A successful program to stimulate growth will require continued improvement in revenue
collection, a more economically efficient tax system, continued restraint and selectivity on public
expenditure, and sound budget management. The proposed ERIP will support Government's
reform efforts in these areas. To strengthen revenues, eliminate distortions and reduce reliance
on trade taxes, a broad based VAT will be introduced. Work on a VAT was initiated under the
previous adjustment operation in 1994, and the Government plans to introduce it in July 1995.
This will also automatically eliminate the so-called up-lift factor, which raises the base for
calculating the sales tax on imports, and hence adds to the degree of effective tariff protection.
Implementing the VAT (and eliminating the up-lift factor) will be a condition of Second Tranche
release.
44.  The objective of restraint on aggregate public expenditure must be accompanied by stricter
priorities in the composition of spending. Lower priority areas, such as military expenses,
official travel, and foreign representation will be further restrained. Improving public service
delivery will also depend on Govermment's ability to contain the share of public spending
allocated to wages and salaries, thus permitting sufficient spending on other recurrent
expenditures and capital equipment. Under the previous adjustment operation, it was agreed that
33 percent of total non-interest spending would be allocated to education, health, social safety
nets, and water and sanitation. This was done in 1994. The 1995 budget maintains the same
shares for these sectors, as agreed during the preparation of ERIP. In order to ensure that
increased funding for wages and salaries within those budgets does not depress funding for vitally
needed supplies (e.g., drugs and school materials), it was also agreed that the share of non-
personnel recurrent expenses for those same sectors would be at least 24 percent of total non-
interest spending. The approved 1995 Budget conforms to these agreements. As a condition of
Second Tranche release. the Govermment will maintain: (a) the share of total social sector
spending in actual budget releases to be at least 33 Dercent of total non-interest spending and (b)
the share of non-personnel recurrent expenses in those sectors to be at least 24 percent of total
non-interest spendine.
45.  Substantial progress has also been made in budget management. The move to a cash
budget helped Government turn a primary budget deficit into a small surplus in 1994, and the
introduction of the Zambia Revenue Authority (ZRA) has begun to improve collection
performance. The steps initiated in 1994 to move towards program-based budgeting in pilot
ministries is being consolidated and extended in 1995. The operation of the cash budget will be
strengthened to improve its observance at ministry and provincial levels and to permit better
control of commitments and avoid accumulation of domestic arrears. The system to monitor
commitments and expenditures, introduced in late 1994, is being used by the Budget Office in
1995 to monitor and control arrears. Budget management will be further strengthened by more
accurate and complete integration of donor assistance into the budget and more accurate
forecasting of debt service obligations. The Government's commitment to implement these
changes in budget management policies is reflected in the Letter of Development Policy - LDP -
(Annex I), and the IMF will be setting structural benchmarks on controlling domestic arrears in
the second half of 1995.



- 13 -
2. Continuing Financial Sector Reforms
46.  Zambia's financial sector is dominated by commercial banks, the three largest of which -
one state-owned bank and two branches of U.K. banks - supply the bulk of services. In
addition, ten medium and small banks - some locally-owned and some foreign - fill market
niches. Other financial institutions include a postal savings bank, a building society, leasing
companies and emerging merchant banks. No longer effective in promoting their intended
objectives are the state-owned term finance institutions, including the Development Bank of
Zambia (DBZ), the Export Import Bank of Zambia (Eximbank), and the agricultural Lima Bank
which, along with the Credit Union and the Cooperatives Federation, intermediated agricultural
finance from the government budget. Insurance services, mainly non-life insurance, are provided
by the Zambia State Insurance Company (ZSIC) and four small private companies established in
recent years.
47.  The term finance sub-sector in Zambia includes, in addition to the three state-owned term
lenders, public and private insurance companies and pension funds. It has been facing severe
problems in recent years. The reform of policies and institutional arrangements concerning term
finance - both term loans and equity investments - has lagged behind other financial reforms.
This lag has been largely unavoidable, due to the unstable and inflationary environrment.
However, the rapid decline in inflation since mid-1994 suggests that measures to strengthen and
accelerate the investment response would be timely and feasible. Policies to reform the financial,
economic, institutional and legal conditions under which term resources will be mobilized and
allocated must seek a sustainable balance between the introduction of new financial instruments
and institutions on the one hand and Zambia's capacity to ensure adequate prudential regulation
and supervision on the other hand.
48.  Objectives and Strategy of Term Finance Reform. Consistent with the economic policy
of shifting reliance for capital formation and investment decisions to the private sector and of
using budget resources more prudently, financial sector reform aims at increasing the
participation of the private sector in financial activity. This shift in policy objective translates
into the following action programs to be supported by ERIP: (1) the restructuring of government-
owned financial institutions, currently involved in the mobilization and/or allocation of term
finance, with a view to ensuring that the role of such institutions conforms to the new policy; (2)
the establishment of a system to regulate contractual savings institutions; and (3) the reform of
the social security system to ensure viable and sustainable pension funds, which could contribute
to the economy's supply of long-term funds. This implies a new and reduced role for the
Government in term finance; it will now confine itself to the mobilization of concessionary funds,
and will relinquish its role in allocating term finance resources. The Government's commitment
to confine its role in mobilizing financial resources to concessionary sources requiring a state
guarantee is stated in the LDP.
49.  Redefining the role of Government-Owned Financial Institutions. The three state-owned
institutions involved in term finance - DBZ, Eximbank and Lima Bank - have failed to achieve
their assigned objectives and have run into severe financial problems. A commitment to prepare
an action plan to either reorient or liquidate each institution was a condition of Second Tranche
release under PIRC U, a previous adjustment credit. An action plan has been agreed between
the Government and IDA for each of the three institutions.



- 14 -
50.   The Government has approved the restructuring of the DBZ as an apex institution
mandated to mobilize term resources exclusively from international and foreign concessionary
sources and on-lend them to eligible retail financial institutions. The DBZ loan portfolio will be
transferred to a separate collection agency. Implementing the DBZ restructuring plan requires
the amendment of the DBZ Act. Submission of satisfactory draft legislation to Parliament and
timely implementation of the restructuring plan will be a condition of Second Tranche release.
51. The action plan for Eximbank calls for closing it, either by selling it or merging it with
another institution, or liquidating it. While recent financial statements indicate that Eximbank
deposits could be fully repaid from liquid assets, a long delay in privatizing or liquidating it could
allow its financial position to deteriorate to a point where budget funds may be required to repay
depositors. The Govermment has agreed to include Exinbank in ZPA's tranche of parastatals
being prepared for privatization in 1995, and to offer it for sale publicly to parties acceptable to
the Bank of Zambia (BOZ). If, by December 31, 1995, the settlement of the privatization
transaction has not been scheduled, the Government will ensure that the Eximbank Board of
Directors passes a liquidation resolution within thirty days. The completed sale of Eximbank to
a private investor or the adoption of a liquidation resolution by the Eximbank Board of Directors
will be a condition of Second Tranche release.
52.  The action plan for Lima Bank aims to stop the drain on the budget and to allow sufficient
time for alternative means of meeting the credit needs of small farmers. It is estimated that
approximately K 10 billion from Lima Bank's portfolio of K 15 billion will have to be written
off. The Government has decided to refrain from providing Lima Bank with additional budget
funds, as agreed between the Government and IDA under the recently approved IDA-supported
Agricultural Sector Investment Program (ASIP). The Government has also decided to offer Lima
Bank, or selected parts of it, for sale by September 30, 1995, through the ZPA, to investors or
to its management, with an appropriate (but not necessarily total) write-off of GRZ debts. As
a condition of Second Tranche release. the Government will take all the necessary measures to
place Lima Bank in ZPA's program for privatization or liquidation.
53.  The development of the contractual-savings system in Zambia, which includes insurance
and pension-fund management companies will require policy, regulatory and institutional reforms
so that these institutions can overcome the problems which inhibit their ability to perform their
roles and to provide long-term capital for investment. With improved macro-stability, the
insurance industry is expected to expand and the total of premiums and accumulated reserves to
increase. Similarly, with the reform of the social security system (paras. 57-60), pension funds
and their resources will grow in importance.
54.  The existing legislation, which gives the Ministry of Finance the responsibility for the
prudential regulation of insurance companies, does not cover pension-fund management
companies, and no other ministry has been given this responsibility. Since the existing legislation
needs to be updated, and plans are underway to do so, this is an opportunity to subject pension-
fund management companies to prudential regulations. The Government has prepared draft
insurance legislation and regulations upon which the Bank has commented. It has also designated
the Ministry of Finance as the ministry responsible for setting policy and regulating private
pension-fund management companies. There is a need to: (a) adopt the new insurance legislation
and supporting regulations; (b) prepare and adopt new laws and regulations for pension-fund
management companies; and (c) develop an institutional capacity to regulate the activities of all
contractual savings institutions. While providing the required safeguards to the public, the new



- 15 -
regulatory regime would apply to all contractual savings institutions and would be unified to
allow for competition.  The submission of insurance legislation to Parliament and the
establishment of a new regulatory and supervisory agency and the recruitment of staff for it will
be a condition of Second Tranche release. With respect to pension-fund management companies.
the submission of legislation to Parliament and the setting up of the regulatory and supervisory
agency will be a condition for Second Tranche release.
3. Social Security Reform
55.  Pension funds in Zambia - whether public or private - are not a significant source of term
finance because of the limited volume of resources available to them and the problems that
adversely affect their financial performance. Developing the pension fund industry is an
important policy priority, however, not only for institutional investment, but also as an integral
component of a program to restructure and rationalize the existing social security system.
56.  Reform Plans and Strategy. The Government established the National Social Security
Reform Implementation (NSSRI) Steering Committee, comprising representatives from the
relevant ministries, social security institutions, parastatals, and employers' and employees'
organizations, to prepare proposals to reform the social security system. The NSSRI Steering
Committee proposed a gradual, two-phase strategy for reforming the system, which is based on
a joint World Bank/ILO report that analyzed the options to reform the social security system in
Zambia. The reforms aim to: establish a more equitable distribution of social security benefits;
restructure the social security system to improve the reliability of benefits; and broaden the scope
of the social protection system. The specific proposals approved by the NSSRI Steering
Committee include the conversion of the Zambia National Provident Fund (ZNPF) into a national
social security pension scheme, the restructuring of the pension schemes for civil servants and
local authorities' employees, and the development of private pension schemes. The Cabinet has
approved the reform proposals of the NSSRI Steering Committee, and an implementation
timetable has been agreed between the Government and IDA.
57.  Short Term Reforms. The short-term phase of the reform strategy includes proposals for
arresting the deterioration in existing social security and pension fund institutions and measures
to lay the basis for future reforms. The Government has decided to amend the benefit formulae
and early retirement provisions and to repeal the 22-years-of-service compulsory retirement act
of 1991. Submission of draft legislation to Parliament to implement these decisions is a condition
of Second Tranche release.
58.   The financing of the additional burden on the pension funds arising from previous special
programs and retirement arrangements should have been budgeted for and financed separately
from regular pension benefits. Under both the special and regular schemes, insufficient resources
have been made available by Government, with the result that many pension claims are
outstanding. As part of its general strategy to clear arrears, the Government has agreed with the
civil service pension funds on a plan to clear its arrears. This plan would be updated once the
results of ongoing actuarial studies are completed.
59.  Weaknesses in the management of existing social security institutions will also be
addressed, particularly at ZNPF. Since the NSSRI Steering Committee has proposed that ZNPF
form the foundation for the new social security institution that will administer the new social
security pension scheme, ZNPF's requires strengthening. A time-bound institutional action plan



- 16 -
to implement administrative and operational reforms in ZNPF will be adopted once technical
studies are completed.
60.  Longer Term Reforms. The longer-term phase of the reform strategy includes proposals
to restructure the system, with the objective of establishing an affordable basic social security
pension scheme. The new legislation will aim to ensure sustainable pension financing,
independent boards, and improved accountability and transparency in pension fund administration.
Draft legislation to establish the new basic social security pension scheme and independent social
security institutions based on the approved social security reform strategy is being prepared.
Submission of draft legislation, satisfactory to IDA, to Parliament will be a condition of Second
Tranche release.
4. Mining Sector Reforn
61.  The revival of the copper industry will require large amounts of new investment, modem
technology, new management and new stakeholders who are committed to increasing productivity
and lowering costs at existing copper operations and to opening up new mining areas. The
required financial and managerial resources are only available in the private sector. Attracting
them will require: (a) the adoption of new mining sector policies; (b) the reform of mining sector
institutions; and most importantly (c) the privatization of ZCCM and the development of new
deposits with private-sector equity and management. In particular, the development of the
Konkola Deep project, which will require about seven to nine years for development and build-up
to full production, is an urgent priority in order to avert a sharp decline in copper production
around the year 2002.
62.  Mining Sector Policy. The Cabinet has adopted a new Mining Sector Policy which calls
for the development of the mining sector by private investors in an environmentally sustainable
manner. The Government is also preparing, with assistance from an IDA Mining Sector
Technical Assistance Project (Credit 2269-ZA), new legal, fiscal, and environmental frameworks
that are transparent, stable, internationally competitive, and non-discretionary. The major
objective of the new legal framework is to remove barriers to private sector investment. A draft
of a new Mines and Minerals Act, which contains provisions for the Minister of Mines and
Minerals Development to issue environmental regulations for the mining sector and which will
replace the Mines and Minerals Act of 1976, has been submitted to the Cabinet Legislative
Committee. A draft new fiscal regime has also been prepared. It is internationally competitive,
concentrates the incidence of taxation on profits, is generally applicable, and is not discretionary.
The submission to Parliament of (a) a draft new Mines and Minerals Act satisfactory to IDA. and
(b) draft amendments to the Income Tax Act. the Customs and Excise Act. and the Investment
Act to establish a new fiscal regime for mining satisfactory to IDA. will be a condition of Second
Tranche release. In line with the new draft Mines and Minerals Act, the Government intends to
adopt new environmental regulations for the mining sector by the end of 1995. Environmental
impact assessments will be required for all new projects, and existing mining areas will need to
be rehabilitated. The adoption of environmental regulations satisfactory to IDA will be a condition
of Second Tranche release.
63.  Mining Sector Institutions. As the new legal, fiscal, and environmental frameworks are
put in place, the ability of the Ministry of Mines and Minerals Development (MMMD) to
administer and monitor the performance of the mining sector will be essential to the sound growth
of the sector. In particular, assistance is needed: (a) to develop and disseminate basic geological



- 17 -
data to potential investors along the lines provided by Geological Surveys in countries such as
Australia, Canada and the US; and (b) to improve mining title administration, mines inspection,
environmental monitoring capabilities, etc. in line with international standards.  The
Government's undertaking to reach agreement with IDA on a program and timetable to support
the implementation of the new mining policy, including strengthening MMMD and privatizing
ZCCM, is included in the ERIP Letter of Development Policy. The specifics of the program will
be agreed under a proposed technical assistance operation (para. 67).
64. Zambia Consolidated Copper Mining Company (ZCCM). Mobilizing funds for new
exploration and investment in Zambia's copper industry will be a challenging task requiring
decisions that are closely linked to decisions on how and when to privatize ZCCM. In order to
help Government address such complex questions, consultants funded under the IDA PIRC-TA
Project (No. 2406-ZA) completed a study of the strategic options to privatize ZCCM. The study
recommended unbundling ZCCM into a number of separate units which would then be privatized.
While breaking ZCCM up into smaller units has the benefit of potentially attracting a larger
group of investors than if ZCCM is privatized in its present form, the approach is strongly
opposed by Anglo-American, the minority shareholder that owns 27 percent of ZCCM. Existing
shareholder agreements give Anglo-American certain pre-emptive rights, and the Government will
not be able to proceed with the privatization of ZCCM without the agreement of Anglo
American. As a first step, a decision to develop Konkola Deep as a majority private sector
owned and managed project has been taken by the shareholders. The Board of Directors and
management of ZCCM have been informed of this decision, and the Goverment has been
holding discussions with potential private investors with a view to initiating this development.
Also, the Government in its role as 'A" shareholder has introduced a ZCCM Board resolution
instructing management to prepare for joint-venturing Konkola Deep with majority private-sector
ownership and private-sector management.
65.  The Government recognizes that it is important that the privatization of ZCCM should take
place in a manner that helps mobilize new investment capital for the sector. This will require
further analysis of different methods of privatization in order to design an Action Plan that
ensures an orderly process, maximizes the value for Govermnent, and facilitates the mobilization
of capital for the sector. Since ZCCM is not wholly-owned by the Government, the analysis will
also need to include a detailed review of the rights and obligations of all of the parties involved
according to the 1982 Amalgamation of Mining Companies (Special Provisions) Act, shareholder
agreements and creditor agreements. To oversee the process on behalf of the Government and
to ensure that the task is undertaken in a fully transparent and orderly manner, the Government
has established a Privatization Unit, with a qualified and experienced leader, which will be
responsible for the privatization of ZCCM. This will include the hiring and supervision, on
behalf of the Government, of investment bankers, legal advisors, and other specialists as may be
needed in order to design and implement the privatization process. The Government has agreed
with IDA on the specific measures needed, including hiring of specialist advisors, and a timetable
to prepare an Action Plan to privatize ZCCM. Terms of reference for the investment bankers
and legal advisors have been prepared by the Privatization Unit and agreed with IlDA, and
proposals have been requested from an agreed short list of candidates. As a condition of Credit
Effectiveness, the Government will have completed the selection of internationally qualified legal
and investment banking advisors to assist in preparing and implementing the Action Plan.
Submission to IDA of a satisfactory Action Plan for privatizing ZCCM will be a condition of
Second Tranche release. It has been agreed that the Government Privatization Unit will be
responsible for the preparation of the Action Plan, and that, to the extent possible and subject to



- 18 -
satisfactory performance, the Govermnent will use the same investment and legal advisors for the
Konkola Deep project.
66.  ZCCM will need to establish a team of its own to oversee, on behalf of all of its
shareholders, the privatization-related tasks and the transfer of the Konkola Deep mining rights
and assets to the proposed joint-venture. The Government has introduced a ZCCM Board
resolution to establish a ZCCM internal Privatization Team that will report directly to the ZCCM
Board of Directors and will be responsible for all privatization-related matters, including
obtaining the services of investment bankers, legal advisors, environmental specialists and,
depending on exact content of the package, possibly accountants and auditors.
67. In light of the identified needs for specialist assistance for institutional strengthening (para.
63) and specialist advisory services to the Government (para. 65) and to ZCCM (para. 66)
regarding the development of Konkola Deep and the privatization of ZCCM, the Government has
requested and IDA has agreed to prepare a Technical Assistance Credit (proposed for the first
half of FY96) to help finance the necessary services. To cover the cost of these services in the
meantime, funds available from a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) advance for the TA Credit
will be used.
C. Disbursement, Procurement and Auditing
68. The proposed Credit of US$140 million will assist Zambia in meeting its external financing
requirements during the second half of 1995 and in 1996. The Credit will be disbursed through
the Bank of Zambia. Disbursement will be in two tranches. The first tranche in an amount of
US$70 million will be released at effectiveness; the remaining US$70 million will be released
when the conditions of Second Tranche release are satisfied, which is expected to be about
January 1996.
69.  The proposed Credit will reimburse the Government of Zambia for 100 percent of the
foreign exchange cost of general imports, exclusive of those on the negative list. The public
procurement processes are standardized with emphasis on transparency and competition in
tendering and utilization of pre-shipment inspection (PSI) where applicable. These factors should
achieve competitive price results. All procurement for values of US$2.0 million or more will
follow simplified ICB procedures, with mandatory use of IDA standard bidding documents and
specified procedures when applicable. The public procurement expected to be covered under
ERIP would be oil, some large ZCCM requirements, and possibly maize. Procurement by the
public sector for contracts valued at less than US$2.0 million will follow Zambia's public
procurement procedures, and private sector procurement within the same range of values will be
undertaken in accordance with established commercial practice in Zambia, provided that such
practices are acceptable to IDA. The public sector procedures call for bid procedures linked to
the market price as of the shipment date. The private sector may import commodities directly
from a broker using spot or market prices based on delivery date requirements and verification
of price competitiveness. All procurements valued at US$2.0 million or above will be subject
to prior review by IDA in accordance with IDA Guidelines. All other procurement will be
subject to random post-review by IDA. Any exceptions to the above procurement procedures will
require a waiver agreed to by the Government and IDA before implementing that procurement.
PSI will be required for all imports valued at over US$5,000 each. Reimbursement for contracts
valued at under US$500,000 will be through use of a statement of expenditure. The Bank of
Zambia will be responsible for coordinating and monitoring procurement and will submit



- 19 -
quarterly status reports to IDA for review. The Bank of Zambia will maintain relevant
documents for all procurements. The project account and statements of expenditure will be
independently audited and the audit report submitted to IDA within six months of the end of the
Government's fiscal year.
D. Program Management and Monitoring
70.  The reform program will continue to be managed by the Economic Affairs Monitoring
Unit, which is chaired by the Minister of Finance and includes members from the National
Commission for Development Planning, Cabinet Office, Bank of Zambia, ZCCM, Central
Statistics Office, and other ministries and Government agencies. The day-to-day follow up of the
program would be undertaken by a coordinator. The Monitoring Unit will give high priority to
ensuring that the implementation of the program is proceeding satisfactorily and that progress is
being made towards fulfilling: (1) the objectives of the macroeconomic program based on the
targets set in agreement with IDA and the IMF; and (2) the specific conditions of Second Tranche
release, which are described in Annex E. Briefly summarized, the specific conditions call on
Government to have:
(a)   implemented a VAT system, including the elimination of the "up-lift factor' (para.
25);
(b)    maintained budget releases for social sector spending at at least 33 percent of total
non-interest spending, of which at least 24 percentage points would be for non-
personnel spending (para. 19);
(c)   submitted to Parliament legislation, satisfactory to IDA, to restructure DBZ as an
apex institution and to set up a separate collection agency for the DBZ portfolio;
taken necessary measures to place Lima Bank on ZPA's Program for privatization or
liquidation; either scheduled the settlement of the sale of Eximbank or the Eximbank
Board of Directors would have adopted a liquidation resolution; and made satisfactory
progress on implementing other aspects of the DBZ action plan (paras. 49 and 50);
(d)   submitted to Parliament legislation, satisfactory to IDA, for the supervision and
regulation of insurance and pension-fund management companies and established a
new supervisory and regulatory agency(ies) (para. 54);
(e)   submitted to Parliament legislation, satisfactory to IDA, to establish a new basic
social security pension scheme, to amend the benefit formulae and early retirement
provisions of the existing public-sector social security and pension fund schemes, and
to repeal the 22-years of service compulsory retirement requirement for local
government employees (paras. 56 and 60);
(f)   submitted to Parliament (i) a draft new Mines and Minerals Act and (ii) draft
amendments to three other acts to establish a new fiscal regime, both satisfactory to
IDA (para. 62);
(g)    adopted mining-related environmental regulations, satisfactory to IDA (para. 62); and
(h)    submitted to IDA a satisfactory Action Plan for the Privatization of ZCCM (para.
64).



- 20 -
E. Environmental and Poverty Impact
71.       Addressing the issues related to the enviromnent as a part of Zambia's economic
reform program has been a priority for both Zambia and IDA. With IDA assistance, the
Government completed last year a National Environmental Action Plan and is now preparing an
environmental support program for possible IDA financing. The proposed Credit does not have
a specific environmental focus, although its impact on the environment would be positive,
particularly due to the mining sector reform component, where environmental regulations and
standards would be developed. Also, as part of the preparation for privatization, more data will
become available on the environmental legacy of the copper mining industry and of ZCCM, and
this should enable GRZ and the industry to better design and implement mitigatory and
preventative actions.
72.       Since the proposed Credit concentrates on measures to evoke a greater supply
response and promote economic growth, it will directly address the objective of poverty
alleviation. In addition, the Credit will have a positive impact on the poor in several specific
ways. First, macroeconomic stabilization will continue to shift the terms of trade in favor of
rural areas where the majority of the poor live, thus benefiting smallholder farmers. Second, a
lower rate of inflation is obviously beneficial for poor consumers and low wage earners. Third,
the targets set for social sector spending in terms of budget allocations and actual releases will
protect social services vital to the most vulnerable. Fourth, the reform of the social security
system will reduce its cost to the Government, thus releasing budget resources that can be used
to provide services to the poor and improve the ability of concerned institutions to deliver
services and other assistance to the poor and other vulnerable groups.
F. Impact Evaluation and Beneficiary Assessment
73.       The impact of the operation in the four principal areas - macroeconomic, financial
sector, social security, and mining - will be assessed over the medium term with the help of a
few quantifiable indicators. The comparison will be with a base period (1991-1994) and/or
projected objectives (e.g. additional revenue expected from VAT). These indicators are described
in Annex G.
74.       Because of the links between the various components of the economic reform program
being supported by the proposed ERIP Credit and the issues of poverty, income growth, and
welfare improvement, it will be important for both the Bank and the Government to focus closely
on the effectiveness of these programs and the impact that they are having on the intended
beneficiaries, particularly the poor in Zambia. Assessing the impact of ERIP-supported reforms
on intended target groups would build on and complement assessments agreed to and being
undertaken under PIRC Il and ESAC, the former to assess the impact of the privatization
program on five specified target groups and the latter to assess the impact on recipients of
increased social sector spending. It would also build on the surveys of Zambian enterprises being
undertaken under the Regional Project for Enterprise Development (RPED), which revealed that
the manufacturing sector's main concerns were interest rates, credit availability, and the structure
of taxes and tariffs. These surveys have been complemented by mission visits to enterprises and
discussions with associations representing the private sector. In order to define the baseline from
which the impact of the reforms can be measured, a survey would be undertaken to define on a
sample basis the baseline status of the major target groups affected by the ERIP program. A
Government commitment to that effect is included in the LDP.



- 21 -
G. Benefits and Risks
75.      The policy reforms being supported by the proposed ERIP Credit aim to enhance
macroeconomic stability, improve the competitiveness of Zambian products, and promote
investment in the economy in general and in the copper mining industry in particular. Increasing
the rate (and the sustainability) of economic growth wiUl be essential for generating benefits from
the economic reform program and alleviating poverty, the central objective of IDA's country
assistance strategy. In particular, the macroeconomic stabilization objectives and the improved
tariff/tax regime, particularly the VAT, should improve the prospects for increased economic
growth in the short term, while the improved opportunity for term financing and the privatization
of ZCCM should contribute to increased investment and hence to longer term growth. In
addition, the reform of the social security system and continued strong budget support for the
social sectors should help directly to alleviate poverty.
76.       The proposed operation faces virtually the same risks as those faced by the overall
economic reform program in Zambia - external, implementation and political. The exteral risk
relates to Zambia's external financing position and the still large debt burden combined with its
high dependence on copper exports. The Bank is playing a key role in assisting Zambia to
mobilize the donor resources required to support Zambia's reforms, but there is always a risk that
a substantial shortfall in donor support will make debt service payments difficult, if not
impossible to meet. The Government is focussing its effort on producing results and keeping the
donors fully informed of the progress on the reforms. The process of donor coordination and
the dialogue between the Government and donors continues to improve. The Government's
economic reform efforts have earned broad support from the international community which is
resolved to continue to assist Zambia's adjustment program, notably through the CG process.
Even so, continuing the reform process will not be easy, and progress is likely to be uneven -
as it has been in the past. Provided that Government maintains the reform momentum in 1995,
the short-term external risk is somewhat mitigated since the anticipated reduction in debt service
and the increase in copper prices should reduce the total need for balance of payment assistance,
even with the projected needs from the current drought.
77.      The implementation risk relates to Government's capacity to carry out the reform
program. Although Government's capacity to implement economic reforms has improved
consistently over the past few years, there remains a considerable implementation risk because
of the scope and complexity of the reform program. To mitigate this risk, Government continues
to improve implementation systems and staffing. Continued dialogue and concerted actions
among the Government, IDA and the donor community are also planned.
78.       The political risk arises from the continuing pressure on the Government to show
quick results or to slow down and even reverse some of the reforms. The Government appears
determined to stay the course and has taken measures to accelerate the supply response and to
shelter the most vulnerable groups to help mitigate this risk. Nonetheless, people's expectations
continue to be high, and the Government is under pressure to show results before the next
election in 1996. The Government's efforts, which are being supported by the proposed ERIP
Credit, aim at accelerating growth in production and employment in the short term and laying
the foundation for vigorous long term growth. In addition, the Government has set absolute
limits below which expenditures on social services will not be allowed to fall. This combination
of measures is expected to mitigate the effects of the adjustment effort and to shelter, to the extent
possible, the most vulnerable groups, thus reducing the political risks. The continued strong



- 22 -
support of the international community for Zambia's reform program will also be a critical factor
in this respect.
PART IV: BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
A. IDA Operations
79.      IDA operations in Zambia include adjustment lending, investment/project lending,
economic and sector work, and aid coordination. The role that adjustment operations have played
in supporting Zambia's economic reform program in the last three years has been described above
(para. 16). The role of the other types of Bank operations in Zambia are summarized below.
80.       While several of the adjustment operations have focussed on privatization and private
sector development, Bank-supported investment lending in recent years has emphasized capacity-
building and infrastructure rehabilitation. In addition to sector investment programs, which
require the Government's ability to formulate and manage a sectoral policy and investment
program, technical assistance projects in financial and legal management, mining, and transport
have led to ongoing improvements in planning and implementation capacity. Similarly, two
recent agricultural projects have sought to strengthen research and extension services and to
provide complementary investments aimed at supporting the transition to private sector
agricultural marketing. A Social Recovery Project has helped build and rehabilitate infrastructure
at the community level. Education and petroleum projects have focused on improving
management in their respective sectors. An urban reform and water supply project, approved by
the IDA Board in May 1995, aims at encouraging decentralization and strengthening the local
government's financial and administrative capacity.
81.       Investment lending is expected to account for an increasing share in Bank lending over
the next few years and to shift towards integrated sector operations. These operations have four
essential characteristics. They support an overall sector policy and institutional framework; they
assist a medium-term investment program covering the entire sector; they are prepared by the
Government, with donors assisting only if needed; and they involve all interested donors. The
aim is to avoid the overlap, inconsistency, and administrative overload associated with a large
number of separate donor-funded projects within each sector, thereby substantially increasing
public sector efficiency. The first integrated sector investment operation in Zambia, approved
by the IDA Board in November 1994, covers the health sector.  The Agricultural Sector
Investment Program (ASIP) operation was approved by the IDA Board in March 1995.
Preparation has begun on similar operations in transport, education, power, and environment.
By substantially increasing public sector efficiency and providing the necessary investments to
stimulate increased private sector investment, integrated sector investment operations are expected
to be an important part of the Bank Group's country assistance program over the coming years.
82.       The economic and sector work carried out by the Bank over the last few years has
helped to clarify the policy issues and to define action programs for Bank support through either
adjustment operations or investment projects. The broader studies, such as the CEM, the PFP,
and the PER, have provided some of the analytical underpinnings for the economic reforms and
a basis on which the dialogue among the Government, Bank, and donors could be conducted.
The PERs have helped define budget priorities and tradeoffs with respect to the public sector.



- 23 -
A recently completed Poverty Assessment provided insights into the breadth and nature of poverty
in Zambia, explored the impact of the reform program on the poor, and recommended further
reforms and targeted investment programs. The Government's commitment to allocate and
release at least 33 percent of the budget to social-sector and related spending is responsive to the
Poverty Assessment recommendations.
83.       Forthcoming economic and sector work will focus particularly on promoting private
sector growth and improving public sector management. During 1995 and 1996, the work is
expected to concentrate on the prospects for and constraints on achieving significant private sector
growth in agriculture and manufacturing over the coming decade. At the Government's request,
the Bank will also conduct an interim review of the Public Service Reform Program. The review
will focus on analyzing options to achieve efficiency gains in the public service as quickly as
possible, while better integrating the program's implementation with the fiscal constraints facing
the Government. If warranted, the Bank may also assist the Government in increasing donor
coordination and assistance in this area.
84.       Assisting the Government of Zambia in aid coordination is a prominent Bank activity.
There are over a dozen active bilateral and multilateral partners. Much of the aid coordination
takes place in Lusaka, where different groups meet frequently under the leadership of the
Government. The Bank's Resident Representative and visiting Bank missions also regularly brief
the development community. The Bank chairs the Consultative Group which meets in Paris once
or twice a year, and there are country consultations on Zambia at each SPA meeting. By sharing
information and analysis and discussing strategic options, the Government and its partners have
been able to assess frankly the progress and constraints on reform and to arrive at a consensus
as to the overall direction of reform and the necessary next steps. The Bank's economic and
sector work has also contributed significantly to the process of consensus building.
85.      In all of its assistance to Zambia, the Bank will be making an effort to achieve and
measure results. Systematic Client Consultation (SCC), which seeks feedback from beneficiaries
of Bank operations, has previously been built into a number of Bank operations in the social
sectors. It is now systematically being included and planned for under all new investment and
adjustment operations. Also, the identification of a few key sector indicators to measure results,
which will be tracked over the life of the program, is being incorporated into all of the integrated
sector investment operations. Finally, a client feedback survey was carried out recently in
Zambia. The results show a favorable Borrower response to Bank activities, but signal a need
for the Bank. to increase its investment in the social sectors and environment.
B. Iinpleznentation Issues
86.       Bank operations resumed in Zambia at the beginning of 1992, following a hiatus of
several years (September 1987 to March 1991 and again from September 1991 to January 1992)
during which disbursement of Bank loans and IDA credits was suspended due to accumulated
arrears. Since then, implementation of ongoing operations has steadily improved, although
implementation capacity is still constrained. A Country Implementation Review (CIR) in
February 1993 and a Country Portfolio Performance Review (CPPR) in February 1994 identified
problems and sought solutions. Most problems were related to project management capacity,
and both the CIR and the CPPR prepared action plans for addressing procurement, disbursement,
and management problems across all sectors. These plans are being implemented under close
monitoring. Also, a strategy review and evaluation session, attended by the Bank's Country



- 24 -
Team and a majority of the economic and sector Cabinet Ministers, was held in October 1994
to review with Government its development objectives and priorities, and how the Bank's
assistance can best contribute. It was agreed that emphasis would be placed on improving
implementation of on-going efforts and accelerating new investments in four sectors - transport,
education, power and the environment - to help stimulate a more vigorous supply response.
87.      The portfolio management strategy emphasizes increased supervision of ongoing
operations to achieve better results in the field. In addition, direct assistance has been provided
under four IDA Credits - Second Technical Assistance (No. 1679-ZA), the Mining Technical
Assistance (No. 2269-ZA), the Privatization and Industrial Reform Technical Assistance (2406-
ZA), and the Transport Sector Reform and Technical Assistance (No. 2515-ZA) - to strengthen
local implementation capacity in policy formulation and investment planning. Also, projects have
been restructured where necessary to facilitate implementation (e.g., Agricultural Research and
Extension Project, Credit No. 1746-ZA). Two credits [Fisheries (No. 1529-ZA) and the
Development Bank of Zambia (No. 1753-ZA)] were canceled. To strengthen implementation
capacity in the public sector, the Government has adopted a Public Service Reform Program
designed to enhance efficiency and effectiveness in the public service, and the Bank has been
asked to send an interim review mission, scheduled for late-June 1995. In addition, the Bank is
also helping with the Financial and Legal Management Upgrading Project (Credit No.2535)
approved by the Board in July 1993. A number of donors are also providing assistance to this
program.
88.      Zambia has made a commendable effort in bringing overdue audits of project
accounts, special accounts and statements of expenditure up-to-date. Also, since clearing arrears
to the Bank at the end of January 1992, Zambia has remained current in its debt-service payments
to the Bank. There are no overdue payments of more than 30 days. Given the suspensions of
May 1987 to March 1991 and September 1991 to January 1992, Zambia's debt-service payments
are monitored closely.
C. IFC and MIGA Activities
89.      The existing IFC portfolio in Zambia is about US$17 million in six projects. In
recent years, IFC activities in Zambia have concentrated on restructuring the existing portfolio.
There are still a number of investments that require restructuring, and IFC's first priority is to
ensure that existing companies are operating on a satisfactory basis. The Government's current
strategy of emphasizing the role of the private sector and of privatizing the parastatals should
allow a resumption of IFC's investment activity in Zambia. In the first instance, IFC will
support, where appropriate, the privatization program.  IFC  could potentially provide
privatization and restructuring advisory services, play a role in attracting appropriate sponsors
and technical partners and contribute direct equity and loan finance. Upon Government's request,
a FIAS mission provided recommendations to Government for changes in the 1991 Investment
Act, which served as a basis for the 1993 Investment Act. As the investment climate improves,
IFC will investigate new opportunities, especially new foreign exchange earning projects. IFC
has an existing investment in the mining sector, and when Government proceeds with the
privatization of ZCCM, there would be opportunities for additional IFC participation.



- 25 -
PART V: COLLABORATION WITH IMF
90.      The programs of the Bank and Fund in Zambia have been closely coordinated from
the outset. Balance of payments needs are jointly agreed among the Bank, the Fund, and the
Government as part of the PFP and the Consultative Group processes. Bank proposals on trade
and taxation policy, investment incentives, and expenditure targets are kept consistent with the
program's fiscal targets, and the Fund's structural policy benchmarks are developed in close
consultation with the Bank. A joint Bank/Fund mission to prepare the next Policy Framework
Paper was carried out in February 1995, and the PFP is scheduled for Board consideration in July
1995. It is expected that the Fund Board will consider Zambia's structural adjustment program
in August or September. Should they decide that the program can be supported under the ESAF,
the Rights Accumulation Program will be concluded, and the arrears to the Fund will be paid.
PART VI: RECOMMENDATION
91.      I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the Articles of Agreement
of the Association, and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
June 6, 1995






ANNEXES






Annex A
Zartbia:  Social  Indicators                                            Page  1 of  2
Mosr Samr reigonluTcome group        Nc=
Larsr sigle year          rcecnt       .ub-                    higher
onie    Saharrn           Loa'-      incomc
Indicator                                     mcesure            1970-75     195045      19S7-92       Africa     income        group
Priority Poverty Indicators
POVERTY
Upper poverty line                           local CU.        .                    ..      1.380
Headcount index                              % ofpcp.                ..                      64                       19
Lower poverty line                            local curr.                                    962
Headcount index                             % of pop.                                        54
GNP per capita                                  USS                  560         350         450         520          390
SHORT TERM INCONIE INDICATORS
Unskilled urban wages                         local cur.                           ..
Unskilled rural wages
Rural terms of trade
Consumer price index                          1987-100                 9          46       4,415
Lower income
Fooda                                                                6           46       1,469
Urban
Rural
SOCIAL INDICATORS
Public expenditure on basic social services  % of GDP                  ..         ..          3.4
Gross enrollment raiios
Pnmarv                                    % school age pop.          97           99          92          66          103
Male                                            '                   105         105         101          79          113
Female                                                               88          93          92          62           96
Mormaliry
Infant mortaliry                         per thou live births     100.0        89.0        107 0        99 0        73.0         45.0
Under 5 mortaliry                                                    ..          ..        177.5       169 0       108.0         59.0
Immunization
Measles                                    % age group               ..        55.0        76.0         54.0        72.7
DPT                                                                  ..        47.0        79.0         54.6        80.6
Child malnutrition (under-5)                                        24.1        24.7        23.0         28.4        38.3
Life expectancy
Total                                          years                 47          51          48           52          62           68
Female advantage                                                    3.3         3.4         3.3          3.4         2.4          6 4
Total fertility rate                       births per woran          6.7         7.2          6.5         6.1          3.4         3.1
Maternal mortality rate                 per 100,000 live birdts        ..        151
Supplementary Povertr Indicators
Expendirures on social security          %of total gov't exp.         ..         1.3          1.5
Social securiry coverage                  % econ. active pop.          ..         ..
Access to safe water: total                   % of pop.             42.0        58.0         59.0        41.1         68..
Urban                                          '                 86.0        76.0         76.0        77.3        78.9
Rural                                          '                 16.0        41.0         43.0        27.3        60.3
Access to health care                                                 ,.        70.0         75.0
Population growth rate               ti   GNP per capita growth rate                      Development diamondb
6--             average. percent)                      annual average, percent)
I 10 -                                                    Life expectancy
2iI GNP                                                                                                                      Gross
1970-75      1980-85     198S,-92    i         1970-7S    1980-85    19S7-92
K    Zambea -lZarnbla
-       Low-income                                                                                  Low-income
a. Se- the technical notes, p.3S9   b. ne developrnent diamond. based on Four kev indicators, shows the avaage level of development in the countrn
compared with zEs incomc group. See d.e incroduction.



Annex A
Zar-bia:  Social  Indicacors                                                  Tage   2or  2
Hawt Same rq'wonuncamew group         Next
Luara siiieeyew           recent                                higher
Unit of                                   areimwe    Sahzaran         Low-       incomew
Indicator                                      measure       1970-75     1980.45          1987-92        Africa     income         group
Resources and Expenditures
H'LNSA-%N RESOU'RCES
Population (rore-1992)                         thousands            4,841       6,680        8.272      546.390    3,194,535     942,547
Age depcndency ratio                             ratio               0.97        1.04         1.05         0.95         0.67        0.66
Urban                                          % of pop.             34.8        40.9         42.4         29.5         26.7         57.0
Population growth rate                         annual                2.9         3.2          3.0          2.9          1.8          1.4
Urban                                            *5.6                            3.7          3.6          5.1          3.4         4.8
Labor force (15-64)                           thousands             1.665       2,242        2.844     224,025    1,478.954
Agriculture                                 % of labor force          75           73            .
Industry                                                               9           10           3..                       3           36
Female                                             -28                             28           30           3            33
Females per 1 00 males
Urban                                          number                87           93            .
Rural                                                               123          124            .
NATURA-tL RESOURCES
Area                                          thou. sq. km         752.61      752.61       752.61   24.274.03    38.40 1.06   40,697.37
Density                              .      pop. per sq. km           6.4         8.9         10.7         21.9         81.7         72.3
Agricultural land                            % of land amea          47.1        47.3         47.4         52.7         50.9
Change in agricultural land                    annual %               0.0         0.1          0.0          0.1          0.0
Agr-icultural [and under irrigation               % .                 0.1         0.1          0.1          0.8         18.2
Forcsts and woodland                          thou. sq. kii          299          292          288
Deforestation (net)                            anrnual %                ..                      1.1
INCONrE
Household income
Share of top 201% of households             % of income              63            ..SO.                                42
Share ofbottorn40%/ofhouseholds                                       DO          I.1                        ..          19
Share of bontom 20% of households                                     4            ..6                       ..8
EXPEND ITURE
Food                                          % of GDP               22.7        25.8
Staples                                                                         I .  55.
Meat, fish, milk, cheese, eggs                                      10.0        1.
Cereal imports                            thou. neoric tonnes         164         201          651       20.311       46,537       74,924
Food aid in cereals                                                     5         116          330        4.303        9.008        4,034
Food production per capita                    1987  100               141          95           73           90          123
Fertilizer consumption                           kg/ha                1.5         2.3           1.8         4.2         61.9
Shameofagriculturein GDP                      %ofGDP                 13.1         13.1        15.7         18.6         29.6
Housing                                       %ofGDP                  5.8          7.6
Average household size                   persons per household        4.0           .
Urban
Fixed investment: housing                      of GDP                4.8         0.3
Fuel and power                                % of~GDP                1.9         3.1
Energy consumption per capima               kg of oil equiv.         383          2.37         158          258          335        1,882
Households with electricity
Urban                                      % of households             .           ..
Rural                                                                  . 
Transport and commiunicezion                   % of GDP               3.9          3.8
Fixed investinr.E: transport equipmenit                              6.0          1.7           .
Total road length                              thou. kmn               36          37           39
I,NNESTNMENT lI'q HtNIA0 CAPITAL
Health
Population per phYsician                        persons            13.486       7,076       10.917
PopulaEion per nurse                                                1,698         743          583                      ,050           16
Population per hospital bed                        -300                           284            .         .2           .5            1
Oral rehydyration therapy (under-5)            V. of cases              ...89                                36           39
Education
Gross enrollment ratio
Secondary                                 % of school-age pop.         1 5         1 8          20           1 8          4 1
p emale                                                              1I0          1 3          1 4          1 4          35!
pupil-teacher riati: primary               pupils per teacher          48          49           44           39           37          26
Pupil-teacher ratio: secondary                                        2.3          2.3          28            ..19
Pujpils reaching grade,                       %  of cohort             9,6        100
Repeater rate: PrimarY                       of total enroll           2           2
Illiteracy                                % of pop. (age 15+)          ..33                     27           51          39
Feal                                 .% of fern. (age 15-~')       ..41                     35           62           52
Newspaper tirculation                        per thou, pop.            22          18           13           14            *          0
W0ioric 3ank Lnzcrnationai Economics Depar.mnent- April 199- 



Annex B
Page 1 of2
Zambia: Key Macroeconomic Indicators, 1992-2003
1992     1993      1994     1995      1996      1997      1998     1999      2000      2003
GrowthRateofGDP                                -2.5%     6.5%     -5.1%     1.5%      6.0%     6.0%      5.0%      5.0%      5.0%      5.0%
Real Per Capita Growth Rates:
Gross Domestic Product (GDP)                  -5.4%      3.1%    -7.8%     -1.3%     3.1%      3.1%      2.1%      2.1%     2.1%      2.1%
Total Consumption                             10.4%     -7.8%   -10.1%      4.0%      1.5%    -1.5%      1.5%      0.4%     -3.2%     2.4%
Private Consumption                           17.9%     12.7%    -9.9%      5.0%     -1.9%    -1.3%      0.7%     -0.5%     -4.6%     1.5%
Debt and Debt Service (LT+ST+IMF):
Total DOD (US$M)                               6943      6788     6232      6366     6669      6948      7248      7533     7658      8216
Total DebttGDP                               215.8%    191.3%   178.6%    172.7%    173.6%    167.9%    163.4%    158.0%    149.7%    129.5%
Debt Service (US$M)                             743       652      605       513       395      340       476       648      655       512
Debt Service/Total Exports                    61.7%    61.8%    52.2%    39.9%    31.9%    27.8%        35.6%    49.6%    46.4%      28.3%
Debt Service/GDP                              23.1%     18.3%    17.3%     13.9%    10.3%      8.2%     10.7%     13.6%    12.8%      8.1%
Interest Burden (LT+ST+TMF)V
interestPaid(USSM)                              169       155       160      175       212      214       215       219      221       221
lnterestDue(US$M)                               325       245      255       226       212      214       215       219      221       221
Interest/Total Exports                        26.4%    21 9%    22.0%    17.6%       17.1%    17.5%     16.0%     16.7%    15.7%     12.2%
Interest/GDP                                   9.8%     6.5%      7.3%      6.1%     55%       5.2%      4.8%      4.6%     4.3%      3.5%
As a Share of GDP in LCU
Resource Balance                             -I1.9%     -5.6%    -2.8%    -9.3%    -11.5%    -11.8%    -10.5%    -11.3%    -91%      -5.9%
Investment                                    14.1%     10.3%     9.2%     13.8%    14.3%     16.9%     17.3%     19.9%    21.9%     22 1%
Gross Domestic Savings                         2.2%      4.7%     6.3%      4.5%     2.8%      5.1%      6.8%      8.6%    12.9%     16.2%
Foreign Savings                               23.4%     13.3%    10.8%     15.6%    17.3%     17.3%     15.7%     16.1%    13.5%      9.5%
ICOR                                            -6.7      -1.5    -2.33      8.87      1.96     1.94      3.14      3.23     3.73      4.35
Nominal Exchange Rate (p.a.) (LCU/US$)           177      460       669      850       970       993      1021      1047     1076      1163
Terms of Trade                                  1.14      1.00      1.08     1.11      1.01     0.95      0.98      0.99     0.96      0.93
Inflation (GDP deflator, p.a.)               167.6%    169.0%    50.7%    32.2%      12.2%     4.0%      5.0%      5.0%      5.0%      5.0%
GovemmentInvestment/GDP                        3.8%      2.9%      4.3%     5.1%      5.1%      5.1%     5.1%      5.1%      5.1%      5.1%
Govemment Savings/GDP                          -4.6%    -7.3%    -3.2%     -1.9%     -0.4%      3.4%     3.5%      3.6%      3.5%      3.6%
Total Revenues/GDP                            18.4%     14.4%     19.3%    19.0%     19.0%     18.6%     184%     18.2%     18.1%     18.2%
Total Expenditures/GDP                        33.1%     26.2%    31.2%    26.8%    25.4%    21.1%       20.7%     20.4%    20.2%      20.1%
Govemment Deficit(-)/GDP  I/                 -14.7%    -11.8%   -11.9%    -7.8%      -64%      -2.5%     -2.4%    -2.2%     -2.1%     -1.9%
Non-InterestDeficit(-)/GDP                     -6.1%    -0.6%      1.1%     1.9%     -0.3%      2.2%      1.6%     11%       0.4%     -0.8%
Export real growth rate                        35%       1.1%    -1.7%      0.5%      3.1%     4.7%      2.9%     -5.9%      76%       4.5%
Importrealgrowthrate                          28.0%    -13.6%     -3.1%    20.8%      1.2%      0.5%     3.1%     -0.7%     -1.0%      2.2%
Current Account Balance(US$M)                   -753      -472     -375      -575     -665      -715      -695     -768      -693      -603
Gross Reserves (months of imports GNFS)          1.7       1.9      2.6       2.0       2.5      3.0       3.6       4.0       4.0       4.0
Source: Bank of Zambia, Central Statistics Office and staff estimates.
Notes: I / Numbers exclude extemal grants.



Annex B
Page 2 of 2
Zambia: Selected Macroeconomic Indicators, 1965-1994
(in percenteges)
1966-74   1975-84   1985-90   1991-94   1966-94
Real Annual Growth Rates:
Gross Domestic Product              3.00      0.30      1.60      -0.28      1.38
Agriculture                        2.10      1.10      2.40       8.00      2.61
Mining                            -3.20     -0.70     -2.60      -4.59     -2.43
Manufacturing                    11.50       0.60      6.80      -1.25      5.23
Construction                      -1.00     -6.80     -4.10      1.06      -3.28
Gross National Income                2.9      -0.6       2.9       -5.1     -0.70
Ratios:
ICOR                                15.9        49       8.2  -121.80        7.03
Gross Domestic Investment/GDP     28.60      22.34     15.34      12.04     21.65
Imports of GNFS/GDP               39.50      39.80     36.70     37.60      38.79
Source: 1965-1989, Monthly Digest of Statistics, Central Statistics Office (CSO);
1989-94, CSO revised accounts, November 1994.
Notes: (1) The figures in real terms for 1965 to 1974 were originally expressed in 1966 Kwatcha;
for 1974 to 1977in 1979 Kwatcha; and for 1975 to 1994 in 1977 Kwatcha.
The above growth rates are based on rebased series in 1977 Kwatcha.
(2) The ratios of investment to GDP and imports to GDP are in current prices.
(3) Imports (goods and non-factor services) are from the National Accounts.
(4) ICOR stands for Incremental Capital Output Ratio.



Annex C
Page 1 of 1
Zambia: Balance of Payments and Financing Requirements, 1992-1996
(in Million US Dollars)
1992     1993      1994     1995     1996
Current Account                 -117       -87     -122      -271     -340
Trade Balance                  -191       -1       107      -162     -328
Exports (f.o.b.)              1111      949      1035     1133     1076
Imports (c.i.f.)             -1302      -950     -928    -1279    -1329
Services (net)                 -529      -452     -462      -409     -385
Interest                      -315      -235     -238     -190      -171
Receipts                       10       10        17       36       41
Payments                     -325      -245     -255     -226      -212
Other Factor                   -13       -20      -19       -19      -21
Non-factor                    -201     -197      -206     -200      -193
Unrequited transfers            603      365       233      300      373
Private                        -33       -19      -19       -20      -20
Official                       636      384       253      320      393
Current Account exluding
interest payments and
official transfers              -427      -224     -120      -365     -521
Debt service obligations        -742      -650     -605     -513      -395
Multilateral                   -241      -211     -191      -150     -117
IMF                            -95       -67      -42       -31       -6
World Bank                     -79       -82      -81       -59      -57
Other multilateral             -67       -62      -68       -60      -53
Non-multilateral               -501     -439      -414     -363      -278
Paris Club                    -407      -336     -306     -281      -201
Other                          -94      -103     -108       -82      -77
Reduction in Arrears            -183       -59      -76    -1167        -
Multilateral                    -80       -99      -20    -1167
IMF                            -32       -67      -20    -1167        -
World Bank                     -39 -                --       -        --
Other multilateral              -9       -32        -        -        --
Non-multilateral               -103       40       -56
Paris Club                    -103       40       -56
Other                            -                  -        -        -
Changes in net intemational
reserves (increase -)            -95       -38     -155       -82      -62
Gross financing requirement    -1447      -971     -956    -2127      -978
Debt Relief 11                   551      359       260      143        -
Financing requirements
after debt relief               -896      -612     -696    -1984      -978
Possible sources of financing    896      612       696     1886      768
BoP assistance                  491      298       262      441      206
World Bank                     165       144      149      215       70
Other donors                   326      155       113      226       136
Commodity assistance            246       90        26       27        28
Project assistance              191      234       252      313      355
Short-term credit flows         -32       -10      156       -97      61
Konkola financing                 -        -         -        0        16
IMF puchases                      -        -         -     1186       28
Financing Gap                      0        0         0       -98     -160
Source: Bank of Zambia and IMF
Notes: 1/Already agreed.






ANNEX D
PAGE     1
Page 1 of 3
AFRVP - Africa Regional Office
AFlDR - Southern Africa Department
AF1C2 - COUNTRY OPERATIONS 2
Status Of Bank Group Operations In ZAMBIA
PFDBR25 - Summary Statement Of Loans and IDA Credits
(LOA data as of 4/30/95 - MIS data as of 05/30/95)
By Country
Country:    ZAMBIA
Amount in USS million
(less cancellations)
Loan or        Fiscal                                                                                           Undis-  CLosing
Credit No.       Year   Borrower                           Purpose                        Bank          IDA      bursed   Date
Credits
29 Credits(s) closed                                                                                  761.21        3.86
C17430-ZM       1987    ZAMBIA                             COFFEE II                                  20.40       18.59  06/30/99(R)
C17460-ZM       1987    ZAMBIA                             AGR. RES.& EXT.                            13.00        4.80  12/31/96(R)
C22690-ZM       1991    ZAMBIA                             MINING TAS                                 21.00        9.22  06/30/97
C22730-ZM       1991    ZAMBIA                             SOCIAL RECOVERY PROJ                       20.00        4.84  07/31/97
C24060-ZM       1992    ZAMBIA                             PIRC TECHNICAL ASSIS                       10.00        6.72  12/31/97
C24220-ZM       1993    ZAMBIA                             MKTG. & PROCESS.                           33.00       28.31  06/30/99
C24290-ZM       1993    ZAMBIA                             EDUCATION REHAB. 1                         32.00       20.58  06/30/98
C25150-ZM       1993    ZAMBIA                             TRANSPORT ENGINEERIN                        8.50        8.53  06/30/97
C25230-ZM(S)   1993    ZAMBIA                              PIRC II                                   100.00       68.08  06/30/95
C25350-ZM       1994    ZAMBIA                             FINANCIAL & LEGAL MA                       18.00       18.08  06/30/99
C25770-ZM(S)   1994    ZAMBIA                              ECON & SOCIAL ADJUST                      150.00       11.31  12/31/95
*   C26210-ZM       1994    ZAMBIA                             PETROLEUM REHAB                            30.00       34.04  06/30/00
C25771-ZMCS)   1995    ZAMBIA                              ECON & SOCIAL ADJUST                       13.70       15.29  12/31/95
C26600-ZM       1995    ZAMBIA                             HEALTH SECTOR                              56.00       60.24  12/31/00
C26980-ZM       1995    ZAMBIA                             AGRICULTURE SECTOR I                       60.00       64.92  12/31/99
C27250-ZM       1995    ZAMBIA                             URBAN RESTRCT &WATER                       33.00       33.00  12/31/01
TOTAL number Credits =   16                                                                            618.60      406.54
Loans
28 Loans(s) closed                                                                       582.13
All cLosed      for      ZAMBIA
TOTAL number Loans =    0
TOTAL***                                                               582.13    1,379.81
of which repaid                                                      458.71         3.93
TOTAL held by Bank & IDA                                                123.42    1,375.88
Amount sold                28.58
of which repaid          28.58
TOTAL undisbursed                                                                               410.41
Notes:
*   Not yet effective
** Not yet signed
*** Total Approved, Repayments, and Outstanding baLance represent both active and inactive Loans and Credits.
(R) indicates formally revised CLosing Date.
(S) indicates SAL/SECAL Loans and Credits.
The Net Approved and Bank Repayments are historical vaLue, aLl others are market value.
The Signing, Effective, and Closing dates are based upon the Loan Department offical data and are not taken
from the Task Budget file.



ANNEX D
Page 2 of 3
ZAMBIA
STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
As of February 28, 1995
(In Millions US Dollars)
- Original Gross Commitments -  Held    Held    Undisb
Fiscal Years                                                                       IFC     IFC                      by       by       incl.
Committed                 Obligor                     Type of Business             Loan    Equity  Partic  Totals  IFC       Partic  Partic
1972/73                   Zambia Bata Shoe Company  General manufacturing             .92      .23    1.13    2.28      .23       -        -
1975/78                a/ Century Packages Limited  General manufacturing             .88      .21       -    1.09        -       -        -
1976                  a! Development Bank of Zambi Development financing                -      .54       -     .54        -       -        -
1980/82                   Zambia Consolidated Coppe Nonferrous metals               45.14        -    8.00   53.14    2.65        -        -
1980/85                   Kafue TextiLe of Zambia L Textiles                        10.74        -       -   10.74    6.07        -        -
1982                  a/ Ethanol Company of Zambia ChemicaLs and petrochemic    3.68           .60       -   4.28         -       -
1984/91                   Zambia Hotel Properties L Tourism                          7.50        -   14.91   22.41    5.96   15.75         -
1985                  a/ Mpongwe Development Compa Food and agribusiness             1.83      .29       -   2.12         -       -        -
1988                  a/ Gwembe Valley DeveLopment Food and agribusiness             3.70      .80            4.50        -       -        -
1989                      Masstock Zambia Limited   Food and agribusiness            8.69        -       -    8.69    2.19        -
1994                      Big Five Car Hire Zambia  Industrial services               .58        -             .58      .58       -        -
Total gross commitments b/                               83.66    2.67   24.04  110.37
Less cancellations, terminations, repayment & sales   66.21    2.44    8.29   76.94
Total commitments now held c/                             17.45     .23   15.75   33.43   17.68   15.75
Pending commitments
AEF-KAYILA LODGE                                            .19        -       -     .19              -
Total pending commitments                                   .19        -       -     .19
Total commitments held and pending commitments            17.64     .23   15.75   33.62
Total undisbursed commitments                                 -        -       -    0.00
a/ Investments which have been fuLLy cancelLed, terminated, written-off, sold, redeemed, or repaid.
b/ Gross commitments consist of approved and signed projects.
c/ Held commitments consist of disbursed and undisbursed investments.



ANNEX D
Page 3 of 3
1.    Zambia's investment portfolio is growing rapidly, with two new investment projects in
FY94 and four more in FY95. As a result, annual disbursements under the investment credits are
increasing and by May 31, 1995 reached US$ 39.8 million. The percentage of the total
investment portfolio which has been disbursed remained constant in FY94 and FY95, at about
14 percent (low because most of the portfolio is under three years old). In FY95, disbursements
for the structural adjustment credits have also remained constant, as compared to FY94, at about
US$150 million.
2.    As of March 31, 1995, the disbursement lag for the investment portfolio was about 17
percent1. To address issues associated with slow disbursements, during the past twelve months
the disbursement officer visited Zambia more regularly, the Resident Mission appointed a local
procurement/disbursement analyst and dormant Special Accounts were reactivated. As of March
31, 1995, only two Special Accounts remained inactive compared to seven in January 1994.
3.    For the projects disbursing at a slower pace than originally estimated, the status is as
follows:
Petroleum Rehabilitation (C262 1) Not yet effective; effectiveness conditions expected to be
fulfilled by July 1995.
PIRC II (C2523)                 Second tranche release is under management review and is
expected to be recommended shortly to the Executive
Directors.
Financial and Legal Management  Bids for the largest procurement packages, accounting for
Upgrading (C2535)              more than one third of the total IDA financing, were
evaluated in March and are expected to be signed shortly.
Transport Engineering (C2515)    Nearly all contracts have recently been cleared by the Bank,
and the Govermment has strengthened project management
by appointing the Executive Director of the National Road
Board as the Project Coordinator.
Coffee II (C 1743) and Ag. Res. &  The disbursement level is expected to increase with the
Ext. (C 1746)                  integration of both operations into the Agricultural Sector
Integrated Project (ASIP).
4.    Zarnbia has made a commendable effort in bringing overdue audits of project accounts,
special accounts, and statement of expenditures up-to-date, and currently has one of the best
records for audits in the region.
I For all active investment projects comprising the Bank's country portfolio, the percentage difference between
actual disbursements and the cumulative disbursement estimates as given in the 'Revised Forecast' in the MIS
system.






ZAMBIA: ERIP Matrix of Policy Conditionality
Objectives and Targets                         Actions                    Condition/Timing/
Status/Comment
A. Macro        *   Maintain macro-economic policy        Macro program consistent with fiscal and    Fulfilled for Board
economic        framework consistent with objectives of   monetary targets agreed with IDA and  Presentation. Second
and Fiscal      economic reform program              IMF                                     Tranche not yet due
Policies                                                                                                           l
*   Improve revenue mobilization while   Implement the VAT according to agreed   Second Tranche
reducing reliance on trade and indirect   timetable
taxes and minimizing distortions to
economic incentives
*   Continue redirection of public spending    Total allocations for social-sectors  Done
from low-priority areas to infrastructure   (education, health, safety nets and water
and social services                  and sanitation) in 1995 budget to be at
least 33 percent (and allocation for non-
personnel recurrent expenses in social
sectors to be at least 24 percent) of total
non-interest allocations
Actual budget releases for social sectors to   Second Tranche
be at least percentages described above
*   Improve cash-budget mnanagement      Improve controls over commitments by    Structural benchmark in
procedures to control spending and to  ministries and provinces to avoid    IMF program
avoid surprises causing recourse to  accumulation of domestic arrears
deficit financing or undesirable changes
in composition of spending           Maintain cash budget system and        Reflected in LDP
strengthen it by better integration of budget
forecasts of receipts from donor assistance
and of expenditures on debt service
*   Achieve a lower average tariff       Abolish the 'up-liftw factor at time of  See condition on VAT
introduction of VAT                    above
Reduce tariff levels further in 1996   Reflected in LDP
0
U,h



Objectives and Targets                         Actions                    Condition/Timing/
Status/Commnent
B. Financial    *   Government to rely on private sector for  Government to confine its efforts to  Reflected in LDP
Sector          decisions on capital formation and   mobilize term resources to official and
Reforms         investment                           concessionary sources of funds
*   Adopt new policy principles, framework   Government decision to restructure DBZ as  Done
and strategy for provision of term   an apex institution that mobilizes funds
finance to private sector, by: (i)   from concessionary sources and to transfer
ensuring mechanism is in place to    DBZ loan portfolio to a separate collection
mobilize concessionary foreign currency   entity
term resources for on-lending to
financial institutions; (ii) pursuing the  Government decision to privatize  Done
collection of overdues from clients of  Eximbank and Lima Bank, and if
GRZ-owned term lenders; and (iii)    privatization is not feasible to close down
privatizing the state owned term lending   both institutions
and specialized institutions, otherwise
close them down                      Submit to Parliament draft DBZ          Second Tranche
legislation; complete sale or liquidation of
Eximbank and place Lima Bank on ZPA's
program for privatization or liquidation;
and timely implementation of other aspects
of DBZ action plan
*   Reforming policies and laws for      Decide which ministry would be          Done. Ministry of
insurance industry and pension-fund  responsible for prudential regulation of  Finance designated
management companies                 pension-fund management companies
e M
(D >
F-h
K)n



Objectives and Targets                          Actions                    Condition/Timing/
Status/Comment
B. Financial                                              Submit to Parliament draft legislation,  Second Tranche
Sector                                                satisfactory to IDA, to regulate and
Reforms                                               supervise insurance and pension-fund
(cont'd.)                                              management companies and establish
necessary regulatory and supervisory
agency(ies)
C. Social       *   Reform Social Security/Pension Fund
Security        System as follows:
Reform
for short term:                       Adopt action plan, satisfactory to IDA,  Done
specifying the social security reform
strategy and implementation schedule
Decision to amend modified benefit      Done
formulae and early retirement provisions
and to repeal 22-years-of-service
compulsory retirement law of 1991
Submit to Parliament draft legislation on  Second Tranche
benefit formulae, early retirement and 22-
years-of-service compulsory retirement or
timely implement action plan to finance
resulting liabilities
Adopt action plan, satisfactory to IDA, to    Done
cover unfunded liabilities of public pension
funds
for medium term:                       Adopt action plan, satisfactory to IDA, to    Board Presentation
reform administration and operations of
ZNPF
ru
0
(D >



Objectives and Targets                         Actions                    Condition/Timing/
Status/Comment
C. Social                                                Submit to CLC draft legislation,        Board Presentation
Security                                             satisfactory to IDA, to establish new basic
Reform                                               social security pension scheme and
(cont'd.)                                             independent social security institutions
Submit to Parliament legislation for new  Second Tranche
basic social security pension scheme and
independent social security institutions
D. Mining       0   Revive Zambian mining industry,      Adopt new mining sector Policy Statement,  Done
Sector          particularly copper mining, by attracting   satisfactory to IDA
Reform          new private investment, technology and
and             management to improve the productivity   Submit to CLC draft new Mines and   Board Presentation
Privatiza-      of existing operations and open up new    Minerals Act, and amendments to fiscal
tion of         mining areas using new legal, fiscal and   regime legislation, both satisfactory to IDA
ZCCM            environmental frameworks that are
transparent, stable, internationally  (a) Submit to Parliament draft new Mines    Second Tranche
competitive and non-discretionary    and Minerals Act and draft amendments to
fiscal regime, and (b) adopt mining sector
environmental regulations, both (a) and (b)
being satisfactory to IDA
*   Strengthen capacity of MMMD to       Agree with Govermment Program to        Included in LDP.
oversee new legal, fiscal and        support implementation of new mining    Specifics to be agreed
environmental frameworks             policy, including strengthening of MMMD   under proposed new TA
Credit
0
(D 



Objectives and Targets                                Actions                       Condition/Tinming/
l ____________    _____________________________________           ___________________________________              Status/C o m m ent
D. Minin2         *   Privatize ZCCM                              Cabinet decision on preliminary broad        Done
Sector                                                       outline of ZCCM Privatization Strategy
Reform
and                                                          Government to set up a Privatization Unit    Done
Privatiza-                                                   for ZCCM and appoint a suitably qualified
tion of                                                      and experienced leader for it
ZCCM
(cont'd.)                                                    Government to submit to IDA: (i) a           Done
progress report on actions it has taken so
far to prepare for ZCCM privatization,
including initiatives regarding Konkola
Deep; and (ii) a proposal that specifies the
measures needed and timetable for
preparing and finalizing the Action Plan
for Privatizing ZCCM
Government to complete selection of          Effectiveness
qualified and internationally experienced
Legal and Investment Banking Advisors on
ZCCM, satisfactory to IDA
Submit Action Plan for ZCCM                  Second Tranche
privatization
*   Develop on urgent basis the Konkola        Government as "A' Shareholder will           Done
Deep project                              propose that ZCCM Board adopt a
resolution instructing management to
prepare for joint-venturing Konkola Deep
with majority private-sector ownership and
management
Government to submit a report to IDA         Board Presentation                     Id
describing its strategy for the development                                         W :!
of Konkola Deep project                                                             rD
0
k_n






ZAMBIA
Evolution of Policy Reform Conditionality
ERC                          PIRC                         PIRC i                         ESAC                          ERIP                    RESULTS ACHIEVED
A. MACRO
*   General fiscal and       *   General fiscal and         .   General fiscal and        *   General fiscal and        *   General fiscal and       *   Primary fiscal deficit reduced from
monetary perfonnance         monetary performance           monetary perfomiance          monetary performance          nionetary performance        7 to I percent of GDP;
with specific limit on
net banking credit                                                                                                                              .   Inflation reduccd from over 100
percent to 35 percent.
*   Harmonize sales tax on                                  *   Time-bound action plan   *   Introduce VAT             *   Zambia Revenue Authority has
imports and domestic                                        for VAT                                                    increased tax collection
products                                                                                                               performance;
*    Ensure parastatal
.   Refonm business taxation                                     dividends paid directly                               *   Revenue/GDP increased in 1994
and broaden tax bases                                       to Govemment
*   Redirect budget to       *   Continue redirection of   *   Social sector share of budget
social sectors and within    public spending from          increased from 28 to 33 percent
those to certain priority    low-priority areas to
categories, e.g., drugs      social serviccs
and primary education
*   Increase nominal interest                                                                                          *   Interest rates completely
rates                                                                                                                  decontrolled;
*   Treasury Bill auction established
Improvc budget          *   Cash budget eliminates excess of
management procedures        domestic spending over revenues;
to avoid arrears and
unplanned spending      *   System for monitoring arrears
introdticcd
.   Phase out maize          *   Eliminate maize and                                                                                                 *   Maize and fertilizer subsidies
subsidies                     fertilizer subsidies                                                                                                   eliminated
Fd
oZ
(F
0



ERC                           PIRC                         PIRC 11            I           ESAC                          ERIP                   RESULTS ACHIEVED
B. TRADE
.   Achieve market clearing                                                                                                                           .   Exchange rate set by market forces
exchange rate in second-
window forex market
*   Expand OGL to all but a                                                                                                                   _            All restrictions on imports and
small negative list                                                                  _                                                                exports removed
*    Remove export bans                                                                    *   Eliminate remaining
(except for ivory, oil,                                                                    export ban on maize
maize, and fertilizer)
*   Compress tariff rates    *   Reduce top tariff from      *   More tariff reduction                                  *   Provide relief from       .    Duty exemptions reduced
100% to 50%; adopt             and compression                                            transitional anomalies
strategy for further tariff                                                               in the tariff structure  *    Highest tariff rate reduced from
reduction                                                                                                               100 to 40 percent
*   Introduction of VAT
will automatically      .   Mechanism for relief from tariff
lower protection by          anomalies adopted;
eliminating "up-lift"
factor                  .   Tcmporary suspension of duty on
several key raw materials
Simplify and liberalize                               .   Duty draw back system begins to
duty drawback system                                      make significant payments in 1994
C. AGRICULTURE
*   Begin liberalization of                                                                                                                           *   Marketing of all crops liberalized
maize marketinig
.   Decontrol fertilizer                                                                                                                              .    All prices for agricultural products
prices                                                                                                                                                and inputs decontrollcd
.   Begin reducing           *   Eliminate consumer maize                                                                                             .   Consuer subsidies ended.
consumer maize subsidy       subsidy
D. PRIVATE SECTOR
*   Reform Iivestment Law;   .    Evaluate effectiveness                                                               *    Investment Act of 1991 replaced
prepare iiivestment           of reformed Investment                                                                   with new Act in 1993
guidelines; streamline        Act and Investment
operations of Investment      Center, and adopt                                                                   .    Reorganized Investmcnt Center
Center                        further improvemenit if
necessary                                                                          *   Issued Investment Guidelines
Liberalize licensing for small-                              Prepare action plan for SSE                                                              *   Licensing requirements reviewed
scale enterprise                                             deregulation                                                                                  and simplified for new businesses
Develop action plan for land    Create legal basis for market                           *   Market for leasehold land
market                       in leasehold land and                                          liberalized and regularized
facilitate subdivision of land
and property                                                                                            1
*   Increase budget                                       .    Road Maintenance Fund                   p
allocation for road                                       established, funded by excise tax
maintenance                                                on fuel



ERC                           PIRC                        PIRC 11             I          ESAC                          ERIP                     RESULTS ACHIEVED
E. FINANCIAL SECTOR
*   Reform Securities Law                                   *' Liberalized Foreigni Exchange
transactions, and made the
exchangc rate market determined
.   Eliminated all interventions in
credit allocations and interest rates
*   Establish stock exchange                                                                                           .   BOZ introduced Treasury Bills
and adopt                                                                                                              weekly auctions
capital market                                                                                                    *   Reduced (very recently) high
regulations                                                                                                            reserve and liquidity requirements
for commercial banks
*    Amend Bank of Zambia                                                               *   Passed new Banking and Financial
Act to strengthen                                                                       Services Law, which places all
prudential regulations                                                                  financial institutions under BOZ
of banks                                                                                supervision (implementation is at
initial stages)
*   Issued of BOZ regulations for
banks; continuous efforts to
improve bank supervision
.   Developed a Stock Exchange and
established a Securities Exchangc
commission to regulate it
End public monopoly on    *   Reform business           *   Adopt business            *   Implement simplified     *    Reform insurance        *   Opened the insurance industry to
insurance industry            legislation                    legislation                   procedures of 1993           industry policies and        private companies; new insurance
Investment Act               laws (including              law in drafting
pension-fund
management
companies) and set up
new regulatory and
supervisory agency
.   Prepare action plans for                              .   Adopt policy              .   Adopted new policy and strategy
D)BZ, Exinibank and                                       framework and strategy        for term finance
Lima Bank                                                 for provision of term
finance to private sector
.   Restructure DBZ as       .   Approved restructuring DBZ as
apex bank                    apex institution and creation of
separate collection agency for
.   Creatc collcction             DBZ loan portfolio
agency for DBZ loan
portfolio
.   Approved privatization of
*    Privatize or close down      Eximbank and Lima Bank
Eximbank and Lima
Bank
.    Reform rural credit and   .   Slopped budget allocations to
reorient Ciovemment-         agricultural credit institutions
owned credit                                                        o
institutions



ERC                           PIRC                         PIRC It                       ESAC                          ERIP                    RESULTS ACHIEVED
F. CIVIL SERVICE REFORM
.   Eliminate "ghost          .   Eliminate surplus civil                                  *    Improve retention                                     .   Approved use of in-kind benefits
workers" by physical          service staff and "ghost                                    ineentives for high level                                  for severance payments
survey                        workers"                                                     staff
*    retrenched 12,000 workers.
*   Identify staffing needs in    *   Retrench 10,000 workers                              *    Reduce up-front cash
line ministries               and develop deeper                                           costs of severance                                    *   Nearly all workers now paid by
restructuring program;                                      benefits                                                   check
include compensation
measures                                                                                                          .   Launched a public sector reform
program; ministerial audits begun
G. PRIVATIZATION
.   Announce privatization    a   Adopt overall              .    Update Privatization     .   Begin sale of state-                                   .   Adopted Privatization Act
policy and develop            privatization                  Program                       owned farms
modalities                    plan/strategy                                                                                                      *    Established Zambia Privatization
Agency (ZPA)
*    Enact Privatization Law
*   Offer at least 6 parastatals  *   Complete sale of at least   *   Offer for sale 60                                                               *   Offered for sale 52 companies
for sale                       10 companies; and offer       companies
sale for companies                                                                                                a   Concluded negotiations to sell 23
accounting for 10 percent  .   Reach point of sale for                                                                 companies
of total tumover of           20 companies
companies in program                                                                                              *   Completed sale of 13 companies,
*   Complete sale or                                                                         accounting for 6 percent of
liquidate at least 15                                                                   tumover
companies
.   Offer for salc additional    .   Offer for sale a total of
10 parastatals                60 companies
.   Recruit all key ZPA
staff
*    Establish Privatization                                              _                  PTF set-up
Trust Fund (PTF)
*    PTF received shares in Chilanga
Cement
a   Study options to                                                                    .   Study completed
privatize ZCCM
.   Complete assessment of                                                              .   Initial impact assessment
impact of privatization                                                                 completed
on specific target
I  groupsI
XQ z
(D tm
X
t1
4-



ERC              |            PIRC                        PIRC 11             I          ESAC                          ERIP                    RESULTS ACHIEVED
H. PARASTATALS MANAGEMENT
Complete studies of                                                                   .   Adoption of acceptable                                 *   Liquidating Zambia Airways
Zambia Airways, Post                                                                      financial plan for
and Telecoms, and                                                                         Zambia Airways                                         .   Telecoms separated from Post and
Zambia Railways                                                                                                                                      being commercialized
.   Grant autonomy to all                                                                                              .    UBZ closed
other parastatals
*   ZiMCO to be                                                                                                        .   ZIMCO restructured, and when
restructured and sub-                                                                                                  desired improvement failed,
holding companies                                                                                                      ZIMCO closed
abolished
.   Establish performance
standards
*   Establish autonomy of     .   Study long-term                                                                      .   Utilities given authority to set their
key parastatal utilities      regulatory arrangemenit                                                                  prices based on agreed
and establish transitional    for utilities                                                                            mcchanisms
regulatory system,
including price
adjustment mechanisms
1. SOCIAL SECTORS
.   Implementation schedule   .   Develop improved social
for Social Action             action and program begin
Program                       implementation
.   Increase budget                                                                       .   Meet minimum budget    .   Meet minimum budget    .   Overall budget allocations
allocation for education                                                                  and spending targets for      and spending targets for     improved
key social services in       key social services in
1994                         1995
*   Expand role of NGOs in                                .   Sector strategies adopted
social services delivery
*   Decentralization of service
delivery begun
.   Decentralize delivery of
health and education
services
.   Adopt comprehensive
water sector policy
0



ERC              |           PIRC                         PIRC 11                       ESAC                         ERIP                    RESULTS ACHIEVED
J. SOCIAL SECURITY
*   Reform Social           *   Prepared Cabinet Memorandum on
Security/Pensioni Fund      Social Security Reform
System
*   Adopt action plan to    *   Adopted reform strategy by
cover unfunded              NSSRISC based on joint Bank/lLO
liabilities of existing     study
statutory pension funds
*   Repeal 22-years-of-
service compulsory
retiremenit law and
modify benefit
formulae and early
retirement conditions
*   Adopt action plan to
improve administration   *   Approvcd Cabinet Memorandum
and operations of           on Social Security Reform
Zambia National
Provident Fund
*   Submit to Cabinet
Legislation Committee
(Cl.C) draft legislation
for medium/long term
social security/ pension
fund reforn
t
0
F-h



ERC               |            PIRC                         PIRC 11             |           ESAC                           ERIP              |  RESULTS ACHIEVED
K. MINING SECTOR REFORM
Adopt new mining         *    Mining policy statement approved
sector policy to              by Cabinet
encourage private
sector investment
s    New legal and fiscal framneworks
Adopt new legal, fiscal       have been drafted and submitted to
and environmiental            the dCL
frameworks
*    Strengthen capacity of    *    T1raining and reorganization plan
Ministry of Mines to          prepared under mining sector
oversee new legal,            technical assistance
f'iscal and
environmental
frameworks
* Adopt anid begin         *    The Government has established a
implementing plans to         Mining Privatization Unit. Process
privatizc and                 underway to recruit investment
restructure ZCCM              bank and legal advisors
*    Shareholders have taken a decision
to develop Konkola Deep as a
private-sector owned and managed
project. The Government has been
holding discussions with potential
* Adopt plans to develop        private investors.
Konkola Deep prQlect
on urgenit basis in joint-
venture with private
sector in manner
resulting in majority
private-sector
owniership and
0
'-.1






Annex G
Page 1 of 2
ZAMBIA
PROPOSED ECONOMIC RECOVERY AND INVESTMENT PROMOTION CREDiT
Performance Indicators
To assist in assessing the success of the operation several indicators will be used. These are
impact indicators, as distinct from the process or policy indicators which refer to agreed policy
measures, decisions or approvals which are spelled out in the policy matrix. The selected impact
indicators will typically be reviewed after the operation has been formally implemented, i.e.
depending on the component, over the medium term period, two to five years following the closing
date. The long term impact, say beyond five years, could also be judged with the help of the same
indicators, but the link of causality between the actions undertaken under the operation and results
will become increasingly difficult to trace. Realistically, even within the medium term period, direct
causality will be subject to a dose of judgement, even arbitrariness. The proposed indicators will not
substitute for in-depth quantitative and qualitative assessments of results in due course. The indicators
will be a convenient and, it is hoped, rapid manner of monitoring progress.
It is intended to use the following indicators for the main components of the ERIP.
Macro Indicators
The base period for purposes of comparison will be 1991-1994.
*     Growth rate of real GDP* l'
3     Index of industrial production and output of main crops.*
3     Current Account Balance, with particular attention to non-traditional exports.
3     Inflation (CPI).
*     Domestic Savings and Domestic Investment relative to GDP.
*     External Debt and External Debt Service relative to Exports.
Two additional indicators that are important at this stage in Zambia are:
*     Introduction of Value Added Tax, and revenue generated (after one full year
of application)
* As GDP may only be available with a long lag, the index of industrial production could be a proxy,
together with results of main crops, even though agricultural production in itself is only indirectly
related to the policies under the proposed operation.



Annex G
Page 2 of 2
*     Privatization: (i) number of companies offered for sale, that have reached the
point of sale, and whose sale is completed, and (ii) Government subsidies to
parastatals and the amount of operating losses in relation to GDP.
The revenue attributed to VAT wil be compared both to revenue in the base period
attributable to the indirect taxes being replaced and to the forecast made of revenue from the new tax.
RI;nancial Indicators
*     Change in the share of bank credit going to the private sector.
*     Mobilization of foreign financial resources by the reformed DBZ for on-
lending and amount used by the other financial institutions.
Social Security
One indicator of institutional success would be the:
e     Financial position of each of the social security/pension fund institutions
(judged by generally accepted standards).
Indicators of beneficiaries' position would be:
*     Reduction in the bacldog of public sector pension contribution arrears; and
*     Reduction in average time lag in payment of public pensions.
Mining Sector
Since the main objective over the medium term is to attract private investment, the
indicator would be:
*     Amount of private investment in: (a) mining exploration and (b) mining
operations.
*     Mining output (physical).
*     Cost of production per ton (copper).
As needed, a few more mining specific indicators, as proposed by the Bank's Industry
& Energy Department, may be added.



ANNEX H
Page 1 of 1
ZAMBIA
ECONOMIC RECOVERY AND INVESTMENT PROMOTION CREDIT
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
Timetable of Key Events
(a)   Time taken to prepare:           11 months
(b)   Operation prepared by:           Ministry of Finance; Ministry of Mines and
Mineral Development; and Ministry of
Labor and Social Security
(c)   Project identification:          May 1994
(d)   Appraisal mission:               February 1995
(e)   Negotiations:                    April 1995
(f)    Planned date of effectiveness:  July 1995
(g)   Relevant PIRs and Project Performance Audit Reports:
PIRs:
Export Rehabilitation and Diversification Project
(Ln. 2391-ZA), June 1991
Industrial Reorientation Project
(Cr. 1630-ZA), June 1991
Economic Recovery Credit
(Cr. 1720-ZA), June 1992
Second Economic Recovery Credit
(Cr. 2214-ZA), June 1993
Project Performance Audit Reports
Export Rehabilitation and Diversification
(Ln. 2391-ZA), June 1992 (#10847)
Industrial Reorientation Credit
(Cr. 1630-ZA), June 1992 (#10846)
Economic Recovery Credit
(Cr. 1720-ZA), June 1993 (#12100)
Second Economic Recovery Credit
(Cr. 2214-ZA), June 1994 (#13238)






Annex I
OFFICE OF THE NNISTER
MNISTRY OF FINAN4CE
P.O. BOX 50062
LUSAKA
Ref: MF/101/12/6SEC
Mr. Edward V.K Jaycox
Vice President Africa Region
The World Bank
Washington D.C., 20433
Dear Mr. Jaycox:
Re: ZA.MBIA - ECOtNOivNTC RECOvERY AND INVESTMENT PROIMOTION CREDIT
Letter of Development Policv
1.     Ir. early 1992 our Government reached agrecment with the World Ban' and the INMF on a
Policy Framework Paper (PFP) setting out the objectives of decreasing poverty and tncreasing the
general standard of living by restoring Zambia's prospects for sustainable economic growth. We
outlined the reforms necessary to achieve these aims, including a sharp reduction in the size of the
public sector through a programnme of privatization, moving the economy towards private sector
initiative and free market pri.tples, and reversing the decline in the performance of Zamnbia's social
sectors' delivery system of the past two decades.
2.     Good progress is being made in implementing this program with the assistance of the
international community. In particular, the privatization and parastatal reform programme was the
focus of the First and Second Privatization and Industrial Reforrm Credits (PIRC I and [I), approved by
IDA in June 1992 and June 1993, respectively. Further reforms, introduced in 1994 to bring about
macroeconomic stability and more effective deliveryv of social services, were supported by the
Economic and Social Adjustment Credit (ESAC), approved by IDA in March 1994.
3.     The Government recognizes that the task of reforming the whole structure of Zambia's
economy, including its financial and mining sectors, will require further policy reform efforts and
improved program implementation, as well as continued support from the donor community, including
IDA.
4.     Tne purpose of this Letter is to inform you about our policies and programs for the 1995-1997
period, particularly in the areas of macro-economic stability, economic growth, financial sector
restructuring, sociai security reform and mining sector reform  for which we seek IDA assistance
thraugh the Economic Recovery and Investment Promotion Credit (ERIP).
Ohjectif e' nlncl nn nro-Econnmic Frmncl'nr!  195-199.
5.     Over the next three years, the Government will aim to achieve positive per capita income
growth in a stable macroeconomic environment. We will also make a determined effort to restore
external viability by reducing Zambia's dependence on external assistance and vulnerability to external
shocks by implementing policies aimed at increasing domestic savings, expanding exports, containing
imports and building up external reserves. The Government's ultimate objective in promoting
economic growth is to reverse the high and rising incidence of poverty in Zambia which has led to
almost 70 percent of the Zambian people living below the poverty line. This objective will be pursued



by implementing a strategy of sustainabiL economic growth which generates strong demand for labor,
while also providing improved basic social services to the poor.
6.      Government activity will focus on reinforcing the conditions for private sector expansion, by
increasing public investment in infrastructure and social services, and by augmenting the supply of
investible resources and encouraging thtir efficient use. The Public Investment Programme 1995-1997
(PIP) gives emphasis to the rehabilitation of infrastructure, which should help in increasing
productivity in the private sector. By fiot using domestic savings to finance deficits, the Government
will contribute directly to the quantity of resources available for private sector investment. The
privatization programme will be speeded Lu -ird the parastatal reform programme will move forward
decisively in 1995 with the dissolution of Zi xC,D) having been .achievedL
7.      The 1995-1997 programme objective is to achieve growth rates of GDP of 4 percent in 1995
and 5 percent in 1996 and 1997. If attaineJ. p- capita income will begin to rise and per capita
consumption will stabilize so that higher savings can sustain investment. By encouraging labor-
intensive activities, such as smallholder agriculture and small-scale industry, employment will grow
along with GDP. These growth rates will also permit improvements in social service delivery.
8.      Higher levels of growth should be possible. Economic reform is generating the resources
needed to raise investment, and Government policies are encouraging the more efficient use of
resources. Good qualirv agricultural land is plentiful; skilled and unskilled labor are available; and the
industrial sector has excess capacity. Private sector access to credit is improving. Markets have been
liberalized; and counterproductive regulations and market restrictions are being reduced. Incentives
exist for higher levels of domestic savings and the return of flight capital.
9.      To meet the investment and growth targets, domestic resources will have to be supplemented
by private foreign capital which is being attracted by positive real interest rates, the liberalization of the
economy, the opportunities provided by privatization, and by confidence that economic stability will
be maintained.
10.     Revenue Measures. Revenue will continue to improve over the programme period as a result
of the Government's tax reform programme. Raising revenue with a minimum of distortions will
contribute to economic growth.  By improving compliance and broadening the tax base, higher
revenues will help reduce tax rates. We intend to continue our trade liberalization programme, as
increased revenue allows reductions in tariff rates. This will shift incentives toward exports and
efficient import substitutes, contributing to increased productivity and growth, as well as to external
viability.
11.     The major tax policy change in 1995 will be the introduction of a value-added tax (VAT).
The advantages of converting to VAT include broadening the tax base to enhance the buoyancy and
stability of revenue flows, enhancing Zambia's export competitiveness, and providing all VAT-
registered producers with relief from taxes paid on inputs, including capital goods.
12.     Personal income tax bands have been adjusted in the 1995 Budget to alleviate "bracket creep",
thereby restoring some of the intended progressivity of the tax, and more cash benefits are being
included in the base. and the pay as you earn (PAYE) audits are enforcing this policy. Incorporating
non-cash benefi[s in PAYE will be considered. Irnproving capacity at the Zambia Revenue Authority
(ZRA) should make this possible in 1996. Over 1996 to 1997, other policies will be considered to
broaden the tax base and minimize opportunities for tax evasion. Only those duty exemptions which
are covered by legislation or international commitments w ill be honored. Future statutory exemptions
will only be granted after study of their revenue impact and administrative feasibility. Non-tax revenue
mobilization will also be increased. A mechanism for adjusting fees and charges for inflation has been
put in place. Incentives for ministries and departments to improve collections of fees and charges has
also been instituted. The collection of dividends will improve with the dissolution of ZIMCO and the
transfer of responsibility to the Ministry of Finance.
13.     Additional measures will be taken to strengthen ZRA. M.>  -es being adopted to improve
tax administration include creating integrated teams for auditing large t_xpayers, moving toward more
self assessment and automation, improving the effectiveness of Customs, charging interest and



-2-
penalties on late payments by all taxpayers, and computerizing all tax departments. The Fines and
Fees Act of 1994 is now in place. This Act provides for formulae and procedures for increasing the
fines and fees payable under legislation enacted before 1994.
14.     Expenditures. The share of government expenditure in GDP is projected to drop sharply
from 33 percent in 1994 to 26 percent by 1997, primarily because of a reduction in interest payments
and expenditure on agricultural marketing. Nevertheless, the real 'evel of non-interest expenditure will
increase, reflecting more adequate provision for expenditures on tiie social sectors and infrastructure.
The Government will improve control over the level of spendin- and adjust the allocation of spending
across sectors and functions. This is intetnded to increase growth by in. reasing the amount of resources
available for the private sector and by increasing the productivity of private sector investment through
enhanced quantity and quality of vital public services. The cash budget will be maintained, while
control over spending will extend to commitments made by ministries and departments.
15.    In the allocation of public resources, high priority will be  've-i to social sectors and
infrastructure. The 1995 Budget increased real expenditures on health and cducation by 12 percent and
19 percent, respectively. An effort will be made to increase such expenditures again in 1996 and 1997.
As regards infrastructure, the Government will be supporting growth by improving roads, bridges,
railways, communications, and rural electrification.
16.     The Government will improve its control over line departments' wage bills inter alia by
budgeting for and controlling all forms of personal emoluments, strict enforcement of Government's
hiring freeze and computerizing manual payrolls. At least two more overseas missions will be closed.
Expenditure commitments will be strictly monitored and all major expenditure items included in the
Budget. An operational mechanism for controlling expenditure commitments is being developed and
should become operational in the course of 1995.
17.     Beginning with the 1995 Budget, the Government is moving away from  incremental
budgeting and toward programme budgeting. A pilot set of ministries and provinces submitted
"programme-based" budgets for part of their budgets. The exercise links budgetary allocations to well-
defined objectives and targets, using realistic norms for costing. The exercise will be reviewed and the
lessons learned used to help all ministries and provinces shift toward programme based budgeting
procedures for 1996 through the preparation of a Medium Term Plan and Forward Budget.
18.     Receipts from the divestiture of parastatals will be used in a way which will not create future
structural imbalances in the budget, which would arise if such one-time receipts were used to fund
recurrent expenditure. Such receipts will be used only for one-time expenditures as provided under the
Privatization Act.
19.     Our objective is to create a smaller and more efficient civil service, allowing higher wages to
be paid to civil servants within an overall expenditure envelope of some 4 percent of GDP. To achieve
this, a civil service reform plan will be adopted in 1995 based on strategies for lowering the number of
public sector workers and remaining within the Government's fiscal constraint. (See para. 46.)
20.     To make more effective use of donor project assistance, the Government is adopting an
integrated sectoral investment approach under which the Government takes the lead in setting forth a
comprelhenisive sector plan w,hich can be supported b> donors. This ap.proach - which is already
underway in health and agriculture - will be extended to education, roads, power and environrment.
21.     Monetarv Policy. The objectives of monetary policy over the next three years are to build on
the Government's achievements in reducing inflation and to maintain a stable financial environment.
The inflation rate fell to 35 percent in 1994 after five years of annual inflation in excess of 100 percent,
and the expectation is to bring it down to single digits by 1997. To encourage growth and move
towards external viability, fiscal and monetary policies will make additional credit available to the
private sector. Within the framework of a prudent monetary policy, adherence to the fiscal objectives
outlined above will facilitate the availability of credit to promote private sector-led growth.
22.     In 1994, the Bank of Zambia continued working towards the utilization of indirect inst: uments
for monetary policy implementation. The efficiency of the financial system had been hampered by the



-3-
distorting effects of the high statutory reserve ratio which led to a wide spread betweeni lending and
deposit rates. Early this year, the Bank of Zambia reduced the statutory reserve ratio from 27 percent
to 3 percent and converted the statutory reserves into govemment bonds which led to a sharp
narrowing of the spread. The core liquid asset ratio has also been lowered from 35 percent to 20
percent and will be reduced further consistent with the principle of relying on indirect ;itstruments.
23.     With the statutory ratios playing less of a role, the Bank of Zambia will rely more on other
instruments. In March, 1995 the Bank started open market operations (OMO) to influence liquidity
conditions in the economy. The Bank of Zambia will enlarge its portfolio of securities for trading in
open market operations. The Government understands that success of this new system will depend on
maintaining prudent fiscal management.
24.     Monetary restraint led to a substantial accumulation of foreign reserves during 1994; even
though gross official reserves felLby US$60 million in the first quarter of 1995, our aim in the lS95-
1997 programme remains a substantial increase in official reserves over the end-1994 figure to reiuce
Zambia's vulnerability to external shocks. The management of Zambia's exchange reserves has
improved and further efforts will be made in 1995.
Financial Sector Reform
25.     Considorable progress has been made in strengthening and restructuring the Bank of Zambia
(BOZ). The Banking and Financial Services Act came into effect in November 1994; this Act has
helped to strengthen BOZ's supervisory authority over commercial banks and brought selected non-
bank financial institutions under BOZ supervision. The minimum required capital for a bank has been
raised. Banks have been given one year to meet the new minimum capital requirements. In addition,
earlier BOZ prudential guidelines have been made into statutory regulations, and are being brought up
to international standards. The Bank of Zambia is developing a system to provide early warning of
potential problems and will establish criteria to evaluate bank's solvency. The BOZ's capacity to
enforce prudential regulations will be further strengthened by means of: (i) improved terms and
conditions of employment, and (ii) training.
26.     During the coming three years, we will continue efforts to place the responsibility for capital
formation, investment and credit decisions in the hands of the private sector. This policy implies that
the Govemment-owned financial institutions, currently involved in the mobilization and/or allocation
of term resources would be privatized, and if that is not possible, they would be liquidated. It also
implies that Government would no longer provide budget funds to those institutions and would limit its
term-resource mobilization activities to sources that require a state guarantee and/or to concessionary
funds. The implementation of this policy will be facilitated by taking advantage of the strengths of the
commercial and merchant banking subsectors in Zambia. When completed, the reforms will obviate
the need for Government to use budget resources to finance private investmnent through Government
controlled term-finance institutions.
27.     As part of this policy, we intend by September 30, 1995, to take all necessary steps to include
Lima Bank in the Zambia Privatization Agency's (ZPA) Program for privatization or liquidation. Lima
Bank. wNhich has pro'ided some term  funds for agricultural investment is facing serious financial
difficulties which suggest that it will be unable to provide credit beyond the verv limited amounts
collected on existing loans. Term resources to the agricultural sector will be provided instead in the
form of term credit from private banks and one-time matching grants from the Rural Investment Fund
established under ASIP. The Govemment will also include Eximbank in ZPA's 1995 tranche of
companies being prepared for privatization.
28.     By December 31, 1995, DBZ will be restructured as an apex institution, whose mandate
would be to mobilize term resources from intemational and foreign concessionary sources for on-
le. ding exclusively to eligible retail financial institutions.  DBZ's current loan portfolio will be
tronsferred to a new collection agency.



4-
29.     Regulatory and institutional reforms affecting the insurance sector, currently being prepared,
will enhance their ability to generate long-term capital for investment and ensure their financial
integrity. The preparation of new insurance company legislation, the creation of an updated regulatory
and supervisory regime within this framework, and the establishment of a suitably staffed regulatory
supervisory agency will take place in 1995.
30.     Greater private sector participation will be encouraged in the development of the financial
sector, subject to adequate prudential supervision. Competition in the provision of financial services,
such as insurance and building society funds, is increasing. The recently-passed Competition and Fair
Trading Act will ensure that the former state monopolies do not retain an unfair advantage.
SociaSecuritv Reform
3 i.    An action Plan has been,prepared to reform the Social Security System and we intend to move
ahead with its implementation in 1995. Adoption of the reforms approved by the National Social
Securit- Reform Implementation Steering Committee is planned for mid- 1995. Existing arranagements
will be rationalized to free public resources which can then be allocated to social services for the
poorest groups who currently do not benefit from formal social security schemes. The reforms aim to
establish a more equitable distribution of social security benefits; restructure the social security system
to improve the reliability of benefits; and broaden the scope of the social protection system. The
reform strategy is gradualist and has two phases. The first is a short term phase that includes proposals
for action to arrest the deterioration in the existing social security and pension fund institutions to lay a
base for future reforms, to determnnie Government liabilities and settlement of outstanding pension
claims in CSPF and LASF, to commission and complete an actuarial valuation to determine the
financial standing of the CSPF and extent of unfunded liability, and a strategy for clearance of arrears
of unprocessed data and claims in the ZNPF. In the second longer tertn phase, Government plans to
restructure ihe social security system, with the objective of establishing an affordable social security
system and allowing the creation of voluntary supplementary pension schemes. In this phase, based on
the results of the actuarial valuation, Government will undertake to repeal the compulsory early
retirement provisions for LASF members and formulate proposals for the revision of the early
retirement provisions applicable to civil servants. Pension obligations arising from special early
retirement arrangements have been separated and are budgeted for independently from the financing of
pension benefits. Government has prepared a plan specifying how the unfunded liabilities which have
been incurred through the early retirement provisions will be covered.
32.     The weaknesses in the administration of existing social security institutions are of concem.
TIhe operational problems of the Zambia National Provident Fund (ZNPF) will be addressed in the first
phase of the reform to ensure that the existing ZNPF infrastructure can form the foundation for the new
social security institution charged with the administration of the National Social Security Pension
Scheme (NSSPS). A plan will be prepared to solve the problems relating to the registration of
members and the recording of their contributions, to computerization, to the processing of claims and
to non-compliance by employers so that the new scheme will start on a sound basis.
33.     In the second phase, legislation will be introduced to establish the NSSPS and to create the
new responsible institution. Government efforts will focus on changing the legislation for existing
institLtions to ensure sustainability of pension financing and improved accountability and rransparency
in their administration. The mern-ers ot ;.e boards responsib!e ,or C -.sicn fund mana-enment and
supervision will be appointed by Govemment from nominees of relevant organizations; in particular,
those representing employers and those representing workers. The new scheme will provide basic
social security protection to all employed persons although special transitional arrangements will be
devised for ZNPF members and public servants.
34.      Private pension funds will play an important role in supplementing the national social
security pension schemes. The portability of pension rights is also of concem. We will introduce
legislation, regulation and supervision of private pension funds and coordinate the provisions with
those relating to insurance companies.
External Policy



-5-
35.     As noted above, a key objective of the Governments reform programme will be to move
Zambia towards external financial viability. Zambia's medium-term  strategy, therefore, will be to
strengthen copper production prospects and stimulate non-metal exports and thus to reduce Zambia's
dependence on donor flows by further improving the external account balance and increasing
international rese-ves.
36.     Zambia wil! continue to maintain an exchange system  that is free of restrictions on
international transactioas, and the Bank of Zambia will not intervene in the exchange market other than
to smooth sharp short-term fluctuations of the exchange rate. Thus, the exchange rate will remain free
to play its necessary role in strengthening the balance of payments. The Government will continue to
promote the deepening of the foreign exchange market during the coming years, and in due course the
official exchange rate will be based on the rate in the interbank market.
37.     Zambia remains cominitted to the timely payment of debt service obligations falling due to
multilateral institutions and Pari Club creditors, and will intensify efforts to reach settlement with
other creditors. Major efforts were made in 1994 to meet Zambia's extemal debt service obligations,
and by the end of the year all programmed debt service payments had been made. New procedures for
ensuring timely settlement of debt service obligations have been put in place for 1995 and beyond.
Zambia's gross international reserves are targeted to increase to four months of imports of goods and
services by 1999.
38.     Zambia intends to follow its policy of avoiding public sector borrowing on commercial terms
except for normal short-term trade credits. The stock of short-term debt of the public sector is expected
to decline in 1995 and will not increase thereafter. There will be no new long-term  extemal loan
commitnents except on concessional terms and there will be no external debt swaps. With the
increasing fungibility of external and domestic debt, Zambia will manage its domestic indebtedness
accordingly.
39.     Over the last three years, Zambia's trade policy has aimed at moving from an inward-focused
strategy of import substitution dependent upon high levels of tariff protection to an outward-oriented,
export led strategy based on open markets and international competition. To this end, Zamnbia has
eliminated all direct controls on trade, except for a short list of items controlled for environmental,
health or security reasons, and has sharply reduced the levels and dispersion of import duties. The
three main aspects of Zambia's trade policy are: (i) the long-term commitment to lower tariff levels and
other efforts to promote freer trade within the region and intemationally; (ii) special programs and
efforts to address the problems of exporters, including the anti-export bias arising from the substantial
import tariffs still in place; and (iii) interim measures to address instances of negative protection,
especially those arising from differential tariff levels across trading partners and the lack of a common
extemal tariff within the region.
40.     The Government is committed to move from a tariff structure with rates spread from 0 to 40
percent to one with rates confined to the 0-20 percent range by 1998. Moreover, tariffs on materials
and many intermediate goods will be low or zero to support the export effort. The elimination of the
uplift factor with the introduction of the VAT in July 1995, will accomplish about a 5 percentage point
reduction in the overall level of protection. The next step will be taken in the context of the 1996
Budget. compensating for reductions in tariff rates with increased revenues from other sources, if
nee'_ed. The 1996 step V ill be designed. a!ong %:ith that for I " S7. to gen-7ate a smooth transition to
the 1998 targets over the three-year period. This program for general tariff reformn is consistent with
the understanding reached at the Cross Border Initiative (CBI) Meeting of ministers in Mauritius
(March 24-25, 1995).
41.     Zambia will also continue to work closely with regional organizations to promote regional
trade as part of the CBI initiative. The Government recognizes that an increase in the flows of trade
and investment across regional borders will increase the efficiency in all countries and broaden the
market for all countries' products. Preferences under the COMESA agreement are already being
applied, with rates at no more than 40 percent of non-COMESA rates. The Govemment is prepared to
lower these rates further on a reciprocal basis as ?art of its broader commitments under the regional
Cross Border Initiative and plans to remove all tarnlfs for goods from participating COMESA partners
by 1998.



-6-
42.    Although substantial progress has been made in recent years in improving the environment for
exporters, they continue to face serious disadvantages, including the high rate of import tariffs and
cascading rates of domestic taxation. These disadvantages will be greatly lessened by the above tariff
changes and the move to a VAT. Moreover, Government will continue to facilitate exports through the
market-determined exchange rate, the expansion of credit facilities and the improvement in basic
infrastructure. The introduction of VAT will provide exporters with quick and complete refunds of
domestic indirect taxes, including those on seivices. To ease the anti-export bias arising from import
taxes, efforts to improve the duty drawback system will continue. Resources will be assured and
refunds will be provided through the Zambia Revenue Authority in a timely manner.
43.    Instances of negative protection exist in Zambia for three primary reasons. First, in some
cases, the rate of tariffs on outputs (education and health goods, for example) in the general schedule is
lower than the rate on inputs. In such cases the producer can apply for relief under special provisions
already established. A second source of negative prctection is tariff evasion on competing final
products. During its first year of operation, the ZRA has increased collection rates, thereby reducing
this type of anomaly, and every effort will continue to further improve customs administration. The
difference between COMNESA and non-CONESA tariff schedules - and the lack of a common external
tariff in the region - constitutes a third source. The one-year suspension of tariffs on some raw material
categories announced in the 1995 Budget is addressing such cases, but the Government will explore a
more even-handed approach for 1996. This problem will be largely solved by 1998 through the
lowering of Zambia's external tariffs and the move by participating CBI countries towards a
harmnonized external tariff structure.
Public Sector Reform Programme
44.    The current number of Public Service workers cannot be adequately supported by Zambia's
economic base. There are too many employees in the Service which is too costly to operate. At the
same time, earnings levels, especially for skilled positions, are too low to attract and retain skills.
Moreover, the best use is not made of available manpower because of inappropriate management and
organizational structures and inefficient systems of personnel management. As a result, the public
service has become ineffective, inefficient, and unresponsive to the country's needs.
45.    The Public Sector Reform Programme (PSRP) has three components aimed at increasing the
efficiency of existing personnel. First, individual reorganization plans are being developed for each
ministry. All of the first group of 18 strategic plans should be submitted for Government approval by
June 1995. These plans reassess and clarify the objectives of each ministry and then reorganize
components and reassign personnel to best achieve those objectives.  Second, Cabinet Office is
developing improved procedures for personnel management, including pilot testing of a pay and
performance system. Third, efforts are underway to strengthen local govemment and to decentralize
the provision of many of the social services.
46.    While each of these elements is essential to creating a more efficient public service,
Govemment also intends to develop a national personnel strategy in 1995 that will specify the long-
term staffing levels and wage policies that fit within Zambia's financial means. The plan will include
planned reductions from attrition, voluntary separation and retrenchment. To assist in the first, a freeze
on ne:v hirmg has been ins-ia:ed. Some requirements to hire 2. new graduates have been suspended.
and all will be reviewed and made consistent with the overall personnel strategy. Workers identified as
redundant by the ministerial reorganization plans but who are not placeable in available public service
positions will be offered a voluntary separation package which will include in-kind benefits and multi-
year payments, possibly through a government bond designed for this purpose, in order to decrease the
immediate cash costs of these packages. Retrenchment will then only be necessary to the extent that
the hiring freeze and voluntary separations do not adequately reduce the size of the public-sector work
force in line with the national personnel strategy. The combined result of all measures should be to
make the public service more efficient and more responsive to changing circumstances and evolving
national policy.



-7-
Private Sector Development
47.     Economic growth and improved efficiency will require a revitalized private sector. To
enhance investor confidence and to facilitate private sector development, macroeconomic stability will
be maintained and the Government will continue to promote free and open markets. Government
remains committed to not preempting or inhibiting business opportunities and to privatizing nearly all
parastatals as quickly as possible. The Lusaka Stock Exchanae, established in 1994, will facilitate the
privatization process and make possible raising private capital in the secairities market.
48.     Several recent initiatives have been taken to encourage a more dynamic private sector. The
full remittance of profits has been allowed since early 1994; there are guarantees against interference
and expropriation backed by the right to international arbitration; and investment licensing has been
simplified. The operations of the Zambia Investment Center were reviewed in mid-1994 to ensure that
the Center is concentrating on investment promotion. Guidelines for poten. al investors have been
published.
49.    Land Policy. Clarifying the legal status of land will be important for new investments in
Zambia where one of the most abundant resources is land. Approximately 94 percent of the land is
subject to customary communal usage rights, with the remaining 6 percent being stateland, most of
which is available to individuals and companies through various forns of leasehold. The law does not
permit freehold possession of land.
50.     More land will be made available for investment. In the near term, emphasis will be placed on
improving the efficiency and liquidity of the market for leaseholds on State land. This requires that
several aspects of land ownership and land registration and transfer be addressed. The National
Assembly passed two bills in 1994 to begin the process of irnproving, existing land markets. These
reforms will be followed up in 1995 with further amendments that will remove the provision that land.
has no value, reduce the scope for government interference and facilitate the subdivision of
unimproved land. The Government has also begun implementation of a pilot scheme on subdivision of
State-owned farms for commercial use.
51.     The longer-term land reform programme which the Government intends to carry out during
the next few years aims not only at further developing land markets for existing leasehold land, but
also aims at building institutional capacity - including in the private sector - for surveying and
recording land and clarifying the process of gradually converting customary land to leasehold. The
Government is strengthening the land registration and land transfer system through a programme of
decentralization. This should lead to the speedier issuance of title deeds and registration of land
transactions.
52.     Privatization and Parastatal Reform Proeramme. Parastatal reform is a vital element in the
Government's effort to raise efficiency and economic growth. The privatization programme covers all
parastatals, approximately 160 companies.  All are for sale, with no restrictions on ownership other
than those needed to curtail monopolies and encourage broad-based participation. The pace of
implementation has been slower than expected, but 12 agreements have been concluded.
3.      Measures have been taken to accelerate the privatization process. We have restructured ZPA
and hrae noxn appro\ed for sale in :995 more than 100 conmpanies. In addition. Governiment is
showing flexibility in agreeing to different modalities for the sale of public companies, and providing
for local participation. Thus, Management Buy-Outs are now possible and Govemment will sell the
assets of 14 companies by public flotation. Among these are such large companies as the Zambia
Sugar Company, Zambia State Insurance Corporation and Zambia Telecommunications Company.
Parastatals not financially viable are being dissolved. Liquidation of two loss-making parastatals -
Zambia Airways and the United Bus Company of Zambia - was begun in 1994.
54.     To facilitate a uniform policy direction in privatization and to improve the transparency of
parastatal management, ZIMCO was dissolved on March 31, 1995. The remaining responsibilities are
being transferred to the subsidiary companies and to the newly-created Directorate of State Com?mnies
in the Ministry of Finance. These include the monitoring of operating results.



55.     We are continuing our efforts to reform those parastatals, mainly the public utilities (ZESCO,
ZAMTEL, INDENI, ZNOC and TAZAMA), that will remain in the public sector for the next few
years. It is Government policy that these enterprises remain free of political interference in their pricing
policies and management decisions, that they not receive public subventions and that they operate in an
environment which will induce maximum effort at increasing efficiency. In the past, several public
utilities made large losses. Measures to reduce losses were taken and the Governrment has vithdrawn
all financial support and ended all interference in the ability of the public utilities to adjust their prices,
consistent with normal procedures related to cost recovery and long-term financial viability.
Performance contracts are being prepared for these utilities.
56.     A study was undertaken in 1994 of the appropriate longer-term regulatory arrangeme    -r
public utilities. The establishment of autonomous regulatory agencies will be completed in 199.   Ie
Government's principal concern is that public utility prices are set at levels that provide an adk
return on capital and facilitate a ,sound level of performance, efficiency and investment at the  -Le
time that these firms are making maximum efforts to imnprove their efficiency and not to exploit then
monopoly positions.
57.     Agriculture.  Our policy for the 1995-1997 period is to promote efficient private sector
agricultural production, with special emphasis on enhancing food security, diversifiing agricultural
output, reducing susceptibility to drought, and expanding agricultural exports.  In line with the
Government's overall restructuring policy, the agricultural sector has been liberalized with emphasis on
input supply and crop marketing by the private sector, pricing through free and open markets,
withdrawal of Government subsidies and removal of restrictions on domestic and international trade.
Government's remaining direct involvement in agricultural production, marketing and financing will be
phased out during the coming three years. For a number of services provided by the public sector,
such as veterinary services, the Government will pursue increased cost recovery and outright
privatization.
58.     To help improve the efficiency of small-holder agriculture, the quality of publicly-funded
agricultural support services will be improved, particularly in the fields of research, extension,
marketing and land tenure. Furthermnore, wherever technically and economically feasible, small-scale
irrigation will be developed to help increase cropping intensity and farm incomes.
59.     To tackle the problems of poverty and food insecurity, the Government intends to develop an
inter-ministerial response mechanism to deal with emergency and chronic food insecurity. Government
will deal with transitory food insecurity through a strategic reserve of maize and no restrictions on
maize imports.
60.     The provision of funds for agricultural marketing has been placed on a more private
commercial footing with the creation by Government, jointly with commercial banks, of a Marketing
Credit Revolving Fund. Govemment will also improve smallholders access to credit and other
financial services as well as their sustainability by providing a legal framework that will support the
formation of smallholder savings and credit groups, thereby encouraging pluralism in the provision of
financial services to the rural sector.
61.     Through the Agricultural Sector Investment Programme (ASIP). Government has adopted a
prcgramme approach to rrobilizinrg donor support tor the agicultural sec:or. The approach is based on
a national sector strategy and puts all donor support into a single integrated programme. thereby
reducing the current fragmentation of donor-supported projects and improving the effectiveness of
external support for the agricultural sector. Under ASIP the research and extension programs will
focus on improving food security and reducing poverty among rural households through the promotion
of affordable production technologies. Increased crop production and diversification should improve
incomes of smallholders, particularly women farmers who are major providers for their families.
62.     Manufacturing. During the 1970's and 1980's the manufacturing sector reflected parastatal
dominance, high levels of protection and substantial interference from the public sector. Current
poli::es are designed to facilitate a needed restructuring of the sector, so that Zambia's manufacturing
industiy can evolve towards higher levels of efficiency and competitiveness. This will come about in
various ways, inter alia through a phased reduction in the effective rates of protection for domestic



9
producers and enhanced incentives for exporters, removing nuisance regulations and improving
infrastructural support to the manufacturing sector.
63.     Considerable progress has been made over the last three years in reducing unnecessary
regulations and enhancing support services. Nearly all legislation relating to the promotion and
regulation of industry has been rewritten, including a new Companies Act, Investment Act and the new
Banking and Financial Services Act. Government intends to work closely with the private sector to
identify and address remaining irritations in the regulatory framework. The Government also intends
to remove constraints to the development of more diverse financial instruments needed for the
development of the manufacturing sector.
Minina and ZCCM Privatization
64.    :Mining has always made a major contribution to the economy and, while efforts are being
made to diversify the economy, it is expected that mining will continue to be an important source of
economic- growth, export earnings and tax receipts. Zambia's substantial mineral wealth includes
metals, gemstones, industrial, agricultural and energy minerals. The most developed is the metallic
group. But the full potential of this group is far from being realized and a significant increase in
private sector exploration and development will be required to take advantage of the favorable
prospects for minerals.
65.     Accordingly, in February 1995, a statement of policy on mines and minerals development was
issued that calls for the development of the mining sector by private-sector investors in an
environmentally sustainable manner. The new mining policy will be imnplemented by modernizing the
mining law and fiscal regime, strengthening the Ministry of Mines and Minerals Development,
introducing new environmental regulations and privatizing ZCCM. The preparation of a new mining
code and arn.:ndment to existing tax laws are well advanced with assistance from IDA under existing
TA credits. But considerable work will be required to successfully implement the new laws and to
privatize ZCCM.  We have requested that IDA provide technical assistance to support the
implementation of the new mining policy and the ZCCM privatization as well as other reforms under
ERIP. Agreement between Government and IDA on the details of the implementation program will be
reached in the context of the proposed Technical Assistance Project.
66.     An enabling environment for private mining investment will be created by the repeal of the
existing Mining and Minerals Act and the introduction of appropriate new legislation, including a new
Mines and Minerals Act to put in place the provisions of the new policy statement. In particular, the
new Act will overcome the bias in current legislation favoring public sector dominance by introducing
new licensing procedures which are non-discretionary, which encourage exploration, which provide
assurances that successful exploration will lead to mine development provided the exploration work
has taken place in accordance with the regulations, and which provide security of tenure for mining
license holders. The proposed new Mines and Minerals Act will be presented to the next regular
session of Parliament scheduled for July/August.
67.     Our efforts in the mining sector will focus on areas complementary to support private sector
growth. For this purpose, services from several departments of the Ministry of Mines and Mineral
Development are being strengthened.  In addition, the structure, organization and staffing of the
Nlinistrv of Mvlines and Nlinerals Development v% ill be adjusted so that the Nlinistry is better able to
support private investment. The Govemment has requested IDA to provide technical assistance for
geological data acquisition and dissemination, mineral promotion activities, and for strengthening
mineral sector administration and supervision capabilities including the licensing and supervision of
small-scale mining.
68.     We have also prepared a new fiscal regime for mining which is non-discretionary, generally
applicable, intemationally competitive and concentrates the incidence of taxation on profits. In order
to implement the new regime, the Government intends to introduce necessary amendments to the
Income Tax Act, the Customs and Excise Act and the Investment Act. The amendments will be
presented to Parliament by the end of 1995. The collection mechanisms and procedures for mineral
sector taxes and fees will be f..Lalized by the end of 1995.



-10 -
69.    Environmentai issues relating to mining activities are of concem to Government. These
issues will be addressed through enforcement of existing laws and the introduction of appropriate
regulations. In line with the proposed new Mines and Minerals Act, new environmental regulations
for the mining sector will be adopted by the end of 1995. Environmental Impact Assessments, together
with rehabilitation of existing mining areas, will be required for all major new mining projects.
70.     Zambia's c       production has been declining since the early 1970s from an average annual
output of nearly 700,000 tornes to levels below 400,000 tonnes in recent years. This decline was due
to lack of investment in reserve development within ZCCM properties, declining efficiency and low
productivity. Since copper will continue to be important to the economy, we consider it of crucial
importance that the decline in efficiency and productivity of the sector is arrested through increased
private investment and improved management.
71.     The developed ore sous.ces controlled by ZCCM  have the economic potential to sustain
copper output at current leveis Cor at least 15 years. Unexploited significant ore bodies such as
Konkola, Nkana and Chambishi l ave the potential to extend the life of copper mining operations far
beyond this period, provided sufficient new investment is made. The future of Zambia will be best
served by the private management of Zambia's copper resources, and the privatization of ZCCM will
be one of our major objectives during the 1995-1997 period. The major purpose of the privatization
will be to mobilize new investment capital for exploration and development of the sector.
72.     A decision to develop the Konkola Deep Mine as a majority private sector owned and
privately managed project has been taken by the shareholders; the Board of Directors of ZCCM has
been duly informed. The management of ZCCM has also been informed of this decision. In this
regard, the Government has been holding discussions with potential private investors with a view to
initiating this development. A ZCCM Privatization Team, reporting directly to the Board of Directors
and headed by a suitably qualified arid experienced leader, will be established within ZCCM to be
responsible for all privatization-related matters pertaining to ZCCM, including Konkola Deep.
73.    A Privatization Unit has been formed to oversee the privatization of ZCCM on behalf of the
Government and to ensure that the task will be undertaken in an orderly and transparent manner. This
Unit will oversee, on behalf of the Government, the appointment and supervision of investment
bankers, legal advisors and other specialists as may be needed in the privatization process. The
Invitations to Bid are being prepared and will be issued to a short list of investment bankers and legal
advisors approved by IDA. It is expected that the advisors, who will be financed by a Project
Preparation Facility and the proposed Technical Assistance Credit, will be appointed by August 31,
1995.
74.    The Government's Privatization Unit will work with the advisors to prepare a ZCCM
Privatization Plan that results in the mobilization of private investment for the sector. Since ZCCM is
not wholly-owned by the Government. the advisors will provide a detailed review of the rights and
obligations of all of the parties involved according to the 1982 Amalgamation of Mining Companies
(Special Provisions) Act, shareholder agreements, creditor agreements and copper and cobalt sales
agreements, and make recommendations on the method and structure of privatizing ZCCM including
Konkola Deep. We intend to submit to IDA a ZCCM Privatization Plan, satisfactory to IDA, by the
end of 1995 and thereafter to submit the Privatization Plan to the ZCCM Board.
75.    There are other ore sources outside ZCCM which provide investment opportunities. The new
investment environment, which will be created by the introduction of a new competitive fiscal regime
and a new progressive Mines and Minerals Act, will encourage exploration and development by
private mining companies. Government "green-fields" policy is expected to be a major stimulus to this
activity as all areas not held by ZCCM are now open for exploration and development by the private
sector.



- 11 -
76.    The gemstones sub-sector which inciudes emerald, amethyst, aquamarine, tourmaline, and a
number of other varieties has great potential. The government has embarked on a policy of
liberalization of the gemstone industry which involves the restructuring of the industry to facilitate an
increased participation of the private sector in the mining, processing and marketing of gemstones. The
following measures are being implemented:
the creation of an environment conducive to private investment in gemstone
mining by the introduction of the new Mines and Minerals Act;
*  the development of the lapida.- industries on a cottage-industry basis by
indigenous people in gemstone areas; the establishment of a gemstone exchange
center;
*  the provision of a skill-upgrading prograrnme for gemstone mining, valuation,
processing and marketing; and
*  the provision of incentives to gemstone min trs by making more competitive and
streamlining the legal requirements of muiiL. - and marketing operations.
77.    In order to back up this programme, a gemological unit will be set up to develop expertise in
sorting, grading and valuation of gemstones. The services of the technical departrnents of the Ministry
of Mines and Mineral Development will also be decentralized.
Infrastructure
78.     Our objective in the transport and communications sectors is the development of an efficient
transport and communication network which is responsive to customers' changing requirements.
Government policies will focus on (i) management and training to rebuild road maintenance capacity;
(ii) urgent strengthening of the Roads Department; (iii) improved revenue mobilization through raising
vehicle license and registration fees, increased transit fees, aid the tax on fuel; (iv) better control of
road expenditures; (v) placing road maintenance on a more commercial basis by doing as much as
possible through the private sector and carrying out road maintenance activity on a labor-intensive
basis.
79.     Zambia Railways (ZR) handled most long distance and bulk cargo during the 1980's, but ZR's
share of cargo has sharply declined - by about 50 percent - since 1990, mainly due to operating
inefficiency, an increasing frequency of accidents and ZR's inability to meet customers' needs. A
comprehensive strategy and action plan is being developed to be implemented over the period 1995-
1996. The action plan will encompass streamlining the organization, retrenchment of manpower,
rationalizing assets, upgrading systems, restructuring operations and eliminating uneconomic activities.
Eventually, it is hoped that the commercial viability of ZR will be further improved and sustained
through the involvement of the private sector in the management of either the entire railway or its key
business units. A study is being commissioned to develop this privatization strategy.
80.    Now  that Zambia Airways has been liquidated, the Government is encouraging the
establishment of privately-owned and operated airlines. Indications are that the private sector is
responding favorably to the vacuum left behind by the liquidation of Zambia Airways. Three privately-
owned airlines have already been established and received Government approval to initiate operations.
Meanwhile, several charter companies operate intemal flights in Zambia. including to tourist
destinations. Frnall. international carriers are increasing tle frequenc\ of :heir tiuohts to and from
Zambia.
81.    Government's policy in communications is to create conditions for the provision of efficient
and affordable communication facilities throughout the country. The telecommunications part of PTC
has been separated from the postal part and operates as an independent autonomous undertaking
(ZAMTEL). In 1996, ZAMTEL will be offered to the public through a public flotation of shares. The
market in which ZAMTEL is operating has been liberalized and will be regulated by the newly
constituted Telecommunications Authority. ZAM Post Limited is now operating Zarnbia's postal
services.
82.     Lack of adequate maintenance of the energy infrastructure over the years has very seriously
reduced the capacity to deliver reliable supplies of energy to the economy. There have been serious



- 12 -
breakdowns at various energy installations such as the oil refinery, the. oil pipeline and Kafue Gorge
Power Station, necessitating major expenditures on repairs and rehabilitation.  Priority public
investments will include Phase III of the Kafue Gorge Rehabilitation Programre, the re-enforcement
of power distribution networks especially in Lusaka and Copperbelt towns, Ilkushi Farm Block
electrification, and rehabilitation of the Tazama pipeline. In the petroleum subsector, oil marketing
companies are expected to be involved more heavily and in a more commercial manner through a
performance contract with TazamalIndeni and a leasing arrangement for o petroleum products terminal
at Ndola. Zambia National Oil Company (ZNOC) has been incorpora,ed and will be established
shortly. Its key functions are feedstock procurement and leasing arrangements of the Ndola terminal.
The Government is encouraging the electrification of rural areas and, for this purpose, has introduced a
3 percent excise tax on electricity bills, the proceeds of which will be used for implementing a Rural
Electrification Programme.
Environment
83.     Zambia is endowed with a rich natural resources base and an environment that is relatively
unspoiled. However, rapid population growth of 3.2 percent per annum, urbanization, industrialization,
increasing agricultural demands and a high incidence of poverty, pose a threat to sustainable use of
natural resources which, in turn, threatens economic, social and environmental sustainability over the
long run.
84.     T-he Governrment has paid attention to environmental concerns as evidenced by the
Environmental Protection and Pollution Control Act 1990 that came into operation in 1992. The
creation of a Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources is a further manifestation of the priority
the Govermnent attaches to adopting sustainable policies. Its purpose is to maintain ecosystems,
essential ecological processes and the biological diversity of the country.
85.     The most pressing environmental concerns include the declining quality of water in Zambia's
strearns and rivers, the deteriorating quality of air in localities affected by industrial emissions, the
degenerating quality of urban life due to inadequate facilities for the efficient disposal of solid waste,
the potential dangers posed by inadequate facilities for the disposal of hazardous wastes, the decline in
wildlife population as a result of heavy poaching, and deforestation due to escalating demand for fuel
wood and inappropriate agricultural practices.
86.     To address these concerns, the National Environmental Council bas been working closely
with the private and parastatal sectors as well as with local authorities. Its aim is to encourage the
private sector and parastatals to adopt adequate envirornmental protection measures and sound
environmental practices. Government accepted the need to review the relationship between the
environment and the economy through the preparation of the National Environmental Action Plan
(NEAP). The NEAP was prepared in 1993-1994 and adopted by Govemment in December 1994. It
constitutes the basis for the preparation of an Environmental Sector Programme (ESP) that will
operationalize the NEAP over a period covering the next ten years.
87.     The ESP will address Zambia's environmental problems through institutional strengthening,
increased education and public awareness of the role of the environment. and investments. pilot
programs and studies. W9hile private sector actions xvi" constttutc the cor- of the Programme.
Government will strengthen its regulatory role, including the requiring of Environmental Impact
Assessments for all major projects.
Social Sectors
88.     A key objective is to reverse the substantial decline in social conditions in Zambia over the
past 10-15 years. As an example, the infant mortality rate which had declined to 80 per 1,000 live
births by 1981, increased to 107 by 1994. Primary school gross enrollment ratios have fallen from 96
percent in 1985 to 84 percent in 1994. Only 21 percent of currently married women in urban areas and
10 percent in rural areas are using a contraceptive method. Finally, 40 percent of children under 15
years of age are chronically malnourished. It is clear that the economic decline of the past twenty years



-13 -
has contributed to the deterioration in socio-economic conditions, but policy inadequacies widtin the
social sectors also played a major role in this process of degradation.
89.     Since coming to office, we have worked to remedy the unsatisfactory state of Zambia's social
sector infrastructure and the poor social sector delivery system. In 1994, policy reforrn focused on
institutional re-organization and decentralization of service delivery in health and education, the
devolution of safety net measures to local groups (mostly NGOs), and the re-structuring of the water
and sanitation sector.
90.     More funds were provided in 1994 for social sector development from both domestic and
external sources. The Governrment increased its allocations for the social sectors from 28 percent in
1993 to over 33 percent in 1994, thereby underscoring the Government's commitment to social sector
development. This emphasis has been maintained in the 1995 Budget and will be continued in 1996
and beyond. Within each sector, significant intra-sectoral and geographical reallocations are being
made. Thus, particular emphasis will be placed on primary education and cost-effective primary health
care services.
91.     We have been moving towards the formulation of sectoral strategies and programs (along the
lines of the Agricultural Sector Investment Programme -ASIP), for health, education, water supply and
sanitation. The objective will be to ensure that both domestic and externally-provided resources are
used optimally.
92.     The Social Recovery Project and the Microprojects Programme continue to implement, with
encouraging results, their joint programs for the delivery of social sector projects across the country.
The Social Recovery Project is supported by IDA and the Micro Projects Programme by the EC. Some
740 activities are currently being supervised by these projects. The resources available to these
programs will increase in 1995 and beyond, thereby making this joint programme one of the major
delivery mechanisms for the rehabilitation and expansion of Zambia's social sector infrastructure and
for strengthening local communities.
93.     Measures will also be taken to step up cost sharing, but only to augment the total quantity and
quality of services, not to preclude access of those with few resources. A large proportion (36 percent)
of educational and health expenditure is currently borne by households and NGOs. There may be some
room to expand the non-government share by instiruting cost-sharing schemes for higher income
groups. Existing schemes will be strengthened, and the Government will also promote the role of the
private sector in providing social services while ensuring the maintenance of adequate quality
standards. In higher education, the Government is implementing a scheme of cost-recovery such that
student contributions make up a significant portion of the financing of higher education. The
Government will institute loan schemes and community work schemes to help students from lower
income groups meet this fLnancing requirement.
94.     Education. Success in education and training will be central to the success of the Economic
Recovery Programme because it is the single most important determinant of the long-run rate of
growth in productivity. Revitalization of the educational system will, therefore, be accorded high
priority. With respect to formal education, the Government's strategy includes improving the quality of
the learning environment through increased provision of learning materials: improving existing
primaryi ciassroonms throughl comrnunitr-init:ated 4ehabilitation and the pro%ision of desks. raising the
quality of teaching through more comprehensive pre-service and in-service training; reforming the
examination system; and creating a more effective management and monitoring force through the
training of school principals and Inspecrorates.
95.     We are committed to an integrated approach to the education sector through the development
of a national policy with three major concerns: access, equity and quality. Within this framework the
Government has identified three major priorities: the provision of universal (basic) education within
the shortest realistic time-frame, the urgent addressing of needs of children who have dropped out of
the formal system, been pushed out by economic circumstances, or have never been to school, and,
thirdlv, the provision of youth skills training for forrnal and self-employment. A comprehensive
Educatioil Strategy addressing these needs will be completed by June 1995. This strategy document
will form the basis for concerted donor support to the sector. In addition, an institutional assessment



- 14 -
wi'i be carried out which will indicate the elements of restructuring required for the Ministries
involved if they are to share the implementation of these policies, and function effectively in a
decentralized system. The first priority will be addressed by retaining the relatively high share of
primary education (36-40 percent of the sector's allocation for 1995) over the 1996-1997 period and
encouraging the creation of community schools. The needs of those children and youths outside the
formal system will be addressed through a greater emphasis on non-formal education channels for the
completion of primary schooling and the provision of skills training for the informal sector.
96.     Strengthening vocational and technical training is critical to equipping labor-market entrants
for gainful employment. To achieve the latter objective, the budget share for trade schools and skills
training centers will double.in the 1995-1997 period, from 4 percent in 1994 to 8 percent in 1997. The
Government has also re-cast the Public Investment Programme (1995-1997) to give more emphasis to
rehabilitation of technical education and vocational training institutions.
97.     The process of decentralization in the education sector started in 1994 and funds released for
provincial education are now sub-warranted directly to Provincial Education Officers. In addition, the
Governnent has progressed with the process of establishing autonomous School Management Boards
as part of the decentralization of responsibility, resources and authority. Primary schools will be
covered by one District Education Management Board, but secondary schools and teacher training
colleges will have their own boards. For primary schools the programme has started in 1995 on a pilot
basis in the Copperbelt and will be completed nationwide by the end of 1996. As regards secondary
schools and teacher training colleges, the programme has been initiated and will be completed before
the end of 1997.
98.     Health and Nutrition. With assistance from the donor community, including the World Bank,
the Government has recently completed an integrated medium-term sector strategy which focuses on
restructuring the Ministry of Health to increase coverage with an essential package of cost-effective
health services; build district capacity; improve logistic and information systems; develop human
resource management; and ensure that national programs, parastatals and training institutions are
oriented towards supporting the quality delivery of the essential package. This strategy also serves as a
basis for concerted donor approaches to the health sector.
99.     The strategy reflects the high priority given to cost-effective health care. Cost-sharing is being
introduced so that the revenue collected can supplement Govermnent resources, without restricting
access of the needy to health services. Private sector involvement in the development of health services
is also being encouraged. A pre-payment scheme is being introduced for those with ability to pay. A
program to prevent malnutrition is underway for distribution of free or subsidized food to the needy.
100.   The process of decentralization in the health sector will be pursued with vigor. To this end,
the Government has initiated the process of establishing full budgetary autonomy for District Health
Boards and Hospital Boards. The Govemment has altered the method of disbursing funds to the health
sector in line with the decentralization programme; especially, District Health Management Boards will
submit plans for their activities to the Ministry of Health for consolidation. Based on the consolidated
plan, the Ministry of Finance will allocate resources to a control account specifically for district health
activities, the controlling officer for which will be the Permanent Secretary for Health, the latter
becoming responsible for disbursing these funds directly to the District Health Management Boards.
101.    Mlore effective delivery of services in rural areas will be achieved through allocating more
resources to district level institutions, namely first referral hospitals, health centers and health posts.
Over the 1995-1997 period, the share of transfers to districts will continue to be increased so that the
estimated recurrent costs of US S7 per capita equivalent required to deliver the essential package of
care will be provided to each district. This will be partly achieved through further reductions in the
proportions allocated to the central ministry/Central Health Board, parastatals and tertiary hospitals.
The Govemment also plans to produce guidelines for equitable cost-sharing schemes in rural areas by
mid- 1996.
102.   HIV/AIDS. Previou 1v AIDS was considered to be only a health issue, but the spread of the
disease and the resulting disabil; y and death are making it clear that multi-sectoral interventions are
necessary. The Government is implementing a multi-sectoral intervention programme (medium-term



- 15 -
plan II) for HIV/AIDS prevention and alleviation which involves both public and private sector
agencies. The Government will ensure sufficient funding for its implementation, and plans to allocate
specific amounts in the 1996 Budget for each Ministry to implement its individual HIV/AIDS plan,
which considers its own comparative advantage in addressing the problem.
103.    Water and Sanitation. The water supply and sanitation sector suffers from serious problems,
especially in terms of service delivery. The number of people served is limited: only some 55 percent
have safe water, while about 48 percent have reasonably adequate sanitation facilities. Many of the
sector's problems result from unclear and overlapping responsibilities of various organizations, a
highly centralized approach, lack of institutional and financial capacity, and insufficient human
resources.
104.   In order to address these shortcomings in the sector, an Inter-Ministerial Programme
Coordination Unit (PCU) and a-sLpporting Water Sector Development Group (WSDG) have been
established. The specific mandatc cf the PCU is to recommend policy reforms; clarify the respective
responsibilities of the various institu.ions in the sector; propose an appropriate framework for planning,
development, operation and maintenance of infrastructure in the sector; and determine how best to
strengthen, restructure andlor reform the various institutions with responsibility for service provision.
To guide the PCU's activities, the Government also accepted a set of sector principles which include
the separation of water resources manacement from water supply and sanitation; devolution of
executive functions to local authorities and private enterprises; use of technology appropriate to local
conditions: and full cost recovery in the long-run.
105.   The Government has also articulated the organizational structure and respective roles of the
different entities involved in the sector. First, the PCU will be transformed into the National Water and
Sanitation Council answerable to the Ministry of Energy and Water Development which will be
responsible for development of policies and standards. the preparation of strategic plans and
investment programs and the monitoring of water supply and sanitation service delivery. Second, local
authorities, through the Ministry of Local Government and Housing will be responsible for all
executive functions related to water supply and sanitation. Third, feasibility studies and pilot programs
for establishing corrunercially-oriented water and sanitation utilities owned by local authorities be
commissioned in the Copperbelt and Northwestem provinces to represent urban and rural conditions.
106.    Concurrent with these institutional reforms, we will be increasing the share of domestic
funancing of investment in the water supply and sanitation sector. With the shares of the national
budget devoted to water supply and sanitation rising as foreseen, 25 percent of the sector's investment
programme will be financed from internal revenues in 1995 and beyond. This should ensure a better
integration of projects in the sector into the Government's budget than is normally the case when
domestic revenues finance a smaller percentage of the project costs. This integration will stimulate the
provision from the budget of adequate funding for project operation and maintenance.
107.    Social Safetv Net.  The Government believes that economic growth without poverty
alleviation is not sustainable. With more than two-thirds of Zambia's population living below the
absolute poverty line, acceleration in economic growth will be a crucial element of poverty alleviation.
The recent Poverty Assessment indicates that economic growth alone, even if equitably distributed,
will not be sufficient to address the very special problems from which the verv poorest segments of
Zam1bia's pCpulation1 suffer. Hence, the Government will be carrying out modest but important special
programs for the very poorest citizens of Zambia. In particular, self-help programs for the most
disadvantaged will be enlarged. Other programs to mitigate the transitional costs of the Economic
Recovery Programme tend to improve access of vulnerable groups to social and economic services and
food.
108.    While economic adjustment measures will in the long-run benefit all sections of the
population through the general improvement in economic growth and employment, it is recognized
that in the short-run some adjustment measures may increase economic hardship. There is, therefore,
need to cushion vulnerable groups as much as possible from the adverse effects of adjustment. Several
programs are designed to contribute to this, including rhe Social Recovery Project which will expand
significantly during the coming three years, and incrnased training and employment services for
retrenched workers.



-16 -
109.   A policy and institutional framework has been established for coordinating support programs
for workers likely to be displaced or retrenched as a result of the privatization or public sector reform
programs. Adoption of reforms approved by the national social safety net coordinating committee
under the Ministry of Labor and Social Security is planned for September 1995.
External Financing
110.   Zambia's external financing policies will continue to support the Government's policy of
accelerating economic growth, maintaining price stability, and moving towards a more viable balance
of payments position. The Government plans to diversify and increase Zambia's exports, alleviate the
burden of its extemal debt and - over timne - reduce its dependence on donor assistance. Government
will also ensure the adequacy of foreign exchange reserves to deal with unexpected pressures on the
external sector.
111.   Zambia's progress in economic adjustment and structural reform has been strongly supported
by extemal creditors and donors. Throughout this process, Zarnbia has remained in close contact with
the multilateral institutions and the rest of the donor community. In addition to meetings of the
Consultative Group in Paris, regular contact is maintained with the donor community in Lusaka.
Beginning in 1995, the Government is holding regular quarterly meetings with donors in Lusaka to
discuss economic developments and issues facing the Zambian economy. A separate consultative
process has been put in place to exchange views on issues pertaining to governance and political
reform.
Programme Monitoring and Implementation
112.   The Economic Recovery Progranme  imposes.. formidable challenges for successful
implementation. For these reasons, and due to the need to coordinate the multiple policy initiatives
from the different ministries and agencies of Government, management of the overall programme has
been entrusted to the Technical Committee of Economic Ministers which is chaired by the Minister of
Finance. Government plans to strengthen the Committee's Secretariat in the course of 1995.
113.   Last year, an Inter-Ministerial group (comprising the Ministry of Finance, the National
Commission for Development Planning and the Bank of Zambia) was established to coordinate and
facilitate the timely flow of balance of payments assistance. The Government has recently put in place
a similar mechanism that monitors project and commodity assistance.
114.   An economic monitoring system has been established. A joint MOFIBOZ Data Monitoring
Committee, which has been meeting since 1993, follows in detail monetary developments and the
domestic budget. The Economic Analysis and Reporting Unit (EARU) of the Ministry of Finance and
the Economics Department of the BOZ regularly provides policy makers with up-to-date tabulations of
key economic indicators. In addition, BOZ produces monthly reports on monetary developments.
115.   Beginning in 1995, the EARU will develop a more comprehensive monitoring and reporting
system on economic developments and policy implementation. In addition to the monthly statistical
reports, there will be a monthly report on fiscal developments and a quarterly report on overall
economnic performance. A. donor-supported oro-ramme to build macroeconomic policy development
and forecasting capacity at the Ministry of Finance is expected to begin in 1995. To assess the impact
of the program on specific beneficiaries, a sample survey will be conducted late 1995 to set the
baseline for such an assessment.



-17-
Concluding Remarks
116.   The Economic Recovery and Investment Promotion Credit will help meet an important
portion of Zambia's external financing needs for 1995/1996 and stimulate macroeconomic and
structural reform. IDA's support is also essential to help us mobilize the assistance of other donors.
Yours sincerely,
Rona            , MP
MINISTER OF FINANCE
Lusaka.
May 21, 1995






IMAGING
Report No: P-   0593  ZA
Type: PP



