CREDIT NUMBER 2764 ZA
Development Credit Agreement
(Economic Recovery and Investment Promotion Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated        , 1995


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2764 ZA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                        , 1995, between REPUBLIC OF
ZAMBIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Association has received a letter dated May 21, 1995
(hereinafter called the Letter of Development Policy) from the Borrower describing a
program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve structural adjustment of
the Borrower's economy (hereinafter called the Program), declaring the Borrower's
commitment to the execution of the Program and requesting assistance from the
Association in the financing of urgently needed imports required during such execution;
and
(B) on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has decided, in
support of the Program, to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Credit
in two tranches as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereof set
forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)    Section 2.01, paragraph 9, shall be modified to read:
"'Project' means the imports and other activities that may be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to the
Development Credit Agreement";
(b)    Section 9.06 (c) ;i>all be modified to read:
"(c)    Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association,
the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope
and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the execution
of the Program referred to in the Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement,
the performance by the Borrower and the Association of their respective


﻿-2-
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Credit";
(c)    the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted; and
(d)    the second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of
any country which is not a member of the Association or for goods produced in,
or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment
to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or import, to
the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United
Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)    "DBZ" means the Development Bank of Zambia, a statutory corporation
established and operating under the Development Bank of Zambia Act, 1972 (Chapter 712
of the laws of the Borrower).
(b)    "Lima Bank" means the financial institution engaged in providing
agricultural credit registered by the Borrower under the Companies Act of the laws of
Zambia.
(c)    "Export-Import Bank" means the financial institution engaged in providing
credit to exporters and importers, registered by the Borrower under the Companies Act
of the laws of Zambia.
(d)    "Offer for sale" means the completion of the following processes by the
Borrower: (i) valuation of the enterprise, (ii) preparation of a prospectus or information
memorandum, and (iii) solicitation of offers for the sale of the enterprise as provided in
the Borrower's Privatization Act, No. 21 of 1992.
(e)    "ZCCM" means the Zambia Consolidated Copper Mines Ltd., a company
operating under the Borrower's Companies Act, No. 26 of 1994.


﻿-3-
(f)    "ZPA" means the Zambia Privatization Agency established and operating
under the Privatization Act, No. 21 of 1992; and
(g)    "SITC" means the Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3
(SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 343
(1986).
ARTICLE H
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in
various currencies equivalent to ninety million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 90,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1996, or such later date
as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)    The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other rates
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set
as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in that year
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)    The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association
shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the
territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions
of that Section.


﻿-4-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be payable semiannually on
March I and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each
March 1 and September 1, commencing September 1, 2005, and ending March 1, 2035.
Each installment to and including the installment payable on March 1, 2015 shall be one
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)    Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for five
consecutive years, and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank
lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount
of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment
of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)    1f, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b)
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated
significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in
paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. (a) The Governor of the Bank of Zambia is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted


﻿-5-
to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the
General Conditions.
(b)    Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing, the Borrower hereby
entrusts the Governor of the Bank of Zambia with responsibility for the preparation of
withdrawal applications under the Credit and for the collection of the documents and other
evidence to be furnished to the Association in support of such applications; such
withdrawal applications shall to the extent practicable be consolidated so as to apply for
withdrawal of aggregate amounts of not less than $1,000,000 equivalent.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at
the request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the
Program and the actions specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(b)    Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out
the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(c)    Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section,
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be
taken after the disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially
reversing the objectives of the Program or any action taken under the Program, including
any action specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the
goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by th% provisions
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with consistently maintained sound
accounting practices, the expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)    The Borrower shall:
(i)     have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section including those for the Special Account for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing


﻿-6-
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)    furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case
not later than six months after the end of each such year, a
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested; and
(iii)   furnish to the Association such other information concerning
said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)    For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)     maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures;
(ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Association has received
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts,
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents, or customs
certificates, as appropriate) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)   enable the Association's representatives to examine such
records; and
(iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual
audits referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to
support the related withdrawals.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall
make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01
(b) of the General Conditions, namely, that the Borrower has selected suitably qualified
and experienced investment bank advisors and legal advisors, under terms of reference
acceptable to the Association, to advise the Borrower on the privatization of ZCCM.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 (a) of this Agreement, the
Minister for Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 50062
Ridgeway, Lusaka
Zambia


﻿-8-
Cable address:        Telex:
MINFIN               42221
Lusaka
For the Association:
International Development
Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:               Telex:
INDEVAS                     248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.             82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
By/4/f-
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By/-IP'
AL %<     Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.     Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this Schedule, the proceeds of
the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods required
during the execution of the Program and to be financed out of such proceeds.
2.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall be
made in respect of:
(a)    expenditures for goods included in the following SITC groups or
subgroups, or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as
designated by the Association by notice to the Borrower:
Group             Subgroup         Description of Items
112                  --            Alcoholic beverages
121                  --            Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
refuse
122                  --            Tobacco, manufactured (whether
or not containing tobacco
substitutes)
525                  --            Radioactive and
associated materials
667                  --            Pearls, precious and
semiprecious stones, unworked or
worked
718               718.1            Nuclear reactors, and
parts thereof, fuel elements
(cartridges), nonirradiated for
nuclear reactors
728               728.43           Tobacco processing machinery


﻿- 10 -
897               897.3            Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals
(except watches and watch cases)
and goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
wares (including set gems)
971                   --           Gold, nonmonetary (excluding
gold ores and concentrates)
(b)    expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods supplied from
the territory of the Borrower;
(c)    payments made for goods imported prior to the date of this Agreement,
except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
SDR 9,700,000 may be made on account of payments made for such goods imported
before that date but after April 1, 1995;
(d)    expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing less than $5,000
equivalent;
(e)    expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which any national or
international financing institution or agency other than the Association shall have financed
or agreed to finance; and
(f)    expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or
for luxury consumption.
3.     Withdrawals for expenditures under contracts for the procurement of goods
estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent may be required by the Association upon
the basis of statements of expenditure under such terms and conditions as the Association
shall specify.
4.     No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be entered into to pay
amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of expenditures to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn
from the Credit Account and the total amount of such commitments shall have reached
the equivalent of SDR 45,000,000, unless the Association shall be satisfied, after an
exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement, based on evidence
satisfactory to the Association: (a) with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the
carrying out of the Program, (b) that the actions described in Schedule 3 to this


﻿- 11 -
Agreement have been taken, and (c) that the macroeconomic policy framework of the
Borrower is consistent with the objectives of the Program.
5.     If, after the exchange of views described in paragraph 4 above, the Association
shall have given notice to the Borrower that the progress achieved and actions taken are
not satisfactory and, within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall not have
achieved progress and taken actions satisfactory to the Association, then the Association
may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or any part
thereof.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement
Section I.    Procurement of Goods
Part A:       General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in January 1995 (the Guidelines), and the following provisions of this Section, as
applicable.
Part B:       International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines,
subject to the provisions of paragraphs 2.63, 2.64 and 2.65 thereof.
Part C:       Other Procurement Procedures
Goods estimated to cost less than $2,000,000 equivalent per contract may be
procured:
1.     by purchasers required to follow the Borrower's public procurement procedures
for the importation of goods, under contracts awarded in accordance with such procedures,
provided that such procedures shall have been found acceptable by the Association; and
2.     by other purchasers:
(a)    under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines; or
(b)    in the circumstances described in paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines, under
direct contracting procedures in accordance with the provisions of said paragraph of the
Guidelines.


﻿- 13 -
Part D:       Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.     Prior Review
With respect to each contract estimated to cost more than $2,000,000 equivalent,
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply.
2.     Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph I of this Part, the
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 3
Actions Referred to in Paragraph 4 (b)
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
1.     The Borrower has submitted to its Parliament for enactment draft legislation
satisfactory to the Association for:
(a)    the restructuring of DBZ into an "apex" institution responsible for on-
lending concessionary finance to commercial banks, and the transfer of DBZ's loan
portfolio to a separate collection entity, as specified in paragraph 28 of the Letter of
Development Policy;
(b)    the supervision and regulation of insurance companies and pension fund
management companies, as specified in paragraphs 29 and 34 of the Letter of
Development Policy;
(c)    the restructuring of the existing social security institutions and the
establishment of a social security pension scheme, as specified in paragraphs 31 through
33 of the Letter of Development Policy; and
(d) (i) mines and minerals, which satisfies the objectives set forth in the policy
statement referred to in paragraph 65 of the Letter of Development Policy; and
(ii)   a new mining fiscal regime, which satisfies the objectives set forth in
paragraph 68 of the Letter of Development Poli-y, including relevant amendments to the
Income Tax Act, the Customs and Excise Act and the Investment Act.
2.     The Borrower has published in the Officiai Gazette statutory instruments adopting
mining-related environmental standards and regulations satisfactory to the Association, as
specified in paragraph 69 of the Letter of Development Policy.
3.     The Borrower has taken all necessary actions to: (a) privatize through ZPA or
liquidate the Zambia Export-Import Bank, and (b) privatize through ZPA or liquidate
Lima Bank, as specified in paragraph 27 of the Letter of Development Policy.
4.     The Borrower has implemented an action plan satisfactory to the Association for
the restructuring of DBZ, as specified in paragraph 28 of the Letter of Development
Policy.


﻿- 15 -
5.     The Borrower has established two independent agencies to regulate and supervise
insurance companies and pension fund management companies, as specified in paragraphs
29 and 34, respectively, of the Letter of Development Policy.
6.     The Borrower has published in the Official Gazette statutory instruments to
implement the Value-Added Tax Act, No. 4 of 1995 of the laws of the Borrower,
including the provisions for the elimination of the "uplift factor," as specified in
paragraph 40 of the Letter of Development Policy.
7.     The Borrower has furnished to the Association an action plan satisfactory to the
Association for the privatization of ZCCM, as provided in paragraph 70 of the Letter of
Development Policy.
8.     The Borrower has satisfied the Association that its spending in the social sectors
in 1995 has been at levels specified in paragraph 89 of the Letter of Development Policy
and that, in particular: a) the share of total social sector spending in actual budget
releases has not been less than 33% of total non-interest spending, and b) the share of
non-personnel recurrent expenses in the social sectors has not been less than 24% of total
non-interest spending.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


