Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3178-TA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR THE
SECOND SONGO SONGO PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROJECT
December 10, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only iu the performance of
their oficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclesed without World Bank authorization.



SECOND SONGO SONGO PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROJECT
Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit                       Tanzanian Shillings (TSH)
US$   1.00                               T.Sh.   8.30
T.Sh. 1.00                               US$     0.12
(As the Tanzanian shilling is officially valued in relation to a basket of
currencies of Tanzania's trading partners, the US Dollar/Tanzania shilling
exchange rate is subject to change. Conversions in the report were made at
US$1.00 to T. Sh. 8.30 which is close to the 1980 average exchange rate.)
Weights and Measures
1 metric ton (m.ton)                    =          2,204 poun4s (lb)
1 meter (m)                              =         3.28 feet (ft.)
1 kilometer (km)                         =         0.62 miles
1 metric ton (m. ton)                    -         1,000 kilograms
1 cubic meter (m3)                      =          35.5 cubic feet
1 barrel (bbl)                           =         42 US gallons (gal.)
1 metric ton of oil (API 34)             =         7.23 barrels
Glossary of Abbreviations
MMCFD                                    =         million cubic feet per day
BCF                                      =         billion cubic feet
TCF                                      =         trillion cubic feet
MBPD                                     =         thousand barrels per day
gal                                      =         gallon
kg                                                 kilogram
km2                                                square kilometer
mw                                      =          megawatt
TOE                                      =         tons of oil equivalent
psi                                      -         pounds per square inch
GDP                                      =         gross domestic product
MWE                                      =         Ministry of Water and Energy
Fiscal Year
Government: July 1 to June 30
TPDC: January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TANZANIA
SECOND SONGO SONGO PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                United Republic of Tanzania
Beneficiary:             Tanzania Petroleum Development Corporation (TPDC)
Amount:                  US$20 million equivalent
Terms:                   Repayable  in fifty years  including ten years of
grace and carrying a service charge of 3/4 of 1%
per annum.   The Credit would be re-financed under
any subsequent credit or loan the Bank Group may
provide to finance a petroleum development project.
Relending Terms:         The proceeds of the Credit would be passed on to
TPDC as equity.
Project Description:   The  proposed  Credit  is  intended  to  finance  the
second phase of a drilling program designed to
assist the Borrower in the assessment of the
hydrocarbon potential of the Songo Songo field.
The Credit   would be  supplemental  to the First
Songo Songo Petroleum Exploration Project (Credit
S-27-TA) which financed the first phase of that
drilling program.   Specifically, the Credit would
finance:
(a) drilling of three offshore wells at Songo
Songo, including completion for production, if
justified; and
(b) strengthening TPDC's capacity to implement the
project through the provision of technical
assistance and training of its staff.
If oil is found in sufficient quantities to warrant development, the
ensuing production would be extremely beneficial to Tanzania and to its
balance of payments position. Even if no oil discovered, the wells drilled
are expected to confirm gas reserves which, given their potential size, may
become an important development option for Tanzania.   The risks involved
are those typical for all exploration projects.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Costs                        US$'000 Equivalent
Local Foreign Total
1.  Drilling Rig
(a)   Operating Costs (300 days)    -    9,600   9,600
(b)   Demobilization                  -    3,200   3,200
2.  Technical Services                     -    6,500   6,500
3.  Tangibles and Consumables,             -    4,100   4,100
including Well Completion
Equipment
4.  Engineering, Construction and
Support Services                 4,500   5,500  10,000
5.  Management and Exploration
Advisory Services                  -    4,000   4,000
6.  Reservoir Engineering Studies         -       300      300
7.  Contingencies
(a)   Physical                        -    5,100   5,100
(b)   Price                          300   1,700   2,000
Project Cost-Net of Taxes          4,800  40,000  44,800
Financing Plan:
Government                          4.8      -       4.8
IDA                                   -      20.0   20.0
OPEC Fund                             -      12.0   12.0
European Investment Bank              -       8.0    8.0
Total                         4.8     40.0   44.8
Estimated Disbursements:                         FY 82        FY 83
US$ million
Annual                                        32           8.0
Cumulative                                    32          40.0
Rate of Return: Not applicable
Staff Appraisal Report: No separate report.
1/ The project is exempted from identifiable taxes and duties.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA FOR A
SECOND SONGO SONGO PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROJECT
1.         I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the United Republic of Tanzania of SDR 17.4 million (US$20.0
million) equivalent on standard terms to assist the Government in carrying
out a second phase of the Songo Songo petroleum exploration program.  The
project would further assess the hydrocarbon potential in the area and
prospects for the effective utilization of that potential.   In addition,
the United Republic of Tanzania is arranging financing of US$12 million
equivalent from the OPEC Fund for International Development and US$8
million equivalent from the European Investment Bank (EIB).  The OPEC Fund
financing would be for 20 years including 5 years of grace at no interest
but with a service charge of 0.75% per annum.  The EIB financing would be
for 15 years including 5 years of grace at 2% per annum.  The Credit and
the OPEC Fund and EIB loans would cover the foreign exchange requirement of
the project. The Government would finance the local expenditures estimated
at US$5 million equivalent.  The Government contribution and the proceeds
of the Credit and the OPEC Fund and EIB loans would be passed on by the
Government to the Tanzania Petroleum Development Corploration (TPDC, the
implementing agency) as equity.
PART I - THE ECONOMY1
2.        An economic mission visited Tanzania in March and June 1980.  Its
report (3086-TA) dated January 23, 1981, has been distributed to the
Executive Directors.   A summary of social and economic data is given in
Annex I.
Background
3.          At Independence in 1961, Tanzania (then Tanganyika) was one of
the poorest countries in the world. Almost solely dependent on subsistence
agriculture and a few estate crops, the country had a very modest indus-
trial base (less than 5% of GDP), and a very small number of educated and
trained  personnel.    For  the  first  six  years  after  Independence,  the
Government's development objectives resembled those of many other less
developed countries, stressing growth in per capita income and national
self-sufficiency in skilled manpower, based on market forces and capital
intensive agricultural projects.  This approach had a number of drawbacks,
1This section is substantially the same as that in the President's
Report on the Telecommunications Project dated June 1, 1981



-2-
such as high investment costs in the agricultural sector, and led in the
Government's view to unacceptable economic and social conditions, such as
widening income diferentials and un-qual opportunities for advancement in
the rural areas.   In response to this situation, the national development
strategy was reassessed in 1967.   The new priorities,  enunciated in the
Arusha Declaration and related policy statements, were directed towards
establishing a socialist society, with greater emphasis on broad-based
rural development, self-reliance in development efforts, and the develop-
ment of mass education. To accomplish these ends, the State, with guidance
from the Party2, was expected to play the leading role, especially in the
reform and creation of appropriate  institutions.   This led in the late
1960s to the nationalization of large-scale industry, commerce and finance;
the creation of numerous parastatal bodies, the formation of ujamaa (coope-
rative) villages, the decentralization of government (1972), and the mass
campaign of villagization (1974-76).
4.          Despite some disruption arising from these major institutional
changes during the period, Tanzania managed to show improvements both in
social welfare and in macroeconomic performance.   Primary school enroll-
ments increased by more than 50%, life expectancy rose by almost 5 years,
and access to safe water increased in both the rural and urban areas.  GDP
grew by 4.4% per annum from 1966 to 1973, investment averaged 24% of GDP
from 1970 to 1973, and domestic resource mobilization improved with recur-
rent revenues rising from 15% of GDP in 1967/68 to 19% in the mid 1970s.
However, the productive sectors grew slowly and the rate of return on new
investments (which was centered on the industry and transport sectors) was
poor.  Perhaps the principal disappointment was in agriculture, the domi-
nant sector in the economy, which grew by only 2.3% per annum from 1966 to
1973.  This growth was also uneven among regions and precluded any narrow-
ing of rural-urban income differentials.    Tanzania made  rapid  progress
towards localizing key posts in the economy, but large gaps in manpower
requirements remained.  Dependence on foreign aid to finance both domestic
investment and the widening balance of payments gap also increased.   By
1973, the issues which were to be so important for Tanzania throughout the
1970s  were  becoming  clear:    How  quickly could  a country with  limited
trained personnel develop a strong and efficient centrally administered
economy?The Government's emphasis on equity was often at the expense of
efficiency and incentives; how long could the country afford these costs?
What could be done to improve the growth rate of the monetized, productive
sectors?
5.        The oil price increases and world recession of 1973-74 coincided
with two years of below average rainfall in Tanzania. Agricultural produc-
tion also was affected by disruptive changes in the rural areas at this
time (decentralization and villagization), and there was a serious short-
2The single mainland political party at the time was TANU, but in
February 1977, it merged with Zanzibar's Afro-Shirazi Party to form the
Revolutionary Party, or Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM).



-3-
fall in foodgrain production.   The Government was forced into the world
market, making large purchases of foodgrain for cash.   Food imports rose
from US$39 million in 1973 to US$149 million in 1974 and US$136 million in
1975.  Export crop production also fell during this period and the barter
terms of trade fell by about one-third during these two years.   As a
result, the current account deficit rose from US$118 million in 1973 to
around US$340 million in both 1974 and 1975.  Domestically, the recurrent
budget fell into deficit and Government bank borrowing rose from TSh.416
million in 1973/74 to TSh.1061 million in 1975/76.
6.           The Government prepared a program to deal with at least the
short-term effects of the crisis and was able to receive some assistance
from the IMF and a program loan from the Bank. Under this program, import
levels were tightly restricted, wages were frozen, government development
expenditures3 were redirected towards the productive sectors, and the
Tanzanian shilling was devalued by 10% against the SDR.   Producer prices
for food crops were substantially increased and at the same time, the
National Milling Corporation (NMC) was instructed to purchase a number of
drought-resistant crops such as cassava, sorghum, and pigeon peas in addi-
tion to the usual foodgrains like maize.  While these steps were taken to
increase food production, they also discouraged the production of export
crops, weakened the financial position of NMC and required the banking
system to extend large amounts of credit to NMC.  Aside from the devalua-
tion, little scope was given to market forces and Tanzania made no basic
changes in its system of administered prices and government controls. The
basic weaknesses of the economy persisted: declining export volumes, limi-
ted trained manpower, disappointing growth in the monetized and productive
sectors, and poor maintenance of existing capital stock and infrastructure,
especially in agriculture and transport.
7.            Nonetheless,  the Government program,  boosted greatly by the
coffee boom of 1977, increased foreign assistance and reasonable weather
for agriculture, was able to keep the economy in balance until 1978.  The
current account deficit fell to less than US$100 million in 1976 and less
than US$175 million in 1977, well below the 1975 deficit of US$340
million.   The Government made a net repayment of TSh. 24 million to the
banking  system  in 1976/77.    During  1978,  the  overly  stringent  import
controls were relaxed at the same time as the terms of trade began to dete-
riorate again.   The balance  of payments went  into deficit and foreign
reserves were drawn down.  Then, in October 1978, the country was invaded
by forces from Uganda.  The resulting war, the oil price increases of 1979
and flooding and drought in different parts of Tanzania led to a worsening
balance of payments deficit and the Government built up major arrears on
its import payments for the first time since Independence.   The domestic
budget fell heavily into deficit as expenditures (led by defense) rose by
3Government development expenditures account for about two-thirds of
public sector investment, which in turn accounts for 50-60% of total
investment.



-4-
50% from 1977/78  to 1978/79 and revenues improved by only 10%.   As a
result, Government borrowing from the banking system increased from TSh.
600 million in 1977/78 to more than TSh. 3,000 million in 1978/79.   Such
borrowing was the major factor in money supply growth, which exceeded 53%
in this period.
8.          According to the official National Accounts statistics, GDP in
constant prices has risen by 4.7% per annum since 1966, and by a slightly
higher rate of 5.1% per annum over the past six years. However, this later
trend assumes an 8.6% per annum increase in subsistence agriculture, which
seems somewhat overstated in the light of Bank Group project experience and
the known marketed surpluses of food.   Assuming a more realistic growth
rate of 4.0% per annum for subsistence agriculture, overall GDP growth
since 1973 would also be reduced  to 4.0% per annum.   With population
growing by around 3.3% per annum, this implies an increase in per capita
GDP of only 0,7% per annum.  There also has been a change in the structure
of the economy over the past six years, away from the productive monetary
sector and towards subsistence and service activities.   Excluding public
administration, commercial services and trade, the monetary sector has
grown by only 2.3% per annum over the past six years, well below the popu-
lation growth rate. This change in the structure of the economy has been a
major factor hampering the Government's efforts to mobilize domestic
resources.
9.        Although Tanzania has sustained a high investment ratio, this has
not been matched by a similar success in the mobilization of domestic
savings or in the return on investments.   Up to the mid-1970s, foreign
savings had financed 20%-40% of domestic investment. However, the depend-
ence on foreign savings rose sharply to more than 60% of domestic invest-
ment during the crisis years of 1974-75 and again from 1978.   The major
shortfalls in domestic savings have occurred in the Government sector,
where they have actually been negative in some years since 1975.  The low
return on investments is reflected in the incremental capital-output ratio
for the monetary sector, which was around 4.5 at the start of the decade
and rose to between 6 and 7 by the end of it.
10.           Agriculture remains  the most important  sector in Tanzania,
accounting for 90% of total employment, 50% of GDP and 80% of exports. The
long-term trend growth rate of agricultural production has hardly kept pace
with population growth and if anything has fallen in more recent years as
the initial expansion of export crop production (through the mid-1960s) has
been reversed. This poor performance cannot be adequately explained by the
limitations of the natural environment.  Although the importance of rural
development has continuously been highlighted in Government statements,
including the Arusha Declaration and successive plans, this has not always
been reflected in the allocation of resources to the agricultural sector or
in policy formulation and implementation.   The general direction of the
Government's post-Arusha agriculture strategy has also tended to emphasize
the transformation of the institutional structure of rural development
(through the formation of villages and increasing public involvement in the



-5-
sector) over measures designed to improve agricultural production directly.
Many of these institutional changes were introduced too rapidly, without
careful planning or sufficient recognition that by themselves they could
not compensate for inadequate incentives and shortages of skilled manpower
and managers. More recently there has been a greater awareness of the role
of incentives, and recent price adjustments attest to the Government's
willingness to use them to influence the pattern of agricultural produc-
tion. The trend towards greater public involvement in agriculture has also
continued and with the resultant proliferation of parastatals and increa-
singly complex structure of administration, the available manpower has been
stretched even more thinly.   This has resulted in weakened capacity for
policy planning and implementation, especially in the areas of research and
extension, and deficient distribution of fertilizers and other on-farm
supplies and equipment.   The deterioration of transport services also has
contributed to the poor performance of agriculture.   Roads, railways and
water transport have deteriorated owing to a lack of spare parts, poor
maintenance and inadequate planning and management.
The Current Balance of Payments Crisis and Medium Term Prospects
11.       The decline in agricultural production, transport bottlenecks and
external shocks described above have all contributed to the severe deterio-
ration in the balance of payments over the past two to three years. Export
volumes are estimated to have fallen by 7% during 1980, to a level one-
third below the peaks of the mid-1960s and early 1970s.  Furthermore, the
terms of trade have declined by 27% since the coffee boom of 1977, due to a
sharp increase in import costs, especially for petroleum, at a time when
the overall level of export prices has been rising very slowly.  Owing to
these adverse developments, the purchasing power of Tanzania's exports in
1980 was one-third lower than in 1977 and only one-half of the 1966 level.
Part of this shortfall has been made good by additional external resources,
including a sharp increase in commodity and program aid to more than US$200
million in 1980, as well as by drawings under the IMF standby program
concluded in September 1980.  But Tanzania has also had to utilize large
amounts of exceptional financing, including suppliers' credits and an
increase in import payment arrears.   Despite this, the volume of imports
has had to be severely curtailed, and in 1980, was still no higher than in
the mid-1970s.
12.        Given the recent negative developments on coffee prices and oil
supplies, as well as the limited scope for further exceptional financing,
there is little prospect for any immediate improvement in the balance of
payments, and present indications are that the situation is continuing to
deteriorate during 1981. This continuing balance of payments constraint is
inevitably having a debilitating effect on the economy, with lower imports
reducing production and maintenance of existing assets, resulting in
further  falls in exports  and available  foreign exchange.   This vicious
circle will be difficult to break, unless there is a substantial injection
of foreign exchange and major changes in domestic policies designed to
improve producer incentives, parastatal operations, import allocations, the



-6-
promotion of non-traditional exports, and overall government planning and
budgeting.  The Government has recently introduced a number of significant
measures--such as higher producer prices for coffee, sisal and tobacco and
the establishment of a Special Agricultural Account at the Bank of Tanzania
to ensure a substantial proportion of foreign exchange for food and export
crop production. This Export Rehabilitation Program which is being suppor-
ted by a recently approved credit from IDA (Cr. No. 1133-TA) could stem
then reverse the decline in Tanzania's export earnings.
13.          Even with a much improved export performance,  Tanzania will
contimue to face a very difficult balance of payments situation, expecially
over the next two to three years. To sustain an increase in per capita GDP
will require increasing amounts of aid in real terms and a careful review
of import requirements, especially those for low-priority projects with
long gestation periods  and high foreign exchange  costs.   Otherwise  the
prospects would be for generally stagnant economic activity over the 1980s
as a whole, with a substantial decline in per capita incomes.   To avoid
this, there will need to be continued emphasis on export performance and a
concerned effort to improve the level of capacity utilization and effi-
ciency in the economy. Furthermore, this must be done without jeopardizing
vital food production.
14.         Although it may be possible to finance a small portion of the
current account gap through commercial borrowings, the scope of this is
clearly limited; in addition to the difficulties of raising commercial
credit during a period of balance of payments problems, Tanzania simply
cannot afford the heavy burden of debt service payments.   Therefore, the
bulk of the financing requirements will have to be met by additional
foreign assistance.   Possible  sources for this include further drawings
from the IMF (which could add US$100 million per annum), deferred payment
arrangements and other concessional financing from oil-supplying countries,
additional new commitments from traditional bilateral and multilateral
sources, and a continued movement towards non-project assistance.
15.        Owing to the very concessional terms on which past aid has been
given to Tanzania and the Government's previous reluctance to use higher
cost commercial loans and suppliers' credits, the country's overall debt
service ratio has historically been less than 10%.   However,  the  debt
service burden is expected to increase as past loans fall due for repayment
and new borrowings, including some on commercial terms, are required to
meet the widening balance of payments gap.  Such borrowings, together with
very poor export prospects, could raise the debt service ratio to 15%-20%
during  the 1980s.   In 1980,  it is estimated  that the Bank held 14% of
Tanzania's external debt outstanding and disbursed (for the Bank Group, it
was 28%) and received 25% of Tanzania's debt service (27% for the Bank
Group). This relatively high level of Bank exposure reflects in part the
impact of recent debt write-offs, totalling US$277 million in 1978 and
1979.  We are projecting the Bank Group's share in debt service to fall
over the coming decade owing to the reduced IBRD component in the lending
program and the continued need for Tanzania to borrow funds ,on less conces-
sional terms from other sources.



PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TANZANIA4
16.       Tanzania joined the Bank, IDA and IFC in 1962.  Beginning with an
IDA credit for education in 1963, 49 IDA credits and 19 Bank loans, two of
these on Third Window terms, amounting to US$976.3 million have so far been
approved for Tanzania. In addition, Tanzania has been a beneficiary of 10
loans totalling US$244.8 million which were extended for the development of
the common services and development bank operated regionally by Tanzania,
Kenya and Uganda through their association in the East African Community.
IFC investments in Tanzania, totalling US$4.7 million, were made to the
Kilombero Sugar Company in 1960 and 1964.  This Company encountered finan-
cial difficulties and in 1969, IFC and other investors sold their interest
in the Company to the Government.  A new IFC investment of US$1.7 million
in soap manufacturing in Mbeya was approved by the Executive Directors on
June 8, 1978 and an investment of US$1.5 million in metal product manufac-
turing was approved on May, 1979.  Annex II contains summary statements of
Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments to Tanzania and the East
African Community organizations and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects.
17.       In support of Tanzania's overall development strategy, Bank Group
lending operations have assisted a wide spectrum of activities.   Nearly
every sector in which the Bank Group has operational capacity has received
some attention.   While  this broad involvement in Tanzania's development
efforts will be continued, future work is expected to concentrate on: (i)
agriculture; (ii) transport and communications; (iii) industry; and (iv)
education and manpower development.  As agriculture and related activities
constitute the largest single sector in the economy, it has received 30% of
the Bank Group's direct lending to Tanzania.  The lending program in agri-
culture has featured three main types of projects.  A series of regional
rural development projects are focusing on production and the development
of regional infrastructure needed to remove production constraints.   The
Kigoma Project (Credit No. 508-TA) was the first of these, and similar
projects have been approved for Tabora (Credit No. 703-TA) and Mwanza/
Shinyanga (Credit No. 803-TA).   Another group of projects is centered on
specific crops (such as maize, tea, tobacco and pyrethrum) and are the
responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture or one of its parastatals. A
third set of projects, such as the Tanzania Rural Development Bank Project
(Credit No. 987-TA) is designed to improve general support services for the
agricultural sector.   However, in view of growing evidence of persistent
underfinancing of capital maintenance and replacement in the sector, new
Bank Group lending in agriculture is likely to focus increasingly on the
rehabilitation and fuller use of existing production and processing
capacity, rather than on expansion of such capacity.
4This section is substantially the same as that in the President's
Report on the Telecommunications Project dated June 1, 1981.



18.       Alongside agriculture, there has been a major focus in Bank Group
work on transport  and  communications.   Transportation  difficulties  are
critical constraints to development in Tanzania.  Indeed, the Government's
inability to ensure the timely availability of inputs or the regular
collection of crops has been a major bottleneck to increased production in
the agriculture  sector.    Furthermore,  during  the  seventies,  transport
investments were primarily concentrated around the Tanzania-Zambia Corridor
and since 1977, no systematic investment program has been prepared for the
subsectors which were overseen by EAC Corporations.   The major objectives
of the proposed Bank Group activities are to develop a more balanced
investment program in transport and communications and to strengthen the
ministries and newly established national corporations responsible for
railways,  ports, and telecommunications.   In industry,  future lending is
expected to provide further support to well developed financial intermedia-
ries like the Tanzanian Investment Bank (TIB) which are intending to conso-
lidate their portfolio and place stress on capacity utilization and export
promotion.   Shortages in skilled manpower are also a worsening bottleneck
to development.  Bank Group involvement in education has supported and is
expected to continue support for specialized training and the development
of the secondary education sector to assist the Government in meeting its
manpower needs.
19.         Projects which have been recently approved or appraised reflect
the above outlined priorities.  Those approved include a Pyrethrum Project
(Credit No. 1007-TA), a Foodgrain Storage and Milling Project (Credit No.
1015-TA), a Tea Processing Project (Credit No. 1037-TA), the Dar es Salaam
Port Engineering Project (Credit No. S-24-TA), a Seventh Education Project
(Credit No. 1056-TA), a Second Technical Assistance Project (Credit No.
1060-TA), and a Telecommunications Project (Credit No.   1173-TA).   Those
appraised include a second line of credit to the Tanganyika Development
Finance Corporation (TDFL), a third technical assistance and a forestry
project.    In  addition,  a  fourth  power  project  for  expansion  of  the
country's generation capacity and a harbours project for a more effective
utilization of Dar es Salaam port are currently being appraised.
20.       In addition to financing specific projects, the Bank Group has on
several ocasions provided non-project credits in support of the Govern-
ment's efforts to deal with its balance of payments difficulties.   The
first such credit was made in 1974, the second in 1977, and the most recent
an Export Rehabilitation Program Credit (No. 1153-TA), in April 1981.
21.       Although the comparatively high undisbursed proportion of loans
and credits, detailed in Annex II, is to some extent the result of the
recent approval of many of these projects, it also reflects problems in
project implementation, particularly in agriculture and rural development.
The causes of these difficulties are varied.  To a large extent they arise
from the scarcity of suitably trained and experienced manpower, which call
for stepped-up efforts in higher education and specialized training, as
well as for sustained high levels of technical assistance in future project
design. Other implementation problems reflect the difficulty of identify-
ing and disseminating agronomic input packages appropriate to the needs of



- 9 -
smallholder farmers or result from administrative overextension in the been
undertaking of a far-reaching development program.   These problems have
been compounded by frequent and fundamental administrative changes, which
--though potentially the source of long-term benefits--have disrupted
orderly execution of some projects and made aspects of other project
designs obsolete.  The Uganda war had some early impact on project imple-
mentation by diverting equipment and manpower away from development
purposes; however, by contributing to the current economic crisis, the
temporary logistical problems caused by the conflict have been superseded
by deeper and more lasting difficulties arising from a critical shortage of
essential  goods  and  services.    During  the  last  year,  the  direct  and
indirect effects of prolonged under-financing of essential import require-
ments  have  become  painfully  obvious.    Most  industrial  facilities  were
working at less than thirty percent of their installed capacity and the
lack of maintenance and operations funds (particularly for replacement
equipment, spare parts, and fuel) was compounding the already serious
effects of deferred maintenance of capital stock, especially in the
agriculture sector.   Until the general economic  situation improves,  the
outlook is for continued and sometimes unforseen interruptions in project
implementation and disbursements.
22.          As the Bank Group's lending program has expanded,  increased
attention has been given to measures designed to improve specific aspects
of project implementation.   Courses on Bank Group procurement have been
held in Dar es Salaam for relevant Government officials. A special project
implementation unit has been set up in the Ministry of Agriculture and 11
Agricultural Development Services staff have been attached to Bank Group
financed projects in agriculture and rural development. The Government has
assigned responsibility for the monitoring of project performance to a
specialized unit at the Ministry of Planning and Economic Affairs.   Since
February 1977 there has been a Government/Bank Group review of implemen-
tation problems on a project-by-project basis.   In October 1980, a major
Country Implementation Review was held in Arusha at which all Bank-financed
agricultural projects were examined, with a view to discussing sectoral
issues in addition to project-related matters.  As a result of such steps
--and a necessary slowing of the growth rate of the country's overall
development program during the next three years--we expect some gradual
improvement in project implementation.
East African Community (EAC)
23.       Major developments affecting the East African Community were out-
lined in a report to the Executive Directors dated December 29, 1977
(R77-312) and more recent developments were reported in a statement to the
Executive Directors during their meeting of May 6, 1980.  The three former
Partner States have employed Dr. Victor Umbricht as an independent mediator
to recommend an appropriate disposition of the assets and liabilities of
the Community corporations and the General Fund Services. Dr. Umbricht has
visited East Africa on numerous occasions, has employed consultants to
assist in the appraisal of Community assets and liabilities, and in March
1980 made formal recommendations on the allocation of these assets and



- 10 -
liabilities. Meetings at ministerial level to discuss the Mediator's pro-
posals were held in Arusha in May 1980, and in Kampala in February 1981. A
follow-up meeting was held in Nairobi on August 6 when it was decided to
commence formal negotiations in November 1981 on the basis of the
Mediator's proposals. Meanwhile, the Mediator's report and recommendations
on the future structure of the East African Development Bank (EADB) have
been accepted by the Partner States and the revised EADB Charter, along
with the Treaty to enact the new Charter, have been ratified by the three
Governments.
PART III - THE ENERGY AND HYDROCARBON SECTORS
Energy Consumption
24.      Total annual energy consumption in Tanzania during 1979 and 1980
was about 5.0 million tons of oil equivalent (TOE), or 300 kg. per
capita.  Of this total, only 0.93 million TOE or 19% represented commercial
energy consumption. Per capita commercial energy consumption (at 52 kg. of
oil equivalent) is considerably below that of other African countries such
as Kenya and Angola, mainly due to the large proportion of the population
living in rural areas which relies primarily on charcoal and firewood.
Imported crude oil and domestically-refined and imported oil products
(totaling 832,000 tons) accounted for about 90% of total commercial energy
consumption in 1980, the remainder being met by coal and hydro-
electricity.   Between 1970-75,  demand for commercial energy grew at an
average rate of 4.9% per annum.   This rate of growth fell to 1.4% between
1975-80, following steep increases in oil product prices and the resulting
import restrictions, higher domestic prices and conservation measures
introduced by the Government.
25.      The  impact  of  crude  oil  and product  imports on the country's
balance of payments is already significant.   In 1980, the petroleum bill
was US$260 million or about 20% of Tanzania's merchandise imports and 52 %
of exports.   Furthermore, based on a projected 3.6% per annum growth in
GDP, commercial energy consumption could grow to about 1.3 million TOE in
1990 in real terms (at a rate of growth of about 2% per annum between 1980-
85 and about 3.9% per annum between 1985-90).   Even on the optimistic
assumption that hydropower and coal resources could be substantially
developed over the next decade to meet about 20% of total commercial energy
demand by 1990, the petroleum import bill could exceed US$1,000 million (in
1990  prices)  by  that  year,  equal  to  about  30%  of  total  projected
merchandise imports.   Thus, development of domestic energy resources, and
hydrocarbons in particular, is an economic necessity in Tanzania in the
eighties.



- 11 -
Energy Resources
26.      Tanzania's energy  resources  are  sizeable  in comparison  to its
present  demand,  but  essentially  undeveloped.         In  addition  to  the
hydrocarbon resources discovered in the Songo Songo island area (paragraph
45) it has unexplored sedimentary areas suitable for oil and gas generation
and accumulation. Inferred deposits of steam coal located in the southwest
of Tanzania are estimated at 1,500 million tons with proved reserves of
about  300  million  tons.    There  is  considerable  hydrop awer  potential,
estimated at 1,400 M.W.  Forests covering about 307,000 km  are the major
energy source, accounting for over 80% of total energy consumption in the
form of charcoal and firewood. Non-traditional renewable energy is not yet
commercially utilized but, in the longer run, there is potential for solar
energy  and  biogas.    The  country  also  has  as  yet unexplored  uranium
potential.
Investment Priorities
27.      Faced with the rising cost of oil imports and its serious impact
on the countrys balance of payments, the Government has initiated several
activities to assess and exploit the domestic energy potential.  Petroleum
exploration is being undertaken with the assistance of IDA, bilateral and
multilateral donors  and  foreign  oil companies  (paragraph 38).   A coal
engineering project is being prepared with IDA assistance that could lead
to a coal exploitation project to generate power and to meet industrial and
domestic requirements.   The Government also has completed a CIDA financed
study of the power sector which would form the basis of further power
development  projects,   and  the  Association  will  shortly  begin  its
consideration of a new power project, taking into account the results of
this study.   Uranium exploration is being carried out by Uranerzbergbau,
GmBH of the Federal Republic of Germany.   Finally,  the Government has
recently prepared a national afforestation program.
28.      While these efforts are underway, one general area of concern is
planning.   Development of domestic energy resources will require large
financial commitments at a time when the resource availability is likely to
remain constrained and a careful evaluation of energy projects and ranking
of their priorities is necessary. These considerations led IDA to include
financing for 36 man months of consultancy services (an economic advisor
and an energy specialist) under the first Songo Songo Petroleum Exploration
Project (Cr. S-27-TA) (the First Songo Songo Project) to initiate work on
an energy plan, including the review of energy pricing and helping to
develop a domestic capability to prepare and appraise energy projects and
coordinate energy studies. The Government was to appoint these consultants
by December 30, 1980 but has not yet done so. This delay resulted mainly
from the heavy demands on MWE's limited administrative resources made by
the drilling under the First Songo Songo Project, which slowed down efforts
to recruit.   However, MWE staff has recently been strengthened (paragraph



- 12 -
40) and proposals have now been invited from consultants for filling these
positions.     Government has agreed that the economic adviser and energy
specialist would be appointed by April 30, 1982.   Government has further
agreed that the draft energy plan would be prepared by March 31, 1983 and,
promptly thereafter, submitted to the Association for its review and
comment.    (Section  3.02  (a)  and  (b)  of  the  draft Development  Credit
Agreement). In addition, IDA proposes to carry out an energy assessment in
mid 1982 which will form the basis for future discussions with the
Government about energy sector issues, particularly pricing, development
strategy and investment priorities.
Energy Pricing
29.      The  retail  petroleum product  prices  in Tanzania  are  generally
higher than the international prices and reflect costs of imported crude
oil and products, domestic refining and distribution costs as well as
economic and social considerations and recognition of the need for
conservation.  A comparison of Tanzanian retail prices for oil products in
1980 (converted at the official exchange rate) with the average domestic
prices from a sample of 56 countries is set out below:
Retail Prices of Major Petroleum Products
Product              Tanzania ($/gal)       Average Domestic Price
Premium Gasoline                  $4.37                    $2.29
Kerosene                          $1.60                    $1.35
Gas Oil                           $1.83                    $1.45
Diesel Fuel                       $1.10                    $1.45
Fuel Oil                          $0.99                    $1.06
Differences in these relative prices reflect, to a certain degree,
differential   taxation   determined   by   both   economic   and   social
considerations. Taxes on kerosene, which is principally used for cooking,
are 6% of the 1980 retail price, while taxes on gasoline are 21% and on
industrial diesel oil and fuel oil 18% of the respective retail prices.
30.      While the Government has rapidly increased the prices of petroleum
products following the international oil price increases in 1979 (when oil
product  prices  were  revised  upwards  by  more  than  50%),  it  has  not
adequately increased power tariffs, although there have been some
increases.   The power tariff structure and levels are clearly issues of
major concern.   These matters,  including the steps required to meet the
financial covenants under the Kidatu Hydroelectric Second Stage Development
Project (1306-T-TA), will be addressed under the proposed power project
currently being appraised. The proposed energy assessment and work of the



- 13 -
energy consultants is expected to provide the background information for
further discussions on pricing policies.
Sector Organisation
31.      The primary responsibility for development of energy resources in
Tanzania remains with the Ministry of Water and Energy (MWE).   MWE has
three  parastatal  organizations,  the  Tanzania  Petroleum    Development
Corporation (petroleum), Tanzania Electric Supply Company (power) and the
Rufiji Basin Development Authority (basin development including Stieglers
Gorge,  a  potential  hydropower  development  site).          MWE  and  these
organizations prepare plans for the energy sector, and these are
incorporated into the country's overall development plan by the Ministry of
Planning and Economic Affairs. The Ministry of Finance mobilizes financing
for development projects and administers taxes on oil products.   Energy
prices are set by the Government's Economic Committee of the Cabinet.
32.      The  Tanzania  Petroleum  Development  Corporation  (TPDC)  is  the
beneficiary of the proposed project and would be its executing agency. It
is a semi-autonomous public corporation fully owned by the Government, and
was established in 1969 to be in charge of oil and gas related activities.
TPDC is managed by a nine-man board, chaired by the Minister of Water and
Energy.   At present, its main activities are trading and exploration.   It
buys crude oil and arranges for its refining, paying a processing fee to
Tiper Oil Refinery, Dar es Salaam which is jointly owned by the Government
and  AGIP  Company  of  Italy.    It  sells  the  products  ex-refinery  to
distributors.   TPDC has been active in exploration. As the agent of the
Government in the petroleum subsector, it is the partner of foreign oil
companies (AGIP and Shell) engaged in petroleum exploration under
production sharing agreements  (paragraph 36 and 38).   Further, TPDC has
continued  the  exploration  of  the  Songo  Songo  area,  following  its
relinquishment in 1974 by AGIP (paragraph 42 to 45).
33.      There are currently 59 Tanzanian professionals on TPDC's staff,
and they are assisted by 2 UNIDO advisers and 2 other expatriates  I. The
Exploration Department is staffed by 26 professionals (18 geologists,
geophysicists   or  palaentologists  and  8  engineers,   electricians  or
mechanics),  most  of  whom  have  received  some  training  abroad.    These
professionals are young and lack practical experience.   Under the first
Songo Songo project, TPDC staff have received on-the-job training from the
exploration and drilling management consultants. The proposed project
includes provision only for further on-the-job training. Once drilling has
1/       The 2 UNIDO experts advise on petroleum exploration and refining
matters. The other expatriates assist in financial operations.



- 14 -
been completed, further overseas training of TPDC staff, if necessary,
could be undertaken under the Technical Assistance Project, Cr. 1060-TA.
34.      TPDC's managerial and financial structure should be viewed in the
context of the historical role it has played in the petroleum sector as a
trading company with a monopoly in the purchase of crude oil and
distribution  and  sale  of  refined  products  to  distributors.    Trading
activities began at the end of FY77.  In 1980, TPDC made a net profit of
US$19.7 million equivalent.   TPDC's  total assets as of that date were
US$115 million equivalent and its net worth US$60.4 million equivalent.
Given TPDC's operations in petroleum exploration, the parallel expansion of
exploration activity by foreign companies and the prospect of commercial
hydrocarbon production in Tanzania, the First Songo Songo project included
provision for review of its managerial and financial structure. The first
draft of that study, which is being carried out by the Commonwealth
Secretariat, has been recently made available to TPDC and the Association
and is now under review.  The Government has agreed to complete this study
by March 31, 1982 and promptly thereafter to implement the results of the
study in consultation with the Association (Section 3.05 of draft
Development Credit Agreement).
Petroleum Geology
35.      Tanzania's  sedimentary  basins  with  the  potential  for  the
generation and accumulation of hydrocarbons cover an area in excess of
200,000 km2. These areas comprise the eastern coastal basins, where most of
past exploration has been concentrated, and the Rift Valley basins to the
west in which the geology and petroleum potential is much less known.
Sedimentation in the coastal basins is essentially continuous from the
Karroo series (a thick largely undifferentiated section of marine and non-
marine sediments spanning in age from Paleozoic Carboniferous through
Mesozoic early Jurassic to the Present).  The Karroo rocks were deposited
mainly in a non-marine environment with the first incursion of the sea
beginning in the middle Jurassic and with succeeding sediments becoming
progressively more marine with time.  The predominantly marine sedimentary
fill is thickest under the present continental shelf, down to 12,000
meters. This sedimentary section contains a number of possible hydrocarbon
source beds, shales and fine-grained carbonates. Potential reservoir rocks
are also common, such as sandstones and porous carbonates, including buried
reefs.    Potential  structural  traps  appear  to  be  subtle,  complex  and
abundant.     The  generation  and  accumulation  of  large  quantities  of
hydrocarbons has been proven by the gas discovery at Songo Songo and by
lesser shows in several other wells drilled. However, further exploration
and delineation drilling will be necessary to fully establish the petroleum
potential of the coastal basins.



- 15 -
Exploration History
36.      The  search for hydrocarbons  in Tanzania began in 1951 when a
geological     survey  team  mapped  surface  structures  suggesting  the
possibility of hydrocarbon traps at depth in the coastal region.
Exploration by the British Petroleum Company (BP) and Shell Oil Company
(Shell) was carried out during the period between 1953 and 1964 over the
mainland's coastal area and the islands of Pemba, Zanzibar and Mafia. Four
exploratory wells were drilled, one on each island and one on the mainland
at Mandawa, but none of these encountered significant oil or gas shows to
encourage  further  drilling.    In  1964,  BP and Shell surrendered  their
exploration  licenses.   From 1969,  AGIP Exploration and Production Ltd.
(AGIP) was granted an exploration license covering essentially the same
areas relinquished by BP and Shell.   The first well drilled by AGIP was
completed as a dry hole (offshore at Ras Machuisi) in 1974.   During the
same year, AGIP drilled Songo Songo Well No. 1 and encountered gas in the
Lower Cretaceous sandstones. Three additional wells drilled by AGIP on the
mainland were dry.  AGIP did not consider that the gas discovery at Songo
Songo justified additional appraisal drilling and, according to the terms
of  their  production  sharing  agreement,  they  relinquished  the  area
surrounding Songo Songo (284 km2) to TPDC, in 1976.  AGIP, however, still
holds a sizeable portion of the coastal basins (see attached map).
Exploration Strategy
37.      Faced  with  the  increasing  cost  of  petroleum  imports,  the
Government decided in the late 70's to accelerate petroleum exploration by
following a two-pronged approach: entrusting to TPDC the responsibility of
fully investigating the Songo Songo area, and attracting foreign companies
to explore in other areas.   The rationale for the Government taking the
full risk of the Songo Songo project was that it was unlikely that Tanzania
would have been able to attract a foreign operator because of the limited
size of the Songo Songo block , which is surrounded by acreage under
license. With the geological data then available, Tanzania would not have
been able to offer terms economically attractive to a foreign investor and
at the same time retain any significant interest itself.  The exploration
effort of TPDC in Songo Songo is described in detail in paragraph 43 to
45. TPDC also carried out additional seismic surveys and interpretation in
other areas,   with the help of the Norwegian Petroleum Directorate and
financing from NORAD.   More recently,  the Government also gave TPDC the
responsibility to drill an onshore structure in the Coastal Basin area at
Kimbiji with Algerian grant finance.
38.       The above-mentioned seismic surveys identified several structures
offshore and gave some leads onshore which are now being proposed for
foreign company exploration.   The Government also enacted new petroleum
legislation to facilitate participation of foreign oil companies in
exploration.   Further,  in 1980 TPDC prepared model agreements with the



- 16 -
assistance of consultants financed under IDA's technical assistance project
(Cr.  601-TA).   On the basis of this work,  the Government has recently
entered  into a production-sharing  agreament  with  a group led by Shell
covering a major portion (over 72,000 km ) of the onshore basins. Several
foreign companies are discussing other exploration agreements.  Government
has agreed that the proceeds of any sale of data derived from drilling
operations under the Project would be used for further exploration or other
petroleum sector activities.   (Section 3.06 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
39.      The Government's recent emphasis on exploration by the private
sector is sound.   It has indicated that the drilling of the Kimbiji well
with Algerian finance is an exception to its policy which is still to
attract foreign risk capital for petroleum exploration in all areas except
Songo  Songo  for  the  reasons  given  above.    However,  to avoid  further
diversions from this policy, it is important that the Government obtain
technical assistance to help define a strategy to promote its acreage to
foreign companies.
40.      The First Songo Scngo Project included 36 man-months of assistance
by a senior explorationist and an economist to formulate a long-term
petroleum exploration strategy and assist the Government in negotiating
with foreign companies.   Again, delays have occured in the recruitment of
these consultants, due to difficulty in locating suitable candidates and
the heavy demands made on MWE's limited administrative resources by the
drilling under the first Songo Songo Project, which slowed down efforts to
recuit.    However,  the  economist  is  now  in  post  and  invitations  for
proposals   have   been   sent   to  potential   explorationist   candidates.
Government has agreed that
(i)     the services of the explorationist would be retained by
April 30, 1982 (Section 3.03 (a) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement); and
(ii)    the Government would submit a draft exploration strategy
before September 30, 1982 to the Association for its
review and comments (Section 3.03 (b) of the Draft
Development Credit Agreement).
In addition TPDC has agreed that it will not undertake any new projects
which would involve assignment of qualified TPDC staff away from
implementation of the proposed project (Section 3.04 of the draft Project
Agreement).   During negotiations, an understanding was reached with TPDC
that, subject to any confidentiality restrictions, it would keep the
Association informed of any exploration proposed during the project
implementation period.



- 17 -
The Role of the Bank Group in the Petroleum Sector
41.      The Bank Group's role is to continue to support the Government's
strategy,  particularly its strategy to attract foreign risk capital for
petroleum exploration.   Thus, the Bank has been closely involved over the
last two years in the discussions between Government and Shell Petroleum
NV.   These discussions have recently culminated in agreement for Shell to
undertake an extensive onshore exploration program southwest of Dar-es-
Salaam.    At  the  request  of  the  Government  and  Shell,  the  Bank was
considering participating in the financing of the program.  However, this
was not eventually required and the program is now underway without Bank
financing.    The  Association  also  has  supported  the  Government's  own
exploration efforts where private sector interest was not forthcoming, in
particular through the First Songo Songo Petroleum Exploration Project.
The encouraging results of that project justify the Association's
continuing support for assessing the hydrocarbon potential in the Songo
Songo area, which would be provided under the proposed project. Should the
results of this project justify development of the field, the Association's
role would be to assist Government to ensure sound resource utilisation and
development of the field by an experienced operator, and possibly to help
mobilize the necessary private or public sector financial support.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
The First Songo Songo Petroleum Exploration Project
42.      Background.   The Songo Songo area was explored by AGIP between
1969 and 1974 when it was relinquished.   In 1976, TPDC contracted the
services of ONGC of India to drill three additional wells on Songo Songo
Island  (Well  Nos.  SS-2,  SS-3  and  SS-4).    These wells  confirmed  the
accumulation of gas at Songo Songo with estimated proven reserves of 100
billion cubic feet.   Tests conducted subsequently by mid-1979 indicated
possibilities of an oil accumulation in association with gas. In September
1979, the Government requested Bank Group assistance in further appraisal
of the Songo Songo area. A review and reinterpretation of the available
geological, geophysical and well data financed by the Technical Assistance
Credit (Cr. 601-TA) and carried out by the consulting firms of Exploration
Consultants Limited (ECL), U.K. and Sunmark Worldwide Services (Sunmark),
U.S.A., concluded that an exploration and delineation drilling program
consisting of four wells and estimated to cost about US$45 million was
warranted.   Discussions on cofinancing were then held with the European
Investment Bank (EIB) and the OPEC Fund for International Development (OPEC
Fund). Because of constraints on the funds available to the cofinanciers,
cofinancing   arrangements were not finalized,  except for US$0.5 million
from EIB. However, both EIB and OPEC Fund confirmed their interest in the
project and in participating in the financing of any follow-up. Therefore



- 18 -
on June 14,1980 IDA approved a US$30 million credit for the First Songo
Songo Petroleum Exploration Project (Cr. S-27-TA) as a first phase two well
project.
43.      The objectives of the First Songo Songo project were to explore
further for both oil and gas. In particular, the Project provided for:
(i)     the drilling of two wells, one offshore (Well SS-5) and
one on Songo Songo Island (Well SS-6).  These two wells,
which represented the first phase of the four-well
program, were both programmed to reach the Albian Sand
formation at between 5000 to 6000 feet, and then to drill
down to the Jurassic Shale formation at about 10,500
feet. The objective at the shallower depth was primarily
gas; at the deeper depth, oil.
(ii)    technical assistance to TPDC for drilling management, well
completion services and training; and,
(iii)   technical  assistance  to MWE  for  the preparation of  an
energy development plan (paragraph 28), the definition of
an exploration and negotiation strategy (paragraph 40), a
market study for natural gas (paragraph 47) and an
institutional study of TPDC (paragraph 34).
44.      The  consulting  services  for  the  exploration  and  negotiation
strategy and for the market study were financed by a US$0.5 million loan
from  the  EIB.    The  local  costs  (US$2.5  million)  were  financed  by
Government.   The IDA Credit of $30 million was allocated to: i)  Drilling
of Wells SS-5 and 6, including Consultants Services, ii)   Completion of
Wells for Production,  iii)   Consultants Services for Further Wells and
Reservoir Studies,  and iv) Technical Assistance  to MWE and TPDC.   The
drilling of Wells SS-5 and 6, including consultant services plus technical
assistance to MWE and TPDC (items i) and iv)) are estimated to have cost
$32 million, compared with an appraisal estimate, including contingencies,
of  $25.1  million.    Of  the  $6.9  million  gap,  $4.9  million  came  from
reallocating  expenditures  from  items  ii)  and  iii)  above.    This  was
justified given the high cost of interrupting drilling during the middle of
the operation and because items ii) and iii) could reasonably be deferred
without affecting the project outcome.   The balance of the cost overrun,
currently estimated at $2 million, will be provided by the Government. The
cost overrun in the drilling of the wells was due to an underestimate of
the costs of established facilities on Songo Songo Island, and to a longer
drilling period for both wells, reflecting both operational difficulties
and a more extensive core and testing program for Well SS-5. The magnitude
of this of this overrun is not abnormal for an exploration project given
its nature where some technical difficulties  cannot be predicted.   Item
iii) and part of item ii) are now included in the proposed project



- 19 -
(paragraph 49).   This is justified given that the two projects form an
integral part of the overall Songo Songo petroleum exploration program and
because these items are essential for completing the program effectively.
45.      The  project  was  implemented  by  TPDC,  with  Sunmark  acting  as
drilling  manager  and  ECL  as  geological  consultant.    Due  to  early
availability of an onshore rig, drilling began with the onshore Well SS-6
on  January  23,  1981.    However,  following  a  combination  of  technical
problems, including a stuck drill pipe, drilling was suspended on April 9,
1981 at a depth of 6,718 feet, about 4,300 feet above the wells bottom
objective.   The SS-6 well encountered the Lower Cretaceous  gas reservoir
lower than anticipated and had penetrated approximately only 15 feet of the
gas reservoir above the gas/water contact. Due to the absence of the upper
unit of the Lower Cretaceous (Albian transition zone), Well SS-6 was not
able to evaluate the oil indication noted in Well SS-3, which was one of
its  principal  objectives.        Well  SS-6  has  since  been  plugged  and
abandoned.   The drilling of Well SS-5 began on May 26, 1981 and reached
total depth at 9,770 feet on September 14, 1981.   Test results from the
well at its shallower objective of 5,600 feet are highly encouraging.
Based on technical data gathered so far, a large gas reservoir has been
found, with estimated proven reserves of over .5 TCF and a potential of 1.5
TCF to be confirmed.   Reservoir data available suggests that, with proper
well completions, gas could be produced at 50 MMFCD per well.  With regards
to  condensate in the gas, indications of exploitable liquids at that depth
are not encouraging, but further drilling will verify this.   However, in
the  deeper  horizons  of Well  SS-5,  an oil  show was  encountered.    The
presence of an oil show and results of source rock studies made by Amoco on
the Jurassic shales drilled in Well SS-1, immediately underlying the basal
Lower Cretaceous objectivite indicate oil potential in the deeper Lower
Cretaceous  zone  and  justify  further  exploration.    Utilizing  the  data
gathered   from   Well   SS-5,   and   additional   seismic   data   recently
reinterpreted, a more favorable position for oil in this deeper zone has
now been identified, and the first well included in the proposed project is
located accordingly.
Project Objectives and Justification
46.      The results of the drilling under the First Songo Songo project
represent the first bonafide discovery of hydrocarbons in Tanzania and East
Africa in general, and clearly justify further exploration and field
appraisal.   The Association has carefully monitored the results of Wells
SS-5 and SS-6, and has endorsed the concept and design of the proposed
project which would complete the original program of four wells (i.e. two
additional wells) plus one further well in an adjacent structure.   The
Association's findings are summarized in Annex IV.   Because of the large
opportunity cost of delays, which could be of up to two years if the
drilling barge were demobilized due to the tight rig market, IDA, EIB, and
the OPEC Fund have agreed, at the Government's request, to consider the



- 20 -
proposed second Songo Songo project on an accelerated schedule.   In the
meantime, the Government has made interim financial arrangements to keep
the drilling rig and related services mobilized. The primary objective of
the proposed project would be to explore for liquid hydrocarbons,
particularly in the deeper horizons. At the same time, the drilling should
confirm the present estimates of the gas discovered in Songo Songo in the
shallower horizons and determine whether there are recoverable liquids
associated with this gas. The project would also assist the Government in
planning the utilisation of these resources in an effective manner.   The
presence of an oil show, together with the results of the geochemical
analysis and the identification of a good structural location in the deeper
Lower Cretaceous horizon justifies the drilling of the first well for
oil.   Newly available seismic data in another segment of the structure
(segment G, paragraph 49) also justifies a second oil exploration well in
an areally larger deep closure to the southeast, although its precise
location will depend on results of the seismic reinterpretation now
underway.    A third well would be drilled as an oil confirmation test if
either one of the other two wells prove to be oil discoveries. If neither
are oil discoveries, the third well would be located to test a revised
target, should information obtained in the previous two wells and other
studies indicate this to be warranted (paragraph 50).   In the course of
drilling  for oil in the deeper horizons,  the existence of substantial
quantities of gas would be confirmed when crossing the shallower
horizons.   The Government has recently entered into a contract for the
construction of an ammonia urea fertilizer plant, using about 50 MMFCD of
Songo Songo output of gas. However, as the potential output of Songo Songo
may  be  much higher,  and  because  a number  of  aspects  of  the proposed
fertilizer project (marketing etc.) are still to be reveiwed, the need for
a prompt study of gas utilization options becomes increasingly important.
47.      The terms of reference for the gas utilisation study to be carried
out under the First Songo Songo Project provided for the investigation of
the potential uses of gas in Tanzania as well as the prospects for gas
based export industries, with emphasis on the marketing aspects of the
final product.   Now that the results of Wells SS-5 and 6 are available,
Government has decided to proceed with the study as quickly as possible.
In view of the size of the gas find, there are a number of potential
alternative uses which could be economically justified.  These include use
for power generation (thereby saving or deferring expenditures on
hydropower schemes which, prima facie, appear expensive), or as feed stock
for a fertilizer project, or for methanol production.  The Government has
already invited consulting firms to submit proposals for the study under
the terms of reference referred to above and is now reviewing its selection
with EIB, which is financing the study. Government has agreed that:
(i)    consultants  for  the  gas  utilization  study  would  be
appointed by February 15, 1982 (Section 3.04 (a) of the
draft Development Credit Agreement);



- 21 -
(ii)   the study would be prepared by August 15, 1982 and promptly
thereafter submitted to the Association for its review and
comment (Section 3.04 (b) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
Project Description
48.      The proposed project would further evaluate the liquid hydrocarbon
and gas potential of Songo Songo area by financing the drilling of three
more wells using the drilling rig, Vermillion Bay, employed on Well
SS-5.   It would also include financing for reservoir studies, technical
assistance to TPDC to carry out the drilling program and training of TPDC
staff.
49.      More specifically,  the proposed project would provide financing
for:
(a)    Drilling of the Three Wells
Mi)    The first well is located in the same segment as
Well SS-5, Segment C, and would test the oil potential of
the  deep  closure  of  the  south  of  Well  SS-5,  in  a
structurally higher position. In the course of doing so,
the well would delineate the gas reservoir discovered by
Well SS-5 in the shallower horizons and ascertain whether
there are liquid hydrocarbons in association with the
gas.    This  well  was  spudded  on October  16,  1981  and
drilling is underway.
(ii)   The second well would be drilled to test an areally
larger deep structural closure in an area southeast of
Well SS-5, Segment G, and is again positioned to locate
oil at the deeper Lower Cretaceous horizon. This well may
also encounter oil in the Lower Tertiary horizon updip of
the  oil  shows  encountered  in  Well  SS-6.    A  further
objective of the Well would be to explore for gas in the
shallower Lower Cretaceous horizons. Its precise location
will be finalized after agreement with IDA based on the
results of the first well and the seismic reinterpretation
now under way (Sections 1.01 and 2.01 of the draft Project
Agreement).
(iii) The third well would be drilled as an oil
confirmation test of either of the other two wells, if
either or both prove to be oil discoveries.  However, if
neither are oil discoveries, the third well would be
drilled to test a revised target, should information
obtained in the previous two wells indicate this to be



- 22 -
warranted.   The decision to drill, and the determination
of the objective, location and depth of this well would be
subject to the prior approval of Government, TPDC, EIB,
the OPEC Fund and the Association. (Sections 1.01,2.01 and
2.07 of the draft Project Agreement).
(b)    Completion of Wells for Production
The project would provide funds for completion of the three
wells for production of oil and gas, if justified.   TPDC
would, however, undertake not to complete any of the wells
for  production   without   the  prior  approval   of  the
Association (Section 2.10 of the draft Project Agreement).
(c)    Technical Assistance to TPDC
TPDC has a limited capacity for the implementation of a
project  of  this  type.    Taking  into account  experience
gained under the First Songo Songo Project, the project
would provide the necessary technical assistance to
strengthen TPDC-s capability to implement the project, as
follows:
(i)    Drilling Management Services (125 man-months)
Management of the project on behalf of TPDC would be
undertaken by Sunmark under an extension of their
management contract for the First Songo Songo
Project (paragraph 61 and Section 2.03 of the draft
Project Agreement).
(ii)   Exploration Consultancy Services (65 man-months)
ECL would act as exploration advisors to TPDC again
under an extension of their advisory services-
contract   for   the   First   Songo   Songo   Project
(paragraph 62 and Section 2.03 of the draft Project
Agreement).
(iii)  Reservoir Engineering Studies (6 man-months)
TPDC would also employ petroleum and engineering
consultants satisfactory to the Association to
prepare reservoir engineering studies and a field
development  plan.      (Section  2.04  of  the  draft
Project Agreement).



- 23 -
(iv)   Training
TPDC would assign to Sunmark and ECL suitably
qualified staff to act on a full-time basis as
counterpart to key Sunmark and ECL personnel in the
field. Under their contracts with TPDC, Sunmark and
ECL would be responsible for provision of on-the-job
training to these counterparts.
50.      As mentioned in paragraphs 46 and 49, while the financing of two
oil exploration wells is justified, the drilling of a third exploration
well would depend on the results of the first two.  Thus, the Government
has agreed that the third well would be spudded only if the Government,
TPDC, the Association, EIB and the OPEC Fund each determine that drilling
was justified.   In making its determination, the Association, would take
into account:
(i)    the potential for oil of the proposed well; and
(ii)   if  it  is mainly  a gas  confirmation well,  the economic
justification, if any, for utilisation of gas from the
Songo  Songo  area.    (Section  2.07  of  the draft Project
Agreement).
Further, assuming, the proposed project is successful, the delineation,
further exploration and development of the Songo Songo field will make much
more  severe  technical,   managerial  and  financial  demands  than  the
exploration effort to date.   This was discussed during negotiations.  The
Government indicated that it recognises that TPDC will continue to need the
services  of an experienced operator to meet these demands and that the
matter will be kept under review, taking also into account the results of
the TPDC study (paragraph 34).
Project Costs
51.        The total cost of the proposed project is estimated at US$45
million,net of taxes and duties, / of which about US$40 million is in
foreign exchange.   The major portion of the foreign exchange cost of the
project is the cost of the three wells, amounting to about US$30 million
(excluding contingencies) which will include drilling rig services of the
Vermillion Bay, rig demobilization after completion of drilling, tangibles
and  consumables  and  cost  of  specialized  and  other  services.    Other
components  are  well  completion  equipment  (US$250,000)  and  drilling
5/       The project is exempted from identifiable taxes and duties.



- 24 -
management, exploration advisory and reservoir engineering services   (US$4
million).   The cost estimates include 20% physical contingencies on rig
time and associated services. Price contingencies of 9% for 1981 and 8.5%
for 1982 have been applied to the foreign exchange costs, and of 15% for
1981 and 14% for 1982 to the local costs.   Total contingencies amount to
$6.8 million or 20.4% of base line costs. The large physical contingencies
are  considered  adequate,  given  the  nature  of  the  project.    Price
contingencies have been estimated taking into account that most of the
goods and services required  for the proposed project have already been
procured, and prices established, by extension of contracts entered into
under the first Songo Songo Project and because drilling under the project
is expected to be completed by June,  1982.   Estimated costs by project
component are given in the Credit and Project Summary.
52.      The rig operating costs (US$32,000 per day) and standby costs (US$
29,400 per day) are based on the rates provided in the contract between the
owners of the Vermillion Bay, Blocker Energy, and TPDC.   The specialized
and other services costs are based on the rates provided in the contracts
for these services. The cost of tangibles and consumables are actual costs
for the first well and estimated costs for two further wells, all of 10,500
feet depth each.   The costs of the exploration and drilling management
consultancy services are based on the contracts that have been extended for
ECL (U.K.) and Sunmark (U.S.A.). These services are estimated at 190 man-
months for the new three-well program at a total cost of about US$4
million, representing a cost of $20,000 per man month, including individual
fees, international travel, local allowances, provision for rotation of
expatriate personnel, cost of vehicles and local travel.   The balance of
$200,000 represents the costs of subcontracting of specialised laboratory
and interpretation services. These costs are deemed to be consistent with
current charges in the petroleum industry for the level of expertise and
experience required for comparable field locations.
Financing
53.      The proposed Credit of US$20 million would finance about 45% of
the project cost net of taxes and duties, and 50% of the foreign exchange
costs  estimated  at US$40  million.    The  remaining  50%  of  the foreign
exchange costs would be financed by EIB (US$8 million equivalent) and the
OPEC Fund (US$12 million equivalent).  The local cost of about US$5 million
equivalent would be financed by the Government from counterpart funds
generated under an OPEC Fund balance of payments loan.   The Government
would provide any additional foreign exchange, above the US$40 million
being provided by the Association, the OPEC Fund and EIB, that might be
required to complete the project (Section 3.01 (b) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). It would be a condition of effectiveness of the Credit
that all conditions, if any, precedent to the availability of the funds to
be provided by   EIB and the OPEC Fund has also been satisfied.  (Section
5.01  of  the  draft  Development  Credit  Agreement).         Conversely,  the



- 25 -
availability of funds from EIB and the OPEC Fund would be conditional upon
approval of the proposed Credit by the Board of the Association.
54.      The proposed Credit would be on standard IDA terms. (Section 2.07
of the draft Development Credit Agreement).   If, however, the Bank Group
were to make a subsequent loan or credit to finance a petroleum development
project based on the results of the present project, it is envisaged that
the whole of the amount of the Credit then outstanding would be refinanced
out of the proceeds of that loan or credit. The Credit proceeds, as well
as about $5 million equivalent representing the Borrowers contribution to
cover the local costs, would initially be passed on to TPDC as equity
(Section 3.01 (b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).   However,
there would be a subsequent review with the Association of the terms upon
which the proceeds of both Cr. S-27-TA and of the proposed Credit were
passed on to TPDC in the light of the TPDC study (paragraph 34).
Procurement and Disbursement
55.      Under  the  first Songo  Songo project,  the onshore rig and all
tangibles  and  consumables  were  procured  under  ICB  procedures.    ICB
procedures were also followed for the offshore rig but no response was
received,   and   the   rig   was   then   procured   following   individual
negotiations.    Specialized services  such as mud logging,  cementing and
testing services were procured after three quotations had been obtained
from  experienced  firms.    Electrical  logging  services were procured by
negotiations with an experienced contracting firm.  Miscellaneous services
such as site and camp preparation, loading and storage facilities and
transportation were procured under LIT procedures up to an individual
maximum of $300,000 and an aggregate maximum of US$3,500,000.
56.      For  the proposed project,  the rig services  (estimated to cost
about $9.6 million in total) have been obtained by extension of TPDC's
existing contract with Blocker Energy, the owners of Vermillion Bay, on
identical financial terms.   Specialized and miscellaneous services (US$12
million in total) would be retained by extending the original contracts
under the first Songo Songo project, on the same financial terms, with the
exception  of  a  price  adjustment  of  up  to  18%.    The  tangibles  and
consumables under the proposed project (estimated to cost US$4.1 million in
total) have already been procured for the first well. Except for tubulars,
they were procured from the same suppliers as for Wells SS-5 and 6 on the
same  financial  terms,  except  for  a  price  adjustment  reflecting  the
prevailing market situation.   Tubulars for the first well were procured
under  LIT  procedures  satisfactory  to  the  Association.  Consumables  and
tangibles for the remaining two wells would be procured under LIT
procedures  satisfactory  to  the  Association.    In order  to save  costs,
particularly  on  transportation,  and  avoid  the  risk  of  rig  standby,
tangibles and consumables for both wells would be procured at the same
time. Given that the procedures followed for the first project work were



- 26 -
competitive, and that this is a follow-up project where delays are
extremely costly, these arrangements are acceptable to IDA.
57.      Disbursements by the Association under the proposed Credit and by
OPEC Fund and EIB under their respective loan agreements will be made
against the foreign expenditures incurred by TPDC under all expenditure
categories in proportion, as nearly as practicable, to their respective
loan  or  credit  amounts.    All  withdrawal  applications  will  be  fully
documented and will be submitted in identical form to IDA, the OPEC Fund
and EIB for disbursement of their relevant percentages.  To ensure prompt
disbursements,   the  Borrower  will  designate  TPDC  as  the  Borrower s
representative for the purpose of withdrawal under IDA Credit and the OPEC
Fund and EIB loan agreements.
58.      As mentioned in paragraph 50, the drilling of the third well is
subject  to  the  prior  determination  by  the  Government,  TPDC,  the
Association, EIB and the OPEC Fund as to its justification.   Except for
tangibles and consumables (paragraph 56), no disbursements in respect of
the third well would be permitted under the project prior to such
determination (Schedule I, paragraph 3 (d) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). If the drilling of the third well was subsequently determined
not be justified, the amount of the Credit disbursed in respect of
tangibles and consumbles, which are easily marketable, would be prepaid by
Tanzania to the Association.
Retroactive Financing
59.      The draft Development Credit Agreement makes provision for the
retroactive financing (pro rata with EIB and the OPEC Fund) of payments
made for project expenditures prior to the date of signature of the
Development Credit Agreement which, in the case of the Association, would
amount to up to US$6 million.   (Schedule 1, paragraph 3 (b) of the draft
Development  Credit  Agreement).    Once  the  results  of Well  SS-5  became
available,   this  was  necessary  to  avoid  the  heavy  costs  of  rig
demobilisation or stand-by.
Project Implementation
60.       The drilling of Well SS-6 encountered implementation difficulties
mainly due to slow decision making, reflecting unclear allocation of
responsibilities by the parties concerned.   Arrangements were made before
the drilling Df Well SS-5 that substantially corrected the situation. The
proposed pzoject's imp'emnntition arrangements take into account the
experience  gained so far and  should  be  satisfactory.   TPDC,  with the
assistance of Sunmark and ECL, would have responsibility for carrying out
the Project (Section 2.01 and 2.03 of the draft Project Agreement).  TPDC
will maintain the Project Unit established under the first Songo Songo
Project, which consists of an operations manager, a project coordinator, a



-- 27 -
geologist, a geophysicist, a drilling engineer, a material/logistic
engineer and a project accountant.   (Section 2.02 of the draft Project
Agreement).   These personnel would work on a full-time basis as conterpart
to the Sunmark and ECL personnel.
61.      Sunmark  would  be  responsible  for  the  management  of  drilling
operations in accordance with a detailed drilling program for each well to
be agreed in advance by Government and TPDC and to be acceptable to  the
Association.     (Section  2.01  of  the  draft  Project  Agreement).    In
particular,  Sunmark  would  be  responsible  for  the  preparation  of  the
proposed drilling program, procurement and handling of required materials,
supervision of specialized and other service contractors and management, in
close consultation with the exploration advisor, of the drilling, testing
and evaluation of each of the three wells. If, at any time, Sunmark needs
to make any management decision outside of the drilling program, Sunmark
would submit its recommendations for the amendment of the drilling program
to TPDC in advance, including the financial implications.
62.      ECL would provide exploration advice to TPDC after consultation
with Sunmark. It would advise as to the optimal location and depth of each
well based on ECL's interpretation of past data, and as to the geological
and geophysical aspects of the proposed drilling program.   ECL would be
responsible for the continuing interpretation of results during drilling
operations and for the supervision, subject to Sunmark's overall managerial
responsibility,  of testing and evaluation of the three wells.   Not less
than 14 days prior to the testing and evaluation of each of the wells, TPDC
would submit a proposed testing program to the Association for its review
and comment (Section 2.08 of the draft Project Agreement).
63.      The  key  Sunmark  personnel,  the  Drilling  Manager  (in Dar-es-
Salaam), the Drilling Superintendent (rig) and the 2 tool pushers (rig),
and the key ECL personnel, the Chief Geologist (in Dar-es-Salaam) and the
Operations Geologist (rig) are persons acceptable to the Association.  Any
changes in these personnel must be replacements of equal qualifications and
experience acceptable to TPDC.
64.      As  in  the  first  project,  since  the primary objective  of  the
Project is the discovery of oil, the Government has agreed not to undertake
any investment for the expansion of the Tiper refinery (paragraph 32) in
excess of US$10 million equivalent, without prior consultation with the
Association (Section 3.07 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Reporting Requirements
65.      The reporting arrangements  followed under the first Songo Songo
project, which included submission to the Association of a daily status
report of drilling from the consultants and monthly operational, geological
and budgetary reports, have been satisfactory.   These arrangements would



- 28 -
continue under the proposed project. In addition, as in the first project,
TPDC would submit to the Association technical well completion reports
within 60 days of completion of drilling under the project in a format
acceptable to the Association (Section 2.09 of the draft Project
Agreement).    TPDC would  also  keep  separate  accounts  for the proposed
project, would have these accounts audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association and would submit certified financial
statements  and audit reports  to it no later than six months after the
closing of its fiscal year (Section 2.11 of the draft Project Agreement).
Ecology
66.      All  precautions  would  be  taken  to  avoid undue damage  to the
natural environment.   Minor,  non-permanent  effects cannot be completely
avoided, e.g., some well cuttings and mud would likely be dispersed in the
sea water. Substantial environmental damage can only occur in the event of
a serious oil spill resulting from a well blowout. It is judged that this
is unlikely as the wells would be drilled under close control at all times.
Project Justification and Risk
67.      The results of the first Songo Songo Project have established the
possibility of hydrocarbon liquid and presence of a substantial volume of
gas. All three wells incuded in the proposed project will assist Tanzania
to  determine  its  oil  potential.    Further,  they  will  allow  accurate
determination of the quality and value of the gas discovery, and to do so
without delay.   This new information, together with the studies under the
first Songo Songo project and the proposed project, will provide a basis
upon which Tanzania will be able to formulate a program for resource
utilization and for the development of the field, if justified.
68.      In particular,  if  oil  is  found  to be present,  or condensate
associated  with  gas  is  confirmed  in  sufficient  quantity  to  warrant
development, the ensuing production would be extremely beneficial to
Tanzania in reducing petroleum imports and the associated foreign exchange
costs.    With regards  to gas,  the  confirmation  of a discovery  of  the
magnitudes expected would provide Tanzania with development options which
may be important in the medium term.   All three wells would be designed to
be capable of production, should this be justified.
Risk
69.      There is only a small risk that the proposed project would be a
total failure. That would occur only if the wells were technical failures
or failed to confirm significant hydrocarbon reserves in commercial
quantities.
70.      Partial  success  has  a somewhat higher  probability.  This  could



- 29 -
occur if only gas is found in commercial quantities but the oil potential
is not verified. As the presence of oil can only be verified by drilling,
this is a normal risk for the industry but such results also could occur
if, due to an error in the seismic map, the proposed wells were not
properly located.   Partial failure also could occur in the event of a
blowout or other factors which result in a large cost overrun sufficient to
abort the program.
71.      These risks are inherent in any exploration drilling program even
when only involved with appraisal wells.  Every attempt has been made and
will be made to minimize these risks by selection of competent consultants
to manage the program and by thorough review by the Bank Group staff
itself.  On balance, the proposed project is judged to have a much better
chance for partial to outstanding success than for partial to total
failure.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
72.      The draft Development Credit Agreement between the United Republic
of Tanzania and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the
TPDC and the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section 1 (d), of the Articles of Agreement are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
73.      Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Execution of loan agreements between the Government and EIB and
between the Government and the OPEC Fund would be a condition of
effectiveness (Section 5.01 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
74.      I am satisfied that  the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
75.      I recommend  that  the Executive  Directors  approve  the proposed
Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments:



- 30 -
ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
TANZANIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
TANZANIA                     REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED ACGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                  - PDST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL           945. 1
AGRICULTURAL    498.0                               MOST RECENT          LOW INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b   1970 /b ESTIMATE lb  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SODTN OF SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                70.0       130.0    270.0                260.0                 868.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    41.0        62.0     65.0                 80.0                 699.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)    10.2       13.3      17.4
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 4.8        6.9      10.8                17.3                  28.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                    32.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                      92.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED               2145
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                      11.0       14.0      18.0                27.4                  61.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    21.0       26.0      35.0                82.6                 126.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                       42.7        44.4      45.7                44.9                  45.5
15-64 YRS.                       54.3        52.5     51.2                 52.2                  51.6
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                 3.0         3. 1      3.1                 2.8                   2. 8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                            2.2         2.7       3.4                 2.7                   2.7
URBAN                            5.0         6.3       8.9                 6.8                   4. 9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    47.0       47.0      48.0                47.4                  46.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    22.0       19.0      16.0                19.6                  16.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             ..         3.2       3.2                 3.2                   3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)     ..          ..      93.6
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..         ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)        95.0       104.0      91.0                91.8                  94.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                 85.0        91.0      86.0                90.2                  92. 7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)        44.0        49.0      47.0                53.0                  53.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE      17.0       21.0      20.0                18.4                  15.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE    32.0       25.0      20.0                27.7                  21.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   42.0       47.0      51.0                45.3                  50.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           ..       155. 0/c
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                             ..        13.0      39.0                23.2                  31.0
URBAN                             ..        61.0      88.0                58.0                  66.8
RURAL                             ..         9.0      36.0                16.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                             ..          ..      17.0                28.9
URBAN                             ..          ..      88.0                67.0
RURAL                             ..          ..      14. 0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN       21020.0/d  24770.0  18160.0               30910.4               14508.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    10440. 01d  3830.0   3080.0              5793.2                3279.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           570.0/d       ..      520.0             1198.9                1141.5
URBAN                             ..          ..
RURAL                             ..          ..
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED         ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                             *          4. 41      .
URRAN                             ..         3. 2/c
RURAL                             ..         4. 5/c    5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROCK
TOTAL                             ..          ..
URBAN                             ..          ..       ..
RURAL                             .            .        .                    ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF WELLINGS)
TOTAL                             ..          ..       ..
URBAN                             ..          ..       ..
RURAL                             ..          ..       ..                   ..



- 31 -
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
TABLE 3A
TANZANIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
TANZANIA                     REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVRAGES
- MDST RECENT ESTIMATE)
MOST RECENT          LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b   1970 lb EST1IATE lb   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA AFRICA SOUTH OP SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                25.0        38.0      70.0                 57.7                    61.7
MALE                 33.0        46.0      79.0                 74.2                   69.2
FEMALE               18.0       30.0      60.0                 54.1                    51.4
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                 2.0         3.0       3.0                 10.0                    20.6
MALE                  2. 0-       4.0       5.0                13. 7                   29.2
FEMALE                1.0         2.0       2.0                 7.1                    14. 7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (Z OF SECONDARY) 23.0          ..        ..                  6.8                     7.0
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                          45.0        46.0      50.0                 45.0                    36.6
SECONDARY                        20.0        19.0      20.0                 25.2                    24.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       9. 5d      28. 1c    66.0                 25.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        3.0         2.5       2.6                  3.6                    38.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        2.0        11.0      19.0                 31.5                    83.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         ..         0.3       0.3                  1.8
NEISPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 3.0         5.0       4.5                  4.6                    24.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.5         ..       0.2                   ..                     0.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    4734.5      5841.7    7342.8
FEMALE (PERCENT)                 37. 1       36.6      34.0                 33.5                    38.1
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)            89.3        86.0      83.0                 80.7                    54.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                3.8         5.0       6.0                  8. 1                   17.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               44. 7      43.5      42.2                 42.2                    38.8
MALE                                56.9        55.7     54.3                 55.1                    48.4
FEMALE                             32.8        31.5      30.3                 29.5                    29.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.0        1.1       1.2                  1.2                     1.3
-INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..        33.5
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   ..        63.3
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..        2.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..         7.8
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..          ..     147.0                138.2
RURAL                              ..          ..     109.0                 86.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..          ..     125.0                107.0
RURAL                              ..          ..      74.0                 65.0
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                              ..          ..      10.0
RURAL                              ..          ..      60.0                 66.9
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and ia not uniform.
L   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Moat Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c  1967;  L 1962; Le Registered, not all practicing in the country.
Most recent estimate of GNP per capita is for 1979. population and related eatimates have also been
revised; all other data are as of April, 1980.
October, 1980



- 32-
ANNEX I
DFNT ONSO  SOCIAL INDICATORS                                                                         Page    .3   of    6
Notes;  Although the data at. drawn frog Sources generally judged tha moat authoritative and reliable, It should also be noted that thay may not be inter-
nationally  -nP.table be...ue. ofthe lank of standatdis.d dad initi...aend conce Pts used by different  ountries In nollauting ths data.  The data ate, -non-
theleso, useful to de...nibn  rtdete of magnitude, indicate treods, and chars,orei-e Certain major differencee bet-een countriee.
9
The referno  group a re (1) the em.country 5rnup of the Subjeot coonotry and (2) a coun.try group oith sunhwbt bigharaerg  icm  than the country group
of the subject c      4ounty texet for  Capital Surplus Oil toporners" group Where "Middle In cne North Africa and Middle1 Eat" is choase. because of Strnnger
socio-cutural a ffinities).  In the reference group date the  avrae  are .   population woighted aritheetit meas f or each indicator end ebown only When at
least half of the couotriee in a grop bee data for that indicaAtor.  Since the .o.erags of coun trias amng the Indicators depends on the evailebility of
deta and is not uniform, caution east be exercised io relating averages of one indicator to another.  These averagso  are only useful in comparing the Value
of un  Indicator at a time  -0on  the country and reference groupe.
LAND AREA (thousand eq.ko.)                                                                    V'oouatio  net P:1ihysIcIan - copula1tion dividad by nUMber of practicing phy-
Total - Total surface area  comprising lend area nd Inland outars.                             sinianoqulfed fErum  amdIcashool at university level.
Aeiutrl- tatimata of arcltrlares unad tenorer-ily or permanently                      Po..ulation oar Nursia Person - Population divided by number of practicing
o. roips. penro   makt and kitchen Serden  or .  to lie fallow; 1977 data.                  male and femal  graduatenus, practicel nurses, and aseistent nursee.
Nonultiocoar tosnialNd - total,, urban,  n   ua  - population (total.
010PE  CAOT  (INN) -lPpecaiaetmtetourtatht prices, -1l-                                        urban, end rurl) divdd  b   hi  r             tpciv  SmsThe  of hospital bad
rubieSby eam  onovnsiu  eathod en World Sank Atlne  (i977-79 bs);1960,                 available in public and private general and specialised hospital and re-
19y0, and  1979data                                                                            habilitation cnes   8nspitsls er.a stabliebleents permwamantly Staffead
by atlast one physician.  Estmbldheb nte providing principally custodial
ENttO  COSNSUMPTION PER CAPITA -Ana co nsum- p tion of coumrcial energy I(oo                     oet arm not Included.  Rural hospitals, however  include health and swadinal
and licito,' petroleum, natural gus end hydra-  nuc...Lear end geotherma  Ono-                 cmnters nor permanently staffed by a physician (but by a medical sesantent,
trliriy) in kilogrem   of coal equivalent Per capita; 1960, 1970, and 1978                     nurse, midwife, etc.) which offer tn-patient a.cc-detio  end provide a
data,                                                                                          limited range of medical facilitiee.  For Statistinal Purpose urban hoofl-
telo include WBDs principal general end sp.niaind hoepita1le * en  rural
POPULATION ANDO PETAL STATISTICSN.pt.I.                                                                                   r1h.it.-     d-               d-..t   a
Tot:tal  Porolaion. Mid-Year Ceillion.).  A. of July 1; 1960, 1970, and 1978                 Admiseon  or    sitel Ned"- Irtal nmber of ednies iono to or diechargas
daa                                                                                          from  hboapitale divided by the number of beds.
Urban5  nocultio  (cement of total) -. atlo of urban to total population;
dilff-en ds fioiriooa of urban areas may affete cmparebility of datu OSN
amoo  countrIes; 1960 , 1970, and 1979 data.                                               A-v..rnee     - Moo .of fuehld (san   a  house.hold) -tntal. urban. andrure-
PonuletiOc Projections                                                                         A houeehld ocniseIf a  roup of individnals who ehre living quarters
PInuEtn  iymr2000 - Curreat pnpulation pr.ojetions are base.d on 1980                        and choir mai  molo   A boarder nr lodger may or may nut be Included in
totalpoupula'tion by age end se  end their mortal ity and fertility rates.                 the housohold for stetietical purpos....
Pr -eti  arenotrs f or mortality totem  conpriom  of three lnvslo Boso-           Averag  n-bet or v2        eor   non-total, urban.  and rura  - Averge  t-
ing lfn ocmotany atbrhicesn    ihcotyaprcpt                            oa            barufpersons per coos' Ic al  urho,  and  rural.occupied conventional
lovol  and  umel  lfe expectancy bsailion  at 77.5 yeat.  The para-                  d-11linas, respectivelY.  Dw-11ng   exldeonpemae                   tsrutures end
aenter  for fertility rate alec hove three leel  aeuin  d-clin  Ic                         unoccupied Parts.
fertility ..coording cc iom  level -an  Peast fumily planing performnc.                 A...s. to Eloctrioitv  irar-ant of dels)-total,~ urban, end rural-
tEch coutry ie then aesIgned one of tines nine combinations of mortality                   Conventlonal dwellinge with electrintip  in lvn   quartert s .Percentags
and ferttility trends f or projection puryosee.                                            of total, urban, and rura  dwellings respectively.
Staticor  couato  - On a  ttoar   ouaIo  there is to growth st..
rho birth rate in oqua othedeath rtan, and' aln  thaa:gnruEDUr-                          CrATION
mains cnontant.  This is achieve  only  fafte  f-rtiitytou  dec line to                 Adlu-td Enroi1moat terms
rho rnplcacnnnt loya  of unit mar reproduction rate,r             ac  genraio              Piayoho-ttl,meanfeao-rssoa,mlend feels
of ome  raplu..e itself exactly.  The stationary ppltn   ela  we                              rileo  or ul  caneorthb  p-riaY levIa  percentages of reepective
rerimatd cc the haste of the projeccud  hruct-rietico  fr the pcpuution                      primary sholeopopulations; normally incldes children  Sagd h-il
in the your 2000, and the rote of decline or fertility ruts to roplute-                      yur   u   dutdfrdfsetloiao   rimary education; for
_on  Inynyi.                                                                                 co bciuth duniteref-   adifcarnit aenrgtah           a.sc       19pecn
Your otetinnr  coulato    s  ece  - The year wh.c etuci-ay popolai.                      .tinoatno  eeruit e eir-1had or. tihnva  the   ffical shoo   age.
sishebea  reachad.                                                                     Secondary eohocl - total. nab  and fennI  - Computed us abn; secon da,ry
'Pooaioc   suity                                                                                 oducatono requiree at bus..t four years of epproved primary instrution;
Per sq. ke.   M Sid-year population per square hilonetor (199 hecte....) of                    p-oidee. goc...l vouinl r teac.her training inotrut ions for pupil.
itotl ana.oually or 12 tc 17 yrara of ego; crrrepcndancn  ore  urn generally
Poro       . uricoltura1 laud - Coputed us ehov  for  gricoltoru.l land                        ..codd. 
only.                                                                                      Vocational erinn   (Erorcen  of ecoodury) - Vp...ttomal inscitutinn
Porulacion duo Str-uctro  (onroot) - Children  (0-14 yor,wrhing-ugo (15                           ioclude techeical, Industrial,orother programs wihoporate indepex-
hA yae.  cud retired (65 yenar  and cr0)    paeprc...rngem  of mid-your popo-                  dontlyorn  doparimonte of encondary instituti.ne.
lotion: 1960, 197,ad17   ae                                                                    oo-rc        tenO   - orinar. and enoonder,   Totalstudents enrolled in
Poplain  rot  na          p--ecet) - ttl- Annual growh -ter  of total mid-prmyonecndylrsdiddbyt-asftahoonte
yea  Popltiona for 1950-60, 1960-70, and 1970-78.                                              c1rnp      -in orl..
Po ata   rcwh lace(poco)-ubn-Annual growh rucee of orbo  pOpO.                           odult lita...oy ro%tepercet) - Litoretacdnita  (able no randadnie
Jetio.. fc- 19 50-60, 1960-70. and 1970-78.                                                      eu porc..raoo  oftc1 udule popeloti-  aced 15 years and over.
Crude P1tb Rane (oar thaunandl - Annual lIre biothP perhousand or mid-year
Populaion; 1960, 1970, and i97n darn.                                                    CONSUMTtIPON
Crudolath Nato (oar thousand) -_Anneal deatho Per thousand of mid-yor                        aeoar  Corn (co  thousand prlotioc) - Pne-nug-or.ct  comprise rton.
popuIetioc;-l9ii, -, -0 end 197i dare,                                                       cuemaning lone rhac eight persona; nocludne nnbulanoea, hearses and
iro.. RSercou on nRoe- A-erag   numbe  of deughtoru-            nc    ill hea  in               military vohiclo..
her  .-I r-p-do-ti-o poriod if  h:a eporinocow  poen..ct  ge-upcific rot-                  Radiirivn    aori nuud rrlto)-All types of rece.lynra f or r.dt
rilirpoetoe ;o...lly fir-year aoragna endiun in 1960, 1970, ad17.rudconto to gnoru-1 public Per tho...nAn  of popolm,itn; encludes onli-
Family Platoonn-Accoctrn   Annal   ho--nds)t- Annua  ct-ho  of                 Ptcocor         coon ecivm   in  -outrion  end in yeere  hon registration  of reAmiso
orhrhonrldovioce uneranpie  of  naIonal  faIly plnnngpogra,                        cu  in effort; dar  fo  -ocaon yeore may not is compaubl  since moat
family Plunaina - Isor   (rvoet of married oca) - Pr-etcaa  of marriod                    c...rtrioobo1inhod liconoig.
nenof child-heb    8  g   1-44 Yeare) rho on  birth-ronrol drvlro   to                  TV R...ei-rr  (por thou..a.d  -culnioc) - TV' r..eiv-re f-o  broadcat to
al  nriud  co  in  na e  moo.COp.                                                          ur....ul public Por rhoon..nd populattoo;  -ncldnounian            TVTroevo
Inounr"iouuond in year when registration of TV e"ns wee in a0faect.
POOD -   ANi M17CITION                                                                         Nonocupor Ciruuir(a   huadpolto) - Showa the average   icut
Ind- o f Pond ProdurinomCrn   16-110       Ano  ptc  ianoa                                       o    fdiygnrlint cent nouppiopr", defined esepriodicul pub-
Prouto    falfodcmoii                     rodoction o.uldon st-d anod food and               liconion devotelyd primarily to roccoding general nes.O  is conqidered
ino..narye  bhaute. Connditteeoo-r pcimary goods (og9. euguroaIa                   to ho "dec1y' if ireppoarnuat lean.t foortinio  o week.
inact_d of ennar) ohch er   diblo ad coctai  --rianto  (o.g. corff- and                    Cinem  A-.u.I Attondooe oar Capitu cot Year-Naedo  the n-her of
too ore encludod).  Aggregute production of eac h coutry In hunod on                         rickoto  n.Id during tho year. incldn   adiowon  to driv-in cinemas
natitonal avrage producer price wnighte;I 191-5 "1970, erA  097S Auto.                       und mohilo uite.
far capita  ucoly of Caloriae  (ercnto  ruirente)o   Computed fron                        AORFOC
enegy -qtrlot of net ftcd ouppiice ovoilabl. in counr  pot cayit.                iue  ot
par doy.  Available euppliew  coamprine domenticproductio..  imP-rta l...                Total Luhbr Forc  (thou...ndo) - tronoicully ective psrenna, including
coot.adchongen In  t-ck.  Noat ..Pplin. aoud  anma  ford, ord,                      and  ocnad unmploynd hut  -nrldicn houmwiv-., tndsnta, etc.
qonuitin  toed It ford pr-c-oing, endPloo :in di-tibtion.  Roquir-                         Drfiniti.n. in  -aicue r--crto  urn not  uMporabla; 1960, 1970 and
crta,rrealmtcd by PF0 bi.u.d on phyntologinol ...ndn f-o toma  ..cti-                    1978 duto.
ciY ,adhah cons.idering eniroonente1 tomperutu-t. body mighim. ont                     Fenal  (rerco) - Fenale laboc (crowa  por.anruge of totel labor tome..
anod nan dietribution of population, and allowing 10 porrot for route or                 Iaior         crot)      aorfr    in fucing, foeery, hooting and
hocecIhld lcrl; 1961-65. 1970, end 1977 date.                                              finhiog ae p-ortouta    of total labor forum.; 160. 1970 and 1979 duto.
Per on-ita eooly cf or"tI,  (aam   oar day) - Pro rein cotat  cP.  ..ruPit.                CdutEnry(or-rot) - Labor force in mining, constrution. memnturing
nor suPply of fond per day.  Net eupply offod in defindo uhvo.  R.-                        an.lnri tt             - ae  and i.. ae pe-trango of total labor force; 1969,
quifann-     f or all c-uorteuc.thioa  byUSIA provido ir  ininu                            1970 end 1978 data.
alloanc  of 60 gem  of rural protein por day and 20grmof annal and                       fatrictonio  Rato (rerr_t) _ tonl   ae  adfml   Pmriieino
pulse prorein, of which IN got-a shoudbe anima  protein.  Th..onnund-                      octivjty r-ton ar  computed  e total, mala, end fan1i  labor force as
odere lower tha  th..e of 75 g           ofm   c  total peroin and 23 Emann cf            porcntugee of rornl,"I  enl gd feels population of al11egas rspmfntIvely;
anima  p-otin- maen averge for the world, propy..ed by fAO In rho Third                    1960, 1970, and 1971 danu.  These --n ILO'm  Participation raensroflacting
World Pond Surrey; 1961-65, 197  sod1977 dute.                                             ugo-an orutut-  of rho pcpnlatic. and long tine trend.  A few osti-
Per raif -tA rrin   url  from  aialnd onlen - Pronnin aupply of food d-                                                 ... r  (o    eina   crm...
rie   rmaImmnad puluoe  In gr-n  pot day; 1961-65, 197             97   dan.     tooi  Dedenoy Rlair - Ratin  of population under 1) end 6) en   vor
ChlMagsi .)Sotelit, Rate (oar th.u...      Annual deab-       ertt    etdh            to' the toallbo   nr
age group 1-A years, no children in thindogroup; icr mood lovoicycgo
tri- dune d-riv-d froo  lifo  tables; 196. 170od I                 t dr.         .        woCOE DISTRINITION l
Peoom  rficeto  Income(bt  incs n    Id) - cRm..i-d by richest
et-ALTH                                                                                        L2ecn,rcho   0pren,poon                            pcroent, and poorest 40 Percen
lt0   ceca tyn  Nitnh- (yeas). .Aveage nuber of yeer- of iife remiing                           of honohoida.
or birth; 1960, 1970 and 1978 den.t.
Ouf 't nretR-lt  (oa  thoneand) - Annual deae. or infnte order ... per                     PytnT-eTiP
Aooo.s to Sofo Water C.reret of trato)- totsl. urban, andrru-Ahouepvnyicelrd ntornom lvlhowwinamnml
Smber of peop1o(otl  ura,ndrr                    ithb reaonabl  ec..o no ..efe                 urtoal   dqosde   leoatu   n-odrqlenoi   o
eat-ce i  (incudes tretdsrfac  waters or untreated hot uncontaminated                        uffordhl
corer ouch no that from pro.tectd bor I..:e epeing, and --nitur  cell)0                    Eatimatod Relunive P-vrty Ioone  LarI (05$ oar ...oit.)-ubnetie
p-rcontai~  ot theil ef.-isPopueron.   In on urhunnor epublic                                Rural reari-e povrty moon  leve  ia  n-hr.faeaeptcpt
f      tnci  o  oedpcnt locec-d nor morn than 20t -nor   c     houemy ho              pero...al income of rho ....cry.  Urban loya  in derive  fgoon r'houa
-ocider-d no hong cirhio  ronacublo eccoo  of thor hn . c   rura  u-..n                      1-vo  cith udJeotnocr for htg1a- coat of living in urban fes
-nenho  accon  col  ImPl  that rho ho...-if. or nonhr  of rho ho....hold                   iutinatod Peoulati-r Se" Absoluite Povrtymo     Level fParcnt), -orba
dono -hv  tc opo,d.a dioproprtrio ts pn-t of the day toftchi   iheand rura  - Parocut or  poputanion(urban nd rurel) who are "bouepo"
auo     One  ofpI-b(tr,uba,un   url  sredho                       drt
diapos.el.   P ae ..eootrgos of thoirc...pa-ice populaticce.  E--cta die-tooicudEia    ne iiim
pos..  may i-oldo the colletion and diepo...l, cit  or without treotmoo,.                                               e-cA.yq-  Pcohr.  1960     .pte
of hma   -crs ta and cusr-stor by ctate-borne  y-eom   or rh.oe0  orctbe
pit prlivi  asnd similer issito



- 33 -
Population          17.5 million (mid-1979)                                                                                            ANNEX  I
GNP Per Capita:  US$270 (1979)                                                                                                         Page  4  of  6
TAIJZAMIA - ECONOMIC INDICATORB /
Amount
(million US$ at                                           Annual Growth Rates (L
Indicator                 current prices)                           Actual                     a/                       Projected
1979           1976      1977       1978       1979      1980-    1981         1982      1983       1984      1985
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic producti/ !/              4,564.3           6 7        4 7        5.4       3 9       -1 5        3.7       3 6        3.6        3 .6      3 6
Agrtcultulre-                         2,210.2            9.8        7.5       7.4        8.0       -6.1       4.2        3.6        3.6       3.6        3.6
Industry                                 549.0           0.9        3.1      -2.2        3.1          -       3.0        4.0       4.0        4.0        4.0
Services                              1,374.8            3.4        5.5       6.5        3.4        4.0       3.4        3.4        3.4       3.4        3.4
Consumption                              4,115.8            1.6      12.3       14.6      -3.4        1.7       4.6        1.9        3.2       3.1        3.2
Gross investment                           958.6           11.5       2.1        3.8       10.9      -6.2        3.6       3.6        3.6        3.6       3.S
Exports of GNFS                            647.9          16.8    -22.8         -2.4      -2.8       -9.6        1.7       7.9        5.2        5.2       5.3
Imports of GNFS                          1,158.0           0.5        4.4       34.9    -19.2         1.3      -2.9       -1.3        2.9       2.6        3.)
Gross national savings                     468.0          64.5       -6.8    -58.0        99.4    -16.9       -23.9       19.0        8.8       9,7          ;
PRICES
GDP deflator (1978 - 100)                                 77.2       92.4    100.0       108.5      124.8    140.4       154.4      168.3    131.8    194.5
Exchange rate (T.Sh. per US$)                              8.4        8.3        7.7       8.3        8.2        8.2       8.2        8.2        8.2       8.2
Share of GDP at lMarket Pri/es (7.)                    Average Annual Increase (%)
(at current  -rie)   _-  __                _1at. o                ! stPn r 978prtces)_-
1970      1975       1980       1985      1990       1970-75      1975-80      1980-85     1965-90
Gross domestic product!/                                 100.0      103.0      100.3    100.0       100.0         4.9          4.1          3.6          3.6
Agriculturee/                                           36.9       36.9      47.5       47.8       47.9         2.1          5.8         3.7          3.5
Industry                                                15.5       14.5      11.9       12.2       12.3        3.7          0.7          3.9          4.3
Services                                                37.2       37.8      31.1       30.8       30.6        6.5          4.6          3.4          3.4
Consumption                                               81.9       91.7       90.3      88.2       86.4         5.9          6.0          3.1          3.1
Gross investment                                          22.5       21.1       20.0      18.0       18.0         0.2          4.6          2.1          3.6
Exporti  3NFS                                            -24.0      -18.2      -12.1     -13.9      -15.2        -5.3         -5.2          5.3          5.4
Imports GNFS                                              28.4       31.0       22.5      20.2       19.7        -3.8          4.2          1.1          3.0
Gross national savings                                    18.3        7.8       9.9       11.6      13.5        -2.4         -3.6          5.7          7.0
As 7 of GDP
PUBiXIC FINAWOCI                                                      1970      1975     1979
CurreaL  '- va,t;                                                   17.5     20.2    18.5
Current expendi!-jces                                               16.2     20.2    23.9
Surplu3 (+) or deficit (-)                                           1.3         -    -5.4
Capital expenditure                                                  8.3    11.6    12.7
Forei?n financiag                                                    2.0      5.4       6.7
1970-75     1975-80       1980-85      1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (%)                                        4.7          4.2          3.6          3.6
GNP per capita growth rate (7)                             1.3         0.8          0.2          0.2
ICOR                                                      5.0          5.5          5.1          5.1
Marginal savings rate                                    -0.1         -0.1          0.1           0.2
Import elasticity                                        -0.8          1.0          0.3          0.8
a/  Estimate
b/  Apart from tradt projectiom , which include small but offsettiag amouats of Zanzibar trade, all data in t is table are for Mainland
Tanzania only.
c/  Projected years at constant prices.
d/  At market price; components are expressed at factor cost an,, will not add due to exclusion of net indire t taxes and subsidies.
a!  Historical tren. from 1973 to 1979 is based on official estiu.ates, which include subsistence production g;owth rate of 8.6% per
annum. We estiL ate that a more reaListic growth rate for subsistence production over thtis period would b. nearer 4% per annum,
reducing agricu tural growth to 3.47. per annum and GDP growth, to 3.67 per annum.



- 34 -
ANNEX I
9PPulation        17.5 million (aid-1979)                                                                              Page  5  Of  6
GNP Per Capita:  US$270 (1979)
TANZANIA - XTZUNAL TUADUk'
Amount                                            Auonal Growth Rates (O
Indicator           (million USS at                                       Cat constant 1978 mricam)
current prices)                        Actual                  -/                        --oected
1979           1976      1977     1978      1979      1980-    1981      1982      1963      1984-      9
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise exports            543.6             7.8    -19.4      -6.5       6.1    -7.8        2.1      6.5       5.3       5.3       5.3
Major primary products       339.5            9.5    -20.1       -9.7      -0.1    -4.8        3.0      8.8       4.1       4.1       4.1
Others                       204.1            3.3    -18.1        2.7      21.5   -14.0          -      8.0       8.0       8.0      8.0
Merchandise imports          1,099.6          -16.4       7.7      36.8    -18.8       1.0      -3.4     -1.5       2.8       2.8       2.9
Foodgrains                    19.3          -65.2      23.3    -14.7    -42.4   334.0        -3.0    -47.5          _         *         -
Petroleum                    171.7           11.0    -11.5       12.8      -8.9     2.1      -7.9       5.0       3.1       3.3      3.4
Machinery end equipment    515.0            -15.2      25.1      55.1    -10.0    -7.6       -5.4       2.9       2.9       2.9      2.9
Others                       393.6          -13.9       0.7      33.9    -28.9    -7.6        0.7       3.0       3.0       3.0       3.0
PRICES
Export price index                             77.4    106.9    100.0    106.9   122.1    116.6    123.8    136.2    149.4    163.4
Import price index                           . 81.1      89.5    100.0    118.2   138.2    155.7    173.3    188.5    234.4    220.9
Terms of trade index                           95.4    119.4    100.0        90.4    88.3      74.9      71.4      72.2      7.3.1     74.0
Composition of Merehandise Trade (%)                  Average Annual Increase(%)
(at currentf  ricei)                         (at constant 1978 orices)
1970     1975      1980      1985      1990      1970-75    1975-80    1980-85    1985-90
Exports                                       100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0          -4.5        -5.2         5.6         5.5
Major primary ,roducts                       59.2      66.3      69.2      67.6      63.5       0.2        -6.9         5.0         4.1
Others                                       40.8      33.7      30.8      32.4      36.5     -12.9        -1.0         6.8         8.0
Imports                                       100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0           1.8         2.6         0.9         3.0
Foodgrains                                    2.5      15.3       9.2       4.5       3.9      44.8        -5.8       -14.1           -
Petroleum                                     8.5      11.9      12.7      13.1     13.7        4.8            *        2.0         3.9
Machinery and -quipmnt                       35.2      30.8      41.2      38.8      36.9       0.7        11.1         1.7         2.9
Others                                       53.8      42.0      36.9      43.6     45.5       -1.7        -3.3         2.7         3.1
Share of Trade with          Share of Trade with                  Share of Trade with
Industrial Countries&(%       Developinn Countries ()    Capital Surplus Oil Exporters (%)
1970    1975    1978          1970    1975    1978                [970    1975    1978
DIRECTIDN OF TRADE
Exports                                      54.0    48.2    6L.0           40.0    43.3    23.2                 0.6     0.4      0.7
Imports                                      57.9    59.7    74.2           27.3    25.1    17.9                 1.2     3.2      0.8
a/ Estimate
S/ Data are for al Tanzania (Mainland and Zanzibar)



- 35 -
Population    :  17.5'illion (mid-1979)                                                                                                       ANNEX  I
GNP Per Capita:  US$ 270 million (1979)                                                                                                         Page   6  of  6
TANZANIA - ELANC O   PAIITS. KIflAL CAPITAL AND DOUT
(million  11 at current prices)
Actual                          -,Projected
Indicator                    1970       1976       1977       1978      1979       1980       1981      1982       1983       1984      1985      1990
SALABCE OF PATI9NTS
Export of goods and services                550.4    647.2       669.6      631.2     705.6      740.6      741.8      851.1     979.2   1.123.7   1,286.1   2,289.9
of which:  Merchandise f.o.b.            259.3      492.4      547.7     479.2      543.5      572.7      558.2     643.2      744.8      860.4     991.8   1,796.3
IWports of goods and services              377.9      729.6      853.4   1,271.1   1,224.3   1,452.7   1,596.5   1,756.3   1,964.2   2,182.8   2,423.7   3,900.7
of which; 97cbaedise c.i.f.              318.4      630.5      750.3   1,146.5   1,099.6   1,299.1   1,412.9   1,549.1   1,732.6   1,932.3   2,149.2   3,488.1
Net tranfes-                                  5.6     -16.4       11.9       19.2       28.1      20.0       21.6       23.3      25.2       27.2       29.4      43.2
Current account balance                     -21.9     -98.8    -171.9    -620.7    -490.6    -692.1    -833.1    -881.9    -959.7  -1,031.9  -1,108.2  -1,567.6
Official grant receipte                       6.2     119.0      135.0      214.1      321.4     380.9      410.4      443.2     478.7      517.0      558.3     820.4
N 6 LT loan; (net)                           38.1      97.1      162.3      151.1     255.8      329.3      392.7     408.7      451.0      484.9      569.8     772.2
Official1'                                41.2      107.1      168.0      158.1     162.4      196.1      341.9     377.5      439.8      476.6     577.9      775.9
Private                                   -3.1      -10.0       -5.7       -7.0      93.4      133.1       50.9      31.2       11.3        8.3      -8.1       -3.6
Other capitel                               -29.8     -67.7       10.5      -14.6       -4.7       2.9       50.0       50.0      50.0          -      -36.0
Change in reserves (--iscrease)               7.4     -49.6    -135.9       270.1     -81.9      -20.0      -20.0      -20.0     -20.0      -20.0      -20.0     -25.0
International reserves                     107.5      164.4      300.3       30.2     112.1      132.1      152.1     172.1      192.1      212.1     232.1      357.1
Reserves as months imports                    3.4       2.7        4.2        0.3        1.1       1.1        1.1        1.2       1.2        1.2        1.2       1.1
ErERXEAL CAPITAL AND DEIT
Gross disburements                           60.5     238.2      326.3      382.5     596.9      763.8
Official grasts                            6.2      119.0      135.0      214.1     321.4      380.0
Conce.,ional loan                         40.4       93(6      149.5      112.6     103.8      179.7
DAC-                                    20.1       5S00       73.7      64.1       33.2       33.1
OPEC                                        -       1.0        6.5        1.2       1.2       35.5
IDA                                      9.4       29.0       39.3      24.4       39.0       49.4
Other                                   10.9        5.6"      30.0      22.9       30.4       61.6
lon-coecessional loamn                     13.9      25.6       41.8       63.4      171.7     204.1
Official export credits                    -        7.3          -      21.7       32.1        6.8
ign                                      4.8       17.1       30.4      31.3       36.6       31.8
Other mltiLateral                           -         -        3.1        7.6       5.3       14.4
Private                                  9.1        1.2        8.3        2.8      97.7      151.0
External Debt
Debt outeranding snd disbursed           322.7   1,026.3   1,218.6   1,260.1   1,422.0   1,751.3
Official                               193.4      965.7   1,158.5   1,201.4   1,266.6   1,462.7
Privete                                129.3       60.6       80.1      58.7      155.4      288.5
Undisbureed debt                         408.4      536.6      560.4      617.5     699.6      679.7
Debt service
Total service payments                    -26.3     -41.7      -51.2      -49.6      -49.7     -98.4
Interest                               -10.1      -19.5      -22.3     -24.7      -30.0      -43.7
Paymnts as 7 export.                        7.5       6.4        7.6        7.9       7.1       13.3
Averag  interest rate 'n 0e5  loansi()        1.6       2.6        3.1        2.o        5.5       4.5
Official                                    1.5       2.3        3.1        2.o       4.0        .,
Private                                     7.0       8.3        9.3        ..        8.5
Average ecturity of ne. loans (years)        38.8      38.0       34.7       35..       21.1      27.3
Official                                   39.7      39.9       34.7       35.-      27.0
Private                                     7.2       5.0       14.8        ..        9.7
An 7. of Debt Outstanding
at End of Mast Recent
esar (1979)
Ksturity structure of obt outstanding
Maturities due vithi  5 years                                                                        28.4
Maturities due with - 10 years                                                                       62.7
Interest structure of ,ebt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                                                        3.0
A/ Estimate
bl Excludes official grint receipts.
cf  Includes financing of projected gap on IDA terms.



ANNEX  II
~ 36              ~                Page Iof 17
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TANZANIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS TO TANZANIA
AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 1981
(USS million)
Amount less cancellation
No.       Year  Borrower           Purpose                    BankL   TW      IDAt  Undisbursed
Six loans and seventeen credits fully disbursed               86.20          136.24
454-TA  1974  Tanzania  Cotton                                              17.50    4.46
1014-TA  1974  Tanzania  Cashewnut                           21.00                     0.88
495-TA  1974  Tanzania  Sites and Services                                   8.50    0.01
507-TA  1974  Tanzania  Highway Maintenance                                 10.20    1.62
508-TA  1974  Tanzania  Rural Development (Kigoma )                         10.00    0.87
580-TA  1975  Tanzania  Dairy                                               10.00    5.27
1128-TA  1975  Tanzania  Textile                             15.00                     0.75
1172-TA  1975  TIB        Tanzania Investment Bank           r5.00                     0.72
601-TA  1976  Tanzania  Technical Assistance                                 6.00    1.47
606-TA  1976  Tanzania  National Maize Program,                             18.00    7.07
607-TA  1976  Tanzania  Fifth Education                                     11.00    5.39
1306T-TA  1976  Tanzania  Power                                       30.00             0.01
1307-TA  1976  Tanzania  Forestry                             7.00                     1.56
652-TA  1976  Tanzania  Fisheries                                            9.00    6.25
658-TA  1976  Tanzania  Tobacco Processing                                   8.00    0.96
1354-TA  1977  Tanzania  Urban Water Supply                  15.00                     4.85
1385T-TA  1977  Tanzania  Morogoro Industrial Complex                 11.50             1.69
1386-TA  1977  Tanzania  Morogoro Industrial Complex         11.50                     1.26
703-TA  1977  Tanzania  Rural Development (Tabora)                          7.20      4.97
732-TA  1977  Tanzania  Second Sites and Services                           12.00    8.54
743-TA  1977  Tanzania  Trucking                                            15.00    9.72
1498-TA  1977  TIB        Tanzania Investment Bank           15.00                     1.79
801-TA  1978  Tanzania  Second Cashewnut                                    27.50    8.12
802-TA  1978  Tanzania  Tobacco Handling                                    14.00   11.35
803-TA  1978  Tanzania  Rural Dev. (Mwanza/Shinyanga)                      12.00      7.53
1607-TA  1978  Tanzania  Morogoro Textile                    25.00                    24.60
833-TA  1978  Tanzania  Morogoro Textile                                    20.00   14.49
860-TA  1979  Tanzania  Tourism Rehabilitation                              14.00   12.82
861-TA  1979  Tanzania  Sixth Education                                     12.00   11.78
875-TA  1979  Tanzania  Mufindi Pulp anc Paper                              30.00   15.41
1650-TA  1979  Tanzania  Mufindi Pulp and Paper              30.00                    29.52
876-TA  1979  Tanzania  Fifth Highway                                       20.5C   20.42
1754-TA  1979  TDFL       Tanganyika Development
Finance Co., Ltd.              11.00                     5.64
1750-TA  1979  TIB         Tanzania Inveatwent Bank          25.00                    18.18
S-24-TA  1979  Tanzania  Dar es Salaam Purt Engineering                       2.5t    1.43
987-TA  1980  Tanzania  Tanzania Rural Dev. Bank                            10.00   10.00
1007-TA  1980  Tanzania  Pyrethrum                                           10.00    9.89
1015-TA  1980  Tanzania  Grain Storage & Milling                             43.00   43.00
1037-TA  1980  Tanzania  Smallholder Tea                                     14 00   13.98
S-27-TA  1980  Tanzania  Songo-Songo Pet:oleum                               30.00    6.33
1056-TA  1981  Tanzania  Seventh Education                                   25.00   24.99
1060-TA2 1981  Tanzania  Second Technical Assistance                         11.00   10.79
1070-TA2 1981  Tanzania  Coconut Pilot                                        6.80    6.65
1133-TA2 1981  Tanzania  Export Rehabilication Program                       50.00   45.01
Total                                                      276.70  41.50  630.94
of which has been repaid                                  17.64    -       9.36
Total now outstanding                                    259.06  41.50  621.58
Aaount sold                                .09
of which has been repaid                 .09
Total now held by Bank and IDA1                            254.06  41.50  41.58
Total undisbursed                                           89.75   1.70  330.59   4.2.04
I N&t of exchange adjustments.
2 Slxth replenishment; approximate US$ equivalent of SDR's.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 17
B. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS FOR COMMON SERVICES GUARANTEED
BY KENYA, TANZANIA AND UGANDA AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 1981
(US$ million)
Loan                                              Amount (less cancellations)
No.     Year    Borrower        Purpose                 BankL   Undisbursed
Six loans fully disbursed                              135.80
638-EA  1969    EAHC         Harbours                  35.00        0.52
865-EA  1972    EAHC         Harbours                  26.50        0.35
914-EA  1973    EAPTC         Telecommunications       32.50        0.28
1204-EA  1976    EADB          Development Finance      15.00        3.27
Total                                        244.80        4.42
of which has been repaid                    68.64
Total now outstanding                        176.16
Amount sold                   24.36
of which has been repaid  24.36              0.00
Total now held by Banka                     176.16
Total undisbursed                              4.42         4.42
1Net of exchange adjustments.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 17
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION1
(As of September 30, 1981)
There are currently 41 projects under execution in Tanzania.
AGRICULTURE SECTOR
Credit No. 454-TA - Geita Cotton Project: US$17.5 million
Credit of January 17, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
April 5, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
Project management has maintained good implementation progress
despite the problems caused by shortages of fuel and spare parts which have
handicapped the mechanization unit and road equipment operation. Shortage
of building materials is also delaying completion of housing and storage
facilities. Construction of roads, bridges and culverts are proceeding
well while grading and graveling have slowed down due to the fuel problem.
Cotton production has increased over the previous season despite the late
rain which seriously reduced the maize crop.  In spite of these encouraging
production results, future cotton production could be seriously affected by
marketing problems. The severe shortages of spare parts and fuel has
brought transport, ginning and oil crushing operation to a virtual stand-
still. TCA has requested the Government for TSh 110.5 million to rehabili-
tate the ginneries, the oil mills and their transportation fleet.
Loan No. 1014-TA - Cashewnut Development Project: US$21.0
million Loan of June 24, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
September 26, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
Construction of all five factories and ancillary facilities has
been completed and processing plan and machinery has been delivered. How-
ever, the project continues to experience difficulties in recruitment of
staff and face problems arising from a sharp decline in the marketed
production of raw nuts. The producer price has been recently increased and
the Cashewnut Authority (CATA) is considering the introduction of additio-
nal incentive and tree-planing schemes for farmers, but these measures are
not likely to have a significant impact for several years. As a result,
the completed cashewnut factories are expected to operate well below capa-
city for a number of years.
1These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this context, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weak-
nesses in project execution.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 17
Credit No. 508-TA - Kigoma Rural Development Project: US$10.0
million Credit of August 21, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
November 20, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1983
The project has shown significant improvement in procurement, and
maintained a satisfactory execution of physical infrastructure work.
Increased coordination between the various project related agencies and
parastatals at regional level has improved project management. Staff turn-
over has decreased and key staff are largely in place. The coffee rehabi-
litation and expansion program is proceeding well and there has been
further increase in the production of beans and cotton. However, official
maize production figures have dropped, due mainly to increased importance
of parallel markets as well as increased movement into other more remunera-
tive crops such as beans, pigeon peas, etc. Because fertilizer trials on
soil failed to produce conclusive results, emphasis is now being shifted to
cultivation methods, spacing, seed varieties, etc., from which useful
results could be expected in the short term.
Credit No. 652-TA - Fisheries Development Project: US$9.0
million Credit of July 12, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
October 12, 1976; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
The Project continues to progress on all fronts at a very slow
pace. There has been a delay in the procurement of boats for the Kigoma
Commercial Center, a major shortfall in the purchase of boats for the
coastal centers and a postponement of procurement of lake transport facili-
ties (pending adequate fish catches on Lake Tanganyika). However, engines
for the coastal vessels have been received and are being assembled for
installation. Loans to five villages have been approved by TRDB under the
Ujamaa Village Program. Agreement has been reached with the Crown Agents
of the U.K. for the provision of technical assistance staff.
Credit No. 606-TA - National Maize Project: US$18.0 million
Credit of Janury 29, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - May 28,
1976; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
The project has been redesigned in order to intensify project
activities during a three-year extension period from July 1979 to June
1982; however, this redesign has had little impact on the production of
food crops because of drought conditions. Inadequate research, extension
and prices have also discouraged proper crop husbandry. Construction of
staff houses and village store is delayed due to shortage of building
materials.
Credit No. 580-TA - Dairy Development Project: US$10.0
million Credit of August 15, 1975; Date of Effectiveness -
November 13, 1975; Closing Date - March 31, 1983
The project has continued to show overall improvement in its
implementation. Milk production, technical parameters and budgeting



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 17
control have improved, and production cost has been reduced. The large
price increase in July 1980 was responsible in great part for the improved
financial position of the dairies. The closing date has been postponed to
March 31, 1983 to permit the project to reach its targetted objectives.
Loan No. 1307-TA - Sao Hill Forestry Project: US$7.0
million Loan of July 12, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
October 12, 1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1982
The Afforestation Program continues to be ahead of schedule
although land preparation and planting has been less satisfactory.
Construction and maintenance have been well behind schedule mainly due to
shortages of cement, vehicle spare parts and other building materials.
Training program for junior field staff is underway and will be extended to
senior grades.
Credit No. 658-TA - Tobacco Processing Project: US$8.0
million Credit of September 16, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
February 15, 1977; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
Installation of the new processing line has been completed and is
capable of producing good quality tobacco. Construction of roads, fencing,
drainage and maintenance workshop has been delayed mainly due to non-avail-
ability of construction material. Construction of TTPC office block has
been dropped and TTPC head office staff will now move into TAT office
building. Similarly, a separate building to accommodate maintenance faci-
lities will not be constructed and one of the godowns at Morogoro will be
used to house these facilities. Phase IB construction program at Kurasini
has also been scaled down and will now consist of railway siding, drainage,
gatehouse, changing room and petrol station. These changes have been
introduced in view of the increased costs and in order to provide funds for
spare parts and conversion of furnace to coal firing. The project faces a
serious problem caused by the continued low tobacco production which might
have serious effects on project return and TAT's financial position. In
order to encourage tobacco producers, the average tobacco price was again
raised last year.
Credit No. 703-TA and Credit No. 703-5-TA - Tabora Rural
Development Project: US$12.0 million Credit2 of May 11,
1977; Date of Effectiveness - November 11, 1977;
Closing Date - June 30, 1983
Project implementation has slowed down considerably as a result
of severe and continuing shortages of construction materials and diesel
fuel. These shortages have affected all components, except land-use plan-
ning which is proceeding satisfactorily. The roads and water supply
programs have been the worst affected and are also suffering from shortages
'Credit No. 703-5-TA (US$4.8 million) is financed under the special
CIDA arrangements; Credit no. 703-TA is an IDA Credit of US$7.2 million.



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 17
of technical staff. The agricultural trials and production program, too,
appears to have been disrupted by the recent drought. Project management
is attempting to resolve the materials shortages by increasing the use of
local substitutes. However, overall progres in institution-building is
likely to remain slow.
Credit No. 801-TA - Second Cashewnut Development Project;
US$27.5 million Credit of June 14, 1978; Date of Effectiveness -
October 2, 1978; Closing Date - December 31, 1984
Project implementation is progressing satisfactority. Factory
construction is ahead of schedule despite a shortage of cement. However,
the appointment of key staff and the maintenance of up-to-date accounts at
existing cashewnut factories continue to pose difficulties. As with the
First Project, the prospects for operation of the new facilities at full
capacity are rather poor.
Credit No. 802-TA - Tobacco Handling Project: US$14.0 million
Credit of June 14, 1978; Date of Effectiveness - January 5, 1979,
Closing Date - April 30, 1983
The project has made a slow start. Procurement of vehicles and
equipment is also lagging. However, progress on recruitment of technical
assistance has been good. The Building Engineer, Financial Systems Deve-
lopment Assistant and Transport Officer are all in post. Three suitable
candidates have been identified for the five posts of Regional Accountant
and advertisement of the other two have been done.
Credit No. 803-TA - Mwanza/Shinyanga Rural Development Project:
US$12.0 million Credit of June 14, 1978; Date of Effectiveness -
March 5, 1979; Closing Date - December 31, 1984
Good progress has continued in the technical aspects of shallow
well contruction, forestry development, pasture trials at Malya Range Mana-
gement Station, and cassava variety trials at Ukiriguru. However, agricul-
tural extension and training has been poor. This problem has affected the
performance of Crop Verification Trials; only 20% of the trial target were
laid down and the results were poor. Another reason for the poor results
of the trial program has been lack of coordination with Ukiriguru Research
Station. The post of Extension and Training Specialist, as well as a
number of positions at area supervisor level, remain vacant. Proposals for
strengthening the Ukiriguru Research Station as a training center to
develop a strong, field-oriented extension service have been prepared, and
more emphasis would be placed on the problem of soil erosion and soil
conservation.
Credit No. 987-TA - Tanzania Rural Development Bank (TRDB)
Project: US$10.0 million credit of October 24, 1980; Effective-
ness Date - May 18, 1981; Closing Date - December 31, 1983
This credit became effective on May 18, 1981.



- 42 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 17
Credit No. 1007-TA - Pyrethrum Project: US$10.0 million
Credit of October 24, 1980; Date of Effectiveness - April 20,
1981; Closing Date - December 31, 1985
This credit became effective on April 20, 1981 and progress on
physical implementation has been satisfactory. However, although the
Government has agreed to assume TSh. 18.0 million of TPB's overdraft, poor
sales of pyrethrum and high administrative cost continues to weaken the
Tanganyika Pyrethrum Board's financial position. The project will continue
to be kept under close review.
Credit No. 1037-TA - Smallholder Tea Project: US$14.0 million
Credit of August 20, 1980; Effectiveness Date - April 27, 1981;
Closing Date - June 30, 1985
This credit became effective on April 27, 1981. The project got
off to a slow start due to delays in appointing the General Manager and the
Chief Engineer, but is now expeced to gain momentum. Some start has been
made in the tea nursery and fuelwood planting. The Ukalawa factory site
has been selected and tender documents should be issued shortly. Supplier
bids for the factory machinery have also been received and evaluated, and
orders have been placed.
Credit No. 1970-TA - Coconut Pilot Project: US$6.8 million
Credit of October 24, 1980; Date of Effectiveness - April 20,
1981; Closing Date - March 31, 1986
This credit became effective on April 20, 1981.
Credit No. 1015-TA - Grain Storage and Milling Project:
US$43.0 million Credit of April 15, 1981; Closing Date -
June 30, 1987
This credit became effective on July 15, 1981.
EDUCATION SECTOR
Credit No. 607-TA - Fifth Education Project: US$11.0 million
Credit of January 29, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - March 23,
1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1982
Overall project completion has reached 56%. Construction of VMT
houses and two secondary schools has been delayed due to lack of building
materials, means of transport, local funds and incentives on the part of
the villagers. Wnile the overall educational objectives of the project
will be met by the clos'ing date, the specific objectives of the secondary
school facilities' survey will only be partially fulfilled.



- 43 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 17
Credit 861-TA - Sixth Education Project - US$12.0 million
Credit of January 22, 1979; Date of Effectiveness - June 25,
1979; Closing Date - June 30, 1985
Design work is near completion and physical project implementa-
tion is gaining momentum. Tenders for civil works are either under
evaluation or contracts have been awarded. Due to increase in construction
cost, the cost of civil works to be financed under the project is expected
to be above appraisal estimates.  Implementation of educational objectives
is reasonably underway and related issues have now been properly identified
and will be addressed accordingly.
Credit 1056-TA - Seventh Eduction Project: US$25.0 million
Credit of September 26, 1980; Date of Effectiveness -
December 29, 1980; Closing Date - December 30, 1986
The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) has started providing posi-
tion briefs to respective Directorates of the Ministry of Education. In
addition, briefs on primary education and support services have also been
prepared. Nominations for fellowships for the National Examination Council
and for Teacher Training Colleges are being processed but little progress
has been achieved for acquiring technical assistance. Work for the Teacher
Training Colleges in Zanzibar is ahead of schedule. Sites have been
selected and a team from the PIU visited Zanzibar to carry out preliminary
surveys. Staff houses are now available for use by the faculty of the
Nkrumah College.
TOURISM SECTOR
Credit No. 860-TA - Tourism Rehabilitation Project: US$14.0
million Credit of January 22, 1979; Date of Effectiveness -
August 24, 1979; Closing Date - June 30, 1983
Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily. Recruit-
ment of project coordinator is being finalized and the consultants for the
rehabilitation of project lodges and hotels, have been appointed. The con-
struction site identified for the Hotel and Tourism Training Institute
(HTTI) proved to be unsuitable because of size and shape, thereby delaying
implementation of this component. Alternative sites are being explored.
Improvements to the airport terminal is likely to be dropped because the
Government was able to secure alternative financing. Vehicles for anti-
poaching activities have been received and allocated to TANAPA and the
Ngorongoro Conservation Authority. Tenders for the supply of radio tele-
phone and binoculars are being prepared.



- 44 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 17
TRANSPORT SECTOR
Credit No. 507-TA - Highway Maintenance Project: US$10.2
million Credit of August 21, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
November 20, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
After a slow start, project implementation improved and all
equipment procured through ICB has been delivered. However, it became
necessary to recast the project by amending its scope to address organiza-
tional problems encountered in its implementation. The previous Closing
Date of December 31, 1980 has been postponed to December 31, 1982 to allow
for completion of the project and the disbursement. The technical assist-
ance contract with the consulting firm "ORT" expired in November 1979, and
the Government is now recruiting individual experts to complete the pro-
ject.
Credit No. 743-TA - Trucking Industry Rehabilitation
and Improvement Project: US$15 million Credit of
November 3, 1977; Date of Effectiveness - April 3, 1978
Closing Date - June 30, 1983
Although implementation has been slow due to delays in creating
Regional Transport Companies and in procuring trucks, some improvement has
been recorded recently and the Government's contribution to the National
Trucking Company for equity in the transport companies was increased to T
Sh 28 million, still falling short of T Sh 50 million to be made up in
1981/1982. Technical Assistance has been extended since 1978; currently
about 18 experts are assisting in the project implementation. All five
regional trucking companies were created in early 1981 and a Board of
Directors appointed with most of management staff recruited.
Credit No. 876-TA - Fifth Highway Project; US$20.0 million
Credit of March 2, 1979; Date of Effectiveness - December 3,
1980; Closing Date - December 31, 1984
This is a follow-up to credit No. 507-TA in the maintenance of
the national trunk road system. All three key advisers and six key local
staff are now in post. All 120 students are receiving training in various
engineering colleges overseas and are making good progress. Bids for
procurement of road maintenance equipment have been received, and are being
analyzed by the Government.



- 45 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 17
PORTS SECTOR
Credit No. S-24-TA - Dar es Salaam Ports Engineering Project:
US$2.5 million Credit of February 27, 1980; Date of Effectiveness
- August 13, 1980; Closing Date - September 30, 1981
Project implementation is progressing well. The consultants have
submitted a number of reports and drawings to the Tanzania Harbours Autho-
rity (THA) for their review and comment. The only major problem is one of
coordination concerning the commissioning of the new oil jetty which requi-
res that all of the necessary pipe work link to the refinery and the exist-
ing network be completed and ready for use as soon as the jetty is comple-
ted. This problem has been raised with THA and it was asked to take a firm
decision on who will prepare the design, carry out the actual site work,
and finance the foreign exchange costs of the activities.
URBAN SECTOR
Credit No. 495-TA - National Sites and Services Project;
US$8.5 million Credit of July 12, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
October 3, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
Infrastructure construction has been completed satisfactorily in
all project sites. Construction of health facilities in Dar es Salaam is
completed and ready for occupation. Educational facilities for the Dar es
Salaam sites have been completed; the rest of the community facilities in
the project are nearing completion. Satisfactory progress is being made to
improve implementation of the lending program administered by the Tanzania
Housing Bank. As the remaining balance under the credit of US$1,713,650
was expected to be fully disbursed within three to four months after the
December 31, 1980 closing date, this date was not postponed; application
for final disbursement was submitted in May.
Credit No. 732-TA - Second National Sites and Services Project:
US$12.0 million Credit of Novemger 3, 1977; Date of Effective-
ness - April 3, 1978; Closing Date - June 30, 1982
Progress on implementation is satisfactory for the residential
components although overall implementation progress is slow. In order to
accelerte progress on house consolidation under the first project,ini-
tiate cost recovery in squatter areas, and strengthen the Dar es Salaam
City Council, the Government, THB, SIDO, Dar es Salaam City Council, and
the Association have all agreed to reshape the project. The changes inclu-
ded: addition of management costs for the DCC consolidation unit and a
collecton unit within the Treasury; strengthening of the DCC maintenance
operations; deletion of the Nutrition Extension and MCH guidelines and
SIDO's second site in Tabora which was necessitated by a cost overrun on
the first site; and reduction of THB house loans. Funds for the consoli-
dation and collection units have been provided through margir;ally trimming



- 46 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 17
the demonstation houses, community facilities, THB/ARDHI promotion and
training, and savings on the Finance Study and project preparation. The
reshaping was finalized in July and recruitment for the new management unit
is underway.
WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
Loan No. 1354-TA - Urban Water Supply Project: US$15.0 million
Loan of Janury 5, 1977; Date of Effectiveness - March 2, 1977;
Closing Date - June 30, 1981
The new water system is expected to be in operation by August
1981 and the Mindu dam will be completed about 18 months later or about two
years after the date scheduled at appraisal. In view of the continuing
poor performance of the contractor (Cicol) for the Mindu dam, the Govern-
ment had to terminate their contract and negotiations with the initial
bidder is currently in progress.   The project cost is currently estimated
at US$30.1 million, or about 56% over the appraisal estimate of US$19.2
million. Progress in project implementation and the expected large
increase in project cost is being closely monitored. The loan closing date
of June 30, 1981 was not postponed pending receipt from the Government of a
realistic schedule for completion of the project and indication of how they
intend to finance the cost overruns. The National Urban Water Authority
(NUWA), an autonomous body responsible for the urban water supply sector,
was estblished in April 1981 in line with the Bank's recommendation for the
strengthening of the sector. The Ministry of Water and Energy has com-
menced identifying the key personnel for NUWA which is expected to be fully
operational by December 1981. A 35% increase in urban water tariff levels
has been effective since January 1980; a further 32% increase, required as
of January 1981, has not yet been implemented.
ENERGY SECTOR
Loan No. 1306-T-TA - Kidatu Hydroelectric Project Phase II;
US$30 million Loan on Third Window Terms of August 12, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness - March 1, 1977; Closing Date -
December 31, 1981
The project was financed by IBRD, SIDA and KfW. Project comple-
tion is on schedule and the generators have been commissioned. Due mainly
to underestimation of the project costs by the engineering consultants,
current estimated project cost is US$97.8 million, compared to appraisal
estimate of US$89.2 million, a cost overrun of 28%. KfW and SIDA have
increased their contribution to the project and an EEC Special Action
Credit (No. 55-TA) in the amount of US$7.0 million, to be administered by
IDA, 'has also been allocated to the project to cover the cost overruns.
Disbursemernt of IBRD, SIDA and KfW funds is virtually complleted; disburse-
ment of the EEC Special Action Credit is proceeding satisfactorily.



- 47 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 17
Credit S-27-TA - Songo Songo Petroleum Exploration Project:
US$30.0 million Credit of June 30, 1980; Date of Effectiveness -
September 12, 1980; Closing Date - September 30, 1982
Drilling of the onshore well under the project has been abandoned
because of various technical difficulties which were aggravated by manage-
rial problems, particularly the absence of close and effective project
control. Drilling of the offshore well is proceeding satisfactorily.
Little progress has been made on the technical assistance component of the
project, except for the TPDC management and fiscal study, where consultants
are already in the field.
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Loan No. 1172-TA - Tanzania Investment Bank: US$15.0 million
Loan of November 12, 1975; Date of Effectiveness - February 20,
1976; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
This loan is fully committed. However, because of slow implemen-
tation of some of the sub-projects financed by TIB under this project, the
closing date has been postponed to December 31, 1981 in order to finalize
disbursement. The undisbursed balance remaining under the loan to date is
US$950,000.
Loan No. 1498-TA - Tanzania Investment Bank: US$15.0 million
Loan of December 28, 1977; Date of Effectiveness -
April 3, 1978; Closing Date - June 30, 1983
This loan is now fully committed and disbursements are proceeding
satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1750-TA3 - Tanzania Investment Bank: US$25.0 million
Loan of August 20, 1979; Date of Effectiveness - February 5,
1980; Closing Date - June 30, 1984
This loan became effective on February 5, 1980 and commitments
and disbursements are progressing better than estimated at appraisal. In
the light of the difficult situation in Tanzania, particularly the severe
foreign exchange shortage, TIB is revising its operational strategy to
focus in the near-term on providing funds which would enable projects to
replace, balance, or modernize their machinery and equipment, improve capa-
city utilization, promote exports, and otherwise assist improvement of
balance of payments. TIB is also being encouraged to use a portion of the
Bank's loan, on an exceptional basis, to meet part of the requirements for
imported inputs of some of its high-priority projects which are likely to
face very low capacity operation, or even closure, following meagre alloca-
tion of foreign exchange.
3In addition, a US$15.0 million EEC Special Action Credit in support
of this project is being administered by IDA.



- 48 -
ANNEX II
Page 13 of 17
Loan No. 1128-TA - Mwanza Textile Project: US$15.0 million
Loan of June 19, 1975; Date of Effectiveness - October 6,
1975; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
The project provides for expansion of an existing textile mill
and is designed to increase annual fabric production capacity by 20 million
linear meters. Project implementation performance has been acceptable and
all technical installations are now operating satisfactorily. The National
Textile Corporation (TEXCO), the holding company for state-owned textile
mills, has agreed to institute an immediate action progam to improve the
operating perforamnce of existing mills. The project was technically com-
pleted in October 1978 with a savings of about US$1.7 million. In order to
utilize this amount for rehabilitation of the existing facilities, which
are essential parts of the project, and in order to finalize disbursements
on the awarded contracts, the Closing Date was postponed by another six
months to December 31, 1981.
Credit No. 601-TA - Technical Assistance Project: US$6.0
million Credit of January 9, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
September 14, 1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1982
The project was  ' signed to assist the Government in implementing
its program of economic development through financing preinvestment and
feasibility studies for projects in the productive sectors, special studies
for improving efficiency and capacity utilization investments, and training
for Tanzanians in project preparation, implementation, evaluation and rela-
ted techniques. Although the credit was virtually completely committed,
some previously approved studies were cancelled and about US$90,000 -
100,000 became available from savings on other studies.  The Closing Date
was therefore postponed by 12 months to June 30, 1982 to continue disburse-
ment on the amounts already committed for studies already in progress.
Loan No. 1385-T-TA/Loan No. 1386-TA - Morogoro Industrial
Complex: US$11.5 million Loan on Third Window Terms and US$11.5
million Bank loan, both of April 6, 1977; Date of Effectiveness
- July 6, 1977; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
Project imlementation is proceeding satisfactorily in spite of
some initial delays in the appointment of consultants and start-up of pro-
curement. Although there will be some delays in the start-up of individual
components of the Industrial Complex, completion of the project is still
scheduled for July 1982. Revised capital cost estimates are only slightly
higher than those contained in the Appraisal Report.
Credit No. 833-TA/Loan No. 1607-TA - Morogoro Textile Project:
US$20.0 million Credit and US$25.0 million Loan both of June 29,
1978; Date of Effectiveness - May 7, 1979; Closing Date -
June 30, 1985
Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily in spite of
some problems encountered with the awarding of the civil works contract.
No further delay is anticipated in project completion.



- 49 -
ANNEX II
Page 14 of 17
Credit No. 875-TA/Loan No. 1650-TA - Mufindi Pulp and Paper
Project: US$30.0 million credit and US$30.0 million Loan, both
of April 6, 1979; Date of Efectiveness - April 15, 1980;
Closing Date - December 31, 1983
Lack of progress in implementing essential related infrastructure
outside the project, particularly the township, has caused project delays.
Total project cost has now increased by about US$111 million, or 40% above
appraisal estimate. Financing of the foreign exchange component of the
township is being arranged through a subsidiary loan from the Kuwait Fund.
Consultants have been requested to review the project's implementation
schedule, define its critical elements, and revise its cost estimates.
Loan No. 1745-TA - Tanganyika Development Finance Company, Ltd.
(TDFL) Project: US$11.0 million Loan of July 27, 1979; Date of
Effectiveness - November 1, 1979; Closing Date - December 31,
1983
The loan is about 70% committed and disbursement is proceeding
satisfactorily.
Credit No. 1060-TA - Second Technical Assistance Project: US$11
millon Credit of October 24, 1980; Date of Effectiveness -
February 10, 1981, Closing Date - June 30, 1985
This credit became effective on February 10, 1981 and TIB is
currently in the process of recruiting an agricultural economist for the
Technical Assistance Unit. Processing of study applications is proceeding
smoothly, the general training component is also being implemented satis-
factorily.
EXPORT REHABILITATION PROGRAM
Credit No. 1133-TA - Export Rehabilitation Program: US$50.0
million Credit of April 24, 1981; Date of Effectiveness -
May 12, 1981; Closing Date - March 31, 1982
This credit became effective on May 12, 1981 and approximately
US$5.0 million have been disbursed. The new institutional arrangements for
import allocation are working well. A draft policy statement for both
agricultural research and extension have been parepared and are being
incorporated within an overall agricultural policy document. The target
for the Government's own contribution -to the foreign exchange requirements
of agriculture was actually exceeded during the period April 1-June 30,
1981.



- 50 -
ANNEX II
Page 15 of 17
EAST AFRICAN COMMUNITY
There are currently five projects in execution in the East
African Community.4
Loan No. 638-EA - Second Harbours Project: US$35.0 million
Loan of August 25, 1969; Date of Effectiveness - December 16,
1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1977
Loan No. 865-EA - Third Harbours Project: US$26.5 million
Loan of December 18, 1972; Date of Effectiveness - April 16,
1973; Closing Date - June 30, 1978
The Second Harbours project included financing for five general
cargo berths and a single bay tanker terminal for the Port of Dar es
Salaam; two general cargo berths and a bulk cement wharf for Mombasa; tugs,
lighters, cargo handling equipment, offices, housing and general improve-
ments for both ports. The Third Harbours project included three new deep
water berths, modernization of two berths and a lighterage quay, a training
school building and central repair area for Dar es Salaam; modernization of
several berths and a lighterage quay, construction of a tug berth, cold
storage facilities and a training building in Mombasa and improvement of a
lighterage quay in Tanga. Construction of all major project elements has
been completed and a joint project completion report was issued in January
1979. Because of shortage of funds under both loans, the following minor
project elements have not been submitted for Bank financing: the second
phase of modernization of the lighterage quay and a training school for Dar
es Salaam, modernization of the lighterage quay and a training school for
Mombasa. Locally financed contracts have been awarded for these project
elements with the exception of the modernization of the lighterage quay in
Mombasa. General cargo throughput has increased above appraisal forecasts
for Dar es Salaam, and cargo handling productivity has improved with
increasing throughput; however, port labor productivity has stagnated in
Mombasa where general cargo throughput has declined considerably. Legis-
lation to establish a Tanzania Harbours Authority and a Kenya Ports Autho-
rity has been enacted. Management of Ports in both countries is compe-
tent. Some US$34.50 million of Loan 638-EA and US$26.15 million of Loan
865-EA has already been disbursed. The agreed allocation of undisbursed
funds of October 1, 1977 between the countries concerned is given below:
4Since October 1, 1977, the East African Community loans (excluding
the East African Development Bank) have been disbursed on the basis of
separate national guarantees. The agreed allocation of undisbursed
balances for each loan, as proposed in a report to the Executive Directors
dated December 29, 1977 (R77-312) and approved on January 12, 1978, is
given in this Annex. The Closing Date for loans 638-EA, and 865-EA have
passed. However, since the amount allocated to and guaranteed by each
Partner State is clearly identified under the terms of the Agreement signed
on January 25, 1978 as proposed in the above report (R77-312), we are
continuing disbursements.



- 51 -
ANNEX II
Page 16 of 17
For Loan No. 638-EA                        (US$ million)
Kenya                                      0.7
Tanzania                                   0.6
Total                                   1.3
For Loan No. 865-EA
Kenya                                      1.7
Tanzania                                   0.3
Total                                   2.0
Loan No. 914-EA - Third Telecommunications Project: US$32.5
million Loan of June 22, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
September 19, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
The project included provision for procurement of local telephone
exchange equipment, cables and subscriber apparatus, microwave and UHF/VHF
systems and multiplex equipment, interurban cables and wires, automatic
switching and signalling equipment, telegraph, telex and data equipment,
and training. All project items except the microwave radio system have
been completed; this system is likely to be completed by mid-1980. The
slippage of the project's completion was due to initial delays in procure-
ment caused by staffing and other problems associated with the relocation
of headquarters. About US$32.20 million of the loan had been disbursed to
date. The agreed allocation of undisbursed funds as at October 1, 1977
among the countries concerned is as follows:
US$ Million
Kenya                     2.4
Tanzania                  3.5
Uganda                    0.1
Total                   6.0
Loan No. 1204-EA - East African Development Bank: US$15.0
million Loan of March 1, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - June 7,
1976; Closing Date - March 31, 1980
The environment within the Community has continued to have a
negative impact on EADB operations. Level of operations both for appraisal
and supervision has been depressed, but there has been some improvement in
the state of the portfolio with trhe arrears affected portfolio falling
from 50% as of June 30, 1977 to 43% as of June 30, 1979. Some US$11.73
million of the loan has been disbursed to date, and the uncommited balance
amounts to US$3.0 million.



- 52 -
ANNEX II
Page 17 of 17
D. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT IN TANZANIA
AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 1981
Fiscal                                                  Amount in US$ Million
Year           Obligor            Type of Business       Loan  Equity  Total
1960 &   Kilombero Sugar       Food Processing           3.96   0.70    4.66
1964       Company
1978     Highland Soap and   Soap Manufacture            1.38   0.36    1.74
Allied Products
Limited
1979     Metal Products       Household Utensils         1.33   0.18    1.51
Limited
Total gross commitments                 6.67   1.24    7.91
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                  4.05   0.69    4.74
Total commitments now held by IFC       2.62    0.55   3.17
Total undisbursed                      0.06       -    0.06



-  53
ANNEX III
TANZANIA
SECOND SONGO SONGO PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.    Timetable of Key Events:
(a)   Time taken to prepare the project:   Two months
(b)   Project prepared by:                   Government and Consultants
(c)   First presentation to Bank Group:    August, 1981
(d)   Departure of Appraisal Mission:        September, 1981
(e)   Completion of negotiations:            November, 1981
(f)   Planned date of effectiveness:         January, 1982
II.   Special IDA Implementation Action:
The Credit includes provision of up to US$6 million retroactive
financing to cover expenditures from October 16, 1981 to the expected
date of signature (paragraph 59).
III. Special Conditions:
(a)   Government has agreed to appoint consultants to assist in the
preparation of the Energy Development Plan provided for under
the First Songo Songo Project by April 30, 1982 and to prepare
the draft Plan by March 31, 1983, for review and comment by the
Association (paragraph 28).
(b)   Government  has  agreed  to  complete  the  review  of  TPDC's
financial and managerial structure by March 31, 1982 and,
promptly thereafter, to implement the results of that study in
consultation with the Association (paragraph 34).
(c)   Government has agreed to appoint the explorationist to assist
in the preparation of the Exploration Strategy provided for
under the First Songo Songo Project, by April 30, 1982 and to
prepare the draft Strategy by September 30, 1982, for review
and comment by the Association (paragraph 40).
(d)   TPDC has agreed not to undertake any new projects involving
assignment of qualified TPDC staff away from implementation of
the proposed project (paragraph 40).
(e)   Government has agreed that by February 15, 1982 it will appoint
consultants to carry out the gas utilisation study provided for



- 54 -
under the First Songo Songo Project and will prepare the study
by August 15, 1982 for submission to the Association for its
review and comment (paragraph 47).
(f)   The precise objectives, locations and depths of the second and
third project wells would be subject to IDA approval (paragraph
49 (a) (ii) and (iii)).
(g)   The third well would only be spudded if the Government, TPDC,
the Association, EIB and OPEC Fund agreed that its drilling
would be justified (paragraph 50).   Except for tangibles and
consumables, no disbursements in respect of the third well
would be made prior to that determination (paragraph 58).
(h)   It would be a condition of effectiveness that all conditions
precedent to the availability of funds to be provided 'by
European Investment Bank and the OPEC Fund for International
Development had been satisfied (paragraph 53).
(i)   TPDC, with the assistance of consultants as drilling manager,
would be responsible for the drilling, testing and evaluation
of each well in accordance with a drilling program acceptable
to the Association (paragraph 61).
(j)   TPDC would submit a detailed program for testing of each well
to the Association for its review and comment (paragraph 62).
(k)   TPDC would submit to the Association for its review and comment
a report on the results of the drilling of the project wells
not later than 60 days from completion of drilling (paragraph
65).



- 55 -
ANNEX IV
TANZANIA
Second Songo Songo Petroleum Exploration Project
Technical Evaluation
A.       Results to Date
1.   Two wells have been drilled: Wells SS-5 and SS-6.  Well SS-6
was drilled first and was prematurely abandoned due to mechanical
problems.   Well SS-6 encountered the Lower Cretaceous gas reservoir lower
than anticipated and had only 15 feet of gas reservoir above the gas/water
contact.   Reserves previously assigned to the Songo Songo Island segment
(segment F) were reduced due to faulting on the east flank, and Well SS-6
is now believed to be located on the edge of the areally larger low relief
segment to the south (segment G). Due to the absence of the upper unit of
the Lower Cretaceous (Albian transition zone), Well SS-6 was not able to
evaluate the oil production noted in Well SS-3 which was one of its
principal objectives.
2.   Well SS-5 was drilled on the large western segment (segment
C) and encountered the Lower Cretaceous gas reservoir as predicted.   The
well penetrated approximately 800 ft of gas interval (more than 80% net
pay) and established a gas/water contact at 6,370 ft subsea, confirming
earlier estimates. Well SS-5 produced gas on a production test at the rate
of 28 MMCFD through a 1-inch choke with a flowing tubing pressure of 1,200
p.s.i.   The produced gas is very dry, consisting of 97.35% methane.   C4+
accounted for only 0.42% and inorganics consist of 0.53% nitrogen and 0.23%
carbon dioxide.   Liquid content is nil, being less than 1 Bbl/MMCF.  The
absolute open flow is calculated to be 170 MMCFD, with a maximum well
potential of 55 MMCFD and a practical sustained rate capability in excess
of 35 MMCFD. Well SS-5 is a good gas producer by any standard. Well SS-5
failed to find additional hydrocarbon pay below the main reservoir but did
encounter a minor oil show (small increase in gas while drilling with
cuttings containing oil fluorescence and solvent cut) in the interval
9,343-65 ft, just above the top of the Jurassic shale.
B.       Oil Plays at Songo Songo
3.   There are three potential oil plays in the Songo Songo field
area. These are the basal Lower Cretaceous sandstone reservoir; the Albian
transititon unit just above the main gas reservoir; and the Lower Tertiary



- 56 -
limestone and sandstones.
4.   Source  rock  studies  made  by  Amoco  (Standard  Oil  Co.  of
Indiana) on the Jurassic shales drilled in Well SS-1 immediately underlying
the basal Lower Cretaceous objective indicate a moderately lean source rock
potential, with the leanness offset to some extent by the thickness of the
shale unit (in excess of 4,000 ft).  The Jurassic shales are primarily gas
prone with 80-90% of the organic material indicating a gas source rock
(plant remains).   However,10-20% of the organic material implies an oil
source potential (amorphous carbon indicative of animal remains). Residual
liquid hydrocarbon extracted from the shale averaged slightly above 1
Bbl/acre foot.   Amoco maturation studies  (time-temperature relationship)
concluded that the Jurassic shales are at or just past the peak for liquid
maturation.  Minor oil shows in Well SS-5 and deduced shows in Well SS-1 in
sandstone reservoirs immediately above these shales are also indicators of
oil potential.
5.   Analysis of the small amounts of produced oil in Well SS-3
suggest an immature oil that most probably was sourced from shales within
the Albian transition beds and later invaded by gas.  Oil accumulation in
this zone is expected to be minor and producible only with the gas.
6.   Residual oil shows were noted in a Lower Eocene siltstone in
Well SS-6 which may provide an oil objective in areas where porosity
development is associated with structural or stratigraphic closure.
7.   The  principal  defined  oil  objective  is  the  basal  Lower
Cretaceous sandstone reservoirs at the crest of structural closures. If oil
is found to be present at this objective, the recoverable volume could be
estimated on certain assumptions, as follows: using rather conservative
assumptions of 50 feet of net pay (50% of the reservoir in the objective
interval in Well SS-5), 15% porosity, 50% water saturation and 25%
recovery, a reasonable target would be 20 million barrels of recoverable
oil at two structural closures; 8 million barrels up-dip of Well SS-5
segments C and E, and 12 million barrels in segment G.  It should be noted
that the structure at the top of the Jurassic is high relative to the mid-
Cretaceous mapping point in the southern portion of the Songo Songo
sructural complex. In addition to being indicated on the seismic profiles,
recently reinterpreted, this relationship is also confirmed by excellent
dipmeter results  in Well SS-5.   However,  it should be noted that good
continuous seismic reflections are not present at .he objective horizon and
the seismic interpretation of structure is based on dip using partial
reflections.   On the basis of the above assumptions, sustained producing
rates from these two oil targets would be expected to be about 4,400 BD.
8.   No reserve target can be estimated for the Albian transition
beds or the Lower Tertiary objectives at this point.



- 57 -
C.       Objectives of Future Exploratory Wells
9.   Three additional exploratory wells are recommended at this
time: Wells SS-7, SS-8 and SS-9. Well SS-7 is recommended to test for oil
the deep closure to the south in a structurally higher position than Well
SS-5, and, in the process, confirm gas reserves in the sourthern or E
segment of the western closure. The primary objective is the discovery of
the estimated potential of 4 million Bbl of oil (an additional well, Well
SS-9, would be required to establish the remaining 4 million Bbl in the
northern part of the closure). The secondary objective is the confirmation
of an additional .365 BCF of gas in the Lower Cretaceous.
10. Well SS-8 is recommended to test an areally larger deep
closure to the southeast with a target objective of 12 million barrels of
oil and, in the process, confirm 220 BCF gas in the C segment.  This well
may also encounter Lower Tertiary objectives up-dip of the oil shows in
Well SS-6.
11. Well SS-9 cannot be precisely located at this time, but will
be an oil confirmation test if either Wells SS-7 or SS-8 prove to be oil
discoveries.  If neither are oil discoveries, Well SS-9 would be located to
test a revised target, should information obtained in the previous two
wells indicate this to be warranted.   All three wells are expected to be
drilled with the Blocker barge-mounted rig currently active at Songo Songo
and deviated if necessary to properly test the primary oil target from an
acceptable surface location.
12. While it may have been of some value to conduct an additional
seismic survey prior to drilling the proposed Wells SS-7, SS-8 and SS-9, it
has been decided that, given the rather close grid over most of the Songo
Songo area plus the addition of several key AGIP surveyed lines in the area
of the G segment, the drilling of these wells was justified on the basis of
present coverage. In fact, the interpretation of the deeper seismic events
depends as much or more on the results of the wells as the wells depend on
additional seismic data.   If one or more of the proposed wells discovers
oil, a detailed seismic survey will be justified for development purposes.
D.       Gas Reserves at Songo Songo and Regional Implications
13. Probable gas reserves established to date at Songo Songo are
approximately 515 BCF; 450 BCF in segment C based on Well SS-5; 50 BCF in
segment F based on Well SS-3 and SS-4; and 15 BCF in segment A based on
Well SS-1.   Indicated reserves for all segments at Songo Songo add up to
1,450  BCF.    The  bulk  of  these  reserves  are  assigned  to  the massive
Neocomian sandstone reservoir of the Lower Cretaceous, with only a
negligible quantity assigned to the Albian transition beds., The geological
significance of an estimated maximum pay zone of about 1,000 ft in the
western segments C and E in a continuous sandstone reservoir should not be



- 58 -
underestimated, being perhaps unique in the world to date and certainly
unanticipated  in East  Africa.    It  is believed  that  this kind of gas
accumulation is possibly due to the effectiveness of a highly efficient
seal, in this case being the undercompacted abnormally pressured shales in
the Upper Cretaceous Turonian interval.
14. The Songo Songo gas development is expected to initiate a
sizeable new gas play, namely productive reservoirs of similar lithology
and age on similar structures. On the basis of information now available,
total gas discoveries in the range of 4-12 TCF (including that already
found at Songo Songo) could occur within a 50-km radius of Songo Songo
Island over which there is regional seismic coverage.



IBRD 14955
61-                                                                ' L       (Gi '1'4DA    ] \  AER5 1980
>   ;G A _)  ,  )              SOMAttA
KENYA
.AN -  -   ........ . .Area of map
T .  . dj_  r A N Z A N  I A Nf
Z A I R E
OCeAA
f n o-s                                                          ZAMSIABtQu,
M-41~~~~~~~4
', W '\'\.             B A S~~~~~BSA 
TANZANIA
GEOLOGY OF COASTAL TANZAN IA
Main roads
____Secondary roads
-0 < / wFRivers
_TANGA      "PEMA 1.              Railways
efercir  >)yJ   $;MeA 1    sInternational oirports
+   Scheduled service oirports
Regiornl 6oundaries
f   M M   haANZABAE R        ---internationol boundories
Geological trends
W- ~~~~~~~~~~~0 Eeplorastory wells
Exploration license areos
h~~~~~~~
I gk.- KIS~~~ANGIRE 1 w
\  v      \s  (3          Jvf    ~~~~~~~~MAFIA 1.
20   40  60   80                     1 t20   40   W
+ { \ J X f KiIOMETERS
_, e/So 2ite? K ,    e           20       40       60       go
<  0   \,>   \ -          - t        g    1                  Ftt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MIES
\  / -    f         l\   XE   tr=~'~ AGIP
I   \   x /    v   * }f I                 ttg n~~~~~~~~Onnejs howlrn on wM wt oe do not 1054. onr ttrr otw, nf Owr Wcn etr   m a o
,-/  f da- /   |R   r   I  x  \ KlZflilrANI I
{ ~ ~~~~~~       ~     ~~~~~~~~~ /fBee rL~wn _nO inJe snow S  N      OCf co AnOowofndowno
/   LiltwaleO  - ';   tPo n no1
T. Son9          /         Maa>                            /       ,
tTnduru                                 X
hA,M AMBI QUE 



