Report No. 1155a-LBR                                                       FIL            COPY
Appraisal of the Liberian Bank for FILE COPY
Development and Investment Liberia
August 20, 1976
Development Finance Companies
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency: US Dollar
Acronyms
ABEDIA                  Arab Bank for Economic Davelopment in Africa
ADB                     African Development Bank
DER                      Deutsche Entwicklungsgesellschaft
KfW                     Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
LAMCO                   Liberian American Swedish Minerals Comparn
LBDI                    Liberian Bank for Development and Investment
LDC                     Liberian Development Corporation
NBL                     National Bank of Liberia
NSXB                    National Savings and Housing Bank
IBDI's Fiscal Year:    January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
APPRAISAL OF THE
LIBERIAN BANK FOR DEVELOPMENT AND INVESTMENT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
BASIC DATA                 ........................                              i
SUMMARY...                              .     ................                  iv
I.  INTRODUCTION ..........................    1
II.    ENVIRONMENT  .............                     .                    ... *        1
The Economy               .......................................          1
The Industrial Sector  .....             ........................ .        3
The Agricultural  Sector  .....            .......................         6
Investment  Prospects  ...............................                     7
The Financial  System  ... ................ ..... .... ........            7
III.    THE INSTITUTION ............................................... 0........         9
LBDI's Role           ........................................             9
Ownership . .. ........ .... 0*   9
Operating and Financial Policies  ...................                     10
Board,  Executive Committee and Management  ........             ..       11
Organization and Staff ..............           ..     .............      12
Procedures  .......        ..................................             13
IV.    RESOURCES, OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION  ....                 .......      14
Resources ............   ..........   14
Operations  ....... ..............             ...................        14
Focus of Lending  ................         ..     .................       14
Portfolio  .................................................. ..O..       15
Financial Condition and Results   ....................                    16
V.    PROSPECTS  ...............................................                       17
LBDI's Strategy  .        .     .       ...................................  17
Forecast Operations  .................          ....     . .......        18
Resource Requirements  . ............... ... ... . ......                 19
Projected Financial Results  .....              ...................       19
VI.  CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS .20
This report was prepared by Mr. Pieter J.M. Bulters and Ms. Myrna
Alexander on the basis of their mission to Liberia in February 1976.
This document has  restrictod distribution and may be usd by recipients only in the performanc
of their offcil dutie. Its contents may not otherwise be discld without Wodd Sank authoriation.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
ANNEXES
1.   LBDI:  Proposed Capital Structure
2.   LBDI:  Policy Statement
3.   LBDI:  Board of Directors
4.   LBDI:  Organization Chart
5.   LBDI:  Summary of Borrowings
6.   LBDI:  Summary of Operations
7.   LBDI:  Analysis of Loan Approvals
8.   LBDI:  List of Equity Investments
9.   LBDI:  Income Statements for Years 1972 to 1975
10.   LBDI:  Past and Projected Financial Ratios
11.   LBDI:  Balance Sheets for Years 1972 to 1975
12.   LBDI:  Pipeline of Projects
13.   LBDI:  Assumptions of Projected Operations and
Financial Statements
14.   LBDI:  Projected Operations
15.   LBDI:  Projected Resource Position
16.   LBDI:  Projected Income Statements
17.   LBDI:  Projected Balance Sheets
18.   LBDI:  Projected Cash Flows
19.   Estimated Disbursement Schedule for Proposed Bank Loan
20.   Liberian Laws Applicable to Proposed IFC Investment in LBDI
This document has a ruttictd distribution and nay be used by recipients only in the performance
of thirofficial duti. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- i -
THE LIBERIAN BANK FOR DEVELOPMENT AND INVESTMENT
BASIC DATA
Year of' Establishment: 1965
Ownership (as of January 31, 1976)
Local Investors and IFC (Class A)                    US$              Percent
Government of Liberia                              248,500            24.85%
IFC                                                248,490            24.85%
Private Liberian Investors                         13,Q10              1.30%
Sub-Total                                    510sO0O             51.00%
Foreign Investors       (Class B)
International Trust Comqpany                       125s000            12.5o%
First National City Bank of New York              120,000             12.00%
Instituto Mobiliare Italiano                       120,000            12.00%
Firestone Plantation Company                        50,000             5.00%
Liberia Mining Company                              50,o00             5.00%
LAMCO Joint Venture Operating Co.                   25,000            2___0_
Sub-Total                                    490,000             49.00%
Total                                      1,000,000           100.00%
Resource Poaition (as of December 31.1975)
Domestic Funds                                                        (US$ '000)
Sources:
Share Capital                                                         1,000
Reserves,  unappropriated  profits and Dro-ision-                       580
Borrowing (less cancellations and repayments). 1/2,10
Total domestic expenditure resources                                  3,730
Uses:
Net Fixed Assets                                                         95
Loans and Equity Investments                                          3,205
Undisbursed Commitments                                                 269
Total domestic expenditure commitments                                3,569
Available for new domestic expenditure commitments                      161
1/ Excludes non-redeemed portion of GOL notes; $1,400,000 as of December 31, 1975.



Foreign Funds                              ii -                           (US$ ' 000)
Sources:
KfW (4.5%, amount at exchange rate prevaiLling
at time of disbursement)                                             1,056
IBRD Line of Credit (7.25%)                                                944
ADB Line of Credit (7%)                                                     552
IBRD 2nd Line of Credit (8%)                                             4,ooo
ADB 2nd Line of Credit (7%)                                              2,413
Total foreign expenditure resources                                       8,965
Uses:
Loans Outstanding                                                        4,1432
Net Fixed Assets                                                            324
Undisbursed Commitments                                                     635
Total Commitments                                                        5,391
Available for new foreign expenditure commitments                         3,574
Commitments/Disbursements                                                (US$ '000)
1970     1971      1972       973     174       1975
Loans Commitments                 197      185       289       W5       3,120    3v698
Equity Commitments                -         26       -          52         270       30
Loan and Equity Disbursements   368        214       141       476      2,744    3,959
Earnings Record (%)
Net profit to average equity    2.7         (11.3)   (1.0)    0.6        7.0      23.4
Net profit to year end share
capital                       3.4      (13.5)   (1.1)    0.7        8.1       30.2
Financial Position (as of December 31, ]975)
Real term debt  equity ratio                                            2.8:1    6.3:1
Convt.ntianal debt to equity
plus the subordinated Government loan                                1.2:1    1.7:1
Provisions to loan and investment portfolio                             2.4%      2.2%
Interest Rates and Charge (as of March 31. 1975)
Interest Rate                                        10.0% p.a.
Service Charge (on amount outstanding)                1.5% p.a.
Commitment Charge                                     1.0% (on undisbursed balance)
Commission Fee                                        1.0% (one-time charge)
Brokerage Commission on new issues                    3.0% (one-time charge)
Giuarantee fee                                        2.0-3.0% p.a.
Penalty fee (on loans in arrears of over
3 months)                      5.0% p.a.
1/ Debt includes subordinated loans but excludes unredeemed and undiscounted
portion of Government loans.



THE LIBERIAN BANK FOR DEVFLO1MENT AND INVESTMENT
BASIC DATA ON BANK GROUP LOANS AND INVESTMENTS
I. Bank Loan
A. Status of Loans                                                                                 In US $'000
Status as of February 29, 1976
Date of      Rate of
Effectiveness   Interest   Amortization   Amount of Loan   Authorized   Disbursed   Outstanding
No. 839-LBR          11/10/72         7.25%         Std.          1,000             1000          994           943
No. 1055-LBR          1/3/75          8  %          Std.          4,000            2, V8        1,215         1,215
B.  Summary of Special Features of Loan             (No. 839-LBR)                                  (No. 1055-LBR)
1.  Foreign exchange risk:                      Borne by sub-borrowers                         Borne by sub-borrowers
2. Terminal date for project
submission:                            December 31, 1974                               June 30, 1977
3. Closing date for disbursement:               December 31, 1976                              June 30, 1979
4. Free limit:                                  $ 50X000                                       $ 1001000
5. Aggregate free limit:                        $200,000                                       $1,000,000
6.  Commitment charge:                          0.75% from date of authorization               0.75% per annum from 60 days  i
for withdrawal of each project.             after date of signing on the P
principal amount of loan       v-
not withdrawn from time
to time.
7. Retroactive financing                                                                       Up to $750s000
8.  Local currency financing                                                                   95% of local expenditure
up to $500,000
II. IFC Investment SummarY
Eguity (US$)        No. of Shares
No. 96 - LB Approved 8/10/65                                                          A o cfn                2.95
Disbursed 11/24/65                                                                            24p895
Less:  Sales                                                               460                     6
Held by IFC                                                            246s490                24,K9
Average Cost per Share                                                 10.00
Market Price per share                                                 not quoted
Par Value per share                                                    10.00
Book Value per share at 12/31/75                                       14.08
Latest Dividend Return on IFC Investment as of 12/31'75                 6i



- iv -
APPRAISAL OF THE
LIBERIAN BANK FOR DEVELOPMENT AND INVESTMENT
SUMMARY
i.        The Liberian Bank for Development and Investment (LBDI) was estab-
lished in 1965 with the assistance of the International Finance Corporation.
LBDI has received two Bank loans totalling $5 million and two lines of credit
from the African Development Bank for $3 million.  The first Bank loan and
ADB line of credit have been fully committed and it is expected that the
second loan and line of credit will be fully committed by the second half of
1976.
ii.       Liberia's economy has performed well over the past decade.  This
performance, however, has been led by the predominantly foreign-owned enclave
sectors of iron ore mining, rubber and timber. These sectors have little link-
ages with the rest of the economy. The Government hopes to focus future devel-
opment along more diverse lines.
iii.      The outlook for investment remains favorable.  The Government con-
tinues to support private investment as the prime vehicle for industrial
development through its open door policy and liberal incentives scheme. The
most promising areas for future industrial investment are wood and rubber pro-
cessing, agro-based industries and other export oriented industries. While
opportunities for import substitution continue to exist, they can be more
efficiently exploited by small scale entrepreneurs.
iv.       Small scale industries in Liberia have not received much encourage-
ment. Government policies have tended to favor large projects and, further-
more, security requirements imposed by local financial institutions prevent
small scale entrepreneurs, who lack collateral, from gaining access to credit.
To remedy this the government and the Bank plan early discussions on a study
of guarantee and technical assistance schemes for small scale enterprises.
v.        LBDI has emerged as the prime source of development financing in
Liberia especially for Liberian entrepreneurs. Its level of operations was
slow to build up but a tremendous upturn was experienced in 1974 when approvals
rose to nearly $5 million. Approvals; including guarantees in 1975 reached
just over $5 million. A growing share of LBDI's financing has been for wood
and rubber production as well as small agricultural projects.  Other major
areas of financing include manufacturing, hotels and services. The majority
of LBDI's loans, in terms of numbers, has been for small, Liberian sponsored
projects.



- v -
vi.        The President of LBDI, a Liberian national, has been with LBDI since
1973 and has been instrumental in expanding the scope of LBDI's operations.
He is assisted by a well qualified expatriate General Manager who will remain
with LBDI until a suitable Liberian replacement has been found.
vii.      LBDI has intensified its efforts to strengthen its Liberian staff.
Three recruits are expected in 1976 which will allow LBDI to undertake a
program of training and development for some of its existing staff. It is
recommended that the foreign cost of this program be financed with a tech-
nical assistance component of $150,000 out of the proposed Bank loan.
viii.      LBDI's policies are generally satisfactory and recent changes have
been made to strengthen its organization. The Follow-Up and Client Assistance
Unit has been created within the Projects Department to provide assistance to
clients, particularly small-scale entrepreneurs.
ix.       The interest rate plus service charge levied by LBDI stands at
11-1/2% and has not been reviewed in eighteen months. Inflation, the higher
cost of funds and the prevailing interest rates in Liberia indicate the need
to keep LBDI's lending rate under review. LBDI will begin to review annually
its lending rate on the basis of criteria to be discussed with the Bank.
x.        LBDI's net profits, which reached $302,000 or 23% of average net
worth in 1975, have shown an increase commensurate with its expanded level of
operations. A dividend of 6-1/2% has been declared for 1975. Projections of
LBDI's future profitability point to continued strong performance.
xi.       The company's financial position is sound.  Provisions were
increased in 1975 to $172,000 or just over 2% of the outstanding portfolio.
Only 5.5% of the loan portfolio was affected by arrears of more than three
months. LBDI's debt/equity ratio (which is limited to 7:1) stood at 6.3:1 at
the end of 1975 and LBDI has taken appropriate steps to increase its paid-in
capital by $2 million.
xii.      With a favorable investment climate and LBDI's growing stature
as a source of long-term financing, lending operations are conservatively
projected to reach $4 million in 1976 and to increase by $1 million each year
thereafter. The planned increase in paid-in capital plus other local sources
will adequately meet LBDI's projected local resource needs. A foreign resource
gap of $8 million is anticipated over the period 1977 to mid-1979. A Bank
loan of $7 million is recommended to cover part of the requirements while LBDI
should pursue other sources to meet its remaining needs. An IFC investment of
up to $306,300 is also recommended as part of the anticipated increase in paid-
in capital.
xiii.      The free limit on individual sub-projects should be raised to
$150,000 from $100,000 and the aggregate free limit raised to $2 million.
These limits would permit the Bank to review a substantial portion of the
projects expected to be financed under the loan. Other terms and condi-
tions of the proposed loan should be those normally applied to Bank loans
to development finance companies.






APPRAISAL OF THE
LIBERIAN BANK FOR DEVELOPMENT AND INVESTMENT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Liberian Bank for Development and Investment (LBDI) was estab-
lished in 1965 with the assistance of the International Finance Corporation,
which subscribed to 25% of LBDI's $1 million share capital. A representative
of IFC has been a member of LBDI's Board of Directors since inception. LBDI
has been the recipient of two World Bank loans. The first loan of $1 million
was extended in 1972 and the second loan of $4 million in 1974. This report
appraises LBDI for further Bank Group assistance and recommends a Bank loan of
$7 million and exercise of subscription rights by IFC to a number of shares of
$10 par value each up to a total cost of $306,300.
1.02      Objectives.  The major objectives of the proposed loan and investment
are the following:
(1) To supply LBDI with foreign resources so that it may continue
to provide medium and long term financing to productive enter-
prises in Liberia. This is particularly important since LBDI
remains the primary source of development financing in Liberia
especially for Liberian entrepreneurs;
(2) To encourage, through dialogue with the Government and LBDI,
improvements in credit and technical assistance facilities
for small Liberian enterprises; and
(3) To provide assistance for the training and development of
LBDI's Liberian staff and for further strengthening of LBDI's
project appraisal and supervision capacity.
II. ENVIRONMENT
The Economy
2.01      An in-depth analysis of Liberia's economy appears in the basic
economic report entitled "Growth with Development" (Report No. 4260-LBR,
dated March 1, 1975). The Economic Memorandum (Report No. 873-LBR, dated
September 15, 1975) describes subsequent developments.
2.02      With a population of roughly 1.5 million, Liberia has an annual
per capita income of about $410. Income distribution is highly skewed,
however, with 5% of the population accounting for 60% of income. Three-
quarters of the total population is engaged in subsistence farming and
has per capita incomes below $70 per annum.
2.03      Economic Performance.  The Liberian economy has performed well
over the past decade.  Increases in GDP averaged about 6% p.a. in real
terms from 1964 to 1972 with GDP at factor cost reaching $517 million in



- 2 -
1974. Although recent growth of GDP in real terms has been somewhat slower
(4.3% in 1973 and about 2% in 1974), Liberia has been able to weather the im-
pact of the energy crisis as a result of its substantial iron ore exports.
Since Liberia uses the US dollar as its currency, balance of payments analysis
is tenuous; however, indications are that recent trade surpluses have been
sufficient to offset capital deficits.  The Government has been able to
generate overall budgetary surpluses despite rapid increases in recurrent
expenditures.
2.04      Indications are that the rate of price inflation, which is esti-
mated to have been from 15% to 20% in 1974, did not subside substantially in
1975. The Consumer Price Index for Monrovia, which presents only a limited
account of price changes in Liberia, increased on average by about 4% per
annum until 1974 when prices jumped by 20%. The products hardest hit by
price increases were in food, clothing, fuel and transportation, reflecting
the rising cost of imported goods and commodities. Liberia's inflation has
largely been the result of international factors. It is expected that the
rate of inflation will decline gradually over the next few years to 8%
following the pattern in international markets.
2.05      Economic Structure.  The breakdown of GDP by major sector is as
follows:
% of 1974
GDP
Agriculture                                                16
of which Rubber                                     (10)
Mining                                                     37
of which Iron Ore                                   (34)
Manufacturing                                               5
Construction                                                3
Transportation and Communications                           8
Wholesale and Retail Trade                                 13
Government Services                                         8
Other Services                                             10
All Sectors                                          100
2.06      As can be seen from the above data, the economy is dominated by
foreign owned enclave sectors of iron ore mining and rubber production. In
1974, iron ore contributed 66% of the value of exports while rubber contri-
buted 16%. Timber concessions have been growing in importance in recent
years and now account for 4% of exports. These enclave sectors have long
been the major sources of growth in the Liberian economy with little linkages
with the rest of the economy.
2.07      Gross domestic investment in Liberia totalled $76 million in 1972,
having grown at an average annual rate of 7% since 1967. In general, the
period since the mid-1960's has been one of low investment. Investment in
the mining sector has declined from 45% of total investment in 1967 to 25%



- 3 -
in 1972. The share of public sector investment has decreased from 36% of
total investment in 1967 to 22% in 1972. No further breakdown of invest-
ment by sector or by source is available.
The Industrial Sector
2.08      Manufacturing is a small part of the Liberian economy accounting
for 5% of GDP. The domestic market is small and industries so far have been
limited largely to typical import substitution such as petroleum refining,
cement, food and beverages, construction materials, clothing and furniture.
Real growth in the sector has averaged 10% per annum from 1964 to 1972;
however, given the small size of the base, this rate disproportionately
reflects the establishment of the petroleum refinery in 1969. The bulk of
the output of the sector is sold domestically; exports of manufactured
goods account for a small proportion of output although processed fish
and wood products are increasingly important exports.
2.09      Only a few of the major manufacturing establishments are owned
by Liberians although the number of Liberian entrepreneurs is growing.
Most industries are concentrated in and around Monrovia reflecting the
country's infrastructure. Recorded manufacturing employment is low (only
1,700 in 1973) and has been declining. Most industries are privately owned.
2.10      Government Industrial Policies.  The Government has recently ap-
proved the first National Development Plan covering the period 1976 to 1980.
In the industrial sector, priority will be given to increased processing of
local raw materials such as timber, rubber and agricultural products. Aware
that the scope for further import substitution is limited, the Government
plans to encourage production and assembly industries especially for export.
Import substitution industries, such as clothing, furniture, utensils and
building materials, should best be left to small scale enterprises. Planned
public investment in the sector amounts to only $17 million largely for
infrastructure projects such as the Industrial Free Zone, further development
of the Monrovia Industrial Park and industrial estates in rural areas. The
government will continue to rely heavily on private investment in the indus-
trial sector.
2.11      Incentives.  The Government encourages private investment by a
liberal incentives policy and its traditional "open door policy" which allows
unrestricted capital flows. Incentives are granted either under the
Incentive Code or -- in the case of iron ore, rubber and forestry concessions
-- in concession agreements. An earlier Bank review of the code pointed out
that overly generous incentives led to high cost import replacement with no
special incentives for exporters. The code was subsequently revised in
1973 and now contains the following features: (1) up to 90% exemption from
import duty on equipment and inputs; (2) full income tax exemption on re-
invested profits and 50% exemption on other income taxes; and (3) other
benefits such as tariff protection, loss carry forward and accelerated
depreciation. As a special incentive for exporters, the code entitles
investors to a full rebate of import duties and full refund of income and
excise taxes paid in respect of exported goods. Incentives are granted
for a period of up to five years but may be extended for another two years.



- 4 -
I.L2      The Code Ls administered by the Concessions and Incentives
'mmission, which consists of various Ministers and is chaired by the
'linister of Finance. The Concession Secretariat forms a semi-autonomous
agency attached to the Finance Ministry. The Secretariat evaluates invest-
ment projects following a review by the relevant Ministries. Priority is
given to employment creation and use of local raw materials. There must
be a minimum of 25% local ownership and at least 25% local value-added.
iBDI is not presently represented on the Committee and it may be worth-
while for LBDI to become a member to see that its views are known when
incentives are granted.  In 1975, thirteen applications were reviewed by
the Secretariat and four approved involving investments of $3 million.
2.13      Tariff Protection.  A 1973 Bank study concluded that the effec-
tive tariff protection of industries in Liberia was high with large vari-
ations among individual industries. Tariffs have since been revised and
fall into these categories: 75% on luxury goods, 40% on other consumer
goods, 11% on raw materials and 5% ott capital goods. Under the Incentive
Code, additional tariff protection maey be granted to approved projects.
The additional tariff is at least 5% and may be as high as 25%. In some
cases quantitative restrictions have also been imposed.
2.14      The Secretariat lacks objec(tive criteria on which to base its
recommendations for additional tariff' protection. In theory, the ex-factory
price for goods produced by projects must be lower than the international
price of comparable goods to qualify for incentives. Tariff protection is
supposed to be granted only to dissuade consumers from exercising their
preference for imported goods. In practice, however, the decision to grant
tariff protection and other incentives has often been made before the project
is in operation, based on data provided by the applying firm. With this
limited data, the Secretariat is unable to determine a realistic cost struc-
ture for the goods produced. Recent procedural changes have been made so that
the level of tariff protection is usually not determined until the enterprise
is in operation. In this way, the quality of the goods can be taken into
account.
2.15      Licensing and Price Controls.  All new industries must obtain a
license from the Ministry of Commerce, Industry and Transportation. The
licensing decision takes into account existing capacity in the particular
industry. To avoid inefficient and high cost production as a result of the
combination of licensing and tariff protection, the Government controls
prices of products that have obtained incentives. Price controls are
loosely administered, however, and rather ineffective as the prices are
normally determined on the basis of cost of production immediately after
start-up.
2.16      Industrial Free Zone.  As part of the Government's strategy to
promote export oriented processing and assembly in Liberia, it plans to
establish an industrial free zone which would offer exporters exemption on
import duties and taxes. Public investment of $6 million in land develop-
ment and infrastructure is planned with anticipated opening of the site in



-5-
1978. Industries that the Government hopes to attract include electronics,
textiles, and vehicle assembly. An extensive promotion campaign aimed at
foreign investors is being planned. The advantages that Liberia would
offer potential investors include associate membership in the European
Common Market, a favorable location, unrestricted capital flows, and a
plentiful supply of cheap, albeit unskilled, labor.
2.17      Liberian Development Corporation.  The Government's primary instru-
ment for promoting industrial projects is the Liberian Development Corpora-
tion (LDC). Set up in 1961 as an autonomous public corporation, LDC has
responsibility for identifying, promoting and establishing viable business
enterprises in Liberia. It can guarantee loans to Liberian enterprises
which would otherwise be unable to borrow. Staff and budgetary constraints
have limited LDC's effectiveness in issuing guarantees to small scale entre-
preneurs. Outstanding guarantees amount to only $200,000 and all but
$20,000 is to one firm. LDC was also conceived as the channel for Govern-
ment investment in the industrial sector but so far its impact has been
minimal. LDC's total assets of $1.5 million consists largely of three
equity investments and two loans. New management, installed in late 1975,
is attempting to overcome LDC's staff constraints with UNDP assistance and
is presently promoting a shoe factory, citrus canning factory and cassava
dehydration plant. Further improvements could be made by granting LDC
greater f;sal autonomy and by concentrating its efforts on priority areas.
The President of LBDI is a member of LDC's Board of Directors which promotes
coordination between LDC's promotional work and LBDI's financing activities.
2.18      Small-Scale Industries.  Little information is available on small-
scale industry in Liberia. The general impression is that small indigenous
enterprises are not as common as in other West African countries. Predominant
activities are carpentry, jewelry, tailoring and cement block making. Small-
scale entrepreneurs have received little Government support. In fact, busi-
ness registration fees discriminate against small businesses by charging a
flat fee of $100 per annum for sole proprietorships. Only those with assets
of less than $500 are exempt from the fees. Corporations, no matter how
large, pay annual fees of $200. There is a lack of Government sponsored
programs offering managerial and technical assistance and, furthermore,
indigenous entrepreneurs often have difficulties in obtaining credit since
most cannot meet the security requirements of financial institutions.
2.19      Appropriate technical assistance is required for the development
of small-scale industries in Liberia. LBDI has recently created a special
unit to provide assistance in accounting and business management to its small
borrowers but more general programs are also needed. In addition, small scale
entrepreneurs require greater access to credit facilities. Since the finan-
cial institutions are unwilling to rei:., their security requirements due to
the higher risks involved, a credit guarantee scheme is needed. LDC is
empowered to issue guarantees but due to its staff and financial constraints



-6-
so far has been unable to reach many entrepreneurs. Similarly, the National
Bank of Liberia is a young institution and lacks the experience and the admin-
istrative ability to do so. During negotiations, the Government expressed
general agreement with the above concerns and indicated it would welcome early
discussions with the Bank concerning the initiation of a study of credit
guarantee and technical assistance schemes for small scale enterprises.
The Agricultural Sector
2.20      Agriculture, including rubber, forestry and fishing, contributed
16% of GDP and about 23% of exports in 1974; it sustains the livelihood
of about three-quarters of the population. Liberia's main agricultural
products are rubber, oil palm, timber, coffee, cocoa and rice. The sector
consists of: (1) foreign owned concessions which are highly productive;
(2) Liberian owned commercial farms which have entered into rubber and oil
palm production as a result of the demonstration effect; and (3) traditional
farmers who account for 90% of agricultural holdings in Liberia. The tra-
ditional sector is largely outside the monetized economy and produces mostly
subsistence crops such as rice and cassava and some cash crops such as coffee,
cocoa and sugar cane.  The Government has recently initiated programs to
improve the productivity of the sector as well as to increase incomes in
the rural areas. The Upper Lofa County Agricultural Development Project,
cosponsored by IDA and USAID, is the first of such projects planned for
Liberia.
2.21      Forestry.  The exploitation of Liberia's timber reserves has pro-
gressed at a fast pace from less than $1 million in value added in the mid-
1960's to almost $10 million in 1973. There are 45 forestry concessions
covering nine million acres of land. Only half of the concessions are active.
Most timber output, particularly primary species, is exported to Europe as
round logs. The Government, in a move to increase the value-added in timber
exports, has set minimum local processing requirements. Although the con-
cessions have not been able to meet the levels set by the Government, the
move has promoted several new investments in sawmill facilities for process-
ing secondary species. A plywood plant has recently been established and
some concessions have plans to expand into veneer, wood panelling, and pre-
fabricated housing. Other possibilities include pulp and paper. In an
effort to stimulate competition and to have better control over transfer
pricing, the Government intends to set up a forestry authority to handle
marketing operations.
2.22      Agricultural Credit.  Liberia has not been successful in creating
an institutional source of credit particularly for traditional farmers.
The Government owned Agricultural Credit Corporation, established in 1957,
ceased operations in 1963 due to heavy financial losses. Since then,
limited credit facilities have been offered through the Credit Division
in the Agricultural Ministry, the cooperatives and credit unions. LBDI's
financial support has largely been directed towards commercial farmers
although small farmers have received financing provided they were able
to meet LBDI's security requirements. The Lofa County project includes
a revolving credit fund to be administered by LBDI in conjunction with
local cooperatives. LBDI will also offer general banking services in



-7-
the area. Recognizing the need for continued agricultural credit facilities,
the Government is considering establishing an agricultural credit institution
which will primarily lend through cooperatives. The new institution would
lend to small farmers who lack adequate security and need supervised credit
while LBDI will continue to finance commercial farms and forestry projects.
Investment Prospects
2.23      The general outlook for investment in Liberia points to more rapid
expansion than was experienced in the late 1960's and the early 1970's. Three
major developments in the iron ore sector, involving investments of over $1
billion, may be realized within the next few years. The investment would
double Liberia's production of iron ore by mid-1980. These investments will
have spill-over effects into other areas of the economy, especially the con-
struction industry. The mining sector has few long-term growth prospects
and, as a result, Liberia must look to future development along broadly
based sectoral lines and in areas that offer greater opportunity for
Liberian participation.
2.24      The best opportunities for such development are in rubber and
wood processing, ar' agro-based and other export oriented industries. Liberia
has great potential for wood product industries including veneer, plywood,
furniture, flooring, panels, and prefabricated housing. Potential industries
based on rubber production include the manufacture of rubber shoes, industrial
components and latex products such as gloves and bottles. Manufacturing
industries have suffered due to the small size of the domestic market and
low per capita incomes but the market will increase as a result of the recently
created customs union with neighboring Sierra Leone. Small-scale entrepreneurs
can develop import substitution industries on an efficient scale with the addi-
tional benefit of promoting Liberian management and technical skills. The
Government is keen to attract export oriented industries to the industrial
free zone although this may be a slow process.
The Financial System
2.25      Given Liberia's use of the US dollar as currency and its relatively
open economy, many financial transactions fall outside the domestic financial
system. The major rubber, mining and timber concessions as well as the large
domestic enterprises can deal directly with banking institutions in Europe
and the United States. As a result, the development of a domestic financial
system has been limited to essentially LBDI and the commercial banks, which
are often subsidiaries of major American banks. Liberia has no post office
saving bank and no pension fund for civil servants; the use of life insurance
is minimal. Past investment needs have been largely met from foreign sources,
resulting in little incentive to create the institutional framework needed
to mobilize domestic savings and to channel those savings into productive
investments. As Liberia attempts to reduce its dependency on the enclave
sectors, domestic resource mobilization will have increased importance.
In 1972 a Banking Commission, with IMF assistance, studied the financial
system and the Government has begun to take action on its recommendations.



-8-
2.26      National Bank of Liberia.  Prior to the establishment of the
National Bank of Liberia (NBL) in 1973, Liberia was without a central
monetary authority. Based on theb recommendations of the Banking Commission,
the central bank was formed with responsibility for overall banking super-
vision, clearing house operations, credit to the Government and banks, and
the supply of currency. Since it began operations in mid-1974, NBL has set
legal reserve requirements of 5% of deposits for the commercial banks, a
move which was intended primarily to generate resources for NBL; it has
undertaken a study of the cost of rural banking; and it routinely collects
statistics from the commercial banks. A review of the interest rate struc-
ture in Liberia is also underway.. At present, minimum interest rates have
been fixed at 5% on savings deposits and 6-1/2% on time deposits. The ceil-
ing on lending rates is set at 25% by the Usury Law.
2.27      Commercial Banks.  There are five active commercial banks in
Liberia, of which only the Bank cf Liberia is predominantly owned by
Liberians. Two banks, the Bank cf Liberia and Chase Manhattan, dominate
the system with over 70% of the total bank assets. As of November 1975,
total assets stood at $139 million including $79 million in outstanding
bank credit. Of this amount, 592 went to the trade and retail sector.
Agriculture, mainly the rubber concessions, received the next largest
share of bank lending with 19%. Manufacturing received only 1.2% while
personal loans accounted for 10%. It is estimated that as much as 60%
of corporate loans goes to foreign owned enterprises while most of personal
lending is for Liberians. Lending rates depend largely on the perceived
risk and range from 12% to 16% for corporate clients and up to 24% on per-
sonal loans. Commercial bank lending rarely goes beyond two or three
years although the maturity is not legally restricted. Some longer term
lending does take place for prime. customers.
2.28      The commercial banks have done little to mobilize domestic
savings. They have access to the international markets to supplement their
resources or to reinvest their surpluses. Bank facilities in the rural
areas are non-existent with the exception of the major concessions. Com-
mercial banks are extremely reluctant to incur the high cost of establishing
rural branches and have failed in their attempts to do so. Even within the
urban center of Monrovia, the tendency is to limit operations to corporate
clients or wealthy individuals by setting minimum deposit requirements. Only
one commercial bank concentrates on attracting savings deposits and making
personal loans.
2.29      National Savings and Housing Bank.  This bank (NSHB) is the first
financial institution, other than the National Bank of Liberia, which is
owned and controlled by the Government. Since it became operational in
December 1975, it has been able to attract over $100,000 in savings deposits
from small customers and hopes to have deposits of over $1 million by the
end of 1976. The primary purpose of NSHB is to mobilize the savings of
the large number of Liberians who are neglected by the commercial banks
and to channel those savings into residential mortgages. The commercial



- 9 -
banks have financed housing on a limited basis with maturities of not
more than five years. NSHB plans to provide mortgages up to 20 years
for amounts up to 60% of value or $30,000. The interest rate charged
will be about 14-15%.
2.30      As part of its campaign to mobilize savings, NSHB will offer 6%
on its savings deposits and require minimum deposits of only $25. It is
attempting to promote contractual savings plans for large groups of em-
ployees. The Government has extended its support to the new bank by
granting income tax exemption on interest from its investment certificates
and by authorizing NSHB to handle all public corporation accounts.  NSHB
plans to open two branches outside of Monrovia within the next year and
to expand further into rural areas later.
III. THE INSTITUTION
LBDI's Role
3.01      LBDI has emerged as the primary source of medium- and long-term
financing in Liberia especially for Liberian entrepreneurs. Under its
charter, LBDI's broad objectives are to finance productive enterprises in
manufacturing, agriculture, transportation, tourism and services.  It is
empowered to make loans, invest in equity capital, issue guarantees and
underwrite stock issues. LBDI's loan and equity portfolio of $7.6 million
is equivalent to about 35% of outstanding commercial bank credit other than
personal loans and loans to the mining and retail sectors.
Ownership
3.02      LBDI presently has an authorized share capital of $1 million
divided into Class 'A' shares (51%) and Class 'B' shares (49%). Class 'A'
shares are restricted to the Government, Liberian citizens and corporations,
and international institutions. There has been no substantive change in
LBDI's capital structure since its formation (see Basic Data): the Govern-
ment and IFC each hold about 25% of LBDI's share capital; local investors
hold 1%; and various foreign investors hold the balance.
3.03      An increase to $5 million in authorized share capital has been
approved and it is anticipated that paid-in share capital will increase
from $1 million to $3 million by mid-1977. A stock dividend of $250,000
out of retained earnings has been proposed for all existing shareholders
at the rate of one share for every existing four shares. Tentative sub-
scriptions from new shareholders amount to $706,800 while existing share-
holders have been asked to increase their holdings to meet the remaining
balance of $1,043,200. LBDI's proposed capital structure is presented in
Annex 1.



- 10 -
3.04   It is recommended that IFC participate in the increase in paid-in
share capital through an investment of up to $306,300 in the share capital
of LBDI. An investment of $306,300 would bring IFC's shareholding in
LBDI, after the stock dividend to be issued in conjunction with the capital
increase, up from $248,490 (representing 24.8% of existing share capital)
to $616,910 (representing 20.6% of share capital after the capital increase).
The Government and IFC would contintue to hold an equal number of shares and
would remain the two largest shareholders. IFC was not only instrumental
in the formation of LBDI, but has also invested considerable effort in
recent years in assisting the Company through IFC's representative on LBDI's
Board. IFC's representative has played an active role in providing tech-
nical assistance and advising management in the development of LBDI's
policies and operations. IFC's participation in the capital increase is
considered necessary to complete the capital increase successfully. More-
over, IFC's participation would pernit IFC to keep parity with the
Government in the shareholdings of LBDI and thereby help to maintain LBDI's
commercial character and IFC's role in assisting the company. Since LBDI
has good prospects and an important role to play in financing Liberian
development, continued active support by IFC is desirable. LBDI expects
the whole share issue to be subscribed. IFC's subscription would be con-
tingent on commitments for at least $1,300,000 of the proposed total of
$1,750,000 for new subscriptions.
Operating and Financial Policies
3.05      LBDI's Policy Statement presented in Annex 2 sets forth the general
guidelines that govern LBDI's operations. Investment projects are to be
selected on sound technical, financial and economic criteria. Financing
limits have been set which normally restrict LBDI's exposure in any single
enterprise to 30% of its net worth plus 5% of its subordinated debt. LBDI's
total equity investments are limited to LBDI's net worth and individual
equity investments will not exceed 10% of LBDI's net worth. Combined loan
and equity investments in a single enterprise will not normally exceed 50%
of the enterprise's total assets ancl LBDI's equity investment will normally
not exceed 25% of the firm's paid-in capital. Public sector projects can
be financed up to 30% of LBDI's total commitments at any point of time.
LBDI may not assume the foreign exchange risk on its borrowings; it is passed
on to the sub-borrowers.
3.06      LBDI's Board has recently approved two changes to its Policy
Statement that would allow it as an experimental measure for one year to:
(i) refinance existing assets and (iLi) finance permanent working capital
independent of the financing of fixed assets. The rationale behind permit-
ting the refinancing of existing assets is to enable LBDI to restructure
a firm's liabilities in cases where firms are encountering liquidity prob-
lems. At present, LBDI does finance permanent working capital in conjunction
with the financing of fixed assets. The amendment would allow it to do so
independently. The Board, in approving the changes, imposed strict conditions
as to the circumstances when such fiLnancing would be permitted. Such finan-
cing would undergo the same analysis as LBDI's routine financing with limits
as to the individual and aggregate amounts involved.



- 11 -
3.07      Financial Charges.  LBDI currently charges 11-1/2% on loans in-
cluding 1-1/2% service charge. It also charges a commitment fee of 1% on
the undrawn balance, a one-time commission fee of 1% of the approved amount
and an additional penal charge of 5% on outstanding balances in arrears by
more than three months.
3.08      LBDI's lending rate is 11-1/2%.  Commercial banks charge prime
borrowers 12-13% and other corporate clients up to 16% for maturities of
two to three years. The return on six-month time deposits is recently as
high as 11-1/2%. The rate of inflation in Liberia has been in the range
of 15-20% and is expected to decline to about 8% in the foreseeable future.
The cost of LBDI's resources has increased and will continue to increase
as LBDI expects to obtain the bulk of its resources from the Bank and commer-
cial sources over the next few years. In view of these conditions, LBDI
indicated during negotiations that it would undertake annual studies of its
lending rate and would consult the Bank on the criteria to be used in re-
viewing the rate. LBDI further indicated that the present lending rate of
11-1/2% would not be reduced without the prior approval of the Bank. This
restriction would not apply, however, to future concessionary loans which
carried conditions for lower lending rates for projects financed from such
loans.
3.09      Security Requirements.  LBDI normally takes first mortgage on the
enterprise's fixed assets and often requires collateral outside the projects.
It insists on a collateral of at least 150% of the loan amount and in many
cases has obtained collateral between 200% and 250%. LBDI requires this
level of security to ensure the sponsor's commitment to the project. It is
afraid that a relaxation of its security requirements would lead to ex-
cessive pressure from unqualified borrowers and is therefore reluctant to do
so. Greater flexibility in LBDI's security requirement, however, would in-
crease its financing of small-scale enterprises. Since a system of varying
collateral requirements especially for small-scale industry would be difficult
to put into practice, a practical alternative would be for the Government to
guarantee loans made by LBDI to viable small-scale enterprises. During
negotiations the Government agreed with the concerns of the Bank and indicated
it would welcome discussions with the Bank on a study of a credit guarantee
scheme.
Board, Executive Committee and Management
3.10      Board and Executive Committee.  Annex 3 gives a list of LBDI's
Board of Directors. The Board consists of eight members, three represent-
ing Liberian interests, one representing IFC and four representing foreign
shareholders. The Chairman of the Board is the Minister of Finance. The
Board takes an active interest in LBDI's affairs. It met five times in 1975.



- 12 -
3.11      The Board of Directors has delegated the power to approve projects
up to $150,000 to an Executive Committee. The Committee consists of five
members, the Board Chairman as ex-officio member and two representing each
class of shareholders. LBDI's President, who chairs the Committee, is a
non-voting member. The Executive Committee meets more frequently than the
full Board and discusses all matters prior to Board presentation. An affirm-
ative investment decision by the Board or the Committee requires a majority
vote.
3.12      Management.  LBDI's senior management consists of the President
and General Manager. The President, a Liberian national, has been with
LBDI since 1973 and has been instrumental in expanding LBDI's operations.
The position of General Manager is occupied by a well-qualified expatriate
who has been with LBDI since 1970. His contract expires in May 1976. LBDI's
former Projects Manager, who was expected to succeed the General Manager,
recently resigned to take up an important government position. LBDI does
not have another candidate for the position and the General Manager has
consented to remain with LBDI until a suitable Liberian replacement has
been found. The President has the power to approve investments up to $25,000
with a global limit of 10% of LBDI'Es aggregate approvals each year.
Organization and Staff
3.13      LBDI's organization and staff allocation is presented in Annex 4.
In addition to its senior management, LBDI's professional staff numbered 16
of whom 12 are Liberians. The remaining four are Peace Corps volunteers.
The basic organization consists of two departments - Projects and Comptrollers.
The Projects department has recently been divided into two units, one for
project appraisal and the other for project supervision. LBDI plans to re-
cruit a lawyer and an internal auditor.
3.14      Training and Development.  LBDI has good middle management.  Its
staff has suitable backgrounds in economics or accounting but lacks depth
of experience in project evaluation. The recruitment of three additional
analysts--with graduate training in business administration and some prior
experience with LBDI--will allow LBDI to upgrade the quality of its existing
Liberian staff. A program of staff development and training for the next
three to four year period has been proposed. It would entail the following:
(1) the training of four analysts at a management consulting firm or similar
institutions that offer courses in project appraisal techniques and analysis;
(2) graduate programs in business ad[ministration for four at universities
abroad; (3) appropriate courses and seminars and short term secondments to
other dfc's; and (4) hiring of consultants on short term assignments to
provide assistance in specialized technical areas. The latter would compen-
sate for cancellation of previously approved UNDP assistance. It is recom-
mended that a technical assistance component of $150,000 with the subcompon-
ents described above be included in the proposed loan to finance the foreign
cost of the program.



- 13 -
Procedures
3.15      Appraisal.  The general quality of LBDI's project appraisal has im-
proved considerably in recent years. A check list has been devised which
covers all important aspects of appraisal. To make the list more comprehen-
sive, it could be expanded to include procurement, environmental impact and
sensitivity analysis. Financial rate of return calculations are carried out
for projects involving LBDI financing of more than $25,000 and economic rate
of return for projects of more than $50,000. LBDI's processing time is
quite rapid. Project appraisal is normally completed in two to three months
and loans are usually committed shortly after approval. LBDI's appraisals,
however, often lack justification of the critical project assumptions; some-
times these assumptions appear not to have been given sufficient scrutiny.
This may reflect the staff's general lack of experience or the fact that LBDI
often becomes involved with projects late in the project cycle and has little
opportunity to affect project design. LBDI is trying to get involved earlier
in projects. This aspect of appraisal can be strengthened through relevant
training and the Bank's review of subprojects.
3.16      Follow-up and Client Assistance.  As the level of LBDI's opera-
tions expanded, it became increasingly difficult for analysts to devote
adequate attention to project supervision. At the same time, LBDI's
growing portfolio called for increased follow-up. LBDI has now established
a separate Follow-up and Client Assistance Unit in the Projects Department.
The unit consists of three professionals with exclusive responsibility for
project supervision. The title of the unit reflects LBDI's emphasis on
assistance to clients, particularly small entrepreneurs who may need
managerial assistance. Routine inspections are planned quarterly with
specific attention paid to problem projects. LBDI has little expertise
in follow-up and it is intended that part of the proposed training program
will focus on project supervision, primarily through secondment to dfc's
that have strong follow-up departments.
3.17      Other Procedures.  Procurement and disbursement procedures are
adequate. However, given LBDI's general lack of technical expertise, the
choice of equipment and supplier often receives little attention in project
appraisal. There is generally a good standard of accounting and internal
control. Some difficulties were encountered with one of the legal firms
retained by LBDI; a more satisfactory firm has since been retained and,
moreover, LBDI plans to recruit a lawyer to handle routine legal work.
3.18      Auditors.  LBDI retains the accounting firm Coopers and Lybrand
for its audit. Their work has been satisfactory showing an in depth know-
ledge of LBDI and many of its clients.



- 14 -
IV. RESOURCES, OPERAI'IONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
Resources
4.01      As of December 31, 1975, LBDI's long-term resources amounted to $14
million consisting of its paid-in share capital ($1 million), reserves and
retained earnings ($408,000) and long-term loans from the Government, KfW,
ADB and the World Bank ($12.5 million). The Government has provided LBDI
with two subordinated loans totalling $3 million in the form of redeemable
promissory notes. As of December 31, 1975, LBDI had redeemed or discounted
$1.6 million of the notes. A further loan of $500,000 was extended by the
Government to cover LBDI's commitment in a large Government sponsored hotel
project. The outstanding amount of the KfW loan is about $1 million. The
first line of credit from ADB for about $600,000 and the first Bank loan for
$1 million have been fully committed and disbursed. The second Bank loan for
$4 million and the second ADB line of credit for about $2.5 million are ex-
pected to be fully committed before the end of 1976. A summary of LBDI's
term borrowings appears in Annex 5.
4.02       LBDI has contracted short-term borrowings from the Government
and the National Bank of Liberia amounting to $2.0 million. A Government
deposit for $1 million at 7-i% is due in January 1978. The National Bank
of Liberia has made a series of six-month deposits with LBDI (the latest
maturing in December 1976 at 8-3/4%). In addition the Government has
placed in non-interest bearing trust with LBDI $100,000 for Lofa County pro-
jects. As of December 1975, these deposits were matched with LBDI's cash
and short-term deposits of $2.4 million. LBDI has obtained positive spreads
on its reinvestments.
Operations
4.03      LBDI's operations have increased rapidly in recent years.  It had
been slow to build up its level of operations until 1973 when the present
management was installed. In that year, LBDI finally surpassed its targeted
goal of $1 million in annual approvals mainly due to the aggressive new
management installed in 1973. LBDI achieved a record level of operations
of $4.8 million in 1974 when approvals, commitments and disbursements were
higher than for the six previous years taken together. Loan and equity ap-
provals slowed somewhat in 1975 when 42 loans and two equity investments
totalling just over $3 million were approved. Three guarantees for about $2
million were also approved in 1975. A summary of LBDI's past operations ap-
pears in Annex 6.
Focus of Lending
4.04      An analysis of loans approved by LBDI in 1974 and 1975 is presented
in Annex 7. In general, LBDI's financing activities have been in support of
relatively small Liberian sponsored enterprises. More than 50% of LBDI's
approvals (by number) are for loans of less than $10,000; the median loan
size is $10,000 while the average size is $79,000. Medium and large scale



- 15 -
projects (involving loans of more than $100,000) account for the bulk of
LBDI's lending (79%). The maturity distribution indicates that smaller loans
are usually medium-term (less than five years) whereas larger loans generally
have terms of five to ten years. The weighted average maturity is six years.
Expansions of on-going enterprises accounted for 72% of the amount approved.
About 80% of the projects are Liberian controlled. This is in sharp contrast
to the general pattern of industrial ownership and the lending pattern of
other financial institutions in Liberia. Over half of the projects and 42% of
the amount involved rubber production, timber and wood processing and other
agri-business (including poultry, cocoa, coffee, sugar cane and rice). The
share to manufacturing is relatively small (15% of number and 23% of amount).
The category of "Other services" which includes a variety of services such as
retail trade, restaurants, transportation, bakeries, tailoring and garages,
accounts for the largest single number of projects.
4.05      LBDI appears to have made sound investment decisions.  For those
projects where internal rates of return have been calculated, the financial
rate of return has averaged 32% and the economic rate of return 35%. Expected
employment creation by projects receiving financing is substantial. Over 3,000
jobs were anticipated at an average investment per job of only $2,500, reflect-
ing the labour intensity of rubber and forestry projects. LBDI accounts for
a large share of project financing, averaging 72% of total project cost. This
is due primarily to the number of expansion projects financed by LBDI and the
unique position LBDI holds with respect to long-term financing of local entre-
preneurs. Another reason is that, in the case of small borrowers, LBDI is
willing to finance a substantial share of the cost of new projects, if security
outside the project can be obtained; this device is popular with small new
borrowers.
Portfolio
4.06      As of December 31, 1975, LBDI's loan and equity portfolio comprised
130 loans totalling $7.1 million and 9 equity investments for $500,000.
Annex 8 presents a list of LBDI's equity investments. Two of LBDI's equity
investments made profits in their last fiscal years; most of its investments
are in their initial stages of operations and it is no surprise that these
investments are not yet operating profitably. Provisions amounting to $47,000
have been set aside for probable losses in two investments, one of which has
ceased operations and the other is beginning to recover. LBDI's present policy
with respect to equity investments is to try to obtain cumulative preferred
shares yielding the same rate as its lending rate. Six of LBDI's equity in-
vestments are in this form. Dividend income from investments amounted to
$62,000 in 1975. Only one investment actually paid dividents of $26,000 in
1975. The balance was accrued on the basis of the cumulative preferred shares
held by LBDI. The auditor has noted this practice in his review of LBDI's
1975 accounts.



- 16 -
4.07      LBDI's loan portfolio at the end of 1975 amounted to $7.1 million,
an increase of $3.3 million over the previous year. Despite this rapid expan-
sion, the quality of the portfolio remains sound. Only 5.5% of the total loan
portfolio by amount was affected by arrears of more than three months as com-
pared to 5.0% at the end of 1974 and 10% in 1973. One third of the outstand-
ing projects, however, are affected by arrears. The majority are small loans
since the average size of loan affected by arrears of more than three months
is $12,000. This highlights the need for close supervision of LBDI's small
loans.  Legal action is pending on half of those projects while provisions for
probable losses have been made against five loans based on a case by case
analysis of LBDI's portfolio. Provisions against loans as of December 31,
1975 were $125,000 or about 2% of the outstanding loan portfolio and those
against equity investments amounted to $47,000 or over 9% of the outstanding
equity investments.
Financial Condition and Results
4.08      LBDI's income statements from 1972 to 1975 appear in Annex 9.  Until
1974, the company showed minimal profits and suffered substantial foreign ex-
change losses. In 1974, net profits amounted to $81,000 and enabled LBDI to
declare its first dividend. Net profits in 1975 increased considerably to
$302,000 or about 23% of average net worth. A dividend of 6-1/2% has been de-
clared for 1975. The increase in net profits has been the result of the com-
pany's expanded level of operations and its increased lending terms which com-
pensated for its higher cost of debt. As shown in Annex 10, gross income
amounted to 10.3% of average total assets while financial expenses were 4.1%.
Administrative expenses amounted to 2.5% of average total assets.
4.09      LBDI's financial condition is sound.  Balance sheets for the years
1972 to 1975 are shown in Annex 11. Total assets rose to $12 million by the
end of 1975, an increase of $4.1 million over the previous year. The growth
was largely due to increases of $3.3 million in loan and equity investments.
LBDI's long-term debt showed a corresponding increase of $2.9 million to $8.3
million.
4.10      LBDI has been successful in eliminating the exchange risk on its
borrowings from KfW. However, because LBDI can make some revolving use of
its borrowings from the African Development Bank, 1/ the related foreign
exchange risks could be unduly high. During negotiations LBDI explained that
it was minimizing this foreign exchange risk by passing the exchange risk on
to the sub-borrowers with the revolving funds and planning the composite of
the amortization schedules of all tlhe subloans financed from the ADB revolving
funds to conform as closely as possible to the fixed payment schedule for the
ADB loan. This procedure is satisfactory to the Bank.
1/   The two ADB loans are repayble in 24 equal semi-annual installments,
the first commencing on July 1, 1975 and the second on January 1, 1978.



- 17 -
4.11      7rovisions and accumulated reserves appear adequate, amouLA-ing to
1.4% and 3.4% respectively of total assets.  LBDI's charter limits its long-
term debt to three times net worth plus subordinated debt. This ratio stood
at 1.7:1 at the end of 1975. According to the second loan agreement between
the Bank and LBDI, long-term debt is limited to seven times net worth, where
debt includes guarantees but excludes unredeemed or undiscounted portions of
Government debt. At the end of 1975, only $1.6 million of the Government
loans was disbursed resulting in a debt/equity ratio of 6.3:1. LBDI has taken
ste,ps to iLcrease its equity base substantially.
4.12      The terms and conditions of LBDI's borrowing from the Government
of $500,000 associated with the Government sponsored hotel project have not
been formally agreed to by the Government and LBDI. During negotiations,
LBDI indicated that agreement would be reached with the Government on the
terms and conditions of this borrowing by April 30, 1977.
V. PROSPECTS
LBDI's Strategy
5.0Ji     The general business outlook in Liberia is favourable.  Investors,
both foreign and domestic, continue to show confidence in Government invest-
ment policies. The new developments in the iron ore sector will provide a
major impetus to the economy over the next several years with spill over ef-
fect into other sectors. Areas where most future industrial expansion may be
expected are wood processing, rubber processing, agro-based industries and
other export oriented industries. While opportunities for new import substi-
tution industries have declined, the Government hopes to give new impetus to
industrial development through its encouragement of export industries.
5.02      Given this investment climate, LBDI can expect further growth in
its level of operations. Following the trend set in its operations in 1975,
forestry and wood processing projects will account for an increasing amount
of LBDI's future financing. In line with its multi-sectoral approach, LBDI's
financing will continue Lo support investments in agri-business, manufacturing
and service sectors, especially where Liberian entrepreneurs are involved.
5.03      LBDI has begun assisting the construction industry by providing per-
formance guarantees for three construction firms totalling $2 million in 1975.
The demand for such guarantees will increase as Liberian firms gain experience
and increase their capacity and competence to bid for construction contracts.
Given the substantial investments expected in the mining sector, the overall
volume of construction work is also expected to increase. LBDI is considering
special assistance to this industry by initiating arrangements which would pro-
vide leasing facilities or co-financing of construction equipment as well as
continued support in the form of guarantees.



- 18
5.04      The promotion of a capital market in Liberia is a key objective for
LBDI. It plans to underwrite new issues on a best efforts basis and plans to
divest its equity investments to the Liberian public as those investments
mature. LBDI intends to encourage greater participation by Liberians in pro-
ductive enterprises by ensuring that a nominal portion of the equity of foreign
owned firms receiving financing from LBDI is made available to the Liberian
public.
5.05      LBDI's efforts over the next few years will also turn to strengthen-
ing its organization and staff.  Several new recruits are anticipated in 1976;
this will allow LBDI to undertake a program of development and training for
its existing Liberian staff members. LBDI's future recruitment plans include
an in-house lawyer and an internal auditor.
5.06      By creating a follow-up and client assistance unit LBDI hopes to
strenghten portfolio supervision and also to provide technical and managerial
assistance to its clients, particularly, small scale entrepreneurs. It is
expected that, while this program will be small initially, it can concentrate
on the most difficult cases and provide the necessary feedback to improve
project operations.
5.07      Moreover, if satisfactory guarantee arrangements are provided by
the Government for a small enterprises financing program, LBDI is likely to
increase further its substantial level of operations in that area.
Forecast Operations
5.08      At the end of January 1975, LBDI had a project pipeline requiring
some $4 million in financing from LBDI. Annex 12 shows the projects requiring
LBDI financing in excess of $100,000. They require a total of $3.7 million and
include about ten major investments in transportation,manufacturing and agro-
industries including two timber and wood processing projects. In addition
there were numerous small scale projects mainly in the service sector and
agriculture. Typical service projects include retailing, garages, bakeries,
and restaurants while small agricultural projects are generally for cultiva-
tion of oil palm, cocoa, rice, sugar cane and rubber.
5.09      LBDI's financial projections and the assumptions behind them appear
in Annexes 13 to 18. Annex 10 shows selected financial ratios. LBDI expects
to approve at least $4 million in loans and $200,000 in equity investments
in 1976.  Targets for loan approvals increase by $1 million each year there-
after while approvals of new equity investments are expected to remain con-
stant at $200,000 each year (see Annex 14). These levels appear reasonable;
however, given the size of LBDI's present pipeline, the potential demand for
financing in the construction industry, and the magnitude of investment
required in individual wood and iubber processing projects, the demand
for LBDI's financing could exceed the projected levels.



- 19 -
5.10      Subloan iraturities are expected to range between 2 and 15 years with
an average of six years including two years of grace. Rubber projects, where
a protracted period is required before reaching commercial production, in
particular require longer maturities. A small portion of LBDI's loans (10%)
are to have maturities averaging four years including six months grace. This
is comparable to LBDI's experience in 1975 when average loan maturity was 5.8
years including 1.5 years of grace.
Resource Requirements
5.11      During the three and one-half year period, from 1976 to mid-1979,
LBDI expects to commit loans and equity investments totalling about $17.2 mil-
lion.  Loan commitments alone would amount to $16.5 million of which 70% or
about $11.6 million would be for financing imports. As of December 31, 1975,
LBDI had $3.6 million in uncommitted foreign resources remaining from the
second lines of credit from ADB and the Bank. The resulting foreign resource
gap stands at $8 million as shown in Annex 15.
5.12      Besides the Bank, LBDI has approached various external sources in-
cluding ADB and ABEDIA to finance LBDI's foreign resource gap. It also hopes
to be able to raise lntnds on the commercial market mainly for its refinancing
and workin   apiLal financing operations if and when these generate substantial
resource needs. Institutions like ADB and ABEDIA, however, are not ready to
provide fuinds to LBDI at this time and LBDI has not been able to obtain com-
mitments from any other institutions. As a result, LBDI has asked that the
Bank meet the full foreign resource gap. The door to other sources, however,
is still open and, to encourage LBDI to pursue other sources of finance,
it is recommended that the Bank finance not more than 85% of LBDI's foreign
resource gap. A Bank loan of $7 million including the technical assistance
component of $150,000 is therefore recommended to cover part of LBDI's foreign
resource needs up to mid-1979.
5.13      During the forecast period, LBDI's need for local resources will
amount to $0.7 million for equity investments and $4.9 million tor loan com-
mitments. At present, LBDI has local resources of about $160,000. This,
together with the expected increase in equity, redemption of Government notes,
and internally generated funds including loan collections, will adequately
satisfy LBDI's requiremwents to finance local expenditures.  Uncommitted local
resources will gradually increase to $2.2 million during the period. Based on
these projections, there is no need for local expenditure financing out of the
proposed Bank loan.
Projected Financial Results
5.14      LBDI's projected income statements are shown in Annex 16.  LBDI's
profits are expected to increase from $320,000 in 1976 to $850,000 in 1980.
Taking into account the proposed increase in share capital expected by 1977,
profits in 1980 would amount to 28% of share capital or 18% of average net worth.



- 20 -
Despite the anticipated higher cost of debt, LBDI will be able to maintain ade-
quate spread on its lending operations. Gross income will redch 11.4% of aver-
age total assets by 1980. LBDI's administrative expenses, which are expected
to increase substantially in 1976 as the result of additional hirings, will
gradually decline as a proportion of average assets to 1.9% in 1980. LBDI
expects to increase its dividend rate from 6-1/2% at present to 8-1/2% by 1980.
Since LBDI's expected profitability would permit a still higher dividend, LBDI
will consider raising the dividencd rate even more.
5.15      Balance sheet projectiorns are given in Annex 17.  Over the five year
period, LBDI's total assets would rise to about $28 million with the loan and
equity portfolio increasing to close to $23 million. The expected capital
increase plus retained earnings will be adequate to maintain an appropriate
debt/equity ratio until 1980. LBDI's accumulated cash balances as shown in
Annex 18 will increase to over $5 million, indicating that LBDI should not
encounter any liquidity problems during the forecast period. Provisions as
a percentage of total portfolio will rise to 3% by 1980, an adequate level
given LBDI's normal security coverage. Annex 10 indicates that LBDI's coverage
on interest and principal payments will remain at a satisfactory level. With
expected maturities on borrowings at least as long as LBDI's subloans, debt
service coverage should be adequate throughout the life of the proposed Bank
loan.
VI.  CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      LBDI is the primary source of development financing in Liberia
especially for Liberian entrepreneurs.  Its operations h-,ave increased drama-
tically since the first Bank loan was approved in 1972. It has good manage-
ment, a sound portfolio and financiial condition and is making serious efforts
to strengthen its staff. LBDI deserves the continued financial and institu-
tional support of the Bank Group and a third Bank loan and a second IFC' invest-
ment are recommended.  Based upon present projections, a loan of $7 million
would meet 85% of LBDI's additional foreign resource needs during t['e period
1977 to mid-1979. The high percentage is justified in view of LBDI's present
diffictulties in obtaining foreign funds from other sources but LBDI is actively
pursuing other sources of financing. It is recommended that $150,000 of the
proposed loan be made available to provide technical assistance and fellowships
for suitable training and development of LBDI's Liberian staff (para 3.14).
An IFC investment of up to $306,300 is also recommended as part of the antici-
pated $2 million increase in LBDI's paid-in share capital (para 3.04). This
investment would help to maintain LBDI's commercial character and IFC's role
in assisting the Company.
6.02      Terms and conditions of the proposed Bank loan should be those
generally applied to recent Bank loans to development finance companies.
The foreign exchange risk would be taken by sub--borrowers. The amortization
schedule of the loan should be the aggregate of the amortization schedules of



- 21 -
LBDI's sub-loans with a maximum maturity of 15 years from date of approval by
IBRD of the last individual sub-project. The technical assistance component
would be amortized according to a fixed schedule over a 15-year period. Loan
proceeds will meet (i) the foreign exchange cost of directly imported goods
and services, (ii) 75% of the invoice price of goods previously imported into
Liberia, (iii) 60% of total expenditures for civil works, representing the
foreign exchange component, and (iv) 100% of the foreign expenditures for
consultants and fellowships for training LBDI's staff.
6.03      The free limit on individual sub-projects should be raised from
$100,000 to $150,000 to coincide with the limit on approvals by LBDI's Executive
Committee and in light of the improvements made in LBDI's appraisal work. The
aggregate free limit should be increased from $1 million to $2 million. These
limits will allow the Bank to review about 15% of the number of projects to be
financed by LBDI under the proposed loan and at least 70% of the amount.
6.04      During negotiations the Government indicated that it would welcome
early discussions with the Bank concerning the initiation of a study of credit
guarantee and technical assistance schemes for small scale enterprises (paras.
2.19 and 3.09); and LBDI indicated that it (1) would undertake in consultation
with the B.,II.. studies of its lending rate on an annual basis, (2) would not re-
duce the present lending rate of 11-1/2% without the prior approval of the Bank,
with the exception of future concessionary loans which carried restrictions for
lower lendina rates for nroiects financed from such loans (Para 3.08) and
(3) would reach agreement with the Government by April 30, 1977 on the terms
and conditions of the $500,000 borrowing from Government (para. 4.12.)
6.05      During negotiations LBDI also presented its proposals for minimizing
the foreign exchange risk associated with the loan from the African Developihent
Bank, and these proposals were satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.10).






ANNEX 1
LIBERIAN BANK FOR DEVELOPMENT ANT) INVESTMENT
Proposed Capital Structure
(As of June 30, 1976)
Existing       Stock          New Subs-               V       %
Holding       Dividend       criptions         Total-      Holding
(US $ '000)
Class 'A'
GOT                            248.5          62.1           306.3             616.9         20.6
IFC                            248.5          62.1           306.3             616.9         20.6
PrLvate Liberians               13.0           3.3           -                  16.3          065
LAXCO A                                       __C            250.0             250.0          8
Subtotal                       510.0          127.5          862.6          1,500.1          50.0
C 1aS  !B?
LAY1C )                         25.0            6.2                             31.2          1.0
international Trust            125.0           31.2            93.8           250.0           823
First National City Bank       120.0           30.0           61.3             211.3          7.0
Instituto Mobilia-'e
Italiano                  120.0            30.0          _150.0                          5.0
Firestone                       50.0           12-5          _                  62.5          2.1
Liberia Mining Co.              50.0           12.5           2.5-*             88.0          2.9
DE 23                          -              -              250.0*            250.0           .)4
Bong Mines                     -              -              200.0             200.0          6.7
Chei,iial. Bank and Bank of
Liberia                    -              -              250.0*           250.0          8.3
0ther possibilities            -              -                6.8*              6.8          0.3
Subtotal                       490.0          122.4          887.4          1,499.9          50.0
Total                        1,000.0          250.0        1,750.0          3,000.0         100.0
1/ Subtotals do not addl due to rounding..
No firm commitments as of June 30, 1976
IBRD/DF'D



ANNEX 2
page I of 4
LIBERIAN BANK FOR DEVElOPMENT AND  NVEST3MENT
Policy Statement
(As of March 31, 1976)
The Liberian Bank for Development and Investment (LBDI) will carry
on its business -n accordance with the following policies which have been
adopted by the Board of a-rectors.
1. Purposes and Types of A2tivty
LBD- shall assist in the economic development of LIberia. To this end
it Trill encourage the development of private productive enterprises in
the country 'oy providing medium and long term loans (up to a maximum of
fifteea years) and equity financLng. It may also sponsor and underwrite
new issues of securities and guarantee loans and commitments of other
investors.   Subject to detailed guidelines to be issued by the Board
:rom time to time, LBDI nay engage in refinancing and 'inancing of perma-
nent working capital in conjunction with the types of financing mentioned
above, as well as separately where such financing or refinancing will
re.ult ln better utilization of existing productive assets or in increases
in output.
Enterprises eligible for financing by LBDI include projects in fields
such as Manufacture (including Handicrafts), Agriculture, (including life
stock) Mining, Fishery, Forestry, Tourism (including Hotel Industry) and
Services.
2. Dtversification of Financing:
LBDI will diversify its financing (except for the temporary investment
Df liquid funds in short term securities) among different types of enter-
prises and types of financing.  Therefore it shall,in general, observe the
following guideline-:
(a)  Security will be taken commensurate with its risk exposure.  In
particular, in cases where it is in LBD-'s interests to take an exposure
Li an imdi ridual enterprise that is equivalent to more than the Combined
amou!nt representing 30% of net worth and 5% of quasi-equity, special care
x11 be taken to adjust its securitv requiremenrt to ens-are adequate protec-
tion aga_nst the maonitude of risk involved. Investment in the equity,
of any single enterprise Ehall not exceed 10% of LBDI's paid-in share
capital and free reserve,.  The aggregate -va'ie of all investments, computed
at cost, in the equi ty of all enterprises shall, at no time, ex.eed the
aggregate of the paid-in share ca;pital and free reserves of LBDI.



ANNEX 2
page 2 of 4
(b) Invrestment in the form of both loan and equity by LBDI shall
normally not exceed 50% of the total assets of the enterprise. In the
form of equity alone LBDI's participation shall not exceed 25% of the
equity of the enterprise.   Notwithstanding the above, for the purpose
of supporting small enterprises, LBDI may in the case of each such
enterprise with total assets of $50,00 or less, provide a larger propor-
tion of loan finance, if the client is able to provide additional security
(inciuding 3rd party guarantee and/or other assets external to the project)
acceptable to LBDI .
3. Definition of Private Enterprise:
LBDT shall finance only Private En;erprises.
A nominal share participation in, or the loan of money to any commer-
cial enterprise by the Government of Liberia or of a county, or any
political sub-division thereof (whether direct or indirect) shall not by
itself be deemed to remove such enterprise from the private sector, so
long as such enterprise is privately operated and managed.
Aoy enterprise, in which the Government of Liberia or any political
sub-division thereof has a controlling interest, shall not by itself be
deemed a public enterprise and removed from the private sector, and such
enterprise may obtain financing Crom the Bank so long as it is commer-
cially operated, preferably under private management, and the aggregate
amount of the Bank's financing of such enterprise does not at any time
exceed thirty (30%) per cent of the aggregate of the Bank's total cumula-
tive commitments at the time of such financing.
4.  Collateral Requirements
(a) LBDI will, normally and as a general rule take a first mortgage
on the present and future fixed assets, and chattel mortgage on the
present and future movable assets of the enterprise financed.
(b) If the mortgage and chattel mortgage described in (a) were not
sufficient to give adequate protection against LBDI's risk, then a
charge on other fixed and/or movable property of the applicant or
additiona'  :ollateral will be requested.
(c) In special situations when circumstances warranted it, LBDI will
seek assignment of all or any of the followirg types of security:
(i) A legal assignment of income or of book - debts; or of an
insiz-Ance policy covering the life of the borrower, or
(ii)  A guarantee by an acceptable financial institution or
third party.



MJNEX 2
page 3 of 4
(d) LBDI will be willing to share its security with other creditors
if:
(i)  The security leaves enough margin for LBDI 6o do so, and
(ii) Sharing by LBDI of its security with other creditors is
in the interest of the borrower.
LBDI's policy is to take security commensurate with its risk expo-
sure. If such exposure in a particular enterprise is considered to be
relatively high in relation to LBDI's own net worth, then the security
requirement will naturally need to be so adjusted as to ensure that
adequate protection is available against the magnitude of risk involved.
5.  Management of Enterprises:
LBDI shall refrain from taking a controlling interest in any enter-
prise or any other interest which would give it primary responsibility
for the management of such enterprises.
6. Promotion of Capital Market:
LBDI shall conduct its operations so as to assist in the investment of
both private Liberian and foreign capital in Liberian industry.  In order
to encourage the development of El capital market, it will revolve its own
por-tfolio whenever it can be so on satisfactory terms.
7.  Soundness of Ent  rises to be Financed:
LBDI iill finance undertakings which are soundly managed and which
appear, on careful investigation, to be economically viable. It will
watch the operations of such undertakings and will give technical
assistance to management when necessary.
8.  Geographi3al Distribution of Financing:
LBDI w11 select projects, subject to sound investment criteria, on
as broad a geographical basis as possible.
9.  LBD7's awn Management and S;aff:
LBDI dill build and strengthen its own management and staff so as to
achieve a well balanced organization, including financial and economic
analysis, technical, accountancy and -LegaL services, and supervision of
previously concluded investnents.
10. Prevention of Control:
LBDI will prevent any one person or company or group of affiliated
persons or companies from gai-iing effective control of the organization.



ANNEX 2
page '  or 4
I'.  Non-competition wTith Commercial Banks
LBD7 shall not accept deposits nor compete with commercial banks
in its loaning activities.
12. Reserve Policv:
LBDI will buil. reserves consistent with sound financial practice,
incl>iding -eserves for bad debts and investments and supplementary
reserves.
13.  ForeLon Exchan!e Risk:
LBDI shall not assume the foreign exchange risk in respect of re-
lending of any non-Liberian monies borrowed by it.



ANNEX3
LIBERIAN BANK FOR DEVELOPMENT AND INVESTMENT
Board of Directors
(As of March 15, 1976)
Class of
Name                              Interest                              Shares
Mr. James Phillips (Chairman)*   Goverrnment of Liberia                        A
Mr. Frank Stewart *               Government of Liberia                        A
Mr. P.M. Mathew                   Irnternational Finance Corporation           A
Vacant *                          Private Liberian Shareholder                 A
Mr. M. Bissi                      Inistituto Mobiliare Italiano                B
Mir. A. Baisden *                 International Trust Company                  B
Mr. J.P. Carmichael *             Firestone Plantations Company                B
Mr. T. Beames                     First National City Bank of Liberia          B
Also member of the Executive Committee.



ANNEx 4
LIBERIAN BANK FOR DEVELOPMENT AND INVESTMENT
Organization Chart
(As of January 31,1976)
Board of Directors
Chairman J. Phillips
Excutive Committee
Chairman E. Saleeby
Presi dent     -
|      E. Saleeby
General Manager    l
R. Chellapah
Projects Manager                             Comptroller
P. Kutu-Akoi            .M. Titus                        ,
Follow-up and          Project            Loan       Disburse-    Accounts
Client            Appraisal         Collection        ment    2 officers
Assistance           6 analysts        2 officers   1 officer
analysts
Professional Staff      16
Non-professionals       11
Total Staff      27
IBRD/DFCD
April 20, 1976



ANNEX 5
LIBERIAN BANK 'FOR DEVELOPMENT AND INVESTMENT
Summary of Borrowings
(ias of December 31,1975)
Original       Amount         Interest      Repayment
Source                 Amount      Outstanding        Rate         Period
$'10C)0        $'000
Foreign:     KfW                   1,056           1,056             4-1/2%       1984/94
IBRD I               1,000             944             7-1/4%       1975/901/
ADB I                   603             552            7%           1975/871J
IBRD I1?./            4,000          1,080             8%           1976/90V
ADB II 2/             22h13          1,126              7%          1978/19
Local:       Government I          1,000             800             -            1982/921/
Government II         2,000             800            5%           1993/983/
Government III          500             500             -             4/
LAMCO                    50              50            2%
I/  Conforming to aggregate repayment ,chedule of sub-loans financed out of line
of credit.
/ Includes up to $500,000 for local currency financing.
3   9ubordinated to other debt.
Repayment in accordance to project for which funds were used.
5/ No repayment schedule, convertible into equity.
IBRD/DFCD
April 20, 1976



ANNEX 6
LIBERIAN BANK FOR DEVELOPMENT AND
INVESTMENT
Summary of Operations
(as of December 31, 1975)
Loans               Equity              Total
No.        Amount     No.        Amount    No.     Amount
(US$'000)             (Us$'OOO)
1967-1972  Approvals           69          2,653      5            234     55      2,887
Commitments         50         1,391       5           234      55    *1,625
Disbursements       57         2,177       5           168      62      2,345
1973       Approvals           34          1,216      3            111     37      1,327
Commitments         38            885      2            51     40         936
Disbursements       36           476       0             0     36         476
1974       Approvals           53          4,523      4            270     57      4,793
Co mitments         49          3,120      4           270      53      3,390
Disbursements       47         2,447       5           297     52       2,744
1975       AppZ'ovals          42          3,000      2             72     44      3,072
Commitments         38          3,726      1            30      39      3,756
Disbursements       53         3,894       2            65      55      3,959
1967-1975  Approvals          198          9,989     14            688    212     10,677
Commitments        175          9,122     12           586    187       9,707
Disbursements      193          8,994     12           530    205      .9,524
IBRD/D?CD



ANNEX 7
LIBERIAN BANK FOR DEVELOPMENT AND INVESTMENT
Analysis of Loaoa Approvals 1974 and 1975
(In Us  '000)
Size                                   No.          %           Amounts         %
$ 5,000 or less                       19           20              56          1
$ 5,001 to $ 10,000                   34           36             282          4
$10,001 to $ 50,000                   13           14             313          4
$50,001 to $100,000                   11           11             914         12
Over $ 100,000                        18           19           5,958         79
Total                 97           100           7T523        100.
^.verage size .$ 79,000
Median size  $  10,000
Maturity (including grace period)
Under two years                        5             5              25         -
Two to five years                     60            63           2,618        35
five to ten years                     27            29           3,871     t 52
over ten years                         3             3           1V009        13
Total                --7            100             7         10
^eighted average 6 years
Type of Project
New                                   24            25           2,075        28.
Modernization/Expansion               71            75           5;,4L8       72
Total                -y                          7,523       : 5
Ownership
100  Liberian                         6,9           73
More than 50^' Liberian                6             8           2,676        36
Less than 50  Liberian                JI            19           2 927        39
Total               75            175100
Economic Activity
Agri-business                         20            21             46E         6
Rubber Production                     22            23             995        13
Timber and wood processing             6             6           1,714        23
Hotels                                 6             6           1,47L        20
Other Services                        27            29           1,164        15
Manufacturing                         14            15           1 706        23
Total               9>           100                       100
IBRD/DFCD
April 20, 1976



LIBERIAN BANK FOR DEVELOPMENT AND INVESTMENT
LBDI's Equity Investments as at December 31, 1975
LBDI's
Percen-
Type       Amount        Amount         tage         Pro-
Economic          of        Approved      Disbursed      Share-       vi-
NAME OF COMPANY   Activity         Shares        $              $           holding      sions      Remarks
Liberia Port      Warehousing    Ordinary    131,860         76,016         44%           -         After initial losses this
Storage Co.        Services                                                                         company is now making
profits.
West African       Oil Palm        Ordinary      50,000      49,250          4%           15,000    Affected by drought in
Agricultural       Plantation                                                                       1974.  Cash surplus
Corporation        and Mills                                                                        generated in 1975.
Liberia Meat      Meat Proces-   Ordinary       32,220       32,220          27%         32,220    LMPC has ceased operations.
Processing Co,    sing
P.P.PO Timber     Wood Proces-   Cumula-       130,000      130,000          11%          -         Still losing in initial
Limited            sing            tive                                                             stage; gradually reaching
Conver-                                                          full capacity.
tible
Preferred
Corniffe's Art    Commercial       "            25,000       24,920          15%          -         About breaking even.
Printery           Printing
L.I.P.F.O. Co.    Polyurethane   "              26,500       26,500          18%          -         Profitable.
Maryland Wood     Wood                         1 4o ,000    1h0,000          11%          -         Still losing in initial
Processing Co.    Processing                                                                        stage.
Industries
Caesar Beach       Motels etc.    "             25,000       25,000          17%          -         Experiencing some
Enterprise                                                                                          difficulties.
Metalloplastica   Plastic goods                 4 2,040      -               20%          -         Operating well
in initial stages
602,620    503,906                       47,220
IB!DtDFCD
April 20, 1976



ANNEX 9
LIBERIAN BANK FOR DEVELOFMENT AND INVESTMENT
Income Statements for Years 1972 to 1975
(In US$ 1000)
1972                 1973       1975
Investment Income
Interest and other income on loans         136        150        296       658
Interest of notes and deposits             101         94        187       247I
Other income                                 9         16         13       123
Gross Revemne                        246       260        496      1.028
Operating Expenses
Interest and Commitment Charge              48         59        167       409
Administrative Expenses                    124        125        162       229
Depreciation                                 4          4          5        19
Increase in Provisions                      68        (94)        -         69
Total Operating Expenses             244         94       334        726
Operating Income before Extraordinary
Items                                      2        166        162       302
Less Extraordinary Losses                  _i         L59         81         -
Net Income (loss)                          (11)         7         81        302
Dividends                                   -           -         38         65
Net Income (loss) after
Dividends                                 -112      _7         43        227
Net Income (loss) as % of Year end
Share Capital                           (1.1)       0.7        8.1      30.2
Net Income (loss) as % of Average Net
North                                   (1.0)       0.6        7.0      23.4
1/ Other income includes $62,000 in dividend income from equity investments
and $33,000 in commission on guarantees.
2/ Exchange losses on deutsche mark, borrowvings from KfIT.
IBRD/DFCD
April 20, 1976



ANNEX 1 0
LIBERIAN BANK FOR DEVELOPMENT LND INVESTMENT
Past and Projected Firnancial Ratios
Actual                      Projected
1974           1976    197      1978    1        1
Income Statement Items
as % of Average Total Assets
Gross Income                                8.9     10.3   9.8      10.1    10.4    11.1    11.4
less:  Financial Expenses                   3.0      4.1   4.3       5.0     5.1      5.6     6.o
Administrative Expenses             3.0       2.5   2.5       2.3     2.2     2.1      1.9
Gross Profit                                2.9      3.7   3.0       2.8     3.1      3.4     3.5
less:  Provisions                           -        0.7   0.5       0.5     0.6      0.6     0.6
Foreign Exchange Loss                       1.5     -       -       -       -        -       -
Net Profit                                  1.4      3.0   2.5       2.3     2.5      2.8     2.9
Selected Income and Cost Items
Dividend Income as % of average
equity portfolio 1/                         3.4     13.1   4.0       4.0     5.0      5.0     6.o
Income from loans as % of average
loan portfolio                             10.5     12.0  11.6      11.9    12.1    12.3    12.3
Cost of debt as % of average
total debt 2/                               7.3      5.9   5.8       6.5     6.5      6.8     7.1
Net Profit and uividends
Net profit as % of year-end
Share capital                               8.1     30.2  16.0      18.9    24.6    31.7    39.3
Net profit as % of average equity           7.0     23.4  15.8      13.7    16.1    18.2    19.3
Dividends as % of average equity            3.3      5.0   4.9       4.7     4.2      3.7     3.2
Structural Ratios
Term Debt/Equity  J                         2.8:1   6.3:1  4.7:1   4.3:1   4.4:1   4.9:1   5.1:1
Debt/Equity plus Subovdinated debt /        1.2:1   1.7:1  1.9:1   2.2:1   2.3:1   2.7:1   3.0:1
Provisions as % of total portfolio          2.4%    2.2%   2.4%    2.6%    2.7%    2.9%    3.0%
Portfolio Affected by Arrears of more
than 3 months as % of total portfolio       5.0%    5.5%   -        -       -        -       -
Debt Coverage
Interest and principal coverage             4.2     2.8    2.5      2.1     2.0      1.9     1.9
1/ Dividend income in 1975 included accrued dividends of $36,000. Projected dividend income
is assumed on a cash basis.
2/ Total debt does not include guarantees nor undisbursed portion of GOL Loans.
3/  Term debt includes guarantees but exclude_ undisbursed portion of GOL loans according
to Loan Agreement.
4/ First two loans from GOL amounting to $3 million in 1975 are subordinated; Debt
included guarantees.
IBRD/DFCD
April 20, 1976



ANNEX 11
LIBERIAN BANK FOR DEVELOPMENT AND INVESTMEN1'T
Balance Sheets as of December 31, 1972-1975
:                               ~~~~~~~~~~(in U.S. $1000)
ASSETS                                       1972        1973         1974          1975
Cash and time deposits                      272          449        1,012         2,494
Accrued income from loan & notes             76           67          169           225
Tnvestments in P.C.C. notes  /              206           39           -              4
Other current assets                         14           15            44            54
~otal current assets                        668          670         1,225         2,777
oans and advances                        1,670        1,823         3,815         7,133Z/
'auity lnvestments                          159          142           439           504
:.ess: provisions                          (195)        (103)         (103)        (172)
.'et portfolio                            134          1,4,151
:ixed assets (net)                           24           25          314           419
.overnnent notes (6.5- & 3'
redeemable 1972/81)                       goo          800         2,200        1,400
_otal assets                              3L126        3257                      12060
--A.ILITIES AND EQUITY
.Iccounts payable                             6            9         1,224         2,281
Proposed dividend                             -            -            38            65
.otal current liabilities                     6            9         1,262        2,346
Long-term debt
(3cvernment loan - subordinated           1,000        1,000         3,000        3,000.
- unsubordinated             -            -             -           500 /
J2CC 2,' convertible debenture              50           50            50            50
Kf-. loarn (4.5A. maturity 1986b6)          935          968         1,054         1,056
T BR  loans                                  14           60           889         2,023
.DS lcans                                     -           42           464         1,677
Total long-term debt                      1,999        2,120         5,457         8,306
Share capital                             1,000        1,000         1,000        1,000
Reserves and surplus                        121          128           171           408
Thui ty-                                  1,121        II            1,171   1,
Total liabilities and equity              326=                       7,I906
Reaj term debt Lequity                      1.0          1.2           2.8           6.3
1/  Permanent Claim Commission, short-termn negotiable Government instruments.
2,  Including current maturities of $1,408,000.
9/ Includes $2.o million in short-term borroiwings from Government and National Bank of Liberia
:, Including in debt only the portion of Government loans disbursed or discounted and
outstanding guarantees of $2 million in 1975.  (Onlv $2.1 million in 1975.)
*   r 7mI'sauditors classify this loan as a current liability since the terms and conditions
,a'rc not been formally agreed upon by the Government and LBDI.
'rilD/DFC9
.'pril 20, 1976



ANNEX 12
LIBERIAN BANK FOR DEVELOPMENT AND INVESTMENT
Pipeline of Projects as of January 31, 1976
(Amounts in $ '000)
Type of     % Liberian       Total Project      Estimated
Project                       Project       Ownership           Cost           LBDI Loan
Citrus plantation             expansion       100%              420               220
Coastal shipping              expansion       100%              650               400
Air transportation            expansion       100%              650               540
Paint manufacturing           working         100%              300               300
capital
Transportation                new             100%              185               105
Furniture manufacturing       moderniza-       25%              100               100
ti on
Forestry (logging)            expansion       100%              600               600
Forestry (veneer)             new              20%            2,000             1,000
Metal brush manufacturing    moderniza-         25%              100               100
tion
Shoe manufacturing            new              67%              992               300
Total                            3,665
IBRD/DFCD



ANNEX 13
page 1
LIBERIAN BANK FOR DEVELOPMENT AND INVESTMENT
Assumptions of Projected Operations and Financial Statements 1976-1980
Loan Approvals, Commitments and Disbursements
Loan approvals reach a level of $4 million in 1976 increasing by $1
million each year thereafter. ;[mport financing amounts to 70% of loan
approvals. 2% of the gross value of approvals will be cancelled. 60%
of appro7mls are committed in the year of approval, and the remaining
40% in the following year0 Uncommitted approvals of $931,000 at end of i975
are committed in 1976. 75% of commitments are disbursed in the year of
commitment and 25% in the following year. Undisbursed commitments of
$808,000 at end of 1975 are disbursed in 1976.
Equity Approvals and Sales
New equity approvals maintain a level of $200,000 per year. All equity
approvals are for cumulative preferred shares yielding 1114. Equity commit-
ments and disbursements take place in the year of approval. Sales of equity
investment are made as follows: In 1977 5% of the 1975 balance is sold.
In 1978 6% of the 1975 balance together with 5% of the 1976 purchase is sold.
In 1979 86% of the 1975 balance with 6% of the 1976 purchase and 5% of the
1977 purchase is sold. In 1980 36% of the 1976 purchase, 6% of the 1977
purchase and 5% of the 1978 purchase is sold.
Interest and Other Charges
LBDI charges interest at 10% plus a service charge of 1l4 on amount
outstanding. It also charges a one-time commission of 1% at time of loan
approval. Commitment fee on loans for the first quarter of 1975 remains at
.75%, increasing to 1% thereafter. A penal interest of 5% is charged on new
loans in arrears of 3 months beginning in the second quarter of 1976; 1% is
charged on loans outstanding pricir to that date.
Dividend Income
Dividend income on a cash basis (not accrual) is 4% of average equity
investments in 1976 and 1977; 5% in 1978 and 1979; and 6% in 1980.
Underwriting and Guarantees
"Best efforts" unieririLing of $50,000 a year at 3% commission beginning
in 1976.  Outstanding guarantees to remain at $2 million.  A fee of 2% per
annum is charged on guarantees0
Short-term Investments
Return on short-term investments is 8% per annum.



ANNEX 13
page 2
Fixed Assets
Fixed assets increase in 1978 by $200,000 to reflect addition to the
office building. Other increases are due to vehicle and machines purchases.
Salaries and General Expenses
Salaries and general expenses increase by 10% yearly based on the 1976
budget as provided by LBDIo
Provisions
Provision for losses is made at 2% of annual loan disbursements and 3%
of annual equity disbursements.
Borrowing
Additional foreign currency borrowings will be obtained at 9% rate of
interest and 3/4% commitment fee.
IBDI will obtrin resources from the commercial market for its refinancing
and working capital financing requirements, should these operations be continued
beyond the initial period of one year.
Repayments
Repayments on present ADB and IBRD lines of credits will match collections
of corresponding sub-loans. 70% of collections on new loans to be applied to
repayment of the proposed foreign lines of credit.
Share capital and Dividends
It is assumed that share capital will increase to $3 million by mid-1977.
$350,000 will be through conversion of existing debt and $250,000 through stock
dividend out of retained earnings.  The balance ($1,400,000) to be paid-in, half
in 1976 and half in 1977. Annual dividends are assumed to be 60 of average share
capital. (LBDI projections show that progressively higher dividend payments are
feasible during the next five years).
Accrued Income is assumed to increase by 10% yearly.
Accounts Payable is assumed to in3rease by 10% yearly.
Training and Development Expenses a-e t  be capitalized and amortized over a
five-year period.
Loan Collection
Loan collections from the existing loan portfolio estimated according
to amortization schedules. For new loans, 10% to have an average maturity of
h years (including 6 months grace) and 90% to have an average maturity of
8 years (including 2 years grace).



ANNEX 14
LIBERIAN BANK FUR DEVELOPMENT AND INVESTMENT
Projected Operations 1976 - 1980
(US$ '000)
Actual
1975     1976      1977     1978      1979     1980
Approvals
Fnreign Expenditure Loans            2,285    2,800    3,500    4,200   4,900          560
Local Expenditure Loans                715    1,200    1,500    1,800    2,100    2,400
Equity Investments                      72      200       200      200       200       200
Total                          3,072    4,200    5.,200    6,206    7,200    8,200
Commitments
Foreign Expenditure Loans            2,695    2,298    3,156    3,842    42528    5,214
Local Expenditure Loans             1,031.      986    1,352    1,646    1,940    2,234
scquity Investments                     30      248       206      206       206       206
Total                          3,756    3,532    4,714    5697    6,674    79654
Disbursements
or-igon Expenditure Loans          2,448    2,290    2,941    3,670    4,356    5,042
;al Expenditure Loans               1,445      981    1,261    1,573    1,867    2,161
S':Imy Investments                    65       248       206      206       206      206
Total                                    3,519     ,40ot)    5449    6,429    7,409
IBRD/DFCD
April 20, 1976



ANNEX 15
LIBERIAN BANK FOR DEVELOPMENT AND INVESTMENT
Projected Resource Position
Mid-
1976      1977      1978       1979
Foreign Currency
Sources:
Uncommitted Resources at beginning
of year (gap)                          3,574     1,276    (1,880)    (5,722)
Uses:
Loan Commitments during year               2,298     3,156      3,842      2,264
Uncommitted Resources (shortage of
foreign resources) at end of year      1,276    (1,880)   (5,722)    (7,986)
Local Currency
Sources:
Uncommitted resources at beginning of
year                                     161        710     1,604      1,801
Net profits, depreciation and
provisions (less dividends)              314        352       503        335
Increase in share capital                    700        700       -          -
Redemption of GOL notes                      -          400       400        400
Sale of investments                            4         17        33        162
Loan collections (net of debt
repayment)                               765        983     1,113         622
Total                                   1,944     3,162      3,653      3,320
Uses:
Commitments during year
Loans                                    986      1,352     1,646         970
Equity                                   248        206       206         103
Total                               1,234     1,558      1,852      1,073
Uncommitted Resources at year end            710      1,604     1,801       2,247
IBRD/DFCD



ANNEX 16
LIBERIAN BANK FOR DEVELOPMENT AND INVESTMENT
Projected Income Statements 1976-1980
(Us$ '000)
Actual
1975     1976      1977      1978     1979      1980
Income
Interest and charges on loans          658       960    1,285    1,665    2,O95    2,549
Dividend income                         62        26        35       50        51        59
Commission underwriting and
guarantees,rent & other income    61          80       80        80        80       80
Interest on GOL notes                   59        48       37        25        13         7
Interest on S.T. deposits              188       224       268      30L       352       3R4
Gross Income                    1,028    1,340    1,705    2,12l4    2,591    3,079
Expenses
Interest and charges
on borrowings                      403       594      816    1,011    1,273    1,567
Cost of discount on notes                6         6         6        6         6       -
Total Financial Charges                     602      822    1,017    1,279    1,567
Salaries and general expenses          29       314       345      379       417       459
Training and Development                           8        19       28        30        30
Depreciation                            19        23        23       30        29        23
Total Administrative              248      345       387       437      476       512
Provisions                              70        73        90      111       130       150
Total Expenses                    726    1,020    1,299    1,565    1,885    2,229
NET INCOME                             302       320       406       557      706       850
Appropriation of Net Income
Dividends                               65       102      167       195       195      195
Increase in Legal Reserves              85        80      102       139       177      213
Addition to Retained Earnings          152       138      137       223       334      442
Total              302       320      406       557       706      850
TBRD/jFCD,
April 20, 1976



ANNEX 17
LIBERIAN BANK FOR DEVELOPMENT AND INVESTMENT
Projected Balance Sheets 1976-1980
(US$ ' 000)
(As of December 31)                 Actual
Assets                              1975      1976     1977      1978      1979     1980
Cash and deposits                   2,493    3o045    4,056    4,138    4,720    5,136
Accrued income                        225       247       272      299      329       362
Other current assets                    58       49        43       37        31       31
Total Current Assets           2,77      3,341    4,371    4,475    5,080    5,529
Loans Outstanding                    7,133    9,434   12,135   15,346   18s764   22,693
Equity Investments                     504      7'2       941    1,114       997      973
less:  provisions                     (172)    (246)    (336)    (447)    (576)    (726)
Net Portfolio                  7,465    9,940   12,740   16,013   19,185   249-40
Government notes                    1,400    1,400    1,000        600       200      100
Training & Development
FXpenses                       -            32       68        85       65        3.5
Net Fixed Assets                      419       409      397       573       549      526
Total Assets                  12,060   15,122   1876   21,745   25,079   29,130
Liabilicies and Equity
Accrued expenses and
accounts payable                     181      203       230      258       288      320
Dividend Payabl_                        65      102       167      195       195      195
GOL deposits                        1,100    1,100    1,100.   1,100    1,100    1,100
National Bank deposits              11000    1 000   1000  1.000    1.00    1.000
Total Current Liabilities           2,346    2T401    2,497    2,553    2,583    2,615
KfW loan                             1,056    1,056    1,056    1s056    1,056    1,056
IBRD loans                          2,023    2,871    4,458    3,910    3,259    2,610
ADB loans                           1,677    2,914    2,763    2,512    2,261    2,010
LAMCO debentre                          50    -         -        -                  -
GOL loans 1/                         3,500    3,350    3,200    3,200    3,200    3,200
Proposed foreign source              -        -           987    4,537    8,232   12,496
borrowings
Total Term debt                  8,306   10,191   12,464   15,215   18,008   21,372
Share capital                       1,000    2,150    3,000    3,000    3,000    3,000
Reserves & surplus                     408      376       615      977    1,488    2,143
Total equity                   1,408    2,5262    7   5    3,977       48 5-,43
Total liabi'lities & E,juity       12,060   15,122   18,576   21,745   25,079   29,130
Unexpired Guarantees                 2,000    3,000    4,000    3,000    4,000    5,000
Term debt/equity 2/                  6.3       ".1       4.3      4.4       4.4      5.1
1/ LBDI's auditors have classified $500,000 of GOL Icans as current liabilities since
_  the terms and conditions of a -nqn for $500,000 hnve not been formall  agreed upon
by the Government and LBDI.
2/ Including in debt only redeemed or discounted portion of Government loans plus
Iuarantees outstanding.
TBR RJ 1DFCD
Apr-il 20, 197A



ANNEX 18
LIBERIAN BANK FOR DEVELOPMENT AND INVESTMENT
Pro,ected Cash Flow Statements 1976-1980
1976     1977      1978     1979      1980
Sources
Net Profit, depreciation and                    416       519       698       865    1,023
provisions
Loan collections and sale of                    974    lt518    2,o65    3,128    3s504
investments
Increase in Accounts Payable                      19       27        28        30       32
Redemption of GOL notes                          -        400       400      400       100
ADB disbursements                             1,287       -         -        -         -
IBRD disbursements                            1,003    1,917        -        _         _
Other foreign source                             -      1,024    3,670    4s,356    5,042
disbursements
Share Capital Increase                           700      700       -        -         -
Total Sources                           4,399    6,10C       6,861   8,779      9,701
Loan disbursements                            3,271    4,202    5,243    6,223    7,203
Equity disbursements                             248      206       206      206       206
Loan Repayments:
ADB                                      50       151      251       251       251
IBRD                                    155       330      548       651      649
Other foreign source borrowings       -            37      120       661       778
Increase in Other Assets                          58       66       244        10
Dividends                                         65      102       167       195      195
Total Uses                                3,847    5,094    6,779    8,197    9,285
Sources over/Uses                               552    1,011         82       582      416
nsni nF Cash                                  2,493    39045    3,332    3,387    3.962
Closing Cash                                  3,045    4,056    4,138    4,720    5,136
'/ Other assets include accrued income, other current assets, training and development
exDenses, and fixed assets.
-3Th/DFCD
ApPrl 20, 1976



ANNEX 19
LIBEERIAN BANK FOR DEVELOPMENT AND INVESTMENT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule for the Pro-
posed Bank Loan (JS3$ 7 million)
Fiscal Year                                    Amount
1977
First quarter                               230
Second quarter                              550
Third quarter                               700
Fourth quarter                              700
1973
First quarter                               730
Second quarter                              730
Third quarter                               850
Fourth quarter                              850
1979
First qua.-ter                              550
Second quarter                              330
Third quarter                               230
Fourth quarter                              180
1980
First quarter                               130
Second quarter                              110
Third quarter                                90
Fourth quarter                               40
Total                             7,000



ANNEX 20
LIBERIAN LAWS APPLICABLE TO PROPOSED IFC IYVESTMENT
IN LIBERIAN BANK FOR DEVELOPMENT AND INVESTMENT
The basic legislation under which the Liberian Bank for Development
and Investment (LBDI) operates is the Act to Create a Liberian Bank for
Development and Investment, approved March 22, 1965, which incorporated
LBDI.  This act sets out the powers and functions of LBDI.  Any matters not
specifically covered in the bas:ic enabling legislation are governed by the
Liberian Corporation Law of 1948, as amended.
Share Capital
The voting capital stock of LBDI is divided into Class A shares and
Class B shares which rank pari l,assu in all respects except for an ownership
restriction. Class A shares may only be owned by Liberian citizens or
corporations, the Liberian Government or international institutions of which
Liberia is a member.  Class B shares may be owned by any person or entity,
Liberian or foreign. The basic legislation provides that the Class A shares
shall at no time represent less -than a majority of LBDI's voting common
stock.
Approval and Registration
There are no approval or registration requirements for the issuance
or subscription of LBDI shares. Both Class A and Class B shares are freely
transferable to qualified transferees.
Repatriation
No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or
payments or on dividend remittances. U.S. currency is accepted as an official
unit of exchange and account and is in circulation along with Liberian coinage.
Taxation
The income of LBDI is exempt from income taxation in Liberia by provi-
sion of the basic enabling legislation.



