Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Rqwet No. 7752-MOR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGDO4 OF MOROCCO
SECOND FORESTRY DEVELWPIEMT PROJECT
November 28, 1989
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department II
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
TKs dounet bo a rested JIstdbuton and may be used by recipients only In the performnce of
dutls. at kl   onotets may not otherwise be discled wiout Word Bank autborlaion.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(February 1289)
US$ 1.00 - Dirham (DH) 8.25
DH 1 - USS 0.121
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system is used throughout this report
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ASAL    - Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan
B       - Billion (thousand millions)
CHB     - Compte Hors Budget (extra-budgetary fund)
CRABVF - Regional Center for Watershed and Forest Management Planning
CRIA    - Regional Center for Forest Inventory and Management Planning
DEFCS   - Department of Forestry and Soil Conservation
DPA     - Provincial Department of Agriculture
FAO     - Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
FAO/CP  - FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme
FNF     - National Forestry Fund
H       - million
MARA    - Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform
MOI     - Ministry of the Interior
UNDP    - 7nited Nations Development Program
U.b.    - Under bark, i.e. the volume wood excluding the bark
GOVERNMENT OF MOROCCO
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICAL ULSE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGDOM OF NOROCCO
SECOND FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Proiect Summary
Amr-ower:                     Kingdom of Morocco
Amount:                       US$ 49 million equivalent
ITrms:                        Repayment in 20 years, including 5 years of
grace, with interest at the Bank's standard
variable rate.
Executing Afency:             Department of Forestry and Soil Conservation
(DEFCS)
Proiect Description:          The Project represents priority investmenLs from
DEFCS's 5-year investment budget plus forestry
investments financed by the communes and
executed by DEFCS. The project would strengthen
forestry planning and policies and assist
Morocco in maintaining and improving its
forestry potential and meet the country's wood
needs and protect its watersheds in harmony with
other demands on the areas such as domestic
stock grazing. Main components are (a) forestry
planning (including national forest inventory,
forest demarcation, forest management planning
and a national reforestation plan; (b) field
operations, including those paid by the
communes, consisting of regeneration of natural
forest (36,000 ha), plantation establishment
(32,000 ha), watershed management (development
of low cost techniques on some 10,000 ha),
forest range management (works 57,000 ha, plans
97,000 ha), pest management (25,000 ha),
stabilisation of dunes (370 ha), forest road
construction (580 km) and rehabilitation (1,450
km); and (c) support activities, including
nature conservation, forest research, staff
housing rehabilitation, equipment purchases,
training and technical assistance.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- (ii) -
Project Risks:                The two major risks facing the project are a
slower than projected growth rate for project
plantations and continued government failure to
provide adequate and timely funding. The former
risk is reduced by the introduction of
vegetatively reproduced (clonal) planting
material, which has dramatically increased
yields in other countries, and the funding risk
is lessened by the fact that project investments
are in the Government's core investment program.
The potential risk of failure of the forest
populations to participate and to comply with
plans to organise livestock grazing in project
areas has been taken into account in the project
design by choosing areas where the populations
are :-avourable to project operations and by
prior negotiated agreements.



Estimated Project Costs S
Loual        Eoxeign          Total
----- -US$ million ------
A. Forestry Planning                         4.5             3.1             7.6
B. Forest Operations
Regeneration of Natural Forest         8.3             1.3             9.6
Plantation Establishment              13.8             7.5            21.3
Watershed Management                   3.9             1.3             5.2
Forest Range Development               6.2             1.9             8.1
Forest Roads                           3.2             2.3             5.5
Communal Component                    10.8             4.6            15.4
C. Support Activities
Nature Conservation                    0.5             0.5             1.0
Forest Research                        2.1             0.9             3.0
Institution Development                0.1             -               0.1
Housing & Equipment                    2.6             1.7             4.3
Training                               Q.7             0A1             0.
Base Costs                            56.7            25.2            81.9
Physical Contingencies                 3.2             1.4             4.6
Price Contingencies                   9.4              4.1            13.5
Total Project Costs                   69.3            30.7           100.0
Financing Plan
Local     oireifn           Total
- USA million --
Goverment                             31.2             1.0            32.2
Rural Communes                        18.8             -              18.8
Bank                                  12.3            29.7            49.0
Total                                ,69.3            30.7           100.0
Estimated Disbursements
FY90   PY91   FY92   F       FY94   FY95   FY96
Annual                0.6    5.4    8.0    9.0   10.0    9.0    7.0
Cummulative           0.6    6.0   14.0   23.0   33.0   42.0   49.0
Rate of Return:    39%
Mag Number: IBRD 21506
a/   Includes US$19.9 million of taxes and duties.



STAPP APPRAUSAL REPORT
KIIoDOM OF MOROCCO
SECOND FORESTRY DEVZLOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page no
I.   INTRODUCTION  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   1
II.  FORESTRY IN MOROCCO . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
A.    Forest  Resources    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   1
B. Contribution to the Economy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
C. Forestry Institutions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .3
General.. ... 
Forest Department (DEFCS) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
D.    Forest  Operations  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   5
E. Marketing of Forest Products  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
F. The Forest Industry . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
G. Forestry Legislation and Policies . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Forestry Legislation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Financing of Forest Operations  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Government Plans and Policies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
H. Constraints to Development  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
I. Bank Involvement in Agriculture in Morocco  . . . . . . . . 15
J.    Lessons  Learned  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 17
III.    THE  PROJECT  AREA    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 18
A.  General   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  18
B. Climate, Soils and Species Distribution . . . . . . . . . . 18
C. Population and Infrastructure . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which
visited Morocco in January-February 1989. Mission members were: Harald Stier
(Task Manager), Colin Holloway (Forestry Specialist) and Isabelle Schirmer
(Economist) Bank, and Gilles Mille (Forest Management Specialist), Consultant.
The forest range management and nature conservation components were
essentially appraised during an earlier mission, in September-October 1988 by
Philippe Ardouin-Dumazet (Livestock Specialist) FAO/Bank Cooperative Programme
and Maryla Webb (Nature Conservation Specialist) Consultant, respectively.



i -
Table of Contents
(continued)
-                           E~~~~~~~~~~aLe_ no
IV. THE PROJECT ..............                                    20
A. Objectives, Rationale and Main Features .20
Objectives  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  20
Rationale for Bank Involvement  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
Main  Components  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 20
B. Detailed Description .21
Forestry Planning .21
Forestry Operations .22
Support Activities .26
C. Project Costs .30
D. Financing .32
E. Procurement .33
F. Disbursements .35
G. Accounts and Audit .36
V.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .37
A.  Project Irplementation and Operation  . . . . . . . . . . . 37
B.  Participation of Local Populations and Social Issues  . . . 38
C.  Consultancy Services  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . 39
D. Monitoring and Evaluation   ..40
E.  Status of Project Preparation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
VI.  PRODUCTION MARKETS, PRICES AND FINANCIAL RESULTS  . . . . . . . 41
A. Yields and Management .41
Plantation Establishment .41
Regeneration .41
Silvo-pastoral Development  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
B. Production .42
C. Markets .44
D.  Prices  .  .  .    .  .  ...    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  .    .  .  .    .    .    .    .  .    .  44
E.  Impact on Government Budget and Cost Recovery . . . . . . . 45
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .46
A. Benefits and Beneficiaries .46
Production and Foreign Exchange Savings . . . . . . . . . 46
Employment Creation .46
Environmental and Other Benefits  . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
B. Economic Analysis .48
C. Sensitivity Analysis .49
D. Project Risks .50
VIII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION ................ . 50



iii -
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SECOND FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LIST OF ANNEXES
ANNE 1 - BACKGROUND DATA
Table 1:       Action Taken on WJater Catchments
ANNEX 2    -  COST ESTIMATES
Table 1:       Project Cost Summary
Table 2:       Project Components by Year
Table 3:       Summary Accounts by 'Year
Table 4:       Disbursement Schedule
ANNEKX 3    -  PROJECT PROGgaMS
Table 1:       Regeneration of Natural Forest
Table 2:       Annual Program of New Boundary Marking
Table 3:       Annual Reforestation Program by Forest Serviee and Model
Table 4:       Annual Watershed Management Program
Table 5:       Research Components: Annual Physical Targets and Unit Costs
ANNEX 4 F- FINANIAL ANTD ECONOMIC RESULTS
Table 1:       Internal Rates of Return and Net Present Valu4 of Project
Components
Table 2:       Cost Recovery for Regeneration and Plantation Components
Table 3:       Cost Recovery for Bouhasoussen Forest Silvopastoral Development
Table 4:       Distribution of the Pro* iction
neremental Wood Production from the Project
Table 5:       Selected Project Streams
Table 6:       Economic and Financial Prices for Selected Outputs and Inputs
ANNEX 5    -  LIST OF DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILE
CHART          Organisation of Forest Services (WB 44431)
Project Sites-IBRD 21506



SAP APPRAISAL RO
KINGDOM OF MOROCCQ
SECOND FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01        With active Bank encouragement, Morocco has been giving increasing
priority to natural resource management and forestry over the last decade or
so.  During this period, the Bank has supported forestry through important
(.omponents in four rural development projects (Fes-Karia-Tissa FY 79, Loukkos
rF 80, Middle Atlas FY 82 and Oulmes-Rommani FY 83). The experience from the
earlier of these project components was included in a first forestry project
(Gharb-Mamora, FY 82) for a loan of US$27.5 million which is expected to close
on June 30, 1990. All of these projects included experimental or innovative
improved practices for forestry plantations, exploitation, soil conservation,
pest management, eX.c., and institution building. Technically, implementation
of these forestry activities was successful and, in the anticipation of their
completion, a Bank mission visited Morocco in October 1985 to discuss further
Bank assistance to the forestry sector in the country. After having defined a
forest development strategy, the Government requested the assistance of
FAO/CP, which fielded a mission in March-April, 1988 to prepare the project.
Appraisal of the project took place in February 1989.
II. FORQETRY IN MOROCCO
A. Forest Resources
2.01        Morocco's substantial forest and woodland occupy 5.8 M ha (8%) of
the comntry's total land area of just over 71 M ha. These are mainly
concentrated to the north-western part of the cnuntry where the climate is
rooler and more humid and where the forest covers about 20-30X of the land
area. Forest plantations represent some 0.5 M ha of the above total. In
addition there are about 3.2 M ha of esparto grass in the east and 0.5 M ha of
mainly acacia based pre-Saharan shrubs in the south. Vir.ually all of the
natural forest and esparto grass area is owned by the state although, based on
tradition, local and nomed populations usually exercise grazing rights and
their domestic stock largely prevents natural regeneration and contributes to
the degeneration of the vegetative cover in Morocco.   Of the plantation area,
about 77X belongs to the state, 16X to collectives and 7X to private owners.
2 02        The availability of data on the forest resources in Morocco is
incomplete and out of date, still being largely based on the work by P. Baudy
in the 1940s which has been partially revised and updated. Only 40X of the
forest area has been inventoried since then (around 1980) and the full effects



._f the increasing population and grazing pressures on the forests, about 20X
of which are not even demarcated, has not been taken fully into account.
Available estimates suggest that about 45X of the natural forests and 402 of
the esparto grass areas are suitable for commercial exploitation; most of the
remaining arets having mainly a protective, soil conservation function. The
main indigenous forest tree species are, holm oak (1.4 H ha), thuya
(0.6 H ha), cork oak (0.3 M ha), cedar (0.1 M ha), pines (0.1 M ha), junipers
(0.3 H ha) and, in the south, argan (0.8 M ha). the areas not necessarily
reflecting the economic importance of the species. Somewhat more than half of
the plantation species are eucalypt (0.2 M ha) and other hardwoods (0.2 M ha)
and the remainder coniferous (0.1 M ha). mainly pines and some cypress.
A. Contribution to the economv.
2.03        While directly quantifiable benefits are important, the forest's
most important contribution to the economy is probably ecological: the
protection of watersheds and safeguarding of water supplies, agricultural
production and wildlife and the arresting of the erosion of Morocco's
sensitive soils. The share of value added by forestry i-. Morocco's gross
domestic product is estimated to be about 21, which is 12X of the agricultural
value added and equivalent to about DH 2.7 B, if one includes its unrecorded
contribution to the Kingdom's energy and forage supply, which particularly
benefits the poorer strata of the population. It has been estimated that 85Z
of Morocco's domestic energy needs are met from firewood and agricultural
wastes, equivalent to some 10 N m? of wood, worth DH 0.7 B (US$ 85 M), which
clearly exceeds the national forest's sustainable yield of some 3 M m3 of wood
for all purposes and is the major contributing cause of the ongoing
deforestation. Forest rangelands contribute more than one-sixth (DH 1 B) of
the national forage production. Forest operations also provide an estimated 7
M man-days of work and income for the rural poor and the wood processing
industries require another 9 M man-days of work per year.
2.04        Morocco's wood production meets domestic needs of firewood, and
for cork (4Z of world production) the country is an important supplier of the
world markets, exporting DH 90 M (US$ 10 M) worth in 1987.  Some DH 330 M (US$
40 M) of pulp is also exported.  Until recently pulp procuction was wholly
based on domestic wood but now some 602 of the raw material requirements are
imported. In fact, domestic forest production only meets one-third of demand
for sawnwood, pulpwood and other wood products, with net imports amounting to
DH 625 N (US$ 75 M) in 1987. Such imports represent 72 of raw materials and
semi-finished goods, or 2.52 total Moroccan imports. Table 2.1 below shows
imports and exports of raw materials and semi-finished forestry products.



- 3 -
Table 2-1: FOREST PRODUCTS TRADE
(DH Million, current prices)
Exports                       215        363       483
Imports                        527       m 
Deficit                       (312)     (532)     (625)
C.  Forestry Ilistitutions
General
2.05          The Hinistrv of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform (MARA) has the
overall responsibility for the development of the forestry sector. Ihk
Ministry of the Interior (MOI also plays an important role through its
jurisdiction over the provincial administration, the communes and the tribal
collectives. Coordination among the ministries in forestry matters is
provided by a National Forest Council (para 2.08). Morocco is
administratively divided into more than 40 provinces headed by a governor who
reports to the MOI and who has the responsibility for the development of his
province. The governor approves the decisions of local authorities, including
communal budgets which also include forestry investments. MOI also has the
trusteeship of lands owned collectively by tribes and plays a key role in the
implementation of any forest plantation and pasture development thereon. MARA
operates in the provinces through its Provincial Departments of Agriculture
(DPA), which are headed by a director and who, for the budget and for
technical purposes, depend on MARA in the central administration.
Forest Degartment (DEFCS)
2.06          The Ministry of Agriculture exercisas its responsibilities in
the forestry sector primarily through its Forest Department (DEFCS), which is
headed by a Director and who reports to the Minister via the Secretary General
(Organizational Chart 1B 44431). The Forest Department at headquarters in
Rabat, in addition to its administrative services, is divided into 5 technical
divisions responsible for:
(a) forest management, exploitation and the marketing of wood
products;
(b) inventory, management of forest infrastructure, legal and
other questions concerning the forest estate;
(c) soil conservation and reforestation;



(d) hunting, fishing and nature conservation and;
(e) research.
DEFCS is represented in the provinces through its forest service which is one
of the divisions in the DPA. The provincial forest services are generally, at
their headquarters, organised into 4 sections which research apart, correspond
to the DEFCS divisions in Rabat. In the field, the 35 forest services in
Morocco operate at three levels, the sub-division (65) headed by a forest
engineer, the district (187) headed by a district forest officer "lid the beat
(651) operated by a beat forest officer. The size of a beat may vary from
2,500 to 15,000 ha, depending on the nature of the forest. Ta total, the
Forest Department and the provincial forest services have 4,360 permanent
staff of which 315 are forestry graduates, 1,220 are forestry technicians and
735 are mounted guards1. The present staffing levels appear sufficient to
carry out the program included in the 1988-92 Indicative Development Plan, the
main constraint on Morocco's forestry operations being the shortage of funds.
2.07         The Forest Department's main responsibilities include the
manage.dent and protection of Morocco's forest estate, the protection of the
country's watersheds and the prevention of the gradual desertification of its
sensitive soils. To do this properly requires information and data on
existing resources and constraints and plans for their development. The lack
of forest inventory and data has already been referred to (para 2.02). Only
10 of the forest area is covered by management plans, some of which already
need revision. Watershed management and silvo-pastoral development are also
constrained by the absence of plans. Forest planning and the development of
necessary marketing knowledge has been neglected in the past. The present
forest management is aware of this and aims to correct the situation as part
of the project. Already, the existing regional centers for Forest and
Inventory and Management Planning (CRIA) at Meknes and T6touan are being
complemented with four additional Regional Centers for Watershed and Forest
Management Planning (CRABVF) which are being established with UNDP/FAO
assistance. DEFCS has also submitted a proposal for the restructuring of its
organisation to meet the needs of the Department's program. However, this
proposal has never been approved by the Government and is now out of date.
This would be addressed in the project (para 4.22).
2.08         To coordinate and reinforce the efforts by the Government and the
local populations to develop and conserve forest resources in Morocco, a
National Forest Council and Provincial Forest Councils were created under a
1976 law (para 2.26). Concerned ministries, government agencies and three
representatives each for the Governors, the Provincial Forest Councils and for
the Communal ;ouncils, are members of the National Forest Council, which is
chaired by the Minister of Agriculture and with the Director DEFCS being its
Secretary. According to the law, it should meet at least once a year, and
Only 100 of whom have mounts at present.



after a gap of a few years without sessions2, it has now met in 1988 and 1989.
Each concerned province has its Provincial Forest Council which is chaired by
the Governor and where the members are representatives for concerned
authorities at the provincial level and for the communal councils within its
jurisdiction. The provincial councils meet at least twice a year as required
by law. At the communal level, the law of 1976 prescribes the responsibility
of the Communal Council in forestry matters.
2.09         Formal fores t-  training is carried out by the Royal Forestry
School (ERF) for technicians and by the National School of Forest Engineers
(ENFI' for officers; both schools are at Sal6. ERF graduates about 20 each of
junior and medium level tWchnicians annually, who have followed one- and
two-year courses, respectively. After agronomical studies at the Hassan II
National Agricultural and Veterinary Institute (INAV), ENFI provides
three-year courses (other combinations exist) and graduates about five
engineers yearly. Senior forest officers undertake further degree courses at
the Hassan II National Agricultural and Veterinary Institute. The capacity
for formal forestry training is suf'icient and the quality is good and does
not constitute a constraint on the sector. However, refresher courses for
all levels of forestry staff are completely lacking and this void would be
addressed by the project (para 4.27).
D. Forest Operations
2.10         Wood Extraction.  In Morocco wood extraction is carried out by
private loggers under DEFCS supervision (paras 2.19, 2.23). Holm oak stands
and eucalypt plantations are clear cut periodically, usually every 40-50 years
and every ten years respectively and allowed to coppice, i.e. regenerate from
the stump. In other, high forest, wood extraction is performed through two
basic cuts. First through thinnings and cleanings which help produce a good
quality product at the final harvesting and secondly through regeneration
felling which includes both harvesting of final product and regeneration
operations.
2.11         Plantation Program.  Forest plantation establishment started in
Morocco in the early 1940's to provide mining timber (pine) for the phosphate
company and pulpwood (eucalypt) for the proposed pulpmill in the Gharb region.
Annual programs rose from around 5,000 ha in the early 1950's to over 20,000
ha in the early 1970's. From 1960-70, pine plantations (notably Pinus
pinaster, P. haleRansis and P. g#rsXXiasis) increased and gradually overtook
eucalypts (Eucalyptus camaldulensis and EucalX2tus gomphocephala), as the most
widely planted species.  Other broadleaved species comprise Acacia  spp and
poplars. By mid-1988, there were some 95 forest nurseries in Morocco with an
annual capacity of around 100 million plants and a total planted area of
507,000 ha, comprising about 212,000 ha (421) of eucalypts, 56,000 ha (1lX) of
other broadleaved species and 239,000 ha (471) of pines.
2 Mainly because the position of Director DEFCS was vacant.



- 6 -
2.12         Planting Teniaues.  Until 1982, all forest plantations in
Morocco were established manually. Land is prepared by cutting and,
sometimes, stumping the indigenous vegetation. Holes (usually 0.5 x 0.5 x 0.5
in in size) are dug at a density of around 1,000/ha into which tree seedlings
(normally five to eleven months old) are planted at the start of the rains.
The trees are weeded ir. the first two years and, if survival is below 80X,
failed trees are replaced. Following a further three to five years of
guarding, primarily against stock grazing, the plantation is regarded as
established. The need to increase water retention, aid growth and reduce the
soil erosion hezard, has encouraged the preparation of primitive terraces in
association with planting holes on steep slopes. Since 1982, mechanized land
preparation (normally stumping old eucalypt plantations) prior to manual tree
planting has been practised in Gharb/Mamora. There are several variations but
essentially three operations are involved: (a) root undercutting by a stump
plough dragged by a 200-300 hp tracked tractor; (b) stumping and windrowing of
stumps with a front-end rake on a 170 hp tracked tractor; and (c) soil
levelling with a harrow drawn by a four-wheel drive or tracked 110 hp tractor.
2.13         Watershbd Management.  Morocco suffers from serious soil erosion,
by wind in the arid areas in the south and by water in the water-catchments in
the mountains in the north where the majority of dams are located. It is
estimated that some 50 M m3 of soil is deposited in Moroccan dam impoundments
every year, which is equivalent to 0.51 of the country's total dam capacity
and corresponds to an annual loss of 5,000 ha of irrigation potential and
10-15,000 ha of cultivable land up-stream. At the same time the heavy erosion
reduces the groundwater retention and threatens the fresh water supply to the
population and wild-life in the area. With regard to the dams, three dams
have already been raised in height to reestablish their capacities lost by
sedimentation. Treatment of the catchments of the 34 existing dams to reduce
capacity losses, therefore, has high priority. In the same vein, the
Government has recently decided that financing for all new dams --14 are
programmed to be built by the year 2000-- must include funds for the
management of their water catchments. Availability of studies and appropriate
cheap techniques combined with a lack of funding are serious constraints to
actual soil conservation works. To date, only four watersheds have been fully
studied and have a master plan for their development (for dams on the rivers
of Loukkos, Mhadar, Nekkor and I1sa) and five watersheds have had summary
studies made ( Lakhdar, N'fiss, L'Abid and Tassaout). For details on the dams
see Annex 1, Table 1.
2.14         A major effort to come to grips with the erosion problem in the
Rif was made with the DERRO project launched in the early 1960's with UNDP/FAO
and bilateral assistance. The project was an integrated rural development
project which set out, over a 25-year period to treat some 2 M ha against
erosion while providing populations with means to improve their standard of
living. Although the project had some successes, it fell short of reaching
its targets and in the early 1970's, FAO and the bilateral assistance
gradually came to an end. Since then Government interest in the project seem
to have lessened and now only sporadic activities continue under DERRO under
the Ministry of the Interior. Soil conservation works by DEFCS on catchments



- 7 -
of dams date only from 1976 and have mainly concerned Loukkos (with a total
catchment area of 1,800 kmn), Nekkor (780 kn') and Tetla (180 lmn), and to a
degree also Issen (1,300 kmn) and N'Fiss (1,700 kmn).  The type of soil
conservation treatments given and the approximate achievements are: pasture
improvement (2,500 ha), forage plantation (5,700 ha), fruit tree plantations
(15,400 ha), reforestation (7,800 ha), silt traps- large (52,000 in),- small
(54,000 units), primitive terraces (88,500 m ) and dirt roads (280 km).
Anti-erosion treatments of water catchments now run at an average of an annual
level of some 10,000 ha and, in total, only some 320,000 ha have been covered,
which appears negligible against the estimated total watershed area of 20 M
ha, of which the extent of the area needing treatment is not known for lack of
studies but the order of magnitude would be at least 10-15 M ha. This aim
will never be achieved with Government funds alone and it becomes essentLal to
develop new, cheaper approaches enlisting the full participation of the
interested local populations. This need would be addressed under the project
(paras 4.12 and 4.19).
2.15         Forest Rane. Management.  Morocco's forest area represents 40X of
the livestock range area in the country which has about 0.7 H cattle and 3.5 M
each of sheep and goats. Because of increased population pressure on
agricultural land, the period spent yearly by livestock in the forests has
been steadily increasing. Increased population pressure has also contributed
to a dilution of traditional authorities over collective rangeland management
and a gradual abandonment of range rotation. All this has led to a decrease
in the productivity of forest range lands, helped prevent natural regeneration
of the forests and through browsing and lopping contributed to the destruction
of trees. On the positive side, the continuous livestock ranging in the
undergrowth of the forests contributes considerably to limiting fires and
Morocco loses only on average 2-3,000 ha of forest per year to this hazard.
2.16         Only some 0.2 H ha of the 5 H ha forest range area has been
subject to silvo-pastoral management studies. Actual works on improving
forest ranges are even more limited and results are mixed. For example, in
the west Mamora area (30,000 ha studied) some 1,100 ha have been given
different treatments including the removal of non palatable brush,
fertilisation, seeding of grasses, plantation of forage shrubs and the
establishment of rotational and deferred grazing. After four years of work,
the program finally failed for social reasons, the populations refusing a
reduction in the grazing intensity. Under the Middle Atlas project (loan
2082-MOR) in Bouhasoussen, 14,000 ha of forest range were to be improved
through better management of forage resources (rotational and deferred
grazing and control of stocking rates), 2,000 ha through the planting of
forage shrubs, 6,000 ha through fertilisation and 15,000 ha through the
thinning of holm oak. Some other minor areas were also treated under the
project. After a slow start due to the reticence of the populations the
program may now be considered a definitive success in organising the herdsmen,
both technically and socially. Forage production has increased significantly,
convinced and satisfied herdsmen pay their user fees, which have been doubled,
and maintain installed fences. They now want to extend this experience to
larger areas. At Sahel des Doukkala, under the government's soil conservation
program, 18,000 ha of rangeland have been treated through the planting of



-8-
forage shrubs, protected by lines of wind breaks, and rotatiinal grazing. The
beneficiaries have a contractual agreement with the government under which it
recovers the investment costs without interest, through user fees and from the
sale of wood. Also this experience has been successful and to date, all costs
incurred by DEFCS between 1965 and 1971 for this purpose have been recovered.
The experien:e gained has been used in the development of project actions
(para 4.13).
2.17         Hunting. fishing and nature conservation fall within the
jurisdiction of the DEFCS technical division of this name. Hunting is by far
the best staffed of the three subjects. The Provincial Forest Services have
some 50 game wardens, -ormally attached to sub-divisions. There are some 11.0
million ha of hunting reserve (136 permanent and 113 open to hunting every
three years) and approximately 500,000 ha of State land leased for hunting by
private hunting societies. There are about 50,000 Moroccan and 1,000 visiting
hunters each year. The division controls both sport and commercial fishing in
Moroccan rivers and dam impoundments primarily through the game wardens.
Several thousand fishing licences are issued each year. There are 15
protected areas (national parks or nature reserves) ranging in size from three
to 220,000 ha. Negligible numbers of staff are specifically assigned to them
and to nature conservation in general. This would be addressed by the
proposed project (para 4.18).
2.18         Forest  Research  The Forestry Research Division of DEFCS (para
2.06) has a complex of offices and laboratories on the outskirts of Rabat, a
wood technology center at M'Keinza-Rabat, poplar field stAtions at Kenitra and
Beni Mellal and its first regional research center at Marrakech. It has two
services in the Division at Rabat (Silviculture & Soil Service and Genetics &
Plant Improvement) and 11 specialized offices on wood technology, wood
chemistry, entomology, mycology, biometry, silviculture, soils, climatology,
physiology, poplars and arboreta.  Over 80X of its present work is on eucalypt
and its management but in the past it has studied a variety of topics that
include indigenous, productive forest (primarily cork oak and cedar), exotic
plantation species (primarily eucalypt and pines), ecology of sites
(especially in Gharb/Mamora, the Rif and Middle Atlas) and the biology and
control of various forest insect pests a-id pathogens. Results of these
studies have been published in the Division's scientific journal Annales de la
Recherche Forestiere au Maroc. Over the past decade, the Research Division
has suffered from an increasing number of organisational problems. This has
been addressed through the recent appointment of a new division chief.
E.   MARKETING OF FOREST PRODUCTS
2.19         Sale of wood products from state-managed forests is administered
by the Forest Department (DEFCS) through annual descending auctions. To the
basic auction price are added (a) an ad valorem 1OX tax which is transferred
to the National Forestry Fund (FNF) (para 2.28) and (b) various
administrative fees and taxes amounting to around 5X of the basic sale price.
Primary wood products are sold at stump while raw cork is sold stacked in



-9
DEFCS warehouses.   Auctions f.or primary wood products are usually held at the
provincial level where loggers purchase and later resell lumber to other
operators for processing (sawing, slicing, and peeling) or wholesale marketing
in the case of building poles. What remains is used for fuelwood, most of
which is transformed to charcoal on-site and sold in the country's urban
centers. However, less than 10 of the estimated fuelwood consumption is
marketed this way, most fuelwood being collected directly by the rural
populations for thei: own needs. The markets are free except for eucalypt
(see para 2.20). Auctions for cork are held once a year at the national
level. Cork harvest, which used to be performed under force account, is now
contracted out to private operators who are responsible for harvesting,
transportation and stacking in the warehouses.
2.20         Pulpwood, is used by the single pulpmill in Morocco, la Cellulose
du Maroc, which requires 350,000 ml a year. The mill has a contract with the
Ministry of Agriculture until September 1993, whereby (a) the DEFCS is
responsible for the supply of the required quantities of pulpwood and (b) the
price of wood paid by the mill is fixed by a formula linking the local price
to the international pulp price and adjusted on a yearly basis. In practice
the DEFCS sells the eucalypt stand to loggers who are required by contract to
deliver 55X of the standing wood volume in debarked logs of specified
dimensions to the mill, at the fixed price, allowing for transportation costs.
This fixed stumpage price is about half the price commanded by the same
eucalypt as utility wood or standing poles on the free market.
2.21         Over the recent years, as the pulpmill expanded its capacity much
faster than pulpwood production could increase, it proved impossible to meet
the mill demand with domestic production and the mill now imports about 60% of
its raw material. The supply contract induces substantial distorsion in the
domestic eucalypt market. The negative implications are two-fold (i) the use
of substantial DEFCS financial and human resources for the establishment and
management of pulpwood plantations to accommodate the needs of a private
pulpmill and (ii) the market distorsion which results in higher free market
prices for other end-users. In consequence, this contract should not be
renewed after it expires. Government and Cellulose du Maroc are studying
means (i) to enable la Cellulose du Maroc in the long term to grow most of its
own wood requirements using state land and (ii) in a transition period to
provide la Cellulose with a guarantee of a certain portion of its needs from
the domestic market, at a price determined by a study and taking into account
prices paid by other local users of eucatypt wood and by foreign pulp
industries (para. 4.11).
F. THE FOREST INDUSTRY
2.22         Morocco's forest products industries can be divided into (a)
mechanical wood processing industries, sawmilling and panel manufacturing,
which provide semi-processed products for packaging, carpentry, furniture and
construction, (b) wood pulp and paper making, and (c) cork processing
industries. There is a sharp contrast between (i) industries which import



- 10 -
most of their raw material or export most of their output (wood panels, pulp,
and cork), which are medium-scale modern and rather efficient industries and
(li) industries processing domestic wood for the home market which are
small-scale and usually inefficient industries.
2.23         The weakest segment of the forest products chain is the logging
and sawm_lling of domestic-forest. Loggers run small operations, have usually
neither technical expertise nor adequate equipment and employ unqualified
casual labor on a piece work basis, using only hand tools. Generally
inefficient exploitation and logging methods have led to irregular mill
supplies. In turn, sawmills relying on domestic supplies are old and
inefficient and work only part of the year. To make better use of the locally
produced logs it is essential to improve the quality of domestic wood supply
by better silvicultural techniques and to reorganize and modernize the logging
and sawmilling industry.
2.24         In Morocco the primary processing industries for forest products
include about 30 sawmills, five wood-based panel products enterprises, one
pulpmill, and eight cork p:ocessing industries.   Except for the few sawmills
converting imported logs, the mills saw local cedar and pine with recovery
rates as low as 40 to 50X whereas at least some 701 ought to be obtained with
better organisation. They produce about 40,000 m3 of sawnwood per year.
Average annual production of veneers and plywood is about 50,000 mJ of which
about 851 is used locally and the remaining 15X is exported. Annual
production of particle board is about 25,000 m3 of which only 5 is exported.
The pulpmill produces about 100,000 tons of bleached chemical hardwood pulp
which at present commands high prices in world markets. Of the production,
801 is exported to European and Mediterranean countries, and the remaining 20X
is sold on the local market. Morocco imports most of the pulp it consumes.
Raw cork is processed in Morocco and exported as cork panels and cork. The
main problems encountered are (a) keen competition from other producers,
particularly Portugal and Spain, and mostly (b) irregularity and variable
quality of raw material supply. Table 2.2 below indicates the composition of
Moroccan trade in forest products in 1987.



. 11 -
Table 2.2 TRADE IN FOREST PRODUCTS 1987
Value               Share of Total
(DH M)                 (X)
1. IMPORTS (CIF)
Roundwood                  304                 (27)
Sawnwood                   611                 (55)
Veneers & Plywood           44                  (4)
Others                      45                  (5)
Subtotal                  1004
Pulp                       104                  (9)
TOTAL Imports                        1108                (100)
2. EXPORTS (FOB)
Processed Wood Products     63                 (13)
Cork Products               87                 (18)
Pulp                       333                 (69)
TOTAL Exports                         483                (100)
G. Forestry Letislation and Policies
Forestry Legislation
2.25          The basic law governing forests in Morocco is the Law (Dahir) of
October 10, 1917, as amended, and related implementing decrees and orders, on
the conservation and use of forests. This law provides that all forests are
in the public domain and vests MARA with the responsibility for their
oversight. It codifies the traditional usufruct of the forests, which
includes grazing and gathering of forestry products for personal use within
the limits of available resources, as determined by MARA. HARA is required to
establish, in consultation with the concerned communities, plans for each
forest, outlining those areas in which grazing and gathering is permitted, the
extent to which such activities in those areas are allowed, those areas to be
closed off for regeneration activities and measures to improve forest
pastures. To lessen the impact of forest regeneration activities on forest
users, HARA customarily ensures that no more than 20X of the forest is closed
at any given time to such users. The law also allows the government to
restrict the clearing and logging of privately- or collectively-owned woods,
as well as grazing in such woods, if necessary for soil conservation, erosion
control or other environmental protection purposes, and to undertake



- 12 -
reforestation activities i:. tLese areas. The law provides penalties for the
unauthorized use of the Forest and forest products and vests the
responsibility for enfotcing the law with MARA's forestry service.  Finally,
the law provides rules for the sale of forest products.
2.26          The basic law is supplemented by the Laws of March 4, 1925 and
March 28, 1951 on the protection and demarcation of the argan forests (which
cover and protect the pre-Saharan dunes in the south), the Laws of August 15,
1928 and June 20, 1930 on the conservation and use of esparto grass areas (in
the east), the Law of September 8, 1928 concerning the protection and use of
walnut trees, the Law of September 1934 providing for the creation of national
parks, the Law of September 12, 1949 establishing a National Forestry Fund
(FNF) for reforestation activities funded by taxes imposed on revenues derived
from investments in the forestry sector, Law No. 1-69-170 of July 15, 1969 on
soil conservation and erosion control, and Law No. 1-76-350 of September 20,
1976 providing an organizational and financial framework for the participation
of local communities in the management of forests. The Law of July 15, 1969
on soil conservation and erosion control authorizes the government to
designate as a protected area any area of land threatened with erosion and to
I undertake works in this area to prevent erosion. It also authorizes the
government to carry out conservation works on non-governmental land, at the
expense of the requesting party, pursuant to agreements entered into with the
land owners. Subsidies may be provided to such land owners. The Law of
September 20, 1976 on local participation in forestry management provides for
the establishment of Provincial Forest Councils, each comprised of the
governor of the concerned province and representatives of local legislative
and administrative bodies, as well as of the central government, and of a
National Forestry Council comprised of the Ministers of Agriculture, Interior
and Finance, and representatives of the provincial governors, the provincial
forestry councils, and local governments (para 2.08). The national council
proposes policies and measures for the development of forests and mediates
conflicts between government and forest users. The law vests the local
communal councils with responsibility for organizing the use of the forests
within the parameters established by ARA. The law finally provides that all
revenues derived from a forest (eg., from the sale of wood products, etc.) are
allocated to the budget of the commune in the territorial jurisdiction of
which the forest is located. The commune in turn is required to apply at
least 20X of these revenues to investments in the forestry sector (para.
2.30). Although well intended, the law has rather reduced than increased
public resources available for the management of the country's forest
resources; whereas previously the treasury received all forest revenues, now
they go to the communes without any deduction for the cost of maintenance and
regeneration of forest resources which still is paid from the government
budget. More generally in forest legislation, the gap that has developed
between the law and the actual practice is a source of potential contentions
which contribute to preventing an effective development of the country's
forest resources. The National Forest Council, therefore, has recommended
that forest legislation be reviewed and brought in line with present needs
(see also para. 2.32). Draft amendments to the forestry laws have been
prepared in the DEFCS and are now being discussed in the Government.



- 13 -
Financing of Forest Ogerations
2.27          Reforestation activities are mainly financed from the government
budget under various headings but other sources also exist.   Of the presently
reforested area of 0.5 M ha, about 60X has been financed over DEFCS's general
budget for reforestation, about 20% from the National Forestry Fund (FNF),
some 101 under soil conservation programs and most of the remainder under
various projects or by the communes and only about 1 by private sources. A
distribution of some 5 M seedlings to private individuals by the DEFCS should
be added to this number. The Indicative Plan 1988-92 provides about DH 240 K
per year for the DEFCS investment budget, of which about DH 90 N for
reforestation.
2.28          Several funds have been established to finance DEFCS's
activities. The most important of these is the National Forestry Fund (FNF)
which is established in a special, extra budgetary, account (CHB no.35-16),
which was created to promote reforestation on public, collective and private
lands. The fund's resources are statutorily divided into two sub-accounts
such that 102 of the resources are for forest research (35-16/1) and 901 of
the resources are for reforestation (35-16/2). The fund was originally
financed through a 102 tax on the auction price of forest products (para 2.19
viz. wood, cork and esparto grass). More recently, a matching duty of 101 on
wood imports was considered to boost the funds available for reforestation
that fell far short of needs but so far only 6X has been levied as part of the
measures taken under ASAL-I. The proceeds from the sales tax and import duty
are presently of the order of DH 20 M and DH 40 M, respectively.  The FNF may
also be replenished from the budget.
2.29          Since FNF advatnes funds for reforestation against projected
revenues for the year, the annual allocations must receive prior approval by
the Ministry of Finance. Approved funds are disbursed into a special
operational account (CHB no. 36-00), from which they are spent. CHB 36-00 is
also replenished from reimbursements for DEFCS plantations on collective or
private lands (para 2.16). There are a number of other CHB accounts of less
importance. CHB 35-15, the forest road maintenance fund, has annual revenues
(and expenditures) of about DR 1.5 K from a user fee paid by the loggers. For
the purpose of this project this fee was recently doubled. CHB 35-50, the
hunting fund. has annual revenues of some DH 5 N from hunting taxes, licenses,
leases, fees and fines. CHB 36-01, the soil conservation fund, is replenished
through budgetary allocations and reimbursements for works on collective and
private lands. Annual expenditures are of the order of DH 8 M. The accounts
with numbers starting with 35- need annual budget approvals by the Ministry of
Finance whereas the 36- accounts may be used as long as there are funds. An
advantage with all these funds for DEFCS is that remaining funds at the end of
the year can be carried over into the following year.
2.30          Another source of funds are the communes, which receive all the
revenues from sales of forestry products originating from within their
territorial limits (para. 2.26). In return they should invest at least 201 of
these proceeds into reforestation, forest rangeland improvement, forest
infrastructure sgch as roads, shelters and water-holes, fruit tree plantation



- 14 -
and green spaces, at the commune's discretion. This formula has resulted in a
major dlversion of funds from reforestation and in fact, between 1977 and 1984
it is estimated that only 2X (DH 10 M) of forest revenues (DH 570 H) has been
invested in reforestation. However the communes' attitude has changed and
presently it is estimated that some lOX of revenues, which are now at the
level of about DH 130 N per year, are being invested in reforestation.
Government Plans and Policies
2.31          Morocco is faced with a rapid deforestation, decreasing
productivity of forest rangeland and growing erosion damage and in
consequence, the government has been giving increasing priority to the
forestry sector. This is reflected in the rising share of public investments
in agriculture being devoted to forestry, which has increased from 7.3X to
8.5Z and 121 over the three public investment plan periods of 1973-77, 1981-85
and 1988-92, respectively.   According to Morocco's indicative investment plan
1988-92, which allocates DH 1.3 B of public funds to forestry, the main long-
term objectives of the sector include:
(i)       Protection and conservation of natural resources
through measures against deforestation, soil erosion
and desertification;
(ii)      Ensuring the maintenance of forest cover by
demarcation of the forest estate, by rationalisation
of wood exploitation and forest range management and
by an increase in the regeneration of the natural
forest and in plantation establishment; and
(iii)     For this purpose, improving the forest infrastructure
and strengthening forest management based on forest
inventory studies and the preparation of forest
management plans.
2.32          The Plan expresses the need for an updating and complementing of
forest legislation (see also para. 2.26) to address, in particular, the
problems of desertification and of the development and financing of the
sector. As one measure to protect the forest from over-exploitation, the Plan
considers the buying back from beneficiaries, the usufruct of productive
forests covering more than one million ha. The registration of the forest
range users is also proposed. Other p.anned measures include increased
participation of the rural communes in the financing of fencing where needed
to protect zhe forest and to rationalise forest range management. Generally,
the Plan expresses the need for encouraging private initiatives to invest in
the forestry sector, notably in the areas of industrial reforestation and wood
processing. To ensure import needs of sawnwood it expresses the need to
encourage domestic wood indwx ries to exploit concessions which Morocco has
obtained in some African countries. Subsidies are also being considered for



- 15 -
industries switching -v non-wood energy sources. Many of these objectives and
measures lack concrete proposals for implementation and this is being
addressed with Bank support under ASAL II and in the proposed project.
H. Constraints to Develoge nt
2.33          The main ;onstraints to a forestry development program
commonsurate with Morocco's needs may be summarised as follows:
(a)  Increasing human and livestock pressure and
non-participation of populations;
(b)  lack of sector plans and lack of data for planning;
(c)  inadequate funding;
(d)  obsolete and incomplete forest legislation; and
(e)  difficult ciimatic and ecological conditions restricting
forest productivity.
2.34          The climatic and ecological conditions cannot be changed but
more research is needed to develop suitable technologies that are more
productive and better adapted to this environment. The active participation
of the local populations is a sine gua n   for a successful forest development
program. Not only are they a potential source of investment funds but also
their sometimes outright hostility to reforestation which involves the closing
of forest rangeland for extended periods of time needs to be changed through
infcrmation programs. In some areas these attitudes have already been
successfully changed (para. 2.16). The severe government budget constraints
make it necessary to seek other sources of finance, particularly the
involvement of the wood processing industry and other private initiatives (eg.
social and farm forestry) need to be promoted. However, in order to arrest
the rapid deforestation and soil erosion in Morocco and to maintain existing
assets and establish new forest resources in target-oriented programs, a
comprehensive planning framework is required within which such activities can
take place. The necessary data for such a planning framework are lacking and
need to be generated. Also, the existing legislative framework is not always
conducive to an effective resource management or is not properly applied. The
Government is already reviewing forest legislation (para. 2.26) and the
project would address the other constraints.
I.  Bank Involvement in Agriculture in Morocco
2.35          Bank Group lending to Morocco began in 1965.  To date, 94 loans
and credits have been made, supported by US$4.4 B Bank and IDA funds (US$45.2
H of IDA credits), net of cancellations. In agriculture, 15 projects have



. 16 -
been completed, 10 are being implemented, and one has just been signed,
totalling US$1.3 B of Bank Group lending. These include: eight irrigation
grojects, Sidi Slimane (FY65), Sebou (FY70), Souss Groundwater (FY75),
Doukkala I (FY76) and II (FY77), all completed, Two Small- and Medium-Scale
Irrigation (FY83 and FY88) and a Large Scale Irrigation Improvement Project
(FY86); seven agricultural credit projects (FY66, FY73, FY77, FY79, FY84, all
completed, and FY86 and FY89), five rainfed aaricultural deve1ooment projects
in the Meknes (FY75), and Loukkos (FY80) completed, Fes-Karia-Tissa (FY79),
Middle- Atlas (FY82) and Oulmes RouruAni (FY83) areas; an agro-industrial and
flood control project, Sebou 1I (FYt.. completed);a vejetable and marketing
groiect (FY80 completed); a forestry groiect (FY82); and two agricultural
sector adjusta4nt loans (FY86 and FY88) one of which has been satisfactorily
completed. An agricultural research and extension 2roiect was signed in
September 1989 but is not yet effective.
2.36          Performance of Bank-financed projects in agriculture has
generally been satisfactory. Performance in irrigation projects has been good
once initial problems of land distribution and organisational delays in
construction and in procurement of irrigation equipment were overcome. The
Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR) for the Sebou I Project (Loan 643-MOR)
stresses the project's success in institution building and in contributing to
increasing crop production. The PPAR of the Sebou II Project (Loan 1018-MOR)
notes that the project was successful in introducing commercial sugarcane
production and processing but stresses the vulnerability of investments in
commodities like sugar which are subject to wide price fluctuations. An OED
Impact Evaluation Report for Doukkala I and II projects (Loans 1201- and 1416-
MOR) concluded that the projects complemented well Government's objectives of
investing in large-scale irrigation to enhance domestic food self-sufficiency,
boost export earnings and expand rural employment opportunities.  The PPAR of
the Souss Groundwater Project (Loan 1123-MOR) stresses the successful private
land consolidation and public land distribution and cooperative establishment
but highlights the neglect of maintenance due to inadequate funding and staff.
This problem was subsequently addressed country-wide through the Large Scale
Irrigation Improvement Project 'Loan 2656 MOR). Performance of the five
completed agxicultural gredit projects has been good and the PPARs stress the
contribution made to the country's agricultural development by the successful
expansion of credit to small farmers.
2.37          Rural Develonment Projects.  In the rainfed sector,the fitst
project (Meknes, Credit 555-MOR) experienced considerable delays due to land
redistribution problems, insuffic:.ent project preparation, optimistic
implementation targets and managerment inexperience in Morocco. The following
four projects, Fes-Karia-Tissa, Loukkos, Middle Atlas and Oulmes Rommani
(Loans 1602, 1848, 2082 and 2217-MOR), which all have important forestry and
soil conservation components, were designed to minimise such organisational
and management problems and are progressing satisfactorily (Loukkos is
completed) except that the completion dates have been considerably extended
due to delays caused by the general financial crisis from which Morocco is now



- 17 -
emerging. In the Fes-Karia-Tissa project, although the agricultural
components have been successfully executed, the project has suffered
particuiar delays to permit the implementation of the component for water
supply to difflcult access areas.
2.38          Foestry.  The four rural development projects referred to
above, all included experimental or innovative, improved practices for
forestry plantations, exploitation, soil conservation, range management, pest
management, etc., and institution-building. Their implementation, although
slowed down, has been technically successful. The experience from the earlier
of these project components was included in the Forestry I Proiect
(Gharb-Mamora, FY82 Loan 2110-MOR for US$27.5 M, extended two years and
closing June 30, 1990). The main objectives of the Forestry I project were
(a) to establish plantations to increase the production of pulpwood for the
local mill and of industrial timber and fuelwood to meet domestic needs and
(b) to strengthen planning and management in the sector. The project
components included the stumping and replanting of 20,000 ha of low-yielding
eucalypt plantations, reforestation of 10,000 ha of degraded cork oak forest
with eucalypt, acacia and pines, upgrading and construction of 180 km of
forest roads and maintenance of 500 km, pasture improvement of 2,600 ha,
research, training and studies (range management, training needs, forest
inventory, rationalisation of forest management and financing of forestry
operations).
2.39          Technically, the implementation of the Forestry I project has
been successful, although it has suffered delays which do not reflect poor
performance by the Forest Department but are due to budgetary shortfalls
imposed by Morocco's financial problems (para 2.37). About two-thirds of the
plantation and road construction program had been achieved by the end of
November 1988. The methods developed for the stumping have proven to be very
effective and thLe costs are effectively covered from the revenres obtained
from the sale of the stumps for fuelwood. The recommendations from the range
management study on cork oak grazing are being implemented and financed by the
communes; so far more than 2,000 ha have been improved. The training
objectives and course materials, which came out of the training study will be
implemented although the delivery will be modified. Some progress is being
made on the recommendations from the studies on self-financing but this
objective can only be achieved over time, considering all the vested interests
involved. The forest inventory has been a victim of the budget constraints
but a contract has now been signed and the activity will be pursued and
completed under the proposed Second Forestry Development project.
J. Lessons Learned
2.40          The lessons learned by the Bank in eleven years of experience
with forestry projects and components in Morocco have been taken into account
in the design of the proposed project, including:
(a) Bank financing does not guarantee that sufficient funds
will actually be available for the project since Bank funds



. 18-
cover only part of the project costs and since anyway, to
be authorised, all expenditures need to appear in the
Government budget, exposing then to general budget cuts
(para 7.09).
(b) Remedy to degradation of forests and deforestation can be
applied more readily after precise identification of where
it is happening (through inventory) and its causes (Paras
4.04; 4.06).
(c) Unless state f0orests are clearly demarcated, encroachments
are difficult to prevent (Para . 05).
(d) Technical success in treating relatively small water
catchment areas and forest ranges is not enough to
guarantee its replicability and to ensure a real impact on
the very large tracts requiring interventions in Morocco.
For this purpose the methods used need to be cheap,
requiring a minimum of budget funds and relying to a
maximum extent on self-financing and the participation of
the local populations (paras 4.12 and 4.19).
(e) Management of the forest resource requires an integrated
approach, taking into account the various demands on it,
e.g. domestic stock grazing (para 4.13).
III. THE PROJECT AREA
A. Genneral
3.01          The project area comprises all of Morocco but, research apart,
most project activities are taking place in the forest area in 21 out of
Morocco's more than 40 provinces (Map IBk) no. 21506). Essentially the
forests are linked to the relief. From souzh-west to north-east they occur in
the High Atlas, the Anti Atlas, the Middle Atlas and the Debdou chain in the
east. Forests also occur in the Rif mountains in the north and the central
high plains. This accounts for 4.2 M ha of the forest area. The remaining
some 1 M ha is divlded between one area around Larache and Souk-el-Arba in the
north, another including Mamora and Ben Slimane, inland from Rabat, and yet
another in the south in the regions of Essaouira, Agadir and Tiznit.
B.  Climate. Soils and Sgecies Distributi -
3.02          The climate and soils are the main determinants for the
distribution of tree species and their potential production. One may
distinguish three groups of trees, those which grow in the relatively high
rainfall areas (500-1,800 mm per year), in semi arid areas (250-500 mm) and in
arid areas (100-250 m). The high rainfall areas with humid and sub-humid



- 19 -
climate are in the mountains where the principal species is holm oak which may
grow from 1,000-2,000 m altitude. with scattered stands of zen oak and
maritime maghreb pines. Cedar is the other important mountain species from
1,400-2,200 m, occuring mixed with holm oak at lower altitudes and pure higher
up. Semi-arid areas form a belt around the slopes of the mountains and extend
far into the Atlantic plains from Agadir to Fes as well as into the
Medlterranean coast from Tetouan to the Algerian border. Junipers and Aleppo
pines grow where winters are relatively cooler, the latter requiring more
rainfall (400-600 mm). Where winters are milder both are replaced by Thuya.
Cork oak overlaps the subhumid (Rif, Larache) and semi-arid (Mamora, Ben
Slimane) climates and requires acid and well drained soils. In the arit
areas, argan is the main tree species in the south covering the regions of
Essaouira, Agadir and Tiznit sand, in the north-east, esparto grass is the
principal vegetation on the steppes.
C.  Population and Infrastructure
3.03          Morocco has a population of 24 N growing at about 2.4X per
annum.  About half is rural concerned mainly with agriculture and livestock
activities.  The forestry law limits the usufruct of forest rangeland
(para.2.25) to membexs of a tribe bordering the forest or those traditionally
visiting the forest during seasonal migrations.  However, as explained in para
2.15, increased population pressure has led to increasing use of the forest by
these and other people and a consequent decreasing productivity of forest
range lands and has prevented natural regeneration of Morocco's indigenous
forests.
3.04          Taking due account of market demand and social constraints, the
selected sites for project plantations are those with climatic and soil
characteristics such as to give highest yields. The same factors, and the
need to ensure the active participation of the local populations, have been
taken into account in the selection of forest regeneration and range
management activities.
3.05          The forest road network, which is the responsability of the
DEFCS, is of low density and is poorly maintained because of lack of funds but
the project would develop the forest infrastructure necessary to support its
activities. Outside the forest, Morocco has a good network of main and
secondary roads which serve the whole country.



- 20 -
IV. THE      ECT
A. Obiectives. Rationale and MaLn Features
OblectivesL
4.01          The objectives of the project are (a) to support environmentally
sound management and development of Morocco's forest resources and (b) to
prepare and test components for a national watershed management program aimed
at addressing soil erosion in the country's wacer catchments.  The project
represents priority investments from DEFCS's 5-year investment program. It
would (a) strengthen ferestry planning and policies, (b) assist Morocco in
maintaining and improving its forestry potential to meet the country's wood
and energy needs and protect its soils and watersheds in harmony with other
demands on the resources such as domestic stock grazing and (c) support an
investment program towards these goals.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
4.02          The project is included among the investment priorities under
the Medium-Term Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program defined under the
Bank's Second Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan and in the Government's
target investment program (PIC) identified under the Structural Adjustment
Loan. It is an important element in the Government and Bank energy strategy
and in Morocco's 5-year plan strategy for the conservation and more efficient
utilisation of the country's natural resources. Under the forestry components
in earlier Bank projects and the Forestry I project 'paras. 2.37 and 2.38),
the Bank has assisted in the introduction and pilot application of new
techniques and practices with the objective of a wider application, if
successful. The proposed project is a logical sequence to generalise the
improvements made and lessons drawn from earlier projects on a country-wide
basis. The planning and institution building process and the strengthening of
the Forest Department (DEFCS) is a relatively long-term endeavour not yet
completed. To this end, Morocco needs continued support and the Bank would
provide centinuity in this assistance and is uniquely placed to inject
experience from neighbouring countries and from elsewhere in the world into
Morocco's forestry operations.
Main Components
4.03         To achieve the project's objectives, priority investments have
been defined from the DEFCS 5-year investment program for inclusion in the
project. The project accounts for just over half (DH 672M) of DEFCS's capital
budget for the period, and also includes investments (DH 155M) financed by the
local communities and executed by DEFCS. It would include the following main
components:



- 21 -
(a) Forestrv Planning-  (i)   Forest Inventory; (ii) Forest Demarcation;
(iii) Forest Management Planning; (iv) National
Reforestation Plan;
(b) Forest Ooerations-  (i) Regeneration of Natural Forests; (ii)
Plantation Establishment; (iii) Watershed
Managasment; (iv) Forest Range Development; (v)
Forest Roads; (vi) Communal Component;
(c) Support Activities- (i) Nature Conservation; (ii) Forest Research
and Fuelvood Study; (iii) Training; (iv)
Institutional Development; (v) Housing and
Equipment.
B. Detailed Descrintion
Forestry Planning
4.04          Forest Inventorv. Morocco has never had a national forest
inventory (para 2.02). The proposed project would provide funds for the
completion of the inventory to be started under the Forestry I project which
would cover the entire national forest area with an intensity giving at least
85X precision. It would use aerial photographs, satellite imagery and ground
surveys to prepare two sets of maps of 1:100,000 and 1:500,000 scales.
Existing photos taken after 1980 would be used together with new aerial
photography which would be taken on a 1:20,000 scale over about 1 M ha of the
Rif, the region mostly subjected to illicit clearance in recent years. A team
of three forestry graduates and five technicians from DEFCS would work full
time with the consultants chosen to carry out the study after having been
trained by them. An important training program to permit the effective use,
maintenance and updating of the inventory would also be provided. The service
order (ordre de service) for the inventory has been issued and DEFCS has
already established an Inventory Monitoring and Management Unit. Assurance
was obtaint,d at negotiations that this unit would at all times be maintained
to maintair and update the inventory. The Inventory would be completed within
four years. (For dotails, see Project File, Item 2, Annex 1 and Item 5.)
4.05          Demarcation of Forest Estate. The project would contribute
towards the demarcation of the entire forest area by demarcating about half of
the remaini,- undemarcated area or about 373,000 ha, and by consolidating the
old boundaries of another 74,000 ha. Most of these demarcations would be in
the Rif area in the north where illicit clearance has been most severe. The
work would be carried out under force account and twenty new demarcation teams
would be trained to augment DEFCS's existing 18 teams. The project would
provide for the manufacture of the pilla's and for labour and transport for
their placing. (For details, see Project File, Item 2, Annex 2.)



- 22 -
4.06           legyaration of Forest Manageen=t Plan..   Working plans would be
progressively prepared to permit the effective management and exploitation of
the forests.   The project would previde for the preparation of working plans
for about 686,000 ha of priority forests and for the revision of plans for
another 61,000 ha. Y-odern, operationally more suitable and less costly plans
would be introduced to replace conventional very complex management plans from
before the computer age. The new management plans would be of three basic
categories. 'Simple plans," including all the data needed for modern forest
management, would be prepared for indigenous forests of "noble species" (i.e.
cedar, cork oak and pine) which have been demarcated (167,000 ha). Secondly,
"basic" plans, including the mapping and division of the forest area into
compartments for management purposes, would be prepared for other demarcated
indigenous species (219,000 ha). Third, working plans would be prepared for
those plantations (300,000 ha) which are not already covered. The CRABVF
centres, including those that were recently established for this purpose with
UNDP/FAO assistance (para. 2.07) would share the work, as required, with
private consultants. Assurance was obtained from the Government at
negotiations that modern management plans would be prepared with terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank and that prescribed treatments would actually
be carried out. (For details, see Project File Item 2, Annex 1.)
4.07          National Reforestation Plan. The last such plan was adopted in
1971. Drawing on the experience gained since then and making use of the
inventories and studies carried out in connection with the project, a new
updated version of the National Reforestation Plan whica takes account of
present realities would be prepared under the project, by June 30, 1995.
Assurance to this end was obtained at negotiations.
Forest ODerations
4.08          Regeneration of Natural Forest.  Population and livestock
pressure on Morocco's forests almost excludes the possibility of natural
regeneration of much of the country's most valuable forest (para. 3.03).
Recently progress has been made in regenerating some natural cedar and cork
oak areas by involving the local populations and overcoming their hostility to
DEFCS's efforts in this respect (paras 5.07 and 6.02). Regeneration can only
be successful if the area is closed to livestock for an extended number of
years to allow the undisturbed regrowth of the young plants. Continuing this
approach, the project would contribute to rejuvenating and preserving
Norocco's unique and most valuable forests and provide for the regeneration of
about 13,400 ha of cedar and 5,000 ha of cork oak (Table 4.1).



- 23 -
Table 4. 1: REGENERATION OF NATURAL FOREST
(hectares)
Soecies  Yes         1          2         3         4n 5                    l
Cedar               2560       2650      2650      2740       2770       13370
Cork Oak             750      .10A12                                      5000
3310      3500      3650       3890      4020       18370
4.09          The work consists of first fencing off the area that is to be
regenerated. For cedar, the natural regeneration that is thus allowed to take
place undisturbed is then either "complemented' by filling in the relatively
few gaps (about 200 per ha) with seedlings raised at DEFCS's nurseries, or
"aided" where 700 to 1100 seedlings are planted per ha. On broken ground,the
holes are at the ends of hoed terraces, 4 m long and 1 m wide, but mostly the
holes can be dug directly. For cork oak, more thorough land preparation is
usually necessary using destumping and mechanical soil preparation with a
ripper, after which the acorns are sown in pits. In some 250 ha, however,
where density of old trees is less than 50 stems/ha, trees will be cut without
stumping and comparisons will be made of land preparation costs and subsequent
seedling growth by the Research Division. Weeding is required in the two
springs following the planting: hoeing for cedar and harrowing for cork oak.
(For details, see Project File, Item 2, Annex 3.)
4.10.         Plantation Establishment.  Some 20,000 ha of fast-growing
plantations of eucalypts are to be established under the project, comprising
7,000 ha of clones of Eucalytus caaldulengis and of hybrids with E  grandis
and E  globulus, and 13,000 seedlings of L. camaldulensis and L 9=phoceghala
(Table 4.2). The program will cover four provinces.
Table 4.2: ANNUAL REFORESTATION PROGRAM OF EUCALYPT
(hectares)
Year    1         2          3         4         5         Total
SRecies
E. clones           1,400      1,400     1,400     1,400      1,400      7,000
E. camaldulensis    2,200      2,200     2,200     2,200      2,200     11,000
E. gomphocephala      400        400       400       400        400     2L000
Total             4,000      4,000     4,000     4,000      4,000     20,000



- 24 -
4.11          The first three models of eucalypt plantations are concerned
primarily with wood production in sub-humid and semi-arid zones of old
plantation areas on government land. They will be established with mechanised
land preparation (stumping) and managed on three rotations of ten years for
production of pulpwood, agricultural posts, poles and fuelwood. The fourth
eucalypt model is designed to to be established on collective land and provide
windbreak for forage shrubs and for land reclamation and requires mechanised
ripping of the soil to break a superficial calcareous crust. (For details,
see Project File, Item 2, Annex 4.). The project also includes a program of
measures to promote reforestation by the private sector so as to increase
funding available for reforestation, commensurate with Morocco's needs. It
includes a study on prices to be charged by DEFCS for wood supplied to La
Cellulose.   Assurance was obtained at negotiations that the government would
by December 31, 1992, implement measures satisfactory to the Bank designed to
promote the carrying out of reforestation activities on state land by La
Cellulose and other private sector enterprises (para 2.21). These measures
include making land available to such enterprises for plantation of trees
needed in their operations. Also, assuance was obtained at negotiations that
the Government shall (i) not later than December 31, 1992, complete the study
on prices to be charged to La Cellulose; and, (ii) ensure that upon the
expiration of the protocol for pulpwood supply in 1993, any transitional
arrangements to supply the company with pulpwood be at prices based on the
study and agreed upon between the Government and the Bar.n
4.12          Watershed Management.  To help develop approaches and low cost
technologies suitable for a future large-scale watershed management effort
which would ir-'olve the populations, the project would include experimental
and demonstration field works and a watershed management study (para 4.19).
The field works to be carried out in two typical watersheds, Loukkos and
Lalk&dar (para 2.13), would provide a full scale testing ground for differernt
approaches and techniques and close collaboration would be maintained with the
respective regional watershed management centers (CRABVFs) at Tetouan and
Marrakech (para 2.07). The watershed management operations would comprise:
(a) reforestation of about 3,100 ha (primarily Acacia cvanophvlla, Pinus
hale2ensis and P. canariensis); (b) silvo-pastoral operations up to a total of
1,200 ha of forage shrubs, permanent grasslands and improvement of natural
grasslands by seeding, fertilisation and rotational grazing; (c) mechanical
treatment of ravines involving the establishment of some 1,400 units of large
and small silt traps, installation of discontinuous stone walls and small dams
and the digging of small terraces to improve rainwater infiltration; (d)
biological treatment of ravines, essentially involving the planting of the
flanks with &, cyanoRhylla over 20,000 linear metres; and (e) about 5,000 ha
fruit trees would be established in each of the two watersheds (see Table
4.3). (Details are given in Project File, Item 2, Annex 5.)



* 25 -
Table 4.I: ANNUAL WATERSHED MANAGFJENT PROGRAM
1         2         3         4          5        Total
Reforestation (ha)   500        500       600       600        800       3,000
Mechanical
Treatment (units)   200        300       300       300        300       1,400
Blological
Treatment (units) 1,500      2,500     4,000     5,500      6,500      20.000
Sllvo-pastoral
Treatment (ha)      150        .50       250       250        400       1,200
Fruit Tree
Plantation (ha)   1,500      1,800     2,000     2,200      2.500      10,000
4.13         EForst Range Management.  The silvo-pastoral component of the
project would help develop intensified forest range uanagement to produce
substitute feed for domestic stock, compensating for the closing of forests
for natural regeneration or reforestation. For this purpose the project would
provide:
(a) silvo-pastoral development operations in the two areas
where adequate studieo are available, namely about 17,000
ha in the forest of Bouhasoussen and 10,000 ha at Sahel des
Doukkala;
(b) the strengthening of the silvo-pastoral seed farm at M'Da;
and
(c)  seven silvo-pastoral development studies covering in total
97,000 ha and one pilot study of the argan forest area in a
selected rural commune.
In the Bouhasoussen forest, the project works would include the fencing of
17,000 ha of which 2,000 ha would be fertilised and 500 ha planted with forage
shrubs. Project funds would also be provided for 78 km of forest roads, 12
water points, five simple sheds and, in order to strengthen the management
unit, for 12 new staff, two four-wheel drive vehicles and some small
equipment.  At Salhel des Doukkala, operations would include the establishment
of 2,000 ha of wind-break eucalypt plantation (para 4.10) and the planting of
6,400 ha of forage shrubs. Two fuur-wheel drive vehicles and small equipment
would also be provided. Training would be provided for staff at both
locations. The project would provide equipment for the K'Da seed farm and
rehabilitate its buildings, establish 50 ha of forage shrub 'orchards' and
rejuvenate existing annual (50 ha) and perennial (100 ha) seed production
plantations. The seven silvo-pastoral development studies would help to
remedy the present constraint on more extensive forest range development,



* 26 -
which is the lack of plans. The argan forest fills an important role in the
economy of southern Morocco, particularly for women and is presently the
subject of a Ba6k, Women in Development, sector study. (For details, see
Project File, Item 2, Annex 6:)
4.14          The argan tree is also important as protection of the sand dunes
against erosion. However, little is known on how to conserve and regenerate
this forest as an integral part of the local populations' agricultural and
livestock activities. The proposed socio-oconoic cum technical integrated
argan forest study is coordinated with and would support the Women in
Development sector work. It would be carried out in a selected commune in the
Essaouira province and would propose an agro-silvo-pastoral approach within
the context of the local economy. All the studies would be carried out by
outside consultants. To plan and coordinate the work, the headquarters'
forest range management unit would be strengthened by September 30, 1990 to
include one socio-economist and one livestock specialist. Assurauce to thls
end was obtained at negotiations.
4.15          Egrest.aBRoA.  The density of forest roads in Morocco is very
low and DEFCS, which is responsible for such roads, has a long term objective
to double the existing network by the construction of 14,000 km of new roads.
As a result of budgceary constraints, the existing forest road network is also
in a bad state of repair. The project would provide funds for the
construction of 250 km of new roads in the project areas according to standard
DEFCS specifications and for the rehabilLtation of 1,450 km of existing roads.
4.16          Communal Investments.  In project preparation, efforts were made
to find new investment funds for forestry, outside DEFCS's budget. In
response to joint efforts by the ministries of Agriculture and of the Interior
and with the understanding of participation in a World Bank Project, the local
populations who derive part of their incomes from the forests (para 2.30),
with DEFCS's help prepared a 5-year forestry investment program which would be
financed over their communal budgets. Under this component the project would
establish about 11,000 ha of plantations, regenerate some 14,000 ha of
indigenous cedar and cork oa'k forests, develop about 500 ha of forest ranges,
stabilise 370 ha of dunes, rehabilitate 100 km of forest roads. The location
of the sites within the respective communes have been defined and all
operations would be executed by the Forest Department.  Most operations would
follow the sam,- models and be executed to the same standards as the
corresponding components financed over DEFCS's budget. Only dune fixation-
aoes not have any such corresponding component but would be carried out
following normal DEFCS practices, which are satisfactory to the Bank. The
Ministry of the Interior has confirmed that sufficient communal resources
would be available for project investments under this component.
SUPPORT ACTIVITIES
4.17          Nature Conservatign.  Although the whole project would have
beneficial environmental effects and help to conserve and develop Morocco's
forest resources and natural environment, this component would specifically



- 27 -
address environmental issues and contribute to the preservation and
enhancement of the Kingdom's nature with its unique and varied flora and
fauna. Under the project simple management plans would be prepared for
protected areas and their equipment needs assessed. The project would provide
equipment and infrastructure for the protection and management of two such
areas (or more, depending on the costs of their needs). As a first step for
the management of Morocco's fauna and flora, inventories would be carried out
and priority actions would be determined. Forest management plans would be
reviewed to ensure that due consideration is given to nature conservation and
the preservation of endangered species. The project would initiate an effort
to inform and sensitise the populations and the bureaucratic apparatus (e.g.
customs, postal services for exports of endangered species etc.) on nature
conservation issues.
4.18          To execute this program the project would strengthen the
existing organisation and would establish a new nature research and management
unit of five professionals, which would be attached to the Forest Posearch
Division (Chart WB44431).  Assurance was obtained at negotiations that the
unit would be established by September 30, 1990, with at least 5 professional
staff.  Terms of reference for the unit are in Project Files.  The project
would equip the unit with one four-wheel drive vahicle, two light vehicles (of
which one for a mobile extension centre), audio-visual aids, fiel4-,
laboratory- and training equipment, a micro computer with basic software and a
basic scientific reference library.  The project would provide operating funds
for the unit including vehicle operating expenses and staff travel allowances
and displacement allowances for local consultants.  Twenty-four man months of
short term training overseas and nine man-months of technical assistance,
would also be provided for the nature conservation program. A small task
force would be set up to define measures to strengthen the management of the
two protected areas selected to be equipped. (For details, see Project File,
Item 2, Annex 7.)
4.19          Forest Research.  The project would support research in five
main areas, namely: (a) genetic improvement of tree species, (b) production of
fuelwood, () silvo-pastoral management, (d) watershed management; and (e)
silvicultural treatment of young conifer plantations (for details on the
research program see Project File, Item 2, Annex 8).   Under the first topic,
the project would establish provenance trials for eucalypt (300 ha) and pines
(300 ha). The project would also provide one light- and three four-wheel
drive vehicles, vehicle operating costs, and salaries, travel allowances and
training for three researchers at the Sidi Amira Tree Multiplication Centre.
Under (b) the project would provide labour, staff travel allowances and
vehicle operating costs for studies of the most effective silvicultural
treatment of certain indigenous species (holm oak, argan and thuya) for
increasing fuelwood production. Under (c) the project would strengthen the
scientific experimentation and monitoring of silvo-pastoral management in
order to improve and develop replicable forest range management techniques.
For this purpose the project would provide two four-wheel drive vehicles, a
micro computer and small research equipment, labour and soil and other
laboratory equipment for field experiments, vehicle operating costs, staff
travel allowances, short-term training and seminars overseas and 10 man-



28 -
months of technical assistance. The aim under (d) is to promote cheap,
acceptable means of soil conservation (e.g. vetiver grass) or appropriate land
use among the farming communities in Moroccan watersheds, primarily through
syntheses of soil conservation techniques and of organizational/management
measures, for which the project would provide technical assistance, equipment,
vehicles and travel funds. Finally, under (e) the project would finance the
study of cleaning, thinning, pruning and marking of final crop trees ln young
conifer plantations and would provide vehiclas, tools and casual labor to
support DEFCS's initiatives to improve the production of conifer plantations.
For the purpose of the project, the Research Division would maintain at all
times experts in forest range management, soil conservacion, biometry and one
economist and a sociologist. Assurance to this end was obtained at
negotiations. The Ministry of Agriculture and DEFCS have reviewed the forest
research priorities and prepared (a) a forest research program, (b) a detailed
proposal for the watershed management study and (c) a detailed proposal for a
research program on silvicultural treatment of young conifer plantations, all
of which are satisfactory.
4.20            uselwood Study.  Little information ip available on household
usage of fuelwood although this is one of the major factors responsible for
the deforestation and desertificatior. in Morocco (para 2.03). To permit the
effective planning of meeting the fuelwood needs of the populations, the
project would provide consultancies to carry out a detailed study which would
complement a USAID/Bank/GOM joint household energy study presently being
undertaken. The study would be in two parts, the first part would collect and
analyse data on the present situation which would then be used in the second
part for defining an action program. Terms of reference for the study are
available in Project Files.
4.21          Institution Development.  At present, the director of DEFCS has
little assistance in the central coordination of planning and the prioritising
of investment demands. The project unit established under Forestry I would
therefore be maincained and strengthened with one economist and one officer in
charge of extension activities to serve as Programmin& and Monitoring Unit
(PMU). Initially the unit would plan, coordinate and monitor project
activities but as more experience is gained it is expected that it would cover
all DEFCS's activities. For its data collection, storage and processing
needs, the PYU would be equipped with one of the 25 IBM compatible XT-type
personal computers with printers, software and ancillary materials provided
under the project. The project would provide 3 man-months of local
consultancy to the unit for cost accountancy training and 10 man-months of
consultancy to determine the data storage and processing needs of the DEFCS,
draw up equipment specifications and provide training.
4.22          The reorganisation of governmental services in Morocco requires
long and difficult administrative procedures and therefore only minor ad hoc
adjustments have been made in DEFCS's ao nisation (not requiring such
procedures) to meet changing needs. In consequence, the present organisation
does not permit DEFCS to discharge its now more diversified responsibilities
in the most effective manner. A study, with terms of reference satisfactory
to the Bank would, therefore, be carried out on the organisational structure



- 29 -
of the DEFCS. Organisatlonal proposals for the forest service, including job
descriptions for key staff, would be made for discussion with the Bank and the
agreed recommendations would be implemented by the Government by
June 30, 1992. An assurance to this end was obtained at negotiations.
4.23          Because of the increased population pressure and the resulting
over-exploitation of Morocco's forest and soll resources there is an added
need for informing and sensitising the populations about the sustainable
management of the national forest wealth and for disseminating advice on the
planting of trees at homesteads or vlllagea for fuelwood and other needs, on
the management of forest ranges, on soil conservatlon measures etc. The
project would initiate an extension pro;rm. for DEFCS to utllise the existing
agricultural extension service (presently being strengthened under the Bank's
Agricultural Research and Extension project) in the inistry of Agriculture
for the dissemination of such information. Use would be made of the extension
agents' regular visits to the farmers under the adapted T&V system where :here
would be sufficient capacity to include forestry information among the
messages transmitted to the farmers. Forest officers in the DPA's would serve
as subject-matter specialists and participate in the training of extension
staff in forestry matters. The project would provide one extension officer at
DEFCS headquarters to manage the program (para 4.21) and messages would be
prepared by the various divisions in the DEFCS, notably the research division
and reviewed and approved by the technical consultative research committee,
modified as required, Information would also be disseminated via regional
radio programs and 'spots' on the national TV. The costs of pamphlets,
brochures and other information materials and advertisements would not be very
high and would be financed over DEFCS's regular budget. A program for
forestry extension has been prepared by DEFCS and the Agricultural Extension
Service and is acceptable to the Bank.
4.24          The extension program would also benefit women who would be
subject to an expanded extension effort based on the results of a nationwide
study commissioned by the Government and carried out with FAO support and
which would be completed by the end of 1989. Each DPA now has a women's
section. The role of women in forestry varies from one region of Morocco to
another. Women are particularly active in livestock management in some
regions and often are responsible for the collection of minor forest products
(honey, mushrooms, acorns etc.) and fuelwood and would play a major role in
homestead tree planting.
4.25          Staff Housing.  To permit the protection and effective
management of the forest, field staff are provided housing in the forest
areas. Most forestry houses in Morocco are old and have gradually fallen into
disrepair, creating much dissatisfaction among staff that has not been
conducive to loyalty and good work performance. To help remedy thls situation
a start has be-n made to repair and to refurbish the houses and the project
would provide funds for the rehabllitation of 600 of the 1,325 forest houses
that exist.



- 30 -
4.26          Vehicles and Eguii Cent. Of the existing 243 four-wheel drive
and 92 light vehicles, 40X are more than 10 years old and ln poor working
order. The project would orovide 88 four-wheel drive and 10 light cars of
which 12 and 8, respectively, are for special activities specified undet other
components in this chapter but most are for replacement. Eight four-wheel
drive vehicles would be fitted for firefighting in the provinces. Ten
man-months of consultancy has been included in the project to determine the
data collection, storage and retrieval needs of the DEFCS and the project
would provide 25 IBU compatible PC XT-type computers with printers, software
and ancillary material.
4.27          Staff Training.  In addition to the training provided under the
respective components, the project would provide, annually, two five-day
in-service training sesslons for forestry graduates and one five-day lession
for forestry tochnlcians. DEFCS has approximately 300 graduates and 1,100
technicians, which in a full year amounts to 8,500 man-days of training. (For
details on Housing, Equipment, and Training, see Project File, Item 2, Annex
9.)
C. Projegt Costs
4.28          Total costs of the project, including contingencies, are
estimated at DH 827 M (US$100.0 K equivalent), of which DH 253 M (US$30.7 M)
would be foreign exchange costs and DH 165 M (US$19.9 M) duties and taxes.
The cost estimates are based on 1989 prices.  Physical co tingencies
(averaging 61 of basb costs) have been applied to civil works (101) and other
items (51) except for vehicles and training (01). Price contingencies are
based on expected domestic and forelgn price increases and are shown below:
Table 4.4: INFLATION RATE (X)
FY89    FY90    FY91    FY92    FY93+
Local                  4.5     5.0     5.0     5.0     5.0
International          5.3     5.3    4.1    4.1       4.1



- 31 -
Table 4.S: PROJECT COST SUIKRY
- 0 Ni  ion--- -----u9 *  iUlo---
Local Foreiqn    lotal   Leael Foreiqn        otal    z ore TXtotal
FoRESaY PLAMNV
1. tnventry & For"t Plan                2       12       14      0.3      1.4      1.7        3 
Forest kar'eatimn                    20      10        '0      2.3      1.3      3.6       35        4
3. Forest Mneagement Plans             10        3       19      1.9      0.4      2.3       1s        3
FOST OPEtaT oSS
L. RA. rattn of Naturel Foret          46       t0       70      8.3      1.3      9.6       13       i2
2. Plantation gBtablishtet            114       61      175     13.5      7.1    21.3        29       26
3. blaterShs l anaQet                  32       11       43      3.9      1.3      1.2       25        6
4. Forw-t Rang. Os.lo_mnt              51       14       67      6.2      1.9      6.1       23       10
5. Forest Ro"s                         2.6      19       45      3.2      2.3      5.5       43        7
&. Co.mnal Comowent                    69       39      12      L0.0      4.4     15.4       :0       19
SUPPORT ACTIVtItES
1. Nature Con"rvatton                   5        4        9      0.      0.5        1       49        1
2. Research R Fuiwo-I     Study        17        7       _4      2.1      0.9        3       *0        4
3. institution  -v-eloem_t              I        -        L      0.1        -      0.1       12        0
4. Housing & Equtment                  22       14       34      2.6      1.7      4.3       29        s
S. Training                             6        1        7      0.7      0.1      O.' si              I
DAIS agj                           449      207      674     16.7    :5.2      91.9    S 1        100
Phsical Centsngencies                26       12       Z6      3.2      1.4      4.4        1        6
Price Cantigencies                   7        34      t13      9.4      4.1     13.5       :0       l&
Total PISEG  CSI                   174      253     627     49.3  :0.7          1 o1     21      122



- 32 -
D. Financing
4.29      The proposed Bank loan of US$49 H would finance about 60X of total
project costs excluding taxes and duties. This includes foreign exchange
costs estimated at DH 245 M (US$29.7 M) and DH 160 M (US$19.3 M) of local
costs. The loan amount has been specifically reduced by US$1.0 M because
procurement procedures inconsistent with Bank Guidelines would be used by the
Government for vehicle procurement (para 4.33). Of the remaining DH 422 H
(US$ 51 M) of costs (including taxes and duties) DH 267 M (US$32.2 M) would be
financed through budget allocations by the Government of Morocco in its annual
investment program and DH 155 M (US$18.8 M) by the participating communes
through their annual budgets.
4.30      Retroactive financing of up to US$0.5 H would be provided to allow
early project start-up and would cover eligible expenditures incurred after
June 30, 1989.
4.31      Agreement was reached at negotiations that in order to ensure the
timely availability of funds to meet project expenditures, the Borrower may
open a Special Account in Dirhams on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank. The authorised allocation to be d.eposited in the Special Account in
Dirhams, representing about four months of project expenditures, would be the
equivalent of US$2.5 H (DH 21 M).



- 33 -
E. Procurement
4.32      Procurement arrangements would be as shown in Table 4.6 and detailed
below:
Table 4.6: PROCUREMENT TABLE
(US$ M)
Procurement Method
Proiect element          ICB     LIB    LCB     Other 1/  N.A.           Total
Cost
Civil works (Roads,        -             8.9      4.6        -            13.5
buildings and wells)                   (7.1)   ( - )                    (7.1)
Field operations                        42.1      6.7        -            48.8
(31.1)   ( - )                   (31.1)
Vehicles                                    -     1.9        -             1.9
( -)                     (-)
Equipment, tools,
materials,
farm inputs and
books                          0.2     1.8      0.9        -             2.9
(0.1)   (1.1)   (0.5)                    (1.7)
Technical Assistance
and Studies                                 -     7.6        -             7.6
(7.6)                    (7.6)
Training                                    -     1.5        -             1.5
(1.5)                    (1.5)
Incremental staff
salaries and
operating costs                             -      -        5.0            5.0
(-)         (   )
Communal component                               18.8                     18.8
(-)                      (-)
0.2     52.8   42.0        5.0         100.0
(0.1)   (39.3)  (9.6)       (-)         (49.0)
/ Force account for Civil Works and Field Activities, reserved procurement
for vehicles and local shopping or direct purchase (US$0.2M) for
Equipment, tools, etc.
Note:  Figures in paranthesis are amounts &isbursed by the Bank and include a
prorated share ef unallocated funds in Table 4.7.



- 34 -
4.33         All procurement under the project would be carried out by DEFCS
except for the communal component (not disbursed against) which is the
responsibility of the respective communes. Civil Works (US$13.5M) include
rehabilitation work on staff houses and the construction and repair of simple
forest toads and would be small, remote and dispersed both geographically and
over time and based on experience from the Forestry I project is unlikely to
be of interest to foreign bidders. Therefore, contracts not to exceed US$2M
each, would be let after competitive bidding advertised locally according to
Government procedures but with certain modifications to ensure that they are
satisfactory to the Bank. The local contracting industry is well developed
and adequate competition should be offered. However, for small items, not
disbursed against under the loan, the work would be carried out using DEFCS'
own staff and resources (US$4.6 M). Forest operations (US$42.1 M), including
stumping, soil preparation, planting and plantatiun maintenance, which are
dispersed both in time and geographically and which have attracted no foreign
bidders in previous projects, would be carried out under contracts not to
exceed US$2M each let through competitive bidding advertised locally according
to Government procedures modified as stated above. The aggregate amount of
all contracts let under LCB for civil works and forest operations would not
exceed US$51M equivalent.  Research and nursery operations (US$6.7 M) would be
under DEFCS' own staff and resources. The Communal component (US$18.8 M)
consists essentially of field activitier which would be carried out by DEFCS
in the same manner as such activities financed over its own budget. Vehicles
(US$1.9 M) would be procured through procedures inconsistent with Bank
Guidelines making them ineligible for Bank financing, and Computers (US$0.2M),
would be procured through limited international bidding, in accordance with
Bank guidelines. Other equipment.tools. materials, farm inputs and books
(US$2.7 M) , would be of assorted nature with individual contracts not
exceeding US$100,000 and required at different times in small lots throughout
the project area and would be procured following Government's local
procurement procedures, involving LCB of US$1.8 M. Local shopping would be
permitted for contracts below US$5,000 for a total of US$0.9 M. In cases of
proprietary or highly specialized items, such as seeds requiring special
qualities and books, direct purchase would be used; the amount involved is
estimated at US$0.2M. Consultants (US$7.6 M) would be employed in accordance
with Bank guidelines. TraininE (US$ 1.5M) and incremental staff salaries.
oRerating and maintenance costs (US$5.0 M) would not involve procurement and
would be handled following normal Government practices. Assurance was
obtained at negotiations that procurement for Bank financed items would be
carried out under procedures acceptable to the Bank.
4.34         Contract Review.  About 200 contracts are expected for civil
works and plantation activities. Since they would all be procured according
to standard procedures by DEFCS with only slight modifications (para 4.33),
and were already used in the Forestry I project, prior Bank review would only
be required for the first contract for works, the first contract for goods let
under LCB and any contract awarded under ICB or exceeding the value of US$0.5
M. The balance of contracts would be subject to random checking in the field
in the course of Bank supervision missions.



- 35 -
F. Disbursements
4.35         Disbursements unuer the project would extend over six and a half
years and be completed by June 30, 1996. This compares to the eight-year
period required according to the EMENA profile for agricultural projects and
is justified by the time-slice nature of the project which has only included
priority investments from DEFCS's five-year investment program.
Table 4.7:  PROJECT DISBURSEMENTS
Loan Allocation                1 of Expenditures
(USS  000)                      to be financed
1. Civil Works
(Roads and Buildings)
under contract                6,000                       80X
2. Forest Operations
under contract               30,000                       80X
3. Equipment, Tools,
Materials,
Farm Inputs & Books           1,800
a) Directly Imported                                    1001 of foreign
b) Locally Manufactured                                  1001 of ex-factory
c) Locally Procured                                      80% of local
4. Consultancy Services,
Studies & Training            8,700                     1001
5. Unallocated                   2.500
49,000
4.36        Disbursements against expenditures for the following items would
be against certified statements of expenditure:
(a)   payments under contracts for civil works and
plantation activities not exceeding US$500,000
equivalent;



- 36 -
(b)   locally procured equipment, tools, materials, farm
inputs and books under contracts costing US$50,000 or
less; and
(c)   local and overseas training costs.
Supporting documents for these items would be retained by the implementing
agencies and made available to Bank missions for their inspection. Withdrawal
applications for other items would be fully documented. If a Special Account
is established (par&. 4.31), all loan disbursements should be channelled
through the Special Account except that large expenditures which would cause
it to be significantly depleted may be submitted for payment directly by the
link. Applications for replenishment of the Special Account would be
submitted when the amounts withdrawn exceed about one-third of the authorised
allocation (initial deposit) or every three months, whichever comes first.
Disbursement applications for expenditures financed through the Special
Account should be accompanied by:
(a)   a statement of transactions on the Special Account
since the previous application, with the balance
certified by the Treasury.
(b)   a reconciliation showing that the balance represents
thc amount deposited in the account at the beginning
of the project (or subsequent years) less payment
awaiting Bank reimbursement.
G. Accounts and Audits
4.37        DEFCS, which would have overall coordinating responsibilities for
project implementation, would set up a project information system to maintain
all project related accounts, in accordance with sound accounting principles,
from the start of project implementation. The project would finance the cost
of establishing the system and of training accountants (para 4.21). Project
accounts would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank along with the Special Account, and the statements of expenditures sent
to the Bank for disbursements under the Bank loan. Audited financial
statements would be submitted to the Bank, with the audit report, within six
months after the end of each fiscal year. Assurance to this effect was
obtained at negotiations.



- 37 -
V. ORGANISATION AND MAVAG|N
A. Pro1ect Implementatlon and Operation
5.01        The Ministry of Agriculture, through its Forest Department (DEFCS)
would have the primary responsibility for the overall execution of the
project, including the communal component, and the Director, DEFCS, would be
the Project Director. Institution building being one project objective  and
since the project essentially represents DEFCS's priority investment program -
the existing organisation would to the extent possible be used for project
implementation. Because of the many other responsibilities of the Director of
DEFCS, the head of the Programming aLld Monitoring Unit (PHU) (para 4.21) would
be a senior officer and function as his deputy and project manager, assisting
him and being responsible for priject planning, coordination, day to day
implementation, and monitoring. Under the Director, the head of PMU would
also be responsible for the relations with the Bank, including procurement,
disbursements, periodic progress reporting and to ensure compliance with Loan
Agreement conditions. The deputy director, head of PMU and project marager,
has already been nominated. Assurance was obtained at negotiations that the
PNU would be staffed at all times with the deputy director, an extension
specialist, and not later than September 30, 1990, an economist.
5.02        The implementation of the various project components would
generally, and to the extent possible, follow procedures normally used in
DEFCS for such activities. DEFCS would also receive the budget for the
project except for the communal component which would be budgeted directly by
the communes. The presidents of the respective communal councils have
approved the budgets for the communal investment component which must still
receive formal approval of the communal councils. The planning studies would
be carried out by consulting companies or, in the case of forest and watershed
management, the UNDP/FAD supported regional centres (CRABVF, para 2.07) would
progressively, in step with their imrroving ability, prepare such plans.
Project field works, including the communal component, would be programmed by
DEFCS' division chiefs and executed by the provincial forest services
(para 2.06). DEFCS would also prepare procurement documents for works and
goods under the communal component but tenders would be issued by the
President of the Communal Council and the contractors would be paid directly
by the communes. The iMinistry of the Interior, as tutor of collective lands
and the rural communes would play a key role in helping to organise the
participation of the local populations. (Coordination with the Ministry of
the Interior is assured through working level contacts at headquarters between
DEPCS and concerned Departments in the Ministry of the Interior (Local
Collectives and Rural Communes). The National and Provincial Forestry
Councils (para 2.08) and the Communal Councils would continue to play
important roles in coordinating the various concerned ministries, agencies and
other bodies and populations at the respective administrative levels at which
they are operating.



- 38 -
5.03        Forest range improvement would also be the responsibility of DEFCS
and the provincial forest services. However, the active participation of, and
coordination with, the Livestock Department would required. At the center,
coordination between the Livestock and Forest Departments would be assured by
a small task force (cellule de coordination) of members which has already been
nominated from each department through Ministerial decision. Assurance was
obtalned that this task force would be maintained. Coordination within the
Provincial Department of Agriculture in the project areas at Bouhasoussen and
Sahel des Doukkala, would siLmilarly be maintained through the nomination of
small Project Units to which two technicians each would be attached
specifically for the affected populations already mobilised and organised into
grazing associations on tribal basis. At Bouhasoussen where forest range
management activities are on government lend, the forest range area has been
divided into compartments based on recognised usufruct enjoyed by tribal
groups. The users and tteir livestock have been registered and each
association has an elected board to llaise wlth the authorlties. At Sahel des
Doukkala, project activities are on land owned collectively by tribal units
and managed by tribal councils. A contracc for project works would be
negotiated by DEFCS with the trlbal collectives and signed by the dinlstry of
the Interior on their behalf. AsuancAe& was obtained at negotiations that for
project actlvities on non-government land suitable arrangements would be made
with the owners to ensure proper implementation of such activities.
5.04        The forest research program would be planned jointly between the
concerned operational divislon in DEFCS and the Research Division and executed
by the latter with the assistance of the provincial forestry services, as
required. For silvo-pastoral improvement, the Research Division would
coordinate all research activities which would also involve the National
Agriculture and Veterinary Institute (INAV Hassan II) and the school for
forest engineers (ENFI). A proposal by the bureau for forest range management
in DEFCS for the division of research responsibilities between the three
bodies is also being considered. The Nature Research and Management unit set
up under the project would work closely with the Division for Hunting, Fishing
and Nature ConservatLon in the establishment and executlon of lts program.
B. Participation of Local Populations and Soclal Issues
5.05        The social acceptabillty of project forest operations to the
affected populations is of key importance. To the extent that the closing of
forest land deprives the local populations of thelr llvellhood they will be
hostile to such interventions. To ensure herdsmen a minimm of forage during
forest closures for large-scale regeneration or other operations in state
forests, no more than 20X of the forest used by any usufruct beneficiaries are
at any time to be closed (para. 2.25). In practice this limit is not achieved
and forest closures due to works under the project wouLd be well below this
number, thus they are not expected to cause any major hardship to the users.
Moreover, once the area to be closed is identified, but before any works in
the area are undertaken, the DEFCS (a) informs the concerned communal councils
of the selected area so that they may establish suitable grazing arrangements
for users in the remaining 80X of the forest, and (b) meets with the concerned



- 39 -
communal councils and users to obtain their support for and participation in
the regeneration activities to be carried out. Assurance was obtained at
negotiations that the Government shall make arrangements satisfactory to the
Bank with the individuals who use forests in whlch regeneration under the
project is to take place for grazing purposes, to ensure that the grazing
activities in the forests are carried out in a manner consistent with the
forest regneration activities.
5.06        The silvo-pastoral schemes included in the project were chosen
precisely becruse the social environment was favourable, in fact the local
populations asKed for them and project works are extensions of earlier
successful operations. In the somewhat longer term, such schemes would of
course produce forage which should more than compensate for any forest
closures in the area for regeneration or other purposes. As for
ref2restation, a survey has been carried out of the land available for
reforestation in the 13 ecologically most favourable provinces and classified
according to whether there were any constraints (mainly social) or not. Of
the 0.8 M ha suitable for reforestation, somewhat more than half did not have
any such limitations and project plantations have been selected to take place
in th4se areas without social constraints.
5.07        For both cedar end cork regeneration, the traditional opposition
of local populations has changed over recent years due to the Forest
Department's efforts to establish closer cooperation with the users. The
result has been the introduction of fencing, often paid for by the communes.
The fact that the communes are prepared to fully finance 18,000 ha of
regeneration (para 4.16), in addition to the 18,370 financed under the Forest
Department budget (para 4.08) is a good indication of the interest that the
local population have in this activity. The watershed managhment and soil
conservation operations are the major areas where the local population's
support cannot yet be fully relied upon, hence their experimental nature and
the strong research support (paras 4.12 and 4.19). The planting of fruit
trees has become popular among the farmers but more work is required to find
other socially acceptable soil conservation techniques. This would be done as
part of the project and the socio-economist and the sociologist (para 4.19)
would address the social and economic issues for watershed management as well
as for the other operations.
C. Consultancy Services
5.08        The project would include 41 man-months of internationally
recruited consultancy services to be appointed by the Forest Department.
The services would cover the following specialities:
NW2-Months
Genetic Research                    12
Silvo-Pastoral Research             10
Nature Conservation                  9
Data Management                     12
41



- 40 -
Terms of reference for the above are given in the Project Flle and cost
details appear under the respective components.
D. Monitoring and Evaluation
5.09          The Programming and Monitoring Unit (paras 4.21 and 5.01) in the
Forest Department (DEFCS) would be responsible for the monitoring of overall
project progress, including the communal components, based on information
obtained from th& various responsible DEFCS divisions. Monitoring would be
carried out according to a format acceptable to the Bank and would focus on
progress with project works, procurement of equipment and materials,
recruitment and impleamentation of consultancy services, comparing actual
implementation dates and costs with the original appraisal estimates and where
applicable, with revised estimates. DEFCS would collect data on plantation
and range management activities, including areas fenced, stumped and prepared,
fertilised, sown or planted, weeded and managed, compared to project targets;
survival rates, nursery production, unit and total cost of these activities
compared to appraisal estimates. Financial monitoring would include budgetary
allocations and releases, payment delays for Government funds and Special
Account operations. Project progress would be reported in semi-annual reports
in an accaptable format which would be submitted to the Bank. Progress on the
communal component would be reported separately.
E. Status of Prolect PreparatLon
5.10          The project consists essentially of priority investments from
DEFCS' regular five-year investment program and little special project
preparation is therefore needed. Also, the project is a second, albeit
enlarged, phase of the Forestry I project and would build on its
administrative structure. Most staff and the infrastructure for project
implementation is in place. Land for plantation and range management
activities has been selected and is under Government control. Grazing
associations have been or are being established in range management project
areas. For natural forest regeneration areas, the local populations still
need to be mobilised. DEFCS would initiate action on this with the help of the
Ministry of the Interior (para 5.05). Procurement of goods and services are
of a routine nature, requiring little time for preparation. The consultant
contract for the forest inventory has been signed and terms of reference for
other consultancies and studies have been prepared.



- 41 -
VI.  PRODUCTION. MAIRETS. PRICES AND FINANCIAL RESULTS
A. YIELDS AND MANAGEYME
Plantation Establishment
6.01          There is ample experience in Morocco with eucalypt plantations.
The proposed management techniques and anticipated yields are based on
historical experience and new research results. Eucalypt plantations would be
managed on three rotations of ten years and produce pulpwood, sawnwood,
construction poles, stakes and fuelwood. The mean annual increments are
estimated at 11 m?/ha for plants raised from seed and 15 and 20 nP/ha for
clones. Also, stumping of aged eucalypt plantations would yield about 50 t/ha
of fuelwood.
Reggnratin
6.02          Past attempts to regenerate cedar have had aixed results, but
recent experiments with complementary or aided regeneration have been
successful and the technique is now replicable.  As for cork oak, several
hundreds of hectares were fenced and sucessfully artificially regenerated in
the late 50's and early 60's and a technique has been available all this time.
However, the regeneration program was not implemented for fear of opposition
from the public who are dependent upon this forest for many of their
activities throughout the year.  Now improved relationships between the Forest
Service, the communes, and the beneficiaries make it possible to fence and
regenerate cork oak forests.
6.03          Cork Oak Regeneratio:  First, the final harvesting of the
"reproduction" cork and the clearfelling and stumping of the existing cork oak
stand would yield about 50 t of fuelwood, 5 t of "male" cork,3 and 20 t of
stumps per ha. Secondly, after a first thinning at 24 years, the new cork
stand would be harvested from year 32 until year 72 and "reproduction" cork
yields would increase from 0.5 to 2.3 t/ha over this period.
6.04          Cedar Regeneration:  Felling of the existing stand for
regeneration would be carried out in three successive steps, in years 1, 9 and
16. In the case of complementary regeneration (para. 4.09), total felling
output would include 220 u3 of cedar and 30 t of holm oak fuelwood, in the
case of aided regeneration where the existing stand is poorer, the total
output would consist of 100 m3 of cedar and 30 t of oak fuelwood.
3   The *male nork is obtained from the first and "reproduction" cork from
the follnaing strippings of the cork oak. 'Male" cork is used in making
cork panels for insulation, "reproduction" cork uses include corks and
decorative panels.



42
Ilvog-pastoral DevelonMent
6.05          The silvo-pastoral development techniques proposed have been
sucessfully used in on-going development schemes in both the Sahel des
Doukkala and the Bouhasoussen forest (para 2.16) and would be further
developed under the Project. In the Sahel des Doukkala range productivity
would improve from about 180 forage units (FU) at present to about 700 FU per
ha at full development in the areas treated, which would increase the total
suprly of forage units in the overall area by about 30X. The eucalypt
wir.dbreaks would provide shelter for forage shrubs and for reclamation of
land, they would also provide wood in three fifteen year rotations with a 6
m3/ha mean annual increment. In the Bouhasousden forest, average range
productivity would increase from 330 UF/ha to about 430 UF/ha at full project
6;vbiopment. Additional benefits would arise from the thinning of oak, which
would yield about 20 t/ha comprising half timber and half fuelwood.
B. PEQDUCTIO
6.06          Production under the project would consist of eucalypt and cedar
wood, stumps, fuelwood, raw cork, acorns and forage units. Eucalypt and cedar
wood would yield in turn pulpwood, sawlogs, construction poles, stakes and
fuelwood. Stumps would be used as fuelwood. Wood production occurs in a
discrete fashion at time of thinnings or clear felling. Cedar production
would occur in the early years (1-25), while eucalypt production would mostly
occur during the first half of the project life (years 10 through 35). New
cork stands start producing male cork after year 25 and reproduction cork
after year 40, the felling of existing cork stands yield both reproduction and
male cork. Table 6.1 below indicates incremental production from the project
(for details see Annex 4, Table 4), and the equivalent annual production as a
percentage of national production. Incremental production of fuelwood and
forage units would be almost negligible, incremental production of cedar and
reproduction cork would be sr-.ll. Incremental production of male cork would
be substantial because of the large male cork quantities yielded by the
felling of existing stands. Incremental eucalypt production would be large
because of the high productivity increases expected from eucalypt clones.



. 43 -
1&1.*eL6.1: INCREMENTAL PRODUCTION FROM THE PROJECT
Male     "Reproduction"                                 Forage
Cork         Cork       Cedar   Eucalypt   Fuelvood   (Million
('o00 t)  (P000 t)  ('000 m3) ('000 .3) V000 3)           FU)
Total Production
over the
project life     25.2        127.1    232.0      7504.4     1.4             416.9
Equivalent annual
production        0.3          1.7      3.1         9.9     19                5.5
As X of national
production
1988               (2X)       (301)     (4X)      (30X)      negl.         (0.41)
Table 6.2: END USES OF PROJECT CEDAR AND EUCALYPT PRODUCTION
('000 m3)
Pulp         Panel       Utility       Sawlogs   Fuel-
Total production
over project life      3580         170          1730            520     1740
Equivalent annual
production              45           2             20              7       23
as 1 of national
production 1988        (351)        n.a.         (101)           (51)    negl.



-44.
C. Markets
6.07            As most forest products are at present in short supply in
Morocco no difficulty is foreseen in marketing the project output of forest
products. Incremental production of pulpwood, panelwood and saw logs would
substitute for imporus. Eucalypt production from the project would initially
help reduce the need for pulpwood imports and it would also alleviate the
shortage of eucalypt utility wood. Incremental production of cork and forage
would be easily consumed by the cork industry and herdsmen. Incremental
-roduction of fuelwood would be negligible relative to the overall national
deficit. During the first five years the project would also produce
substantial quantities of stumps which would be easily marketed to bakeries,
hammams, etc...
D. Prices
6.08            The 1989 prices used in the financial analysis and cost
recovery analysis are listed in the table 6.3 below.
Table 6.3: FINANCIAL PRICES FOR SELECTED PROJECT OUTPUT
QUtDut                                      XU ic2L(DH)
Cedar                                        m3              600
E. camadutlensis                             m3              245
E. gomphocephala                             m3              190
Reproduction cork                             t             2140
Male cork                                     t              475
Fuelwood cork oak                            m3              310
Fuelwood holm oak                            m3              154
Stumps                                        t               50
Acorns                                       Kg                1.8
Forage                                       unit              0.67
Except for acorns and the forage unit, the prices are auction prices,
including taxes, averaged over the last two years. Cedar, cork oak and
fuelwood prices are national averages, eucalypt prices are regional averages
for the project area. The acorn price is the market price in the project
area. The forage unit value has been derived from the value of the feed it
substitutes for (barley). Prices are conservatively assumed to remain
constant in real terms, except that the fuelvood price is expected to rise in
real terms at the same rate as energy prices as projected by the World Bank
(3.5X p.a. until the year 2000 and constant thereafter).



45
E. Imnact on Government Budpgt and Cost Recovery
6.09            The overall budgetarv inact of the project during the
investment period, for the central government and the communes taken together,
would be positive as shown in Table 6.4 below. This is mainly due to the
regeneration of cedar and cork oak forests under the project, which permlts
the harvesting of degenerating mature stands. However, all govermnent
forestry investments contribute to a resource transfer to the rural forest
areas, since all (non-tax) forest revenues accrue to the communes. On the
other hand, a rough estimate of the effect of the communal project component,
in@icates that the taxes paid by then on works and sales revenues would reduce
the overall central government net budget outlay of OH 390 I by about half to
DH 200 M.
Tbleg 6.4.: IMPACT ON GOVERNHNT BUDGET
(excluding communal component)
( DH million)
1990  1991   1992   1993   1994       Total
Project Costs                113   137    148    139    135        672
of which taxes            .2A   _8    _2    .Zi 26         213
Net Project Costs             85   109    117    113    110        534
Project Revenues, of which  178   18b    192    203    209         968
Government taxes            27    28     29     31      31       146
Balanes
Overall                     93    77     75     90      99       434
Coomunes                   151   158    163    172    178        822
Covercnnt                 (58)   (81)  (88)   (82)   (79)       (388)
6.10      Most project works are carried out on state land where cost recovery
is not normally an issue. The overall financial results from the project are
favourable with a net present value in excess of DH 0.5 B. However, except
for Sahel, as explained above (para 6.09 and also in paras 2.26 and 2.30), the
commns are the main beneficiaries of forest revenues.  Of productive
investments, the regeneration and plantation activities have an overall cost



- 46 -
recovery of 600X', of which the central Government recovers one-fifth through
taxes, which Is a cost recovery of 1202 on its investments. For range
management on state land (Bouhasousson), total cost recovery is 562, from
which the Government recovers 26X of its investment costs through taxes. This
is considered satisfactory considering that such range management is a
neces&ary activitr to permit regeneration operations. (For details see Annex
4, Table 3). At Sahel des Doukkala (or elsewhere where DEFCS undertakes
forestry operatious on private or collective land), a contract is signed where
the total (undisc3unted) face value of costs are recovered by the government
from the sales proceeds of the output and the user fees generated through the
investment (para 2.16).
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTXIFICATION
A. Benefits and Leneficiaries
Production and Foreign Exchange Savings
7.01           The direct quantifiable benefits from the project would arise
from increased production of forest and livestock products. Over the project
life of 75 years incremental cedar and eucalypt production would substitute
for (a) 3.6 N m' of imported pulpwood and panelwood representing about DH 1.2
B in foreign exchange savings, and (b) some 5 N in of imported sawlogs,
representing about DH 870 M in foreign exchange savings.  Additional foreign
exchange savings would come from increased export of cork products. The
project would also produce about 3.1 8 mn of fuelwood, equivalent to 0.3 K t
of liquified petroleum gas for household use, which would cost Morocco about
DH 470 M in imports. Also future forest revenues of collectives and communes
within the project area would be substantially increased.
Emplo ent Creation
7.02           Over the five year implementation period the Project is
expected to generate about 2.2 N man-days of direct employment for the rural
poor in the project area.   Furthermore, over the life of the project, logging
of project output and cork harvesting would provide about 4.3 N man-days of
labor, and charcoal production another 8.4 X man-days to local forestry
workers who belong to the poorest strata of the rural population.
' The terms of net present value (NPV) of revenues divided by the NVP of
costs.
' Data available did not permit a detailed separate calculation of the
benefits from the communal component (192 of project costs), which are therefore,
not included in the above figures. However, since similar models are used for
operations undir the communal component, results would be similar to the main
part of the project which is financed over the DEFCS budget. If the communal
component was included, project output would be some 25X above the output figures
described above.



- 47 -
Rnvironmental and Other Benefits
7.03           Benefits have been quantified for tho key productive project
components, namely regeneration, plantation establishment, rnd silvo-pastoral
development. The forestry planning, research, and nature conservation
components would also make substantial contribution to the development of the
Moroccan forestry sector but the specific impact cannot be reasonably
quantified.
7.04           First, the undertaking of the forest inventory and the fuelwood
study, along with the on-going marketing study would establish a firm
knowledge base on the state of the forest resource and its use, including the
extent of its degradation. Building on this knowledge the DEFCS would be able
to devise a sound development strategy incorporating both production and
environmental (protection and recreation) objectives. The expanded
demarcation of the forest estate, the development of simplified management
plans, and the strengthening of the DEFCS would provide the essential tools to
improve the institutional capacity to implement this strategy.
7.05           The research component, including genetic improvement, fuelwood
production, the silvo-pastoral development, and the M'DA forage seed farm
subcomponent would bring increases in productivity and quality of natural
forests, plantations, and forest ranges to meet increased production
objectives.
7.06           Furthermore, the reduction of forest degradation which would
result from the planning and research components as well as the watershed
protection and nature conservation components would help preserve and enlarge
the environmental benefits provided by the forsst resource. Expanded
demarcation would limit agricultural encroachment. Increase in fuelwood and
forage productivity and therefore production, would help check the two main
causes of forest degradation, overcutting and overgrazing. As a result large
areas would be kept under forest cover thereby performing essential functions
in the ecosystem such as soil conservation and providing many secondary
products which are collected by the rural populations. Moroccan watersheds
show erosion rates among the highest in the Mediterranean basin which
jeopardize the benefits expected from reservoirs. The watershed protection
component, including studies and physical operations, would help prevent
further soil erosion and siltation of the dam impoundments in the areas
treated, which would yield both upstream and downstream benefits. Morocco has
valuable wildlands with unique ecosystems and endemic species, which are
threatened by misuse and neglect as resources allocated for nature
conservation have been almost inexistent so far. The nature conservation
component would be a first step towards buildvng the capacity to protect these
resources without draining limited fiscal resources.



- 48 -
B. Economic Analysis
7.07           The overall economic rate of return of the project is estimated
to be 39S. Individual economic rates of return (ERR) for the project
components have been calculated where possible and are shown in Table 7.1
below.
Table ?.1: ECONOMIC RETURNS
ERR        NPV at 121
I          (million DHI
Total Project                                      39              485
Regeneration                                       over 50         421
Cedar                                         over 50         405
Cork                                          over 25          17
Plantation Establishment                           31              224
Silvo-pastoral Development                         15               11
Bouhasot;ssen Forest                          18                7
Sahel des Doukkalas                           14                5
All values are in 1989 constant prices. The economic analysis has been made
in border prices, with international prices converted to dirhams at the
exchange rate of US$ 1 - DH 8.25. Because of prevailing unemployment and
under-employment in Morocco, the market rate for labour has been adjusted by a
factor of 0.8 to reflect its opportunity cost. Traded goods and services have
been valued at their cif import- or fob export price as appropriate.
Non-traded goods and services have been adjusted by appropriate conversion
factors (Annex 4, Table 6). Since llorocco will face increasing shortages of
fuslvood, its economic price has been calculated on the basis of a substitute
source of energy for household use, namely the cif import price of butane gas,
adjusted for calorific value differences. Economic prices are assumed to
remain constant in real terms for all inputs and for some outputs, namely
cork, acorns and forage. Fuelwood economic price is assumed to increase in
real terms at the same rate as petroleum products as projected by the Bank
forecast, i.e. 3.75Z annual rate over the 1988-2000 period and remain stable
thereafter. Eucalypt, pulpwood, imported softwood, and imported hardwood
prices are assumed to increase in real terms at a rate of 11, 0.81, and 2.5S
respectively over the 1988-2010 period, and remain stable thereafter.



- 49 -
C. Sensitivity Anallsis
7.08         As illustrated by Table 7.2, the economic viability of the
project is fairly insensitive to reduction or delay of project benefits and
even more so to cost increases. The net present value of project cash flows
remains positive for cost increase or benefit reduction in excess of 50X and
for benefits la8ged by more than five years. The plantation establishment
component would remain economic even in the unlikely event that all the output
were to be sold as fuelwood.
Tablg. 7.2: SEISITIV1TY ANALYSIS
switching values
Total Prgiect
Total benefits, prices or yields                            -60X
Total costs                                                 1381
Regeneration. Cork and Cedar
Total benefits, prices or yields                            -911
Total costs                                                10001
Plantation establishment
Total benefits, prices or yields                            -711
Total costs                                                 2481
I&an&2 manag2Met
Total benefits, prices or yields                            -251
Total costs                                                  331
Net present value        Economic Rate
at 121 (H M}              of Return
Total grolect:
Base case                                       An                       39
Total benefits, prices or yields
down 101               403                      34
down 501                78                      n.a.
lagged 1 year               398                      28
lag8ed 5 years               135                      n.a.
Total costs               up 501                320                      n.a



- 50-
D. proQject Risks
7.09       The major risks facing the project relate to the environment in
which the project is implemented: A slower than projected growth rate for
project plantations and continued Goverment failure to provide adequate and
timely financing. The former is minimised by the introduction of vegetatively
reproduced planting stock (clones), which has dramatically increased yields in
other countries where this technology has been developed, and through improved
plantation techniques and maintenance of the plantations (para 2.12 and 4.06).
The funding risk is reduced by the fact that, helped by the Bank adjustment
operations, the Government budget situation has considerably improved in 1989
and further improvements are expected. Also, the proposed project is included
in the Government's target investment program (PIC) identified under the
Structural Adjustment Loan (Loan 3001-MOR) and, in addition, it has been
defined to represent priority investments from DEFCS's 5 year investment
program. Another potential risk is the failure of the forest populations to
participate and to comply with plans for restricting and organising livestock
grazing in project areas. This risk has been taken into account in the design
of the project and is minimised through the choice of sites for project
operations, generally where there have been previous successful experiences
with similar works or where the populations have asked for the project (paras
5.05-5.07). Arrangements would also be made with concerned populations to
minimize this risk (paras. 5.03, 5.05).
7.10       The sustainability of forest range management works is a problem
common to all such investments on common access land. The choice of Sahel des
Doukkala and Bouhasoussen for inclusion in the proposed project would help to
increase the likelihood for longer term sustainability. Doukkala has started
similar works already in 1965 which are still maintained (para. 2.16). In
Bouhasoussen forest range development works started only in the early 19809
(para. 2.16) but the fact that the local populations are maintaining fences
and other project works at their expense, that they ask for additional
investments and are prepared to pay higher user fees are all encouraging
factors. The organisation of the herdsmen, which has already started in the
two areas, and the strict technical supervision provided under the project,
are key elemnts which will help ensure the sustainability of the investments.
VIII. &=&ES AND RCOIENQH     DATION
8.01       During negotiations assurances were obtained from the Government
and agreement were reached that:
(a) an Inventory Monitoring and Management Unit would at all
times be maintained to maintain and update the inventory
(para 4.04).



- S1 -
(b) modern management plans would be prepared with terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank and that prescribed
treatments would actually be carried out (para 4.06);
(C)  a national reforestation plan would be prepared by June 30,
;995 (para. 4.07);
(d) Government would before December 31, 1992 implement measures
satisfactory to the Bank designed to promote the carrying
out of reforestation activities on state land by la
Cellulose and other private sector enterprises (para 4.11);
(e) (i) Government would not later than December 31, 1992, carry
out a study, under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Bank, to develop a suitable structure of prices to be
charged for wood supplied by DEFCS to La Collulose; and,
(ii) ensure that upon the expiration of the protocol for
pulpwood supply in 1993, any transitional arrangements to
supply the company with pulpwood would be at prices based on
the study and agreed upon between the Government and the
Bank (para 4.11);
(f)  the forest range management unit in DEFCS would be
strengthened to include one socio-economist and one
livestock specialist by September 30, 1990 (para. 4.14);
(g)   a nature reearch management unit of at least five
professional staff would be established not later than
September 30, 1990 (para. 4.18);
(h)   the research dlvision would at all times be staffed with
experts in forest range management, soil conservation,
biometry, and one economist and a sociologist (para. 4.19);
(i)   a study, with term  of reference satisfactory to the Bank,
would be carried out on the organisational structure of the
DWFCS and organisational proposals for the forest service,
including job descriptions for key staff, would be made for
discussion with the Bank and the agreed recouuendations
would be implemented by the Government by June 30, 1992
(para 4.22);
(j) a Special Account may be established on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank (para 4.31);
(k)  procurement of Bank financed ites under the project would
be carried out under procedures acceptable to the Bank (para
4.33);



- 52 -
(1)   separate project account& would be maintained by DEFCS, they
would be audited by an independent auditor satisfactory to
the Bank and a detailed report of such audit would be
submitted to the Bank within six months after the end of the
fiscal year (para 4.37);
(m)   the PMUv would be staffed at all times with the deputy
director, an extension specialist and not later than
September 30, 1990, an economist (para 5.01);
(n)   for project activities on non-government land suitable
arrangements would be made with the owners to ensure proper
implementation of such activities (para. 5.03);
(o)   a task force would be maintained for the coordination
beetween the Forest and Livestock Departments (para 5.03);
(p)   the Government would make arrangements, satisfactory to the
Bank, with individuals who use, for grazing purposes,
forests in which regeneration activities are to be carried
out (para. 5.05).
8.02        With the above assurances and covenants, the project would be
suitable for a Bank Loan of US$ 49 N to the Kingdom of Morocco. The project
is expected to be completed by June 30, 1995.



KINGM    Ofl ori Saico   Ccaa  FOIfT0Y DIVIL00eNM1 PELECT
Ixistin an   rletdO
Action takn I R  tr CtcIA-LNnt
Annujal    stimted   Capac11)
year     leter-   Accumi-   3ngojd.             .e An-   Tranhe   Sedi-         Lift      divided     Order
cinned   shad         lated     capacity   .... iedi-    Iwrte    mnt-          trache        by          of
Darn   iliac  ~~~zSakL   8C3Ar          --Ja1l-    LnainA1 I  munIatimL        Vaim      alia       --MKcA-      TN       Prarct    ksczLMm
(tell   E3/lSt/yr   MINIX          (N.031      (Mal3    1.N.I                   Cn.V. I/
*.  =te    ac.ano   a   tde
I.  xitaine Gammtaneeir.arayFle
1.       d V         foulwya      1957    4 9.20      323.0   725.00          16.12     235.0        6.8         0.0        raised      I
2. Mmw Eddbi   ora                 Hn      IS.         144.0   667.60          2.15      24.6         0.9        0.0          *
S. " mssn Addaj1l   Zia           191      4;400     250.0   369.00           1.10      20.0         5.5        2.0                    3
4. t1 Kantra         get           l9S3     4.40      27S.0    330.00          1.25      21.          5.S        0.0          *         4        ha  raised
5. NgellahWish                  M931     1          10.0      1.60          0.15        -          -          0.0                    5        Om raising
projected
.   hla              utkbhl        1961       107   3.271.0      13.06         0.35       6.7         5.2        0.0                    6        hil.  To
filled
7. Tisi-o-Ostine     Tassaout      1901         9     970.0       S.00         1.40        1.2      100.0        0.0          *         7        Cesation
by H. vousef
2.   aistn  Om   train   mrte   t totally filled
1. Al N sira         Oam.E.Rabla  1979    17. n       270.0  2.n24.00          2.50     480.0         1.5       52.0        48.0        1        Study started
2. Sidi M.O.         Cou Seereg   1974      9.000     211.0   493.00           2.65      100.0        2.6       26.0        19.0         2       Om raisin        V
Abdallab                                                                                                                                       projeted
3. ldriss ler        Inau^ene      1973     3.640     554.0  1.212.00          2.1S      150.0        1.2       11.0        12.0         3        Study starteo
4. Voussef B.
Tacfin          mass&         1973     3.504     144.0    320.00          0.50      20.0        2.5        27.0        12.0         4                -
5. OhtMl             Issen         1966       105     450.0       0.725        0.036      0.1         3.6       27.9         0.03        6        Cwpe nsatien
Abdel uMsi
1. Mit Youb          Sebou                  4.705     191.0      50.00         0.90      45.0         2.0       50.0         1.6        5        c F. ,u
2. Auualoua          So0ss                  4.450      269.6    110.00         1.20      65.0         2.2       46.0         2.4         3        C1MI. ftadir
3. ",lis Jaor            oha                6 300   1.721.3  3.0.o0           1O.5      2230.         1.4       69.0        66.0         I        forestry U pj
4.   Sr Sir                                     n5   2.666.6    43.00          0.20       5.0         4.0       25.0         1.2         4        C31 lTetouan
S. 1Maut             Machet                   230   23123.9   300.00           0."       30.0         1.2       64.0        10.0         a        GUZ isstson
6. Ctber ol Oaud     Omm.E.abla             3.290     460.0   740.00           1.55                                                               CLVWf fes 4
7. Lal  Aichb        Sebou                 20.000               140.50
S. 1 ornes          28                    12.400               200.00                                                                            mutcrtai
H.   t        tMnts alresAw Studed
1. Lalla Tekeuat  51F55            1935     1.707      300.0     62.00         0.51        4.0       12.7        0.0        raised       0        SS5" raised
2. ain 1 Ouidan     UAbid         1953     6.400      550.0  1 404.00         3.25    .324.0         1.1       63.0        25.0         3        SS
I  Nuloy vOs5tf    Tassoout        1977     1.441   1.013.0    195.00          1.46      24.0         6.1        5t0.       25.0         4        SS
4. Al  UbMasn         L"oukos      1929     1.020      60.0   002.00           1.02       20.5        1.1       .*.0        67.0         I        SO"
S. 1fn dattouta      ear           1992       175   2.753.0      43.60         0.49       10.6        4.9       11.0         4.0         6        s0
a. Sidi N.S.A.
bSttd bi          MetAtor      3951       750   1.410.0      43.00         1.10        4.6       24.4        0.0        raIsod       0        so
_1E loumn           Issen         190l     1.300     616.0    216.00          G."o    A 1.0          0.4        7.6        29.0         2        So 55
u Sidi Swiss         Lakhdar       1903     1.263      192.0      7.00         0.66        3.1       15.0        2 5         3.0         2        SS
w. Milay nassan lor Lakhdar        1927    1.667       504.0    270.00         0.54      40.0         2.1       4  0         6.0         5        Ss
I*  C z capacity      o0  = life of da s tranche morte                    V   Study for the praration of a st, .. directeur
J.' SO a       _ec    prepared    -   SS * simry study done                /  Also called hit Choswit



- 54 -
Annex 2
Table 1
rojeot Coss  _ur
teotL                                         total
8 t.ntp   am,                              2 osts        e s
tLemm    ?qelIa   tot-al  Mosbz      Cos"       L-oL Foregna  Total   b.3se   Costs
A. 70315   NNING
__________.._____.
1. 1      WW1vapco  166 hOWN"I  3uicnAtA1    no              2.363     11.616   14.076                        M   6    1.416   1.707    63       2
a. yaw   oauBmAI                                             10550      10.444   30.000       3       4   2.370   1.260   3.636         3s       .
3. 103S3  N*Aint RAI663I                                    15.565       3.450   MOSS         t 1          1.600   . l0 e.347           1o       3
Sub-Tot   7I5! RtII                                            37.534      as.56   es.114e       *       6      .50  3s US   7.650         41       0
a. IOt! o n m I
i. ins         or w a&IU
coo       33a?                                            50.357      3.7n   53.3U                 I       U              4           6       a
c    n      Zmuti                                         17.657      7.36    2 42.1       a       4   2.140      664  3.034         2s       *
-- - --- .  v   - ..................   ........ .. .   ----    
ss.au      1o.213   76.466       1       1.     am.214   I S"   6.513      13      12
*      . a.6ANasM  U326ILSIM                                      113.661     61.365  175.366        3      26   I3."1   7.444  31.35          55     as
*  3. K       IImAU.ls                                                  10.716   42.610      3a       6    S.6   *.6   5.1*6            25as     a
*. loan  A    O       uv*U  *
umnaa0      FM"                                           17.236      4.37r 6              a21     S  e.0m         1 e               as       S Uo   _
SAMm.      *OU5M                                          16.730      6.443   MISS6        3       4    CM56    1.145   5.3533S               4
113 oiU           6 A    10tW                             13.004        514  13.519                3    1.570      6t 3    .401       4       3
,Do. Sew ram                                               1.365      1.206   3.361,       *        a      16      134    260        43       a
...                              . - -.tV
Sub?ultal.    tU    OZYnU!                                   51.327     15.261   68.53"       a       10    6.631   i.6m    6.071       23      10
S. MOSUT 3OUD                                               26.1u5      16.315   45.500       4       7    3.14.1  3.346   5.515        43       1
S. CO.OAL CIU1U!I4                                          6.974       55.132  1*1.105       3      1o   16.765   4.622  15.40         so      to
.-   ..... ........
Sub-tot.al FOOT 013A110                                        330.774    155.135  535.6061      2      76  .6.154  10.804  6.056          30      is
1 I=     lsmA flo                                         4.373       '.110 e.46                  1      550     40e   1.020        40       1
e   2e eS. l Oel  S    a1  co3  6113e 
Raamaoh- Gameates ?qpnowumt                                3.636      2.710   6.666        4        1     477    535      613,       41       1
2s.a.os-UiIwPmtesel Ztas,mtlnSolmtIlo 6oz      2.704      2.5S"    5.2669      a        1     320     311    630         46       1
3g.egg-UvlwWstoss  Int.s,intsom.Affd 3am..                 1.042        300   1.441        a       0       1In     43      175       26       0
1..maiolu*linI h3otlam                                  327        160      407        4.      0       36      33      40        44      01
Iftearzsb-10006 PlintatAl                                  1.746        740   2.494        3       0       312     00    303         30       0
woorob-ftLersbed Nesessamt                                23436         555   3.903        I       0      2        6?7    363        t0       0
I4...Zob Su.4~dy   Wmam                                     .000   I..         .0                         606        -    60                   I
Sub.tea          MD16OM Fr o=  a3                            17.064.     7.204  34.303        3            2.073     673   2.94        30       4
3. ssUt?Uts 0293.2M!
...____..___________.
_66U   AO Io11063   U_ An                                   60 U        123    1.022       I       0       10       1      U4        U        a
13511UU*L 0203033?  5103?                                    30          *       30                0                -       4-                L
Sbe-to.   SITUN   Z         _  0N5                                         12    1.0          1       0       113     1s    12          12       C
4. 60M   A         W!
IUS  AODWV fl                                            21.176      12.167  33.365        3       5    3.567   1.477   4.044        37
CU@U2IUZZ                                                    770      1.664   2.434        a       0       93    202    295          6        I
Sub-Total =ItAn t   utS                                     21,046      13.61  35.76          S             .3309                       39
5. T1W5                                                      6.035      1.065   7.100         I       1      732    U1    "61           i
Sub?oteL 3010        _                                         50.303     2t366    76.745        3       t1   6.107   3.195   0.303        34      1
sLee CmetsingmZem                                              70.344     33.68   113.030       3       17    9.36S   3.093  13.361       30       1
... .. , , ...~~....           .... . .  .. -   .____ -------   -- - -   ---------   ------.______
Total         ca1                                              574.3    25.35                           1    6357  30.523  09.64           31    12
._________________........   _ ___._ ___                     __     _..______   ....                                        ---. __ _  _ _ ---------------
Octe  31. 166  1:2A



gloom  or Noa
h.et. Cam-"S bp Vow
(U  '0001                            (23.~~~~to  '000)
16go     191       10f2     19o3     100"    Totl        logO    1901   1ion      1063    1064   low
A.     61     AMMING
1. rmatI 1U1U  AM3 U&UU*L" 33165A01 KM                             4.634    4.1090   3.422    3.593          -   Io.5Su         580     So1     414      431           3.096
2. NO=  OSinA&1iu                                                  4.010    1.024    6.014    9.112    9,601   38.735           491     gm0   1.010   1.101   1.142   4.071
S. RUIT aM iMNT' K110U                                              1.911    3.205    S.5SU     1.410    4.340   23.54          2333    402      10      60       Su    2.604
Sd1e4W1             MANKIN                                            1.563   15.20    10.0       20,181   1,3.090   1.021        1.206   1.057  2,202   2.433   1.8Wt   *.31
1. U5210 or 14123*1 51320
ON  sinina?1                                                10.410   12.346   13.081   14.296   15.300   65.446         1.211   1.501   1.504   1.711     1.62    7ut
Gm5 smUA%10                                                     3.748    4.0)0    6.096    1.403    6.611   30.651           ,50      501     136     60    1.022   1.140
sd-to4ak  Mnin     TIOM Or 3413*1 IL                               14,159    MM16    10.183   21.780   23.965   96.200        1.129   2.096   2.322   2.610   2.033  11.611
2. HAIIAIIO   Ut*3LIU I34.111   41.405   43.600   45.911   48.365  214.059                                                    4.246   5.0$.  5.216   S.513   5.151  33.603
S. 23        WARniOOnP                                             1,211    S.5$14   10.533   11.450   15.001   52.69           00S   1.040   1. 215   1.31S   1.104  .311
4.  I    S1X1 in1UOLUUI
-0 ~ 1    -am                                                   3,754    4.511    4.601    6,312    1.344   26.122           458      351     So81    158      613   3.221
at=m  aw luma                                                   3.074    1.242    6.022    6,415    6.161   35.195           413      68      011   1.011      013   4.31)
P32*  iaSImc   AND Blo313$                                      2.414    5.326    4.523    3.501        210   16.905         10      050      546     420       32   1.632
01,11 84.4 Fe=                                                   1.412      420      306       321      311    2.116          212      52      31       39      31     337
8W-TOtL4 110028  OM81  DBVflIIITM- 11.31-4   1150 11.653   16.000   16. 196   61.301                                          1.406   2.138   2.131   2.234   1.015   S.03
S. I   ? IMm                                                       0.101   11.650   10.411    6.020    3.466   56.031         1.123   3.160   2.351       124     414   0.196
0. Co60UhL 13IBIJT                                                21.900   20. 432   30.903   U2.446   34.090  154.161        3.401   3.504   3,141   3.605   4.052  10.0M                    VI
&&-1.as1 10038 oUaIIous                                              104.618  131.805  141.343  136.233  141.113  055.402        12.706  10.104  11.112  16.354  16.110  10.146
C. -PN WISVTIM
1. MIMSE ainuAnIM                                                  1.206    3.100    2.438    1.02        0o0   10.101         '141      452     205     a32       96   1.224h
a. .ma   aunInM  MD 13L30W STUD?
06gg.mb- SmeUCS tmpvww t.                                       2,414    1.606    1.114    1.032    1.002    1.610           105     log     215      124      130     959
...egdr-0p1wp..1.ase  ia.vmlaaSt.Lt   0pat                      1.161    3,961    1.241    1.054    1.208    0.250           210     133     15       121     132      151
3...egb-b~rnrnege1Int.umVewieam*id ZA.s                     215       303      250       458      406   1.114           34      31       30      S$       50     214
Um.u.h-Vuslu.oi IwoAtetImi                        ~~~      ~~~~30  63  06     130      162       Su2          4       0       12       11      32       a2
Toga m &h1o  ?11a1lms                                         213      66"       S"       120      050    1.013          33       61      S0       00     101      310
1    Magin.t                                       160    1.515      Ge1       245      251    3.406          B1      10M      0        20      31     42s
ftle   us*                                                       1.00     2.316    2.432                  -    5.045         134    2a3       264        -             pit1
8W-la".oa luST 1    O M AN uMaussi S.6W6    ).5S4    1.0,54    348.;10 2 ;08                                                    012      622     854      430     413   3.466
S. tnwum= uaimini
mNWWm.nMDmamnmIbmfMITAam                 iION                      4)8      161      115       104      103    1.193          50       20      31       22      23     145
IUIIIUIIUM. usouini   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~-t    33- ---------  ----  ----  .... -                                ------- ------------ --......
8W-.4it06IImwlIiDh                                                    sit?  1  161       115      I"4      1to     1.23           ox      20      21       22      23      140
Sl06N as VICLfl                                               15.004    4.314    6.302    6.011    S.2       30.010       1.053  .- SIt      113     03       744   4.033
.gulmuanm                                                         030    1.501       316      120       13     2.631          so     196       38      15       10     144
Sub-To"k, Woun  meipJlRBu                                          16.653    5.066    6.080    1.030    0.301   42.143        2.033      120     a11      045     10    3.111
361    2.150    2.264    2.311    2.40       00653         44     203      214     25       20    118
S. ="Em                                                                                                                                                  at 20           . 
Moh'ToSa SWIM  &CTSIVt1s                                               as. 360   16.540   10.620   15.111    MOTS1  a2."?         3.099   2.381   2.255   1.622   1.6450  11.213
1.1.1 too=~ 6061                                                     14.0    6.5    1.6    1.0    0602060$                      1.6    0362.5   20.599  20.001  96.660



-----------                       ;;-    -                ;... ;  -; ----                         - -.
1969i  I?t*      0051   100         ilL    It? 33*lt   016'1                  93531   Woft60           9561                                   UES1f  96A       19131gh
St      0        0?      *   1                                   o~00 iLl  St7      in1       31        0                            383118g 361
It      5,       60      9        9        t00                   09        65t      Ste       N"       Ift
It'  065  09?  (31  99           36001   615'?~~i   056'      NO'      01       It$              @930  39893939U951119316
00?     55       3                                       ml,0    6t9       @15       991      -9                                                     .10.u'gTOII  :
it      5        0'      01       61       1            $009     16l       35$      09        3it       99                                  3301599619905rA
1       0..   .. . .   . . . . . . .. . ...  ... ..     . .. ..     .. .. .   .. . . . . . .. . . . . .
to06     it      So 1     9 0  0  65       9            191  Get'sw    In5$         55t      ot'r      S 615""MD1  *olwz" 1303:1 
961?   119  003    lo~t   0or       9            9006      got'    5000    00l          "15'    6'930993939  0U10                                 b 911I
-   - - -   - -            -         -        -         -        -        -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.........------
its'  01$'O    stg'1i  1661   561l 91091               01605   695'91   611'3    01301f   01?'il  $9105t                                     u    391191e  ""
or      -i               9        9        6            i        lot   *            S$        6$       cc                               O9633U'3low  1M&'
sit     .        6 6     60?      31       311          035'               At1'      i0'      600'      06                                           1~0 63  1 *
6651s  Stf,                                35' 160t i'  '   It 1 Uvs  o A-           . Mo    66$'s    60191i                           'OWL0 U50 RS9 93919169
lo$?    05g'    U91    69i'    its I        9          3'l       139't snt    510,9    33$    WI ie' t IStto                       "vso   6SNT3  11'tS.
'@5  .  61.  6?      9?       3?          635~...  .     ......... .9..90   W.. ..... 61...
:55"   191'1   0901   iio'1    66  66'   009'5   066    661'        115       0'St      6353919319
56?.  ------ -           6        I"      61           31 t"16                      lt 19"             369,1                1931ifl         9        A  "I-3   9
6~~  3  $  6  51  61         055       61       1'        19       51       051~~~~~~~~~;                               ND"""
. . .  .          .          .     ~          ~          ~           ~~~~~~. ...   ........ .   .................
1655   09$   616?    Is                                Its.,    3056    66*1    01           gOt       got5                                   PM  To""  '3
MvI93s$t6sl Ste1 0                9       50           59'? t1016         M's    96t'        306o    665twsn "o
toS'S   1051   611i  All'    9.    66                103091   or9's  1    950    oio'.    UtS'S    Set90                       89                         '1
CST'    ot  eal  Sort   4"11   got' I  tot'to   691   Su  A010mgma10buq7   1r06I69166  131 '
uren acum 'a
3in3110;;;    3011913U3 @1910                                WI1IO1   09?o3   @19151             .;;
"I  t          to      9                el          650?31         13.I  M 8'Igig                   get
~~ XSIIUV                                                             -         -~~~~I  S



- 57 -
Annex 2
Table 4
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SECOND FORESrRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
(US$ M)
Calendar                 Bank                                Disbursement
Year       Quarter      FY       Quarter          For Quarter    Cumulative   2
I      FY 90        III              -   -            -
1990         II                    IV               -  0.6           -    0.6
III      FY 91          I               -  0.8          -    1.4
IV                    II                  1.0                2.4
1991          I                   III                  1.6                4.0
II                    IV                  2.0                6.0
III      FY 92          I                  2.0                8.0
IV                     II                  2.0               10.0
1992          I                   III                  2.0               12.0
II                    IV                  2.0               14.0
III      FY 93          I                  2.0               16.0
IV                    II                  2.0               18.0
1993          I                   III                  2.5               20.5
II                    IV                  2.5               23.0
III      FY 94          I                  2.5               25.5
IV                    II                  2.5               28.0
1994          I                   III                  2.5               30.5
II                    IV                  2.5               33.0
III      FY 95          I                  2.5               35.5
IV                    II                  2.5               38.0
1995          I                   III                  2.0               40.0
II                    IV                  2.0              42.0
MII      FY 96          I                  2.0               44.0
IV                    II                  2.0               46.0
1996          I                   III                  2.0               48.0
II                    IV                  1.0               49.0



- 58
*,,,                                                                        ^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nn.   3
KINODOK or NORocCO
&scoN  FORESTRY DKLOPKI PROJECT
*EaEEAAtin  l NtURL Pamisy
6SIU1hi~ oP  atural Pru,                      I end art Oa  AimOl Prea  t1,6-94
crbtoi$t   S           Complmtary               t06        200        200        230       336       (1.0
Al  usetme             Complemtary               400        460        oe        430        430      2. 4"
Ivane                  Compleentary              706       710         10        650        750      3.700
Aid"                     406        460        40              44 64       0 2.07
Ero"                   Cowl  _ ary               406       466 '       00        G 6 06 '    30 "2   3.600
Aide0 d6                            36 ao      3 L        306 '     2  t'   1.440
tSZI&1      tasrns st^tf            1,900      1.9f0      1.950     3.010      2.030 .    9. eo
.lAmd                   4640       76         766        730       740       3.136
C1l a JA        (Ceder  egteneration):  2.166      3.416      1.410     2.740      2.t?0      13.376
Kenttra ("aMra):       high density forest       G06          o 06 0   71 t0     906 '"   1.000 2" ..716
Low density forest        56         So        S1          S6         S0 o56
rVta (ab Aar)&r:       Maual retorestattmo       600       200        200        200        200       1.006
Ql1lLJ5YiL (Cork Oak Regeneratton):    716           856      1.0l6     1.150      1.316       S.000
"  fencng (N gSUIse  euxgluud from costs (to be paid fr    Coanal budget).
1  Fencing (ON $Ihda exclud"e  fr  Costs tn 240 hadye&r (to @e
0aid from Coima    udget) I.e. fro  1.200 ha in total.



-               ~      ~     ~                         -
I  1   6e31.    6W* JoPM anIs  J         JNJS"S " it*    a         1 t  1 'SJi4 148  Wt                  Vi uw'at n. ft
~~~~~~~~~~~~~'"10 X1 n3 01jSP j3 q its' MalZ                                      1 941 t1 3void 04  JOif- J4-ie  m^Jo PM all it1 tr
4   o               g         gee,,,     NOW        Urn        o     ",   t  wo    :isoe   iun' /T                 V/, iM  :IS3 stun 
CID~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
91 t                     InOz       0  w    _O'n       nO    nOU    nOu            oC,**    5'ut             t            3t WY101
5          5 ~ ~~ M*00     Mot9    Mot9   NO9*    NO,    NOVI                           1099to           I       ItiSNO
2          1 ~ ~~ 0000 SWO                NOWOO             Nto  NOb1    NO'Sp    5U'ZI                  I        t     GINMI
*       r               @2035       NOs    "I'S*    N'l   n'o    Not   "Not    n ,Of                         IT  U              W
3             9         m3019       NOW0       Mot,I   Nll   NOZI9  NOZI0  NO',I            NIVeI           S        t    flISfl
I         it            OWI       099         Noo   NOIR        @If    099    NOb m',et1 1                          t       n
n M," _ _9                                                                     _        _                           mm1 n e   "   090,    0   I    n   /1
*     l     ' |          _|@it _  ",  NOt      -      NOt    NO':    OWl    NOt             NO'4             I       4       now
UShNOI~ ~~~~9 0WOS    'W1    010    0"fI"OL                                                                I       IT  NOt
~~~~~~~~~~~. . .. .    . .            _ .
SW13          t u   NO.1    3   sqe si   Ie pwuG                                        I Ps" 
e  sts en~~~~~~~~64el                                    *n                                                       100 n V sAtn 
lo  000  un'  1110I            el"                         '        '       _'      't         g'2                     n
W-eu111"rnpma    im juugtw
z.xuoll-i                      iM d"33RS
011



KI*
9'.-.
8~~I                  _ _
UX~ - .- -- - 
_    Z ~~~~~
-,--   -



S lt Scl
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SECOND FOIESTRY DEVELOMEN PROJECT
fteforeslateon          I.os*oS      71.40/a        300        30        300        300       30      1.S00,
(".1       L it         2,n1 2QI                  3         3          a         SU      14M
MechanIcal Treatant   L      0se    3,./Muntt        goo       10         lOo       t00       109       ISo
"ViaS tuilts            L*mr   3.4/wlt              in         23         m         M         Z 
Dialotical Treatumnt  LouAks             261/     1.400      1,506     2.000      2.500     o.000    10.000
law Sass (-l            Lathd.r          25/ra     -A0       L90         2        ln        LA"       la-se
oWa1 1.6                        2,68       4.,mf     5I,"      6568    26.68
SIlvo-Pasloral          Loulkkos     3.001/ha       100        100       M1 I5               200         00
Improvmnl (be)          LaShar      S.AW8 /                      s            in              21U      js
ISO                               I"         2s 25*              4"       1.264
fruit Tree              toukkos      1 345/ha"  13,0         1.06    13.000       3.050     1.000     S.000
P8ntat tons (ha)        Lakldar      3.345/hbe"'   .40       __        LM         10       1401    4.10
IOLAI5                 IA.6      I.66       2.,06     2.2U4      2.56,     6.6041
Cosl  Lt the broject (1   total Cost of 0StabliskuMAL/bal
il!



- 62 -
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~al tS
siEmfl FORlltItY A3vRLo~6t 9e01U
FOolsTtY RESIAMI=
1.*  GENT!C  !IPOWET
Unit
zI4VIsTESNT EXPENIOtTURE    Unul                 11Z                I         ISM      I"  Tetal   5
(014' 000)
A.  P!3anlLtSkin
Pine provenance trials                                                                       -
(Year 1)                   ha          -         40       40        40        -          120 k.      7.0
Eucalypt provenance
trials  (Year 1)           ha          -         40        40       40        -          120          7.0
Fcaing provenance trials   ha             -s                 80       80        -          240          1.8
Pine provenance trials
(Year 2)                   ha          -         -        40        40        40         120          0.5
Eucalypt provenance trials
(Year 2)                   ha          -         -        40        40        40         120         OS
Guarding provenance trials  my            -        04        08        16       16          44          5.8
Eucalypt seed selection      m           01        -         -        -         -           01         60
I.  yvehicle
4 WO vehicles                 unit        03       -         -         -        -          03         175
Light vehicles                unit        01       -         -         -        -          01          40
C.      niecnelAssistance
Consultants                   mm          04       02        02        02       02         12          80
Training                      n           06       -         -         -        -          04          40
RECURRENT EXPENOITURE
Onaratin I Waintenanee
New researchers: salaries   my            03       03        03       03        03         1S          72
Researchers: displacement
allowances                 md          90       300       300      300       300       1290           0
Occasional labour            md           -       1SO       300      450       450       1350           0
Fencing mintenance            ha          -        -         80      160       240        480           0
Running costs: 4 WO
vehicles                   OOOkG       30        90        90       90        90        390           2;s
Running costs: Light
vehicles                   000km        10       30        30       30        30        130           1.3
2.  rugLUOIPROfleTIn  NATURAL FOREST
RECURRUNT EXNITURE
onerAtion S. Maintenance
Agent technique: displace-
ment allownce              md          80       160       240      320       400       1200           0
Researchers: displacemnt
allowane                   md          10        20        30       40        SO        1SO           0
Occasional labour              d        160       320       480      G40       800       2400           0
Running costs:4 WS vehicle  oookm        08        16        24       32        40        120           2.5



- 63 -
Page 2 of 2
O.U r Seht CmmWmt_M     nu   al          r aPhnlt far  and unitfotg  10fs -14%
2.  YO_Uc 0LhuAT              l         ThiAmi                                                            Unit
ZMWISTIHTpuZU              ia          ua        1,        lS        iA        11        Totl 
(0M 000)
4 UD VehiCle                unit          01        -        -                   _          01        17S
Pruning slaws  other
hand toolS               SuN            30        10       -         -         -          40         01
RECUSRiNtT CEPIUfITUREi
A.  Plantations
Cleaning (7-10 yrs)        ha             100       200      200       250       250      1008           0.3
1rashing/Cleaning
(7-10 yrs)               ha             100      200       200       250       2S0      1000           0.2
Thinning (16-l1  yrS)       ha            200       300      400       500       600      2000           0.4
Pruning (16-15 yrs)         ha            200       300      400       S00       600      2000           0.2
final crop inrttng
(16-18 yrs)              ha             200      300       400       500       600      2000           0.1
S.  OfUI
Resarchelr: displace-
rant allaance            ad              30       100       130     10        130       S20           0
Occasional labour           md            loe       200       200      300       300      l100
Running costs: 4 I
vehicle                  COOOm           10        30        30       30        30       130           2.5
,    -
4. WAT  1I  MI NAMM
I(IVES5nT EXPEmITUR
A. Valhtle
4  WO vehicles              unit          01        -         -         -        -          01        175
Light vehicles              unit          01        -                  -         -          01         70
S.  TechnehaI  Assistane
Consultants                Om             03        09        -        -         -          12         08
fellowships                M-             03        06       03        -         -          !2         04
C.  miint
Equtpinnt purchase &
installation             suN             0.3      0.6       0.1      -         -          01       1000
Publication                 u             -         _            30    -         -          30         01
RECURRENt EXPIISITUME
0npratians
New researdhers slaries  gy                03        03       03        01        01         11       72
OEF researchers: die-
placeint allowaunes    md               120      330       330       100       100        980        0
other r*e5archers: dis-
olacemt  lloa  as    ad                 200      800       800       -         -          1800       0
Occasional labour          ae             200      400       400       :1000                           0
Running costs: 4 "
vehicle                  OOmO            10        30       30        30        30        ' 130      2.5
Running Costs: Light
vehicle                  oOOb.           10       30        30        30        30         130       1.3
Other operating Costs       sum             0.2       0.6      0.2    -          -          -        200
Niscellanous costs          suN             0.4       0.4       0.2    -         -          _        100
S.   ILVO-PARraa. Motes
Nanagm_nt plIns             'OSh            24.5      27.0      15.6    25.1                  9.t5   85
Arg4n tree study             OOha           29.S      29.5                                    59.0   60



- 64 -
An ez 4
Table 1
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SECOND FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
INTERNAL RATES OF RETURN AND NET PRESENT VALUE Co  PROJECT COMPONENTS
FINANCIAL                    ECONOMIC
IRn   NPV at 122            ERR  NPV at 12%
%     million DR            2    million DH
1.  REGENERATION
Cedar
Complementary regeneration   -        206              over 50      -. 342
Assisted regeneration         -        34              over 50        63
Subtotal Cedar               -        240             over 50        405
Cork
Bab Azhar                    -          9             over 25          3
Mamora high density           -        31              over 2S        13
Mamora low density            -         2              overS        .  I
Subtotal Cork                -         40              over 25        17
Reseneration subproject       -       282              over 50       421
2. PLANTATIONS
Eucalypt
El  /                       22        15                   32        37
E2 2/                        19        36                   29        73
E3 3/                        17        60                   33       124
Plantation component         20       111                   31       224
3. SILVOPASTORAL IMPROVEMENT
Bouhasous*en Forest          16         4                   18         7
Sahel des Doukkalas           9        -9                   14         5
Silvonastoral suborolect    10         -5                   15        12
Total project 41                                            39       485
1/  Eucalyptus Camaldulensis or Eucalyptus hydrids (clones) sub-humid, fast
growth.
2/  Eucalyptus Camaldulensis or Eucalyptus hydrids (clones) semi-arid, fast
growth.
3/ Eucalyptus Camaldulensis, semi-arid, fast growth.
4/  Excluding the Communal Component (192 of project costs) due to lack of
data. However similar models are used for this component and results
should therefore be similar to those presented in this table.



65
Annex 4
*K!UAf _F _ DUMea 
sxamiaatsT    OIWLONMKT PROJEC?
QIemv ra  flcIufRATIN MND PLMTATION COMPONENTS
NIn Present Valuet at Cost and RdLv&nU& I/
(moillion ON)
Cost     Taxes on      Sales     Taxes      C6munal       Proceeds
Cost         Proceeds  Revenue   Revenue        earmarked
for forestry
I/
Cedar Regeneration             40           8          745        127       619           . 198
Cork Regeneration              1. 3 5                   4a          a        4e
Subtotal  eata&ALU            Ss8         ll.S        793        135       659             211
Plantation (Eucalypt)        1in          is           lU          t        12               Al
Total Rsumza &AJ
and Plantation                186          37         1030        175       8SS             274
L/ at 12 over S0 years. rounded
2/  6overne nt Revenuc: about 171 taxes on sales proceeds and 201 taxes on costs
I/ Proceeds earmarked for reinvestment in forest"ry: FN tax (101 of sales proceeds) + 201 of
communal revenues
Caut Recovery Rat0as
overall Recovery             Central                     Subsector
1/                           Government Recovery         Recovery
2/                         1/
Cedar Regeneration                1801X                          3401                   5001
Cork Regeneration                  2671                           65S                    711
Total Regeneration                13786                          2541                   3671
Plantation (Eucalypt)              184X                           511                    491
Total Regeneration end
Plantation                       5531                          1141                   1471
1/ NPV of total revenue as a 1 of NPV of total cost.
2N PV of C.G. Revenue (taxes on costs and wood sales proceeds) as a X of total cost.
N IPV ot reveues earmrked for reinvestmnt in the forestry sector as a X of total cost.



- 66 -
lingg= OF
sgcama SM31  WLOPWN   aac
~ ageojity FO S?LVOPAS1OBAL COMPONENT
I.OnUIASOUSSIU FOREST
-      *.py   ~~~atcst and Ravenups J/
('000 ON)
Total Cost          Contributi_a to costs      Central       Wood         Taxes      Range      Total
froU            from       Goverment   Sales         On Sales   User       Revenue
Comnu"es        Herders   Cost 3/       Proceeds    Proceeds   Fees
25 S74             229              3 203     22 142         8 430       1 433    S 796    14 226
i/ at 12% over 35 years. rounded
2/ Total Cost - Contribution to costs trom cinunes and herders
cost Recover  Rails
Overall Recovery           Central Governanant           Subsector Recovery
1/                           UI                              I/
56%                         26%                             25%
1/  NPV of total revenue as a % of NPV of total cost.
V/ NPV of C.G. Revenue (taxes on costs and wood sales proceeds) as a
% of C.G. Cost.
1/ NPV of revenues earmarked for reinvestment in forest range improvmant
(10% of commnal revenues from wood sales proceeds plus user fees) as a % of total cost.



67
Annex 4
Table 
IEGDOSM OF MOROCO
SECOND F.OURY DEVELOPENT PROJEC
DISTRIBUTION OF THE PRODUCTION
(2)
Pulpwood  Panelwood   BuLlding  Sawlog   Fuelwood           Total
Poles
Cedar                                              452        55S             100
Eucalyptus
Caualduleunss     53S          2S        202        5%        20S           . 100
Eucalyptus
Gompbocepbala                  5S        102        10S       352             100
INCRMETAL  OOD PRODUCTION FRO  TRE PRWECT
(total production over the project life)
('000a )
Total          Pulpwood  Panelwood   Building  Sawlog  Fuelwood
Production                                 Poles
Cedar            232                                               104       128
Eucalyptus
Canildulensis  6,750              3,578      135       1,350       338      1,350
Eucalyptus
Gompbocephala    754                          38         377         75       264
Total          7,736              3,578     173         1,727      517      1,742



KI.NGDW  Of .!0OROCCO _    68-                                   A
SECOND FORESTRY OEVELO S'V  PROJECT                                           Tale S
SEECTLID PROJECT STREAAS
ftt  c*    .X
3wis,u*. Cs. ttt
td1    totjl        tdI           f         (b)         (c)
F    poam%   rewt    rro.ct    vRlt  Ill!.tWI  ll*LIV
t    -1to        1o7      55        447        990     -344
2    -31t,    9024        59055    49014    1062    -tV         (s)   Senefit s  from  the
3    -297   9"211          3174    5OU13    lS?4   -350                RPgulratiou  Component
4    -123      1M         it"97    56561    14 -n
5      -30    74016        7V11    5973    1449         431    (b)   lkaitits  from  the
*     -93   11941         2'6?                    6     , ,?           Plantation  Component
?     -Imr    6323         4353        90        31   4540
6     -23        59         3010    -232               s9       (c)   Bft      ts  fros the
9    tam62    041        139643   1762            0    9264            S1'@op"toral Developesi
10    332141      02      33I2      19401   13734   I0234               Cowo@U
it    3370n    7111       3441W    1946    IM2    10335
12    349M        3"6     35721   206     1404   10470
13    3441"      74       371595   2199    1419W    10462
14    146 34    712       15410        346    140    192
1s      32m      7190       154        332         0    064m
14   1llt        5444      1251   110340           0   20,
17    12411       13       114"    Il4            0   20
1    12M        5277     133W43   11937           0   2397
1     131W       532       1101     12771          0   :01I
20     23U14    5401       12516   -49115   170           3 ?
21    -152    sm            -W    -132         729       7463
22    -196       6343     -12667  -19         17391S    7142
23    -254       6363     -1"79  -20W         1719S 15    4t
24    -309       6431      -2427   -2041S    1795    9453
25     -23       7125        4794    -15"          0    95=
24      -421    41S          4394    -20"          0    944
27      -7n      473         3       -2504         0    95
23     -1144    46           34    -277            0    91i
29      2269    469          7133      7"          0    9"0
30    1493       474        1429       104    344      VW1
31    140        303      149W         610   13644    194
32    14313    3303       14076    -1413    364    1t94
n2    142662    330s       1446      -170    1366   l964
34    142441    363        14434     -2150   1364    1963
a      -347    A"             -45   -.59t          0    2"9
3t     -413      3303        -334    -22           0    290
37.   -410    33             333       647         0    29O
-434    3633                39        6           3    203
3       -39      3303        3405      8           0    I90
40  -1"24    3303    -194221  -194767              0    29
41   -2433    3303    -200=50  -.0344              0    290
42   -2o0s       M03     -20090  -203234           0      o03
43   -21127      363    -207474  -.10022           0    290
44   -213        3603    -207"    22329                 20
4       63       303        1042       194         0   1403
44      d4        33        104 46       2 9            t103
47       61      3633       10454      "a               I 1NV
46      766    33           11490     1744              140t7
49      764    360          11407     1341              1403
is       m       3S03        47       20           ;    2"0
.*.* *.*



- 69 -
Takle 6
scaro E_ESM  gmrm   ffu
(0iha,   per unit 1989 prices )
Unit        Financial       Conversion   gconomic  Assumd Real Price
Price          Faetor        Price     Increases
After 1990
1989                         1989
1. OUTPUTS (at stump)
Cedar                        m3                600           1.4         8S0           +2.6% per annum until 2010
Eucalyptus Camldul nsis      m3                24S           1.1         280           +1% per annum until 2010
Eucalyptus Gomphocephala      .3               190           1.7         31S           +0.8% per annum until 2010
Reproduction cork             stirs            275           1.3         349                 4
Male cork                     stirs              S0          1.3          64
Fuelwood hole oak             stire             105          1.0         100           +4.4% Pteg nnum until 2000
Stumps                        mt                 S0          1.0          5S           +6% pr annum until 2000
Acorns                        kg                1.8          1.0            1.8
2. INPUTS
Casual Labor                  day                21          0.8           16.8
Transport. inputs             at & km         0.7s           0.7           0.54
Transport. people             km                1.4          0.9           1.3
Seedlings, cedar              Il0             86.8           0.9          79.9
Seedlings eucalypt. regular  1l00             SS.3           0.9          S0.9
Seedltngs eucalypt, clones    100              200           0.9         184
Acorns for cork regeneration  kg                1.6          0.9            1.7
forage Shrub Seedlings        '100               60          0.9          SS
Forage Seeds                   kg                1S          0.9           14
FertIlier. npk                kg               1.64          1.3           2.05
Fertilizer Plantation
year 1                       kg               1.19          1.4            1.67
Fertilizer Plantation
)-ar 2                       kg              1.46          1.0            1.46
Mechanization. 09             hour              293          0.8          229
Mechanization. land leveling hour               171          0.8          133
Mechanization. tractor        hour               80          0.8          62
Vehicule. 4 wheels drive      unit          1759000          0.S      87.750
Vehicule. light               unit          70,000           0.S      37.800
Road construction             km             80.000          0.9      68.000
Houses Rehabilitation         unit           32.500          0.8      26.97S



- 70 -
KCIN=DO  O OROC
SECOND FORFSTRY DEV INENT PRCOJICT
LIST OF ZxL:jN=TS IN PROJECMT 7E
1. Preparation Reports in two volums prepared by FAO/CP, June 8, 19U6.
2. XIplu_tatlon Volume Annexes
Annex 1: Forest Inventory and Hanagement Plans (in French)
Annex 2: Forest Demarcation
Annex 3: Regeneration of Natural Forest
Annrx 4: Forest Plantation Establishment
Annex 5: Wtershed Nanagemnt
Annex 6: Forest Range Mngement (in French)
Anex 7: Conservation of Nature
Aanex 8: Forestry Research
Annes 9: Strengthening of Forest Serv.ces
Ane  10: Financial Analysis, Budget Impact and Cost Recovery
Aumnx 11: Sconomlc Analysis
Annex 12: Wood Markets
Annex 13: Cost Tables
3. Conseil National des For6ts, cliquibme session, 10 mars 1988
and sixiin session, Scptobre 1989.
4. Extralt de la l6gislatlon an .atire de forfts  de chasse at de p6che.
S. National Forest Inventory, Lavalln International
a) technical proposal
b) adbn&stratlve proposal
a) cntract documents
6. Docuomts prepared by DEFCS for negotiations.



X--^-l~~ ifin   nO    - r--. 
L     J
__~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I
lef_:t                                     IxWD
I1,
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.._
L                                        -                 , 61 ; . *  %mm
l  3                                  to            Fs - --s 
S.  x,       -.  - u
- _ ' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                              I * I g*
~~~~~~~~~~~~~'I  P_  --_________   . __ ___________
I _
P     n _             b
waaoons~~~~
Uauusemtwpues



4                                            i,                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TANGER
MOROCCO
SECOND FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                         ES \ bt.   AL 11,11il
PROJECT ACTIVITIES
REGENERA1SON OF NAXURAL FOREST:
*r '6^k7  T St,4
o       Coda,                                                     L A   N  
o     FORESr PLANTATIION                                                                                $A E
AGAaR CRABVF 7N //\ / > I X X w     C                     A      N   \
FORST RANGE MANAGEMENT:.
l       FieSld WwH  CANS:\                                                             ACA
LI  Study 11 Deeomornbtim                                                                                                                                                 7
AGA'l CRARYF
FOETMNCLASSIRCATIONS;                                                       ElELA
F-     cmo,                                                                                 RARH
Hkdm Ook                                                                                                                                           RRACHIDAc
1huya                                                                At
c  P                                      ESSAOUI                                                                   ElFt Ai f
Junier
&p.pa  Ge..
Awa
-   m.om Roo.0P6I.hr  ..
SeProncloftd;, TRoW,
o    SoldedTw,ns,-
-~ -       |fTOtiOlOBorijnndJ a n.
intenfiotro  Boundwio f t                                                                                                  TANGER
- o        ~1                              2  { E         TETOUAN             Mediterranean           Sea
</   Gculimine  /                             l.od     2       <i)(31 , ) CHEFW>               AL HOCEIMA                3
KILOMETERS                                                            0 '
TAN-TAN                                           |        0         25   '       5      160                                   0
iALES                    a                          ;                 @       /00
a.                                               O,q.pn,p           0~~~~~~28
8                                                                    0



