December 30, 1998


H.E. Fathallah Oualalou
Minister of Economy and Finance
Ministry of Economy and Finance
Rabat
Kingdom of Morocco


              Re:   Morocco -- Loan Numbers:
                    3156-MOR: Second Forestry Development Project
                    3283-MOR: Port Sector Project
                    3587-MOR: Second Large Irrigation Improvement Project
                    3647-MOR: Environmental Management Project
                    3664-MOR: Fifth Water Supply Project
                    3688-MOR: Irrigated Areas Agricultural Services Project
                    3901-MOR: Secondary, Tertiary and Rural Roads Project
                    4025-MOR: Basic Health Project
                    4026-MOR: Coordination and Monitoring of Social Programs and Labor
Promotion                           Project
                    Amendment to Loan Agreements


Excellency:


       We refer to each of the Loan Agreements referred to above, entered into between
the Kingdom of Morocco (the Borrower) and the International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development (the "Bank"), as amended collectively effective July 7, 1998
("Agreements"). We also refer to the Bank's letter to Your Excellency, dated December
29, 1998 concerning the interest rate determination implications resulting from the
replacement of the French Franc currency by the Euro currency effective January 1,
1999.

       By the present, the Agreements are hereby amended as follows: the term "PIBOR",
wherever it appears in the Agreements, is replaced by the term "LIBOR". Therefore, the
terms "PIBOR Base Rate" and "PIBOR Total Spread" appearing in Section 2.08 of each of
the Agreements shall henceforth read "LIBOR Base Rate" and "LIBOR Total Spread",
respectively. In addition thereto, the phrases "Paris interbank offered rate" and
"Paris interbank offered rates" appearing in Sub-paragraphs (b) (iii) and (b) (iv) of
said Section are modified to henceforth read "London interbank offered rate" and
"London interbank offered rates".

       All the terms and conditions of the Loan Agreement, as amended hereby, shall
remain in full force and effect.

       Please confirm your official agreement to the foregoing, as the Borrower's
authorized representative under the Agreements, by duly signing and dating the
corresponding form of confirmation below and returning this amendment letter to us at
your earliest convenience. A signed duplicate original of this amendment letter is
enclosed herewith for the Kingdom of Morocco's official records.

       This amendment letter shall become effective as of the date it has been fully
executed by the parties thereto, and its provisions shall apply as of the first
Interest Period and Interest Payment Date falling due after January 1, 1999.



Very truly yours,



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Christian Delvoie
       Country Director
       Maghreb Department
       Middle East and North Africa Region




AGREED AND CONFIRMED:


KINGDOM OF MOROCCO



By /s/ Fathallah Oualalou
       Authorized Representative

Date: April 20, 1999
