Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 19212
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SECOND FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3156 - MOR)
April 27, 1999
Rural Development, Water and Environment Department
Middle East & North Africa Group
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Moroccan Dirham (MAD)
Appraisal year average (1988) 1 US$ = 8.25 MAD
Official Exchange Rates (MAD per US$)
Year                                     Annual Average
1989                                      8.49 MAD
1990                                      8.24 MAD
1991                                      8.71 MAD
1992                                      8.54 MAD
1993                                      9.30 MAD
1994                                      9.20 MAD
1995                                      8.54 MAD
1996                                      8.71 MAD
1997                                      9.53 MAD
1998                                      9.53 MAD
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
Until 1995:            January 1 -December 31
Since 1996:            July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AEFCS        Department of Water, Forestry and Soil Conservation
Administration des eaux etforets et de la conservation des sols
ERR          Economic Rate of Return
Taux interne de rentabilite conomique
FAO-CP       FAO-World Bank Co-operative Program
Programme de cooperation FAO-Banque mondiale
IAV          Agricultural and Veterinary Institute Hassan II
Institut agronomique et veterinaire Hassan II
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
Rapport d 'achevement
MCEF         Ministry of Forestry and Water
Ministere charge des eaux etforets
MEiS         Monitoring and Evaluation Section
Service du suivi et de I'evaluation
SFDP         Second Forestry Development Project
Second Projet de developpementforestier
Vice President:    Kemal Dervi§
Country Director:   Christian Delvoie
Sector Director:   Doris Koehn
Staff Member:     Idah Pswarayi-Riddihough



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Page
Preface                                                 TABLE OF CONTENTS                                                         i
Evaluation Summary                                                                                                                ii
PART I: Project Implementation Assessment.
A. Statement and Evaluation of Objectives ................................................                                        1
B. Achievement of Project Objectives . ...................................................                                        3
C. Major factors affecting the Project .....................................................                                      7
D. Project Sustainability .....................................                             .....................                 8
E. Bank Performance . ..........................................................                                                  9
F. Borrower Performance ...........................................................                                                 0
G. Assessment of Overall Outcome .......................................................                                          10
H. Future Operation ......................                            ....................................                        10
I.  Key Lessons Learnt ......................................................                               ....                  11
PART II: Statistical Tables ..
Table 1. Summary of Assessments ........................................................                                          13
Table 2. Related Bank Loans/Credits .........................                                                                     14
Table 3. Project Timetable ......................................................                                 ....            15
Table 4. Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative, Estimated and Actual   ...........                                                 15
Table 5. Key Indicators for Project Inplementation  .............                                .......................          16
Table 6. Key Indicators for Project Operation ....................                             .......................            17
Table 7. Studies Included in the Project ...................................................                                      17
Table 8a. Project Costs ..............................                            ............................                    18
Table 8b. Project Financing ..........................................................                                            19
Table 9. Economic Costs and Benefits ......................................... ..........                                         19
Table 10. Status of Legal Covenants ......................................................                                        20
Table 11. Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ..........                                       ................         22
Table 12. Bank Resources: Staff Inputs . ..................................................                                       22
Table 13. BankResources: Missions ......................................................                                          23
Appendices:
A. Mission's Aide-memoire (French) .....................................................                                          24
B. Borrower Contribution to the ICR  .....................................................                                        41
MAP IBRD 21506
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SECOND FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3156-MOR)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second Forestry Development
Project (SFDP) in Morocco for which Loan 3156-MOR in the amount of US$ 49 million equivalent
was signed on June 15, 1990 and was declared effective on November 11, 1990.
The loan was closed on June 30 1998, two years after the original closing date. As of
November 11, 1998, total disbursements reached US$ 41.8 million. A cancellation of US$ 3.6 million
was made in October 1998 and another cancellation of US $3.6 million was made in December 1998.
This ICR draft was prepared by the FAO/World Bank Co-operation Program (FAO-CP) on
behalf of the Rural Development, Water and Environment Group (MNSRE) of the World Bank. The
report is based inter alia, on material gathered from the project files, supervision reports, as well as on
findings from field investigations and discussions with representatives of the World Bank and the
Ministry of Forestry and Water (Ministere charge des eaux etforets, MCEF). The ICR mission was
carried out from September 14 to October 2, 1998. The borrower's contribution to this report included
the provision of a progress report and participation in field trips. The borrower's contribution is
attached in Appendix B of this report.
i



Implementation Completion Report                                             Loan 3156-MOR
Second Forestry Development Project
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SECOND FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3156-MOR)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    Herein, the Second Forestry Development Project in Morocco is evaluated. The project was
designed as a logical sequence to earlier projects in that country; therefore, its design generalizes the
improvements made and lessons learned from those earlier projects. World Bank Group lending to
Morocco began in 1965, although projects containing forestry components did not begin until the late
1 970s. With active Bank encouragement, Morocco has been giving increased priority to forestry and
natural resources management over the last two decades. Specifically, the Bank supports these sectors
through several projects including the Fes-Karia-Tissa - FY79, Loukkos - FY80, Gharb-Mamora - FY82
(Forestry I), Oulmes-Romani - FY83, Forestry II - FY90, and the recently negotiated Lakhdar project -
FY99. Those projects that have been completed were rated satisfactory on technical grounds, indicating
that the Government has placed a high priority to reversing the problems of land degradation and
improving natural resource management.
Project Objectives and Components
2.    Project objectives. The development objectives of the project were: to strengthen forestry
planning and policies; to maintain and improve forestry potential; and to meet the country's forest product
needs while protecting its watersheds in harmony with other demands on the sector such as domestic stock
grazing. To achieve these objectives the project aimed to: (a) support environmentally sound management
a.nd development of Morocco's forest resources, and (b) prepare and test components for a national
watershed program aimed at addressing soil erosion in the country's water catchments.
3.    Project components. The project included three main components: (a) forestry planning,
including a national forest inventory, a national reforestation plan, forest management planning, and forest
demarcation; (b) forest operations, including regeneration of natural forest, plantation establishment,
watershed management, forest range management, and forest road construction and rehabilitation, and
activities financed by the communes; and (c) support activities, including nature conservation, forest
research, staff housing rehabilitation, equipment purchases, training and technical assistance. The project
objectives were realistic and achievable.
Implementation Experience and Results
4.    Project Objectives. The project achieved its objectives and merits a satisfactory rating, the quality
of project outputs is satisfactory, and total project costs are in line with appraisal estimates. The project
was particularly successful in meeting its environmental, policy development, private sector development,
and a significant number of its physical objectives. Implementation rates of the main components were
satisfactory.
5.    At the mid-term review, adjustments to some of the estimated targets were made to take into
account experience gained in the initial three years of implementation. In particular: i) the project was
ii



Implementation Completion Report                                                   Loan 3156-MOR
Second Forestry Development Project
extended for two years to support the increased rhythm in project implementation thereby allowing it to
attain more of its objectives; (ii) plantation establishment and the forest range management programs were
reduced to take into account the initial technical problems experienced as well as three years of drought that
followed; and (iii) implementation of activities in the communal sub-component was slowed and targets
adjusted to reflect the MCEF's budgetary constraints.
6.     Project Impact. It will take some time for the full benefits of the project to be realized. The long-
term impact will be influenced by the degree of commitment from the beneficiaries towards maintaining
the works. The MCEF is aware of the importance of maintenance activities and the present policy of
supporting private sector involvement in production operations will allow the Forestry Departrnent to focus
its limited resources on a reduced number of priority activities. The responsibility for maintaining forests
and rangelands (both on private and state land) should be borne, in part, by the local, beneficiary
populations.
7.     Sustainability. While project outputs are of good quality, their sustainability will depend on the
quality and timeliness with which maintenance work is carried out. The Forestry Department has adequate
resources to sufficiently fund these activities; therefore, the key factor will be the priority accorded to
maintenance of project activities in terms of the establishment of new activities. The MCEF has thus far
demonstrated awareness of the importance of maintenance by allocating funds towards sylvicultural
treatment of plantations over the past two years.
8.     Bank Performance. Bank performance is rated satisfactory. The project represented priority
investments from the Department of Water, Forestry, and Soil Conservation's' 5-year investment program,
1990-1995, which were also in line with the Bank's priority lending for the forestry sector. The project
was well prepared, with lessons learned from the previous projects used to good effect. Funds for project
preparation were adequate and both preparation and appraisal were smooth; however, more care could have
been taken in preparing both the components, which required participation of the population and the
communal sub-component. Continuity of Bank staff and regular supervision missions provided the project
staff with the needed technical, administrative and financial assistance. In addition, the regular missions
built a high level of trust and co-operation between the Bank and the Government. This relationship was
useful in providing the necessary support to the MCEF in obtaining approvals from the Ministry of the
Interior and the Ministry of Finance on crucial issues.
9.     Borrower's Performance.  Borrower performance can likewise, be rated satisfactory.  The
Forestry Department ensured adequate staff for project implementation, and a large part of the Forestry
Department, at central, regional and local levels, were progressively involved in the implementation of the
project. However, MCEF did experience some difficulties in recruiting non-forestry specialists. Despite
severe budgetary constraints, MCEF made available to the project a significant share of its requirements
(up to 90% of estimates).
10.    Economic Evaluation. At appraisal, the overall Economic Rate of Return (ERR) was estimated to
be 39%. That estimate was based on ERRs calculated for each of the forest operations: from 15% for the
sylvo-pastoral development to over 50% for the regeneration of natural forest. However, present estimates
are lower, though still satisfactory. The ERR for the forest operations component is estimated at 35%,
varying from 22% for the plantation establishment sub-component to over 50% for the regeneration of
natural forests sub-component. Benefits from the watershed management sub-component, forest range
management sub-component, and the support activities components were not included in the analysis as
"Direction des eaux et forets et de la conservation des sols" (DEFCS) which later was transformed in
"Admninistration des eaux et forets et de la conservation des sols" (AEFCS) and recently upgraded in "Ministere
charge des eaux et forkts" (MCEF) - under the auspices of the Ministry of Agriculture.
iii



Implementation Completion Report                                                   Loan 3156-MOR
Second Forestry Development Project
they were not easily quantifiable. Switching values show that the ERRs are not sensitive to possible cost or
benefit variations.
Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
11.    Future Operations. The Forestry Department 1998-1999 budget is sufficient to sustain the
current priority program which includes some maintenance works. A National Forestry Plan is being
prepared, as mentioned above. After evaluation by the government and AEFCS, a decision will be made
regarding a follow-on project. Although the period between the closure of the Forestry II project and a
future project appears undetermined, it is important to note that a Bank forestry related project, Lakhdar,
was negotiated in September and another, Protected Areas Management (GEF funded), is under
preparation. In view of the constructive support brought by the Bank to the implementation of the two
previous forestry projects, it is likely that the Govemment will want to continue this beneficial
collaboration.
12.    Key lessons learned. Management of forest resources requires an integrated approach, taking into
account the priorities of the local communities, private sector, and Govemment. In this respect, in order to
induce participation, any planned forest operations should contain explicit incentives directed toward each
concemed interest.  The Govemment is presently preparing a Forestry Strategy that has already
incorporated a significant number of the key lessons learnt from the implementation of Forestry II:
* Project implementation requires sustained consultations among numerous government
departments, the private sector, the beneficiary population and the Bank. Continuity of
implementation teams is critical to ensuring the trust and rapport necessary for dealing with
controversial issues.
* Convincing the government of the importance of the intervention of the private sector in the
forestry operations is necessary but it must be accompanied by appropriate policy changes to
formalize and institutionalize it. At the same time, discussions with the private sector must be
pursued progressively to define conditions, which would attract a larger number of enterprises
to pave way for sound competition.
* The continuity of members of the borrower's implementation team and of project supervision
was critical to the efficacy to implementation. Project implementation was based on sustained
consultation between the consulting agencies, the govemment, and the regional forestry
agencies.
* Where budget constraints are likely, it is important to have a project that is considered a priority
at the country and implementing agency level, as was the case for this project. This not only
ensures that the budget, at least a large part of it, will be available, but there is no conflict in the
working schedules, and project implementing becomes part of the normal activities. In
addition, it is important to convince the Borrower, from the project preparation stage, to set
priorities for resource allocation for a period covering the project's entire cycle, including
recurrent cost financing. This aspect still needs to be improved.
* For activities which directly benefit the local populations on communal or private lands, their
participation, financial or through work must be actively sought and encouraged in all phases of
project activities (from identification, implementation, monitoring and evaluation). This
contribution re-enforces the ownership needed to motivate the eventual maintenance of these
works and ultimately their sustainability.
* Problems experienced with the timing of data collection by the monitoring and evaluation unit,
attributable to the complex system and lack of co-ordination of data collection at the central and
regional level indicates that M&E needs to be simple and co-ordinated to be effective.
iv



Implementaton Completion Report                                             Loan 3156-MOR
Second Forestry Development Project
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SECOND FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3156-MOR)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
BACKGROUND
I.    Morocco's substantial forests and woodlands, which are concentrated in the northwestern part
of the country, occupy 5.8 M ha of the country's total area. Virtually all of the natural forests and
esparto grasslands (covers 3.2 M ha) are state owned, although, based on tradition, local and nomadic
populations usually exercise grazing rights thus their domestic stock largely prevents natural
regeneration and contributes to the degradation of the vegetative cover. Before the implementation of
the Forestry II Project, only 40% of the forest area had been inventoried and the full effects of the
increasing population and grazing pressures on the forests, of which 20% were not demarcated, had
not been fully taken into account.
2.    The government began efforts to counter these problems in the First Forestry Project, Gharb-
Mamora, FY82 Loan 21 10-MOR, for $27.5 M. Under the forestry components in earlier Bank
projects and the Forestry I project, the Bank had assisted in the introduction and pilot application of
new techniques and practices with the objective of a wider application. Forestry II was designed as a
follow-on to those efforts taking into account all lessons learnt, and placing special emphasis on the
improvement of the planning and institution building process of the Forest Department. To this end,
the project aimed at bringing about and implementing policy and institutional changes with respect to
private participation in reforestation and raising the level of participation in forest activities.
A. STATEMENT AND EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
3.    Project Objectives.  The project's development objectives were: to strengthen forestry
planning and policies; to maintain and improve forestry potential; and to meet the country's forest
product needs while protecting its watersheds in harmony with other demands on the sector such as
domestic stock grazing. To achieve these objectives, the Second Forestry Development Project aimed
to: (a) support environmentally sound management and development of Morocco's forest resources,
and (b) prepare and test components for a national watershed program aimed at addressing soil erosion
in the country's water catchments. The Second Forestry Development Project was designed to take
into account the Department of Water and Forestry and Soil Conservation's' priority investments as
described in their 5-year investment program (1990-1995).
"Direction des eaux et forets et de la conservation des sols" (DEFCS) which later was transformed into
"Adrninistration des eaux et forets et de la conservation des sols" (AEFCS) and recently upgraded into "Minist6re
charge des eaux et forets" (MCEF).
1



Implementation Completion Report                                               Loan 3156-MOR
Second Forestry Development Project
4.    Project Components.  To achieve its objectives, the project included the following
components:
(a)    Forestry planning.  Under this component the project financed a national forest
inventory, a national reforestation plan, forest management planning, and forest
demarcation;
(b)    Field operations. The project supported regeneration of natural forest (36,000 ha),
plantation establishment (32,000 ha), watershed management (including the
development of low cost techniques on some 10,000 ha), forest range management
(works on 57,000 ha and plans on 97,000 ha), forest road construction (250 km) and
rehabilitation (1,450 km), and activities carried out by communes; and
(c)    Support activities. In this component the project financed nature conservation, forest
research, staff housing rehabilitation, purchase of equipment, and provided training and
technical assistance.
5.    Evaluation of objectives. Project objectives, while fairly ambitious, were clear and consistent
with the government's overall program. The Second Forestry Project represented priority investments
from the Department of Water and Forestry and Soil Conservation's 5-year investment program (1990-
1995). It was included among the investment priorities under the Medium-term Agricultural Sector
Adjustment Loan (Loan 3001-MOR) and in the Government's target investment program identified
under the Structural Adjustment Loan. This project was considered the logical sequence to generalize
the improvements made and lessons drawn from earlier projects on a country-wide basis.
6.    Evaluation of risks. The Staff Appraisal Document identified three areas of risk. The first
was the possibility of a slower than projected growth rate for project plantations, due to the
environment in which the project is implemented. To mitigate this risk, the project used vegetatively
reproduced planting stock (clones) because experience with this technology from other countries
resulted in significant yields. The project also improved plantation techniques and put a high priority
on the maintenance of all new plantations.
7.    The second area of risk was failure of the Government to provide adequate and timely
financing. In order to ensure adequate financing, the project was included as part of the Government's
target investment program. The project was given a high priority, thus the funds were made available
at approximately 90% of appraisal estimates, although with some delays.
8.    The final risk identified at appraisal was failure of the populations, dependent on the forests, to
participate and comply with plans for restricting and organizing livestock grazing in project areas.
This was mitigated through dialogue with the concerned populations and closing off newly planted
areas to allow them time to grow. Overall, the populations appear to be respecting these restrictions,
although, in some cases protection of the young trees will need to be continued.
9.    Risks arising during implementation which had not been identified were: (i) a drought and
some technical problems which badly affected the forest range management component; (ii) a delay in
the revision of a decree to promote private plantations; and (iii) the low contribution by communes to
activities in the communal sub-component.
2



Implementation Completion Report                                               Loan 3156-MOR
Second.Forestry Development Project
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
10.   General. Overall, the project's objectives of supporting environmentally sound management
in the development of Morocco's forest resources and preparing and testing components for a national
watershed management program were satisfactorily achieved. The project's preparation benefited
from lessons learnt from the implementation of the Forestry I Project (Gharb-Mamora). The proposed
targets for Forestry II, although considerably greater than those of Forestry I, were realistic. The
project also benefited from a team of experienced staff who contributed greatly towards the
satisfactory implementation of the project, as the Forestry Department ensured that the team who had
worked on Forestry I also worked on Forestry II.
11.   Implementation rates of the main components were satisfactory, with a significant number of
activities exceeding appraisal targets. However, achievements were significantly below appraisal
targets for the forest range management component for technical reasons as well as the communal sub-
component due to the lack of funding. Targets for the forest demarcation sub-component were
upwardly revised when it became clear that appraisal targets would be surpassed. The overall quality
of project outputs is satisfactory and total project costs are in line with appraisal estimates. During the
mid-term review, in October 1993, targets in the forest range management component and the
communal sub-component were downwardly adjusted to take into account their slower
implementation. These lower targets were substantially achieved. Overall monitoring and evaluation
of the project was satisfactory.
Physical, institutional, private sector development and financial objectives
12.   Forestry Planning.  The Forest Inventory and the National Reforestation Plan were
completed, with delays of three and two years, respectively, resulting in a cost overrun that was double
to the appraisal estimate. This overrun can be attributed to the under-estimation of costs at preparation
and additional mapping works requested by the Forestry Department (MCEF).
13.   The MCEF has pledged its intention to update the inventory every ten years, i.e., annually
revise 10% of the area covered in the management plans, through a sub-contract to a consulting firm.
To take this into account, resources allocated to the Forest Inventory Unit (Service de l'inventaire
forestier) were proportionally increased. Results from both the inventory and the reforestation plan are
already being extensively used for the preparation of the National Forestry Program and Forest
Management Plans. The studies should also be very useful for future programming activities in the
MCEF.
14.   Management Plans covering 383,000 ha of demarcated indigenous forests (cedar, cork oak,
etc.) were prepared during the project, in line with goals set at appraisal. In addition, plans for another
61,000 ha were also revised. Implementation targets for the working plans were 70% of appraisal
estimates. These plans should, in the future, allow the local forest services (Centres de developpement
forestier) to implement priority work programs within budgetary limitations. Unit costs were in line
with those estimated at appraisal.
15.   Demarcation of Forest Estate largely exceeded estimated targets. An area of 697,000 ha was
demarcated and 76,000 ha were consolidated as compared with goals of 373,000 and 74,000 ha
respectively. Unit costs were considerably lower than those estimated at preparation due to the
contracting of the manufacturing of pillars, labor, and transport costs for installation.
3



Implementation Completion Report                                                   Loan 3156-MOR
Second Forestry Development Project
16.    Forest Operations.  Regeneration of natural forest was slow during the early stages of
implementation due to technical problems. During that period, solutions to a significant number of
those problems were developed; therefore, from 1994 on, the implementation rate increased to 80% of
the target. In 1996 and 1997, the appraisal target for Cork Oak was exceeded and the one for Cedar
reached 85%. Future benefits resulting from these works will depend mainly on their maintenance,
including protection of the newly planted areas for an extended period of time to allow undisturbed
growth of the young plants. At closing, unit costs were 30% below estimates, likely as a result of an
over-estimation in the technical packages at preparation.
17.    Of the 18,000 ha of fast-growing plantations of eucalyptus that were to be established under
the project, comprising 7,000 ha from clones and 13,000 ha from seedlings, 14,300 ha (79%) were
established (10,000 from clones and 4,300 ha from seedlings). Delays in land preparation due to late
logging of old plantation areas and a decision taken to place land, which should have been planted two
years prior, at the disposal of the private sector caused the lower achievement rate. Unit costs at
project's end were in line with those estimated at appraisal. Expected yields are only slightly lower
than those estimated at appraisal: the mean annual increments for trees raised from clones are presently
estimated at 14 m3 /ha/year instead of 15 and 20 m3 and those for trees raised from seedlings are
estimated at 10 m3 /ha/year instead of 11 I3. To attain yields such as those estimated at appraisal early
maintenance needs to be improved and illicit felling prevented. Nevertheless, yield increases over
previous plantations are spectacular.
18.    Changes in the incentive policies for private investments, promoted by the project,
materialized through revision of the decree on the National Forestry Fund (Fonds national forestier -
needed to promote reforestation on public, collective and private lands) which was passed after a delay
of three years. The revision of the decree made it possible, for the first time, to avail state land for
forest operations to private enterprises. The first such enterprise, Eucaforest, has already established
5,500 ha of a 25,000 ha program of fast-growing plantations of Eucalyptus camaldulensis, for the
production of pulpwood. This first involvement of the private sector is proving to be a success. The
plantations were well established, costs are under control and the expected yields are high with a
-projected financial rate of return above 15%. MCEF is monitoring Eucaforest's progress, and will
offer technical support to the enterprise if needed. The results have helped to convince the Forestry
Department of the importance of involving other private enterprises in reforestation; however,
application of this new decree on a wide scale may be limited by the availability of state land not
subject to local population grazing rights.
19.    During project preparation, it was found that the fixed price of eucalyptus wood, for pulp and
paper production, in the contract between the Cellulose du Maroc (the paper company) and the
Ministry of Agriculture was lower than the market price. In order to advise the government on better
pricing policy, a market study on pulp wood pricing was conducted under the project. The conclusions
of this study resulted in the establishment of a new contract, which includes prices that are equitable to
international prices for pulp and paper
:20.   Appraisal targets were exceeded for the watershed management component, in particular for
the reforestation, fruit tree plantation, and mechanical and biological treatment of ravines. For the
sylvo-pastoral operations, at least 75% of the target was achieved. Reluctance of some users' groups
made it impossible to attain the full targets. The project was able to develop low cost techniques and
the final unit costs were well below those estimated at appraisal. As a result of the experience from
this and other donor funded projects, watershed management projects in Morocco have begun to
involve local populations in selection, programming, and implementation of priority activities (the new
Bank financed project - Lakhdar is an excellent example). As benefits, such as grazing for animals,
4



Implementation Completion Report                                               Loan 3156-MOR
Second Forestry Development Project
increased productivity of land from decreased erosion, revenue from trees and availability of wood for
various uses -,tc. accrue directly to the affected populations, the incentives necessary to manage and
maintain the infrastructure are born.
21.   The Forest Range Management Component was designed to assist in the development of
intensified forest range management to produce substitute feed for domestic stock, compensating for
the closing of forests for natural regeneration or reforestation. This was to be done through: (i) the
provision of sylvo-pastoral development operations in two areas where adequate studies were
available, 17 000 ha in Bouhasoussen and 10 000 at Sahel des Doukkala, including 2 000 ha of wind
breaks; (ii) strengthening the sylvo-pastoral seed farm at M'Da; and (iii) seven sylvo-pastoral
development studies covering in total 97 000 ha and one pilot study of the argan forest area in a
selected rural commune. The outputs for this component are below those estimated at appraisal.
Technical problems at the beginning, in particular difficulties in regeneration of pasture in Sahel des
Doukkala, affected implementation of the Forest Range Management component, which were
subsequently solved by research. A study to evaluate the technical constraints and find solutions to the
Sahel des Doukkala sub-component was entrusted to the National Agriculture and Veterinary Institute
(Institut agronomique et vetrinaire Hassan II), by the supervision mission. The study allowed
simpler technical solutions to be proposed which were much easier accepted by the local populations.
Other constraints to this component were identified, mainly: (i) hostility of local populations caused by
the lack of a participatory approach in the identification and selection of activities in the component;
(ii) severe droughts; and (iii) the limited number of sylvo-pastoral staff interested in designing
participatory systems. In addition, the sylvo-pastoral management studies covered 105,000 ha to a
planned target of 97,000 ha. Although the results from these studies provide much needed basic data,
they do not present operational solutions.
22.   The component succeeded in contributing to: (i) increased knowledge of the sylvo-pastoral
rationale; (ii) the identification of simple technical packages that the local populations could test and
implement; (iii) the introduction of the participatory approach in range management; and (iv) the
demonstration that herder groups can efficiently carry out range management providing they receive
adequate support from regional and local services. Under this same component, the M'Da seed farm
was rehabilitated and equipped as planned, although the quality of seedlings could be improved.
23.   The program of forest roads was implemented as follows: 277 km versus 250 km of new roads
were constructed and 1,236 km versus 1450 km were rehabilitated. Actual costs were 10% lower than
estimated at appraisal. Overall, the quality of works carried out is satisfactory. Sustainability of these
roads will, however, depend on appropriate maintenance work. Priority will, in general, have to be
given to maintenance of existing roads over the construction of new ones, especially during this period
of budgetary constraints.
24.   Communal Investments. Targets for two of the smallest sub-components: range development
and forest road rehabilitation were exceeded. The other activities were at least 50% completed.
Following a slow implementation start, the program stalled during 1994, 1995 and the first semester of
1996. The slow start was due to the low financial contribution from the communes to forest operations
works (despite the 1976 law which specifies that populations deriving part of their revenues from sales
of forestry products originating from within their territorial limits, should invest at least 20% of the
proceeds into forest operations and rural development works). During preparation, the General
Direction of local collectives (Direction general des collectives locales - DGLC), had agreed that the
local populations would contribute at least 20% of the investment costs for the component. However,
the communes spent the money on other activities and made available only 38% for plantation
establishment and 51% for regeneration of natural forests. After multiple requests made by the
5



Implementation Completion Report                                               Loan 3156-MOR
Second Forestry Development Project
Forestry Department to the Interior Ministry, supported by the Bank supervision missions, the DGLC
was persuaded to take a firmer position vis-a-vis with the forestry communes and their contribution to
the component. The program was restarted in 1996, without further incident. The forester attached to
the Ministry of the Interior has played a part in the component's continued implementation, and has, at
the same time, improved the working relations between that Ministry and MCEF. The communes, in
just two years, 1997 and 1998, were able to contribute more than MAD 40 million or 64% of the total
investment cost needed for the communal activities sub-component.
25.   Support Activities. "Management Plans" giving due consideration to nature conservation and
preservation of endangered species were prepared and infrastructure and equipment provided to three
protected areas. The modest investments in environmental activities under the project have firmly
anchored nature conservation among the Forest Department priorities and permitted the reintroduction
of some extinct species into national parks (gazelles, ostriches). Benefits are considerable because of
the number of visitors, for example, Tazekka National Park, one of the parks supported, receives more
than 50,000 tourists annually.
26.   Overall, the forest research program was implemented satisfactorily. Results have already
provided an improved technical basis for several project activities, such as the regeneration and
sylvicultural treatment of plantations. For future work, the development of research activities will
require that: (i) regular contacts between the Research Institute (Centre national de la recherche
forestiere) and the MCEF be maintained to agree on their work program; (ii) research resources be
focused on a priority research program, (iii) incentives also be given to researchers at the individual
level, and (iv) additional vehicles be placed at the researchers' disposal.
27.   The project included a study of the organizational structure of the Forestry Department. The
decree to re-organize and elevate the Forest Department to a Forest Administration (Administration
des eaux et forets et de la conservation des sols) was signed in 1996, although proposals had been
made in 1992. In the meantime, the Programming and Monitoring Unit, established under the first
Forestry project and strengthened under Forestry II, was upgraded to a "Monitoring and Evaluation
Section" in charge of the whole department. The section was progressively staffed with three
foresters. The trainirig and technical assistance component was sub-contracted to FAO under the
UTF/MOR/01 1/MOR agreement. Under this contract, the consultation missions worked with research
on forest genetics and ecology, computerization, nature protection and the national forest inventory.
The missions were also involved in: the organization of an ecology unit, created in 1990 and
transformed into a Service in 1993 with four sections (fauna, flora, protected areas and SIBEs);
establishment of a methodology for inventorying wildlife; selection of themes for international
cooperation in research matters; forest genetics; and the constitution of research teams around
bilateral/multilateral projects, and their implementation. The implementation of this program was
satisfactory, delivering 45 person/months of technical assistance, 10% above the estimate, and 55
person/month of training. Furthermore, annual training sessions for each one of the 300 foresters (two
weeks per year) and 1,100 technicians (one week per year) were planned. The project financed 4,400
person/days of training or only 12% of the target. The large discrepancy was caused by the limited
resources allocated to the Forestry Department's annual resources which can be assigned to
''permanent" training.
28.   The project financed the procurement of 5 light and 100 four-wheel drive vehicles. The
vehicles were particularly important for the project's implementation as there was a scarcity of
vehicles in good working condition. The project also financed 16 computers with printers, software
and ancillary material, attaining 67% of the estimated target at appraisal. The unit costs for both the
6



Implementation Completion Report                                             Loan 3156-MOR
Second Forestry Development Project
vehicles and the computers were higher than estimated at appraisal. The discrepancy in the unit costs
at appraisal and those at project end could be due to an underestimation during preparation.
29.   Project Costs. Total project costs amount to MAD 735 million or 90% of appraisal estimates.
Excluding the communal investments, total project costs reached MAD 672 million, i.e. 100% of
appraisal estimates. Despite considerable budget constraints in Morocco, the Forestry Department
managed to secure adequate project funding for the budget. However, as it took eight years to
implement the project, instead of the initially planned six, the annual allocation was 70% of projected.
30.   Differences in actual costs versus estimated costs vary for all components. This difference is
not easily comparable because of the lack of precise information by activity. As such, the causal
factors can not be exactly pinpointed; however, in general, the costs were close to appraisal estimates.
In most cases this difference can safely be attributed to the difficulty in accurately costing a wide
variety of activities which then make up one component. The small difference, for example that for
forest roads probably indicates that the unit costs were initially well estimated and the bidding process
worked well and that the number of bidders was sufficiently high to make the process competitive. A
comparison of the global costs, actual vs. estimated, is less than 20%.
31.   Monitoring and Evaluation. The Monitoring and Evaluation Section was responsible for
monitoring and evaluating project progress. Monitoring of the physical program was carried out
satisfactorily, and the biennial reports of the MES provided valuable information, although there were
often delays in data collection for some of the components. Some of these delays could be attributed
to the complexity of the information system and to the fact that technicians, at the local level, were at
times discouraged by the large number of uncoordinated questionnaires originating from the national
and regional branches.
32.   The evaluation of the economic impact of the various components was not easily carried out by
the MES because it has not yet developed an information system to allow the collection of economic
data. For the information collected for this ICR, MES was obliged to entrust this task to the Regional
Forestry Directorates (Directions regionales des eaux etforets).
33.   Economic Evaluation.  At appraisal, the overall Economic Rate of Return (ERR) was
estimated to be 39%. That estimate was based on ERRs calculated for each of the forest operations:
from 15% for the sylvo-pastoral development to over 50% for the regeneration of natural forest.
However, present estimates are lower, though still satisfactory. The ERR for the forest operations
component is estimated at 35%, varying from 22% for the plantation establishment sub-component to
over 50% for the regeneration of natural forests sub-component. Benefits from the watershed
management sub-component, forest range management sub-component, and the support activities
components were not included in the analysis as they were not easily quantifiable. Switching values
show that the ERRs are not sensitive to possible cost or benefit variations.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
Factors not generally subject to Government control
34.   The forest range management component experienced problems which were not identified at
preparation, such as drought, resistance by some local populations in the sylvo-pastoral operations, and
some technical problems. The drought prevented the timely execution of some of the forest operation
works. At the mid-term review, the project responded to these problems by adjusting the estimated
7



Implementation Completion Report                                               Loan 3156-MOR
Second Forestry Development Project
targets to reflect the slower implementation rates. A significant number of technical issues were
addressed through research.
Factors generally subject to Government control
35.   The project's impact was initially reduced by the delay in revising the decree to promote
private sector participation in forest operations, which was achieved after a three year delay; the low
financial contribution from the communes to forest operations works (despite the 1976 law which
specifies that populations deriving part of their revenues from sales of forestry products originating
from within their territorial limits, should invest at least 20% of the proceeds into forest operations and
rural development works); and resistance by some populations. The Government did make available
sufficient funds (85% of appraisal estimates) to the project, despite the budget crisis, ensuring
satisfactory implementation.
Factors generally subject to implementation agency control
36.   The Forestry Department demonstrated good management capabilities throughout the project.
The team started off in a strong position, having worked on Forestry I and benefited further from the
project's emphasis on capacity building. The team successfully carried out procurement and managed
the project studies efficiently. The Forestry Department also established important links with other
ministries, in particular with the Ministry of Interior which was a key actor in the decision making on
crucial issues directly implicating the project. The Forestry Department also established important
links the local populations and is actively trying to promote dialogue to convince them of the
importance of their contribution and participation.
37.   Monitoring of the physical program by the Monitoring and Evaluation Section (MES) was
carried out satisfactorily, although often with delays in data collection for some of the components.
Better coordination of the questionnaires for physical monitoring was needed to alleviate this problem.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
38.   Project results are likely to be sustainable. Project outputs are, on the whole, of good quality,
but ultimately their sustainability will depend on the quality and timeliness in which they are
maintained. There are adequate resources in the Forestry Department to sufficiently fund these
activities; therefore, the key factor will be the priority accorded to maintenance activities over
establishment of new ones. The MCEF is aware of the importance of maintenance as demonstrated by
budget allocations to sylvicultural treatment of plantations during the past two years.
39.   The present policy of supporting private sector involvement in production operations will
progressively allow the Forestry Department to focus its limited resources on a reduced number of
priority activities, leaving the rest to private enterprises. The Forestry Department will have to ensure
that maintenance of works carried out by private enterprises are included as part of the package.
Furthermore, continued dialogue with the implicated populations in the forest and range activities
would ensure that maintenance is taken over by them as part of the management agreement. Pilot
operations involving a participatory approach are now being considered as key by the Forestry
Department, as can be seen in the pipeline of new operations.
8



Implementation Completion Report                                            Loan 3156-MOR
Second Forestry Development Project
40.   The sustainability of the production components also deserves some specific comments.
* The expected yields of the fast-growing plantations of eucalyptus are lower than anticipated
at appraisal mainly due to illicit felling of poles. This problem has now been resolved,
through better protection measures. To realize the full benefits, continued protection of
these plantations against illicit grazing of livestock and logging will have to be ensured.
* The areas of natural forest which were regenerated will also require careful maintenance,
including, closing them off to animals for an extended period of time to allow the young
plants to grow.
* The participatory approach implemented in the forest range management component should
be continued to ensure the maintenance of works.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
41.   In project identification, Bank performance is rated satisfactory. The project was included
among the investment priorities under the Medium-Term Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program
defined under the Bank's Second Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan and in the government's target
investment program, identified under the Structural Adjustment Loan. Project identification drew
attention to: (a) increasing the planning capacity of the Forestry Department; and (b) private sector
involvement in the forestry sector and re-enforcing the institutional capacity of the Department.
42.   In project preparation and appraisal the Bank is rated satisfactory. At the request of the World
Bank, the FAO-CP provided assistance to the Government in preparing the project. The preparation
(1988) and the subsequent appraisal (1989) benefited from lessons derived from forestry components
included in four rural development projects and from the Forestry I Project (Gharb-Marnora - closed
June 30 1990). Nevertheless, more care should have been taken in preparing components which
required participation of the population, in particular, ensuring adequate extension work to convince
the populations of the importance of their contribution. However, overall, the detailed description of
the various components and sub-components, including the distribution to the Forestry Department of
the technical annexes (Rapport d 'execution, en deux volumes) and the care exercised in describing the
implementation procedures did much to ensure the project's successful outcome.
43.   The Bank's performance in supervision is rated satisfactory. The first supervision mission was
organized in February 1991, just after Board presentation and the second in October 1991, two months
after effectiveness. Missions were thereafter conducted twice a year until mid-1997 after which they
were scaled down to one in the final year (Part II, Table 13). For the most part, the missions were
made up of two people: an Economist and a Forester. A Livestock Specialist joined the missions four
times between 1993 and 1997. The missions provided technical, administrative and financial
assistance, as required. Missions also left comprehensive aide-memoires in the field. The importance
of these missions is evidenced by the influence they were able to give, through their continued support
to the Forestry Department, in obtaining the approval of the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry
of Finance on crucial issues: (i) revision of the decree establishing the National Forestry Fund; (ii)
obtaining a communal budget to finance forest operations; assuring an adequate annual budget
assigned to the Forestry Department, etc. However, the Bank missions could have expedited the hiring
of a monitoring and evaluation expert as soon as it was realized that the MES was facing difficulties in
collecting the necessary information on time.
9



Implementation Completion Report                                             Loan 3156-MOR
Second Forestry Development Project
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
44.   The Kingdom of Morocco was the borrower, and the Department of Water and Forestry and
Soil Conservation was the executing agency. Borrower commitment to the project was instrumental in
ensuring successful project implementation. In addition, the decision by the Forestry Department to
assign staff who had worked on Forestry I to Forestry II, greatly enhanced the project's achievement of
the objectives. This not only provided continuity which was crucial for the project but it also allowed
reinforcement of the staff's skills. As the project represented priority investments from the 5-year
investment program (1990-1995), a large part of the Forestry Department staff at central, regional and
local levels, were progressively involved in the implementation of the project. MCEF nevertheless
faced difficulties in recruiting non-forester specialists such as an economist for the MES, a socio-
economist and a pastoralist for the range management component.
45.   Morocco's budget constraints inevitably had negative consequences on project financing. At
the beginning of the project, the Ministry of Agriculture was not able to secure more than 50% of
budget projections (Appendix A, Annex A, Tables 1 and 2). In 1993, 1994 and 1995 the allocations
went up to more than 90%, but this funding level was again reduced in the last three years of the
project, despite the effort made by MCEF in 1997-98 to increase the funding. In addition to this
constraint, the project also faced problems which included: (i) cumbersome and lengthy procedures,
(ii) low disbursement rates, (iii) difficulties in evaluating the economic impact of the project, (iv)
delays in revising the National Forestry Fund decree, and (v) insufficient contribution of the
Communes to the financing of the forestry investment program.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OVERALL OUTCOME
46.   Overall, project outcome is satisfactory. The principal objectives were in substance, achieved.
Considerable results were achieved in sector policies, private sector development, and environmental
objectives. Partial achievements occurred in the institutional development and physical objectives.
Furthermore, the Economic Rates of Return show that investing in the forestry sector can be profitable.
47.   The project enlarged the planning base of the Forestry Department particularly with regards to
forest inventory, forest management, national reforestation, and national watershed management, all of
which were instrumental in preparing the new Government's long and medium term forestry
development strategy. The preparation of that strategy, which should be ready in the first quarter of
1999, has also benefited from the lessons learned from the implementation of this project's main
components, in particular, the implication of the private sector, communal activities investments, and
participatory approach in forestry development, among others. Furthermore, the opportunity given to
the private sector to invest in reforestation should progressively attract more enterprises and their role
could be enlarged to cover some other forest operations such as natural forest management. In terms
of environmental objectives, beyond the specific support activities (management plans, infrastructure
and equipment of three protected areas), a project to better manage forest resources can only have a
positive impact. The shortfall in the Forest Department reforestation program was however, more than
substituted by the successful introduction of private sector plantations.
H. FUTURE OPERATION
48.   The Forestry Department 1998-1999 budget is sufficient to sustain the current priority program
which includes some maintenance works. A National Forestry Plan is being prepared, as mentioned
above. After evaluation by the government and AEFCS, a decision will be made with regards to a
10



Implementation Completion Report                                               Loan 3156-MOR
Second Forestry Development Project
follow-on -project. Although the period between the closure of the Forestry II project and a future
project appears undetermined, it is important to note that a forestry related project, Lakhdar (Bank
financed), was negotiated in September 1998 (and approved December 1998) and another, Protected
Areas Management (GEF financed) is under preparation. In view of the constructive support brought
by the Bank to the implementation of the two previous forestry projects, it is recommended that the
Government and the World Bank continue this beneficial collaboration.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNT
49.   Management of forest resources requires an integrated approach, taking into account the
priorities of the local communities, private sector, and Government. To this respect, in order to induce
participation, any planned forest operations should contain explicit incentives directed toward each
concerned interest. For example: local communities would benefit from improved roads to allow
easier access and forest fire prevention initiatives to maintain adequate grazing for their animals; the
private sector would benefit not only from the ability to plant trees but also access to the same piece of
land to realize gains through sale of harvested products; and finally, the government would benefit
from private sector investment covering some of the investment and recurrent costs. With increased
budgetary constraints the need for "partnerships" with other entities is becoming more apparent if
forestry operations are to be adequately sustained. Encouraging other parties to be involved can
reduce both investment and recurrent costs, allowing the government's role to evolve into one where
they are both implementers and managers rather than exclusively implementers. The new strategy that
the Government is presently preparing, has already incorporated a significant number of the key
lessons learnt from the project. The key lessons learnt are as follows:
i.    Project implementation is greatly enhanced by regular Bank supervision missions.  The
missions provide a very important source of technical assistance which is not always easily obtainable
due to lack of adequate financing. Continuity in the key mission members is also important as it builds
trust and a rapport which is essential when discussing controversial issues.
ii.   In Morocco, project implementation must be based on sustained consultation between the
Forestry Department at central and regional levels, the Ministry of Interior (Local Councils), the
Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of General Affairs, the private sector (Cellulose du Maroc), the local
communities and the supervision missions of the World Bank. The continuity of the borrower's
implementation team and of project supervision was critical to the efficacy to implementation. It
builds trust and a rapport which is essential when discussing controversial issues."
iii.    Convincing the government of the importance of the intervention of the private sector in the
forestry operations is necessary but it must be accompanied by appropriate policy changes to formalize
and institutionalize it. At the same time, discussions with the private sector must be pursued
progressively to define conditions, which would attract a larger number of enterprises to pave way for
sound competition.
iv.    Maintenance of forestry works must be, from the initial stages, given a high priority such as
that of new works to ensure their sustainability and long-term benefits. Where enterprises will carry
out the forest operations, a clause that specifies maintenance requirements must be included to ensure
these benefits.
11



Implementaton Completion Report                                                    Loan 3156-MOR
Second Forestry Development Project
v.     The continuity of members of the borrower's implementation team and of project supervision
was critical to the efficacy to implementation. Project implementation was based on sustained
consultation between the consulting agencies, the government, and the regional forestry agencies.
vi.    Where budget constraints are likely, it is important to have a project that is considered a
priority at the country and implementing agency level, as was the case for this project. This not only
ensures that the budget, at least a large part of it, will be available, but there is no conflict in the
working schedules, and project implementing becomes part of the normal activities. In addition, it is
important to convince the Borrower, from the project preparation stage, to set priorities for resource
allocation for a period covering the project's entire cycle, including recurrent cost financing. This
aspect still needs to be improved.
vii.   For activities which directly benefit the local populations on communal or private lands, their
participation, financial or through work must be actively sought and encouraged in all phases of
project activities (from identification, implementation, monitoring and evaluation). This contribution
re-enforces the ownership needed to motivate the eventual maintenance of these works and ultimately
their sustainability.
viii.   Problems experienced with the timing of data collection by the monitoring and evaluation unit,
attributable to the complex system and lack of co-ordination of data collection at the central and
regional level indicates that M&E needs to be simple and co-ordinated to be effective.
ix.    The low target of "permanent training" achieved in this project shows that during a period of
budget austerity, less emphasis will be placed on training than on other investment costs. The low
achievement may advocate for lower more modest training targets that are easier achieved. Training is
important to re-enforce key concepts and renew skills with experience gained in implementation and
must be encouraged.
12



Implementation Completion Report                                                           Loan 3156-MOR
Second Forestry Development Project
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE 1: SU1MMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of obiectives        Substantial     Partial    Negligible  Not Applicable
Macro policies                                                               /
Sector policies                      /
Financial objectives                                                         /
Institutional development
Physical objectives
Poverty reduction                                                            /
Gender issues                                                                /
Other social objectives                           /
Environmental objectives             /
Public sector management                          I
Private sector development
Other (specify)
B. Project sustainabilitv             Likelv                             Uncertain
C. Bank performance                satisfactorv      Satisfactorv       Deficient
Identification
Preparation assistance                           v
Appraisal                                        /
Supervision                                      i
HisIhlv
D. Borrower Derformance              satisfactory      Satisfactorv       Deficient
Preparation                                       /
hnplementation                                    V
Covenant compliance                               /
Operation (if applicable)
HigbyH,blv                                     &Y
E. Assessment of outcome         satisfactorv   Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory   unsatisfactorv
13



Implementation Completion Report                                                                   Loan 3156-MOR
Second Forestry Development Project
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS
Loan/credit title                                Purpose                                 Yearof        Status
approval
Preceding operations
1. Loan 1602-MOR          Improve rural income and social well-being of 33,900 farm families in the    FY 1978   Closed
Fes-Karia-Tissa        project area through improvements to research, extension services, credit     06/30/90
Agriculture Project    and input supply, as well as through investments in infrastructure such as
roads, schools, health facilities, and water supply.
2. Loan 1848-MOR           Improve the agricultural systems prevailing in Loukkos watershed into  FY 1980   Closed
Loukkos Rural          sustainable systems by alleviating the destructive effects of soil erosion    December
Development Project    and increasing agricultural productivity and incomes of poor farmers.         1988
Project activities were to serve as a model for wider replication in the Riff
region.
3. Loan 1602-MOR           Increase production of meat, milk and cereals; increase of the rural  FY 1982   Closed
Middle Atlas-Central   population income and employment; and reverse environmental                   December
Area Agricultural      deterioration of forest and rangelands.                                       1990
Development Project
4. Loan 21 10-MOR          Establish plantations to increase the production of pulpwood for the local    FY 1982   Closed
Forestry I Project -   mill and of industrial timber and fuelwood to meet domestic needs and         June 1990
Gharb - Mamora         strengthen planning and management in the sector.
5. Loan 2217-MOR           Improve the living standards of the predominantly rural population living    FY 1983   Closed
Oulmes-Rommani         within the project area through development of agriculture, livestock and     June 1992
Agricultural           forestry and through provision of better social and agriculture services.
Development Project
6. Loan 2590-MOR           Support the first phase of implementation of the Govemment's program of   FY 1985   Closed
Agricultural Sector    adjustment in the agricultural sector. The principal objectives of the        June 1987
Adjustment Loan        program were to improve the growth rate in agriculture within the overall
constraints in public resources.
7. Loan 2885-MOR           Support the second phase of implementation of the Government's    FY 1987   Closed
Second Agricultural    medium-term agricultural sector adjustment program within the                 April 1992
Sector Adjustment      framework of a general macro-economic restructuring program  The
Loan                   essential objectives are to foster efficient agricultural growth and to
contribute to the reduction of budgetary and current account deficits to
manageable levels.
8. Loan 3036-MOR           Support the establishment of efficient national research and extension  FY 1989   Closed
Agricultural Research    institutions for the development and dissemination of improved              June 1996
and Extension Project    agricultural technology so as to increase agricultural productivity,
production of food, livestock and cash crops, and farmners' income
throughout the country.
Follow- up operations
1. Loan 3403-MOR          To support a 1991/92 time-slice of the agricultural sector investment  FY 1992   Closed
Agricultural Sector    program, to promote essential policy reform measures to improve the           June 1994
Investment Program    investment process and strengthen MARA's institutional capacity and to
continue implementing key sector policy issues.
2. Loan 3765-MOR           Finance a part of the investment program of the Ministry of Agriculture  FY 1994   Closed
Second Agricultural    for a four-year period (1994/1997).                                           June 1998
Sector Investment
Program
3.. Loan 3935-MOR          Alleviate the impact of the current severe drought by providing: (i) rural  FY 1996   Closed
Emergency Drought      infrastructure (water and roads) to generate income; (ii) agricultural inputs  June-1998
to restore crop production; and (iii) animal feed to safeguard productive
livestock.
14



Implementation Completion Report                                                         Loan 3156-MOR
Second Forestry Development Project
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Identification (Executive Project Sununary)               -                   June 1986
Preparation                                               -                 February 1988
Appraisal                                                 -                 February 1989
Negotiations                                              -                  October 1989
Letter of development policy (if applicable)
Board presentation                                        -                    01/09/90
Signing                                                   -                    06/15/90
Effectiveness                                             -                    09/11/90
First tranche release (if applicable)
Midterm review (if applicable)                            -                    03/08/94
Second (and third) tranche release (if applicable)
Project completion                                    06/30/96                 06/30/98
Loan closing                                          09/30/96                 09/30/98
TABLE 4: LOAN/CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE, ESTIMATED AND
ACTUAL
(US$ THOUSANDS)
FY 1991              4.0                   1.24             31
FY92                 13.0                  2.38             18
FY93                 23.0                  6.69             29
FY94                 33.0                  9.30             28
FY95                 42.0                  23.84            58
FY96                 49.0                  32.04            65
FY97                 49.0                  37.71            77
FY98                 49.0                  37.71            77
FY99                 49.0                 41.8              85                 10/31/1998
15



Implementation Completion Report                                                           Loan 3156-MOR
Second Forestry Development Project
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Key implementation indicators      Unit        Estimated         Actual         Actual as a %
in SARlPresident's Report                                                       of Estimate
Demarcation
New                                    ha         373,000          697,187              187
Consolidation                          ha          74,000           75 720              102
Management Plan
Basic                                  ha         219,000          211,790               97
Simple                                 ha         167,000          171,300              103
For Plantations                        ha         300,000          211,900               71
Revisions                              ha          61,000           61,300              100
Regeneration
Cedar                                  ha           13,370          11,350               85
Oak                                    ha           5,000            5,374              108
Reforestation                           ha           18,000           14,285              79
Watershed Management
Reforestation                          ha           3,000            3,279              109
Mechanical Treatment                  units         1,400            1,691              121
Biological Treatment                  units        20,000           20,150              101
Sylvo-Pastoral Treatment               ha           1,200              900               75
Fruit Tree Plantation                  ha           10,000           13,739             137
Forest Range Management
Bouhassoussen fence                    ha           17,000           6,113               36
fertilization           ha           2,000                0                0
Seedlings               ha            1,000               0                0
Forage shrubs           ha             500                0                0
Sahel des Doukkala                     ha           10,000           5,112               51
Management Plans                       ha          92,000          104,940              114
Communal Investments
Plantations                            ha           11,110           4,703               42
Regeneration                           ha           14,000           7,340               52
Forest Range Development               ha             500             650               130
Dune Stabilization                     ha             370              235              64
Forest Roads Rehabilitation           km              100              139              139
Forest Roads
New                                    km             250              277              111
Rehabilitation                        km             1,450            1,236              85
Maintenance                           km             2,750            1,765              64
Staff Housing
Rehabilitation                        units           600              772              129
Maintenance                           units           342              306               89
Vehicles
4WD                                   units            88              100              114
Light                                 units            10                5               50
Computers                              units            25               16               64
16



Implementation Completion Report                                                        Loan 3156-MOR
Second Forestry Development Project
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION
No key indicators for project operation were defined in the SAR. Project economic evaluation
has been based on various assumptions related to yields, production costs, etc. These assumptions are
assessed in Table 9 and Appendix A.
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
1. Forest Inventory        To complete the inventory which     Cornpleted   Valuable for
would cover the entire national forest           planning
area with an intensity giving at least
85% precision
2. Wood Prices              Study on prices to be charged by the  Completed   Implemented
Forest Department for wood supplied
to the Pulp Mill
3. Organizational Study    To study the organizational structure  Completed   Implemented
of the Forestry Department and to
propose organizational changes
4. Reforestation Master-plan  To update the previous National  Completed   Valuable for
Reforestation Plan drawing on the                planning
experience gained since 1971 and
making use of the inventories and
studies carried out recently
5. Watershed Management   To prepare a Watershed Management    Completed    Valuable for
Master-plan             Master-plan covering the 22 largest              planning
watersheds (153,000 km2)
6. Fuelwood Study          To collect and to analyze data on the  Completed   Partly implemented
present situation and to define an
action program
7. Forest Management Plans  To prepare and to revise forest     Completed    Partly implemented
management plans covering
respectively 686,000 ha and 61,000
ha
8. Range Management Plans  To prepare range management plans   Completed   Not yet
covering 92,000 ha                              implemented
9. Mid-term Review         Evaluation of project component at   Completed   Very valuable for
mid-term                                         project
implementation
17



Implementation Completion Report                                                       Loan 3156-MOR
Second Foresty Development Project
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS
Appraisal estimate (US$'000)   Actual/latest estinate (tiSS'O00))
Local    Foreign     Total      Local     Forein     Total
Costs     costs                costsb/     costs
Item
Forestry Planning
1 Inventory and Forest Plan     354      1,654       2,008       954        4,457     5,411
2.Forest Demarcation           2,984      1,687      4,671      2,608       1,475      4,083
3.Forest Management Plans      2,346       494       2,840      2,014         424      2,438
Sub-total                    5,684      3,835       9,519     5,576       6,356     11,932
Forest Operations
1.RegenerationofNaturalForest  10,044     1,573     11,617      6,503       1,018     7,521
2.Plantation Establishment    16,743      9,100     25,843     11,605       6,307     17,912
3.Watershed Management         4,778      1,593      6,371      3,040       1,013      4,053
4. Forest Range Development    7,524      2,306      9,830      9,898       3,034     12,932
5.Forest Roads                 3,955     2,843       6,798      3,440       2,473      5,913
6.Communal Component          13,107     5,582       18,689     4,866       2,072      6,938
Sub-total                   56,151      22,997     79,148    39,352      15,917    55,269
Support Activities
l.Nature Conservation           612        612       1,224       563         564       1,127
2.Research                     2,449      1,050      3,499      3,079       1,320      4,399
3.Institution Development and  1,167       146        1,313     1,930         242      2,172
Training
4.Housing and Equipment        3,130     2,047        5,177     4,175       2,730      6,905
Sub-total                    7,358      3,855      11,213     9,747       4,856     14,603
Total Project Costs         69,193      30,687     99,880    54,675     27,129      81,804
Estimate as of 09/26/1998.
b/ Based on the appraisal's average rates of local and foreign costs.
18



Implementation Completion Report                                                   Loan 3156-MOR
Second Forestry Development Project
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING
Local    Foreign    Total         Local       Foreign    Total
Costs      costs                  costs        costs
Source
IBRD                         19.3      29.7       49.0        N/A          N/A        41.8
Communes/a                   18.7                 18.7        N/A          N/A         6.9
Domestic contribution        31.2       1.0       32.2        N/A          N/A        31.4
TOTAL                        69.2      30.7       99.9        N/A          N/A        80.1
i Repartition between local and foreign costs financed by the Communes is not in line with data from Table 8A.
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
Appendix A presents the assumptions which are underlying the economic analysis. As shown
hereafter, the economic rates of return are satisfactory.
Forest Operation
- Regeneration                      + 50           149.2         + 675            - 166
- Plantation Establishment          21.9           197.2         + 266            - 125
- Communal Operation                36.9            52.0        + 1131            - 475
Sub-total Forest Operation         35.5           398.4         + 163            -62
a/ At an assumed opportunity costs of capital of 12%.
Forest Operation
-Regeneration                       + 50            421         + 1,000           - 91
- Plantation Establishment           31             224         + 248             - 71
- Sylvo-Pastoral Development         15              11          +  33            - 25
Sub-total Forest Operation            39             485          + 138            - 60
b/ At an assumned opportunity costs of capital of 12%.
19



Implementation Completion Report                                                          Loan 3156-MOR
Second Porestry Development Project
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Original   Revised
Covenant Present fulfillment fulfillment     Description of
Agreement   Seetion     type    status     date       date            covenant                Comments
Loan      4.01(b)(ii)     1       C    06/30/1991       -     Furnish audit report
L 31560
5.1            9       CP   09/30/1990       -     Maintain a planning and    M&E unit operational but
monitoring unit, to include a has been unable to replace
deputy director, an      economist that transferred
extension specialist and an  out
economist
5.2            5        C    08/30/1990      -     Maintain inventory unit    Inventory unit operational
since beginning of
project; the inventory has
been successfully carried
out
5.3 (a)        10       C    08/30/1990      -     Prepare forestry          About 90% of planned
management plans         area has been completed
and the remainder is
under implementation
5.3 (b)        10       C    -                     Furnish the forest        In progress
management plans to the
Bank
5.3 (c)        10       C    -               -     Implement the forest      Implementation of some
management plans         plans has started
5.4            10       C    06/30/1995      -     Prepare revised national    The plan has been
reforestation plan       completed
5.5 (a)        12       C    12/31/1992      -     Implement measures to     Nearly 5,500 ha have
promote reforestation by    been planted by
Pulp Mill and other private  Eucaforest, a subsidiary
sector entities          of Pulp Mill
5.5(b)(ii)    10        C    12/31/1991      -     Study wood prices to be   Study has been carried
charged to Pulp Mill and    out
submit proposals to Bank
5.6 (a)        5        C    09/30/1990      -     Assign socio-economist and Both livestock specialist
livestock specialist to forest and socio-economist are
range management section  now on board
5.6 (b)        5        C    09/30/1990      -     Maintain task force for co-  -
ordination between
livestock and forest Depts.
5.7 (a)        6        C    09/30/1990      -     Establish and maintain    -
nature conservation unit of
five professional staff
5.7 (b)        5        C    06/30/1992      -     Study forest Dept.
organization, furnish copy
of a study to Bank and
implement agreed
recommendations
20



Implementation Completion Report                                                                      Loan 3156-MOR
Second Forestry Development Project
TABLE 10: STATUS OF: LEGAL COVENANTS (CONTINUED)
5.8          5        CP          -            -      Maintain Research Division, No date set. All
with specialists in forest   specializations listed
range management, soil       present except sociologist
conservation, biometry,
economy and sociology
5.9 (a)       10       CP           -                   In forest regeneration areas,
make arrangements with
graziers to ensure grazing is
compatible with
regeneration activities
5.9 (b)       10       CP           -                   Where plantation             Regulated by law
establishment or
management of range or
watersheds under project is
executed on private or
communal land, make
arrangements with owners
to ensure activities carried
out properly and that
owners pay a suitable
portion of the cost of
operations
Status:  C     - Complied with
CD    - Compliance after Delay
NC    - Not Complied with
SOON - Compliance Expected in Reasonably Short Time
CP    - Complied with Partially
NYD  - Not Yet Due
Covenant Class
1. Accounts/audit
2. Financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries
3. Flow and utilization of Project funds
4. Counterpart funding
5. Management aspects of the Project or of its executing agency
6. Environmental covenants
7. Involuntary resetdement
8. Indigenous people
9. Monitoring, review and reporting
10. Implementation
11. Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12. Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action
13. Other
21



Implementation Completion Report                                                           Loan 3156-MOR
Second Forestry Development Project
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
Statement nber and titl eI    Describe and Comment on lack of compliance
Overall, there was compliance with applicable Bank Operational Manual Statements.
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS'
Stage of                                                  Revised                  Actual
project cycle                   Planed
Weeks       US$'000       Weeks       US$'000      Weeks    US$'000
Preparation to             N/A          N/A           N/A         N/A         153.0      227.3
appraisal
Appraisal                  N/A          N/A           N/A         N/A          21.2       58.8
Negotiations through       N/A          N/A           N/A         N/A          11.9       34.9
Board approval
Supervision                96.7       272.5            -            -         109.0      439.92
Completion                  8.0         29.7           -            -           5.0       22.5
TOTALa!                   N/A          N/A           N/A         N/A         300.1      783.4
a As of 10/30/1998.
' Files were not maintained in this format and the data was therefore not available.
2 The actual spent on supervision is much higher than planned, mainly due to the 2 year extension of the project.
22



Implementation Completion Report                                                                                   Loan 3156-MOR
Second Forestry Development Project
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Through appraisal            N/A             N/A         N/A           N/A             -             -             -
Appraisal through            N/A             N/A         N/A           N/A             -             -
Board approval
Supervision:
1                    Februaryl990        2           12          E,F             2             1             B
2                     October 1991       2            6           E, F            2            1              P
3                  Feb./March 1992       2          N/A          E, A           N/A           N/A           N/A
4                        June 1992       2           14           E,F             2             1             T
5                   Nov./Dec. 1992       2           12           E, F            2            1              T
6                        May 1993        2          N/A           E, F          N/A           N/A           N/A
7 (MTR)               October 1993       3           11         E, F, L          2             1
8                        May 1994        2           11           E, F            2            1              A
9                   Nov./Dec. 1994       2           11         E, F, L           S            S            A, B
10                    Jan./Feb. 1995      1          N/A            E            N/A           N/A           N/A
11                        May 1995        2           10          E,F             S             S             A
12                   November 1995        1          11            E              S             S            S, A
13                    June/July 1996      3           12         E, F, L          S             S             A
14                   December 1996        2           14          E, F            S             S             A
15                    June/July 1997      3           12         E,F, L           S             S             A
16                   April/May l998       2           6           E, F            S             S             A
N/A:    Not Available
MTR: Mid-term Review
a/  A: Financial Analyst; E: Economist; F: Forester; L: Livestock Specialist.
bs  1: Problem free or minor problems; 2: Moderate problems; 3: Major problems; S: Satisfactory;
U: Unsatisfactory.
Cl A: Availability of communal funds; B: Availability of budget allocations; M: Management; P: Financial
performance; R: Training; S: Studies; T: Technical Assistance.
23



Implementaiion Completion Report                                                Loan 3156-MOR
Second Forestry Development Project
Appendix A
Aide-memoire de la mission preparatoire
I. INTRODUCTION
1.     A la demande du Gouvemement marocain et de la Banque mondiale, une mission du Programme
de cooperation FAO-Banque mondialel a sejoumr au Maroc afin d'initier la preparation du rapport
d'achevement du second projet de developpement forestier (PAF II). La mission dont le travail a ete
prepare par le Service du suivi et de l'evaluation (SSE) du Ministere charge des eaux et forets (MCEF), a
travaille avec les responsables des diverses divisions de ce ministere chargees d'organiser et de contr6ler la
mise en ceuvre des nombreuses composantes du projet. Des visites rapides ont ete organisees dans les forets
d'Ifrane et d'Azrou dans le Moyen-Atlas et dans la Mamora. I1 a ete necessaire de selectionner quelques
composantes et sites particulierement importants vu l'impossibilite dans le temps imparti de visiter les 22
provinces dans lesquelles le projet a mis en coeuvre les 19 composantes et sous-composantes. Les
conclusions provisoires de la mission, resumees dans cet Aide-memoire, ont ete presentees aux
responsables du MCEF lors de la reunion de synthese tenue le vendredi 2 octobre 1998, sous la presidence
de M. S. Chbaatou, Ministre delgue aupres du Ministre de l'agriculture, du developpement rural et des
peches maritimes, charge des eaux et forets
II. OBJECTIFS DU PROJET
2.     Les objectifs du projet etaient doubles: promouvoir une gestion et un developpement des ressources
forestieres du Maroc permettant de respecter l'environnement et preparer et tester les composantes d'un
programme d'amenagement de bassins versants destine a combattre l'erosion. Le projet correspondait aux
investissements prioritaires du programme quinquennal du MCEF et comportait trois composantes
principales: (i) le renforcement de la planification et de la politique forestiere; (ii) l'assistance aux
operations forestieres en vue de permettre la satisfaction des besoins nationaux en bois et en energie et de
proteger les sols, tout en repondant aux autres demandes telles le paturage des troupeaux; et (iii) les
activites de support.
3.     Dans la premiere composante ont ete regroupes l'inventaire forestier national (IFN) de la totalite
des espaces boises, la delimitation de 370 000 ha et la consolidation de 74 000 ha supplementaires du
domaine forestier, la preparation de plans d'amenagement pour 686 000 ha de forets priontaires et la
revision des plans existants pour 61 000 ha supplementaires et la pr6paration du plan directeur de
reboisement.
4.     L'assistance aux operations forestieres comprenait: (i) la regeneration des forets naturelles, 13 400
ha de cedres et 5 000 ha de chenes-lieges; (ii) l'etablissement de 18 000 ha de plantations d'eucalyptus dont
7 000 ha de clones; (iii) des travaux d'amenagement dans les bassins versants du Loukkos et du Lakhdar
parmi lesquels: 3 000 ha de reboisement, 10 000 ha de plantations fruitieres, 1 200 ha d'amenagements
sylvo-pastoraux, 1 400 unites de traitement mecanique et 20 000 unites de traitement biologique; (iv) des
a nenagements sylvo-pastoraux dans la foret de Bouhassoussen et a Sahel de Doukkala, y inclus 2 000 ha
d'eucalyptus plante en coupe-vent, le renforcement de la ferme semenci&re de M'Da, sept etudes de
developpement sylvo-pastoral couvrant un total de 97 000 ha et une etude pilote sur l'arganier; et (v) la
construction de 250 km de pistes forestieres et la remise en etat de 1 450 km de pistes existantes. A ce
Ch. Lauwers, Economiste, Chef de mission, du 14 septembre au 2 octobre 1998 a temps partiel et D. Destremau,
Ingenieur des eaux et forets du 14 au 26 septembre 1998.
24



Implementation Completion Report                                            Loan 3156-MOR
Second Forestry Development Project
programme s'ajoute celui finance par les Communes rurales et qui avait et estime A 11 000 ha de
plantations, la reg6neration de 14 000 ha de forets de cedre et de chenes-lieges, le d6veloppement de 500 ha
de parcours forestiers, la stabilisation de 370 ha de dunes et la rehabilitation de 100 km de pistes
forestieres.
-5.    Les activites de support ont regroupe: (i) un appui A la protection de la nature par l'etablissement de
plans d'amenagement de zones protegees et la construction des infrastructures dans deux de ces zones et
leur equipement; (ii) le renforcement de la recherche forestiere dans les domaines de l'amelioration
genetique des essences foresti&es, de la production de bois de feu, de F'amenagement sylvo-pastoral, de
l'am6nagement des bassins versants et du traitement sylvicole des jeunes plantations; (iii) une etude sur le
bois de feu; (iv) la rehabilitation de 600 maisons forestieres et l'entretien de 342 d'entre elles; (v)
I'acquisition de 10 vehicules lgers, de 88 tout terrain et de 25 postes informatiques; et (vi) le
developpement institutionnel par la creation d'une Unite de planification et de suivi, une etude de
l'organisation du departement des eaux et forets, la formation permanente du personnel et un programme
de vulgarisation.
6.     Lors de la mission de revue A mi-parcours d'octobre 1993, un certain nombre de ces objectifs ont
e  revises afin de tenir compte des realisations des trois premieres annees. Au cours de cette mission, il a
egalement e  discute de la possibilite pour le Gouvernement de faire une demande de prorogation de la
cl6ture du pret, ce qui fut fait au moment opportun et permit de retarder la date de deux ans (30 juin 1998).
7.     Le couit total du projet avait e  estime A 827 millions de DH (100 millions de $ EU) dont 405
millions de DH (49 millions de $ EU) devaient etre pretes par la Banque mondiale et 155 millions de DH
financ6s par les Communes rurales. Le solde, 267 millions de DH, qui comprenait les droits et taxes
estimees a 165 millions de DH, devait etre finance par le budget du Gouvemement marocain.
III. RESULTATS OBTENUS PAR LE PROJET
8.     Les donnees collectees par la mission montrent que, globalement, le projet a atteint ses objectifs.
En terme de quantites, les previsions ont souvent e  approchees, parfois depassees. D'autre part, la qualite
de ces realisations est generalement satisfaisante, c'est du moins ce qui ressort des discussions avec les
responsables du MCEF et de visites trop rapides sur le terrain. Ce bon resultat doit cependant etre nuance
par le fait que deux annees supplementaires ont ete necessaires, que les reboisements n'ont couvert que 79
% des previsions, que les investissements communaux ont pris un retard important, que le programme
d'amenagement sylvo-pastoral a ete profondement remanie, que le SSE rencontre de grandes difficultes A
collecter les donnees en temps utiles et qu'A la cl6ture comptable du projet, un montant de plus de
7 millions de $ EU devra etre annule du fait des retards de decaissements.
9.     Bien que la mission n'ait pas encore eu le temps d'analyser 1'ensemble des donnees collectees, il
est cependant possible de presenter quelques conclusions preliminaires. Ces conclusions seront regroupees
en cinq paragraphes: la planification, les operations forestieres, les activites de support, la composante
communale et le suivi-evaluation.
La planification forestiere
10.    L'IFN, termine avec trois ans de retard par rapport au programme, est de bonne qualite. Son couit a
ete largement superieur aux previsions, ce qui peut s'expliquer par une sous-estimation importante de ce
cofit lors de la preparation, sous-estimation qui a entraine un appel d'offres infructueux et par des travaux
complementaires de cartographie qui ont 6te demandes en cours d'etude. Ces deux arguments permettent
egalement d'expliquer une partie du retard. Les moyens actuels du Service de l'inventaire forestier lui
25



implementation Completion Report                                                  Loan 3156-MOR
Second Forestry Development Project
permettent de maintenir l'outil en etat de fonctionner mais pas de l'actualiser de maniere permanente. La
solution choisie actuellement est, en effet, de refaire un inventaire tous les 10 ans.
11.    Le plan directeur de reboisement, termine avec un retard d'un an par rapport au calendrier du
rapport d'evaluation, represente un outil de travail precieux pour la planification future des activites.
-Lorsque le Gouvemement aura choisi sa strategie de developpement forestier, ce plan facilitera la
programmation des activites de reboisement.
12.    Il a ete prepare au cours du projet plus de 650 000 ha de plans d'amenagement de forets soit 88 %
des previsions et 95 % des objectifs revises. Ces plans sont, en general, de bonnes qualites et devraient
permettre aux Centres de developpement forestier de mettre en ceuvre les programmes de travaux
prioritaires, A condition que le budget necessaire soit mis A leur disposition. D'autre part, les cofuts unitaires
en DH recens6s' sont legerement superieurs aux estimations initiales, mais inferieurs aux cofits revises.
13.    Les realisations en matiere de delimitation ont largement depasse les previsions initiales et
revisees. Elles ont atteint 697 000 ha alors qu'il avait e  prevu 373 000 ha, objectif revise a 542 000 ha A la
revue A mi-parcours. D'autre part, le calendrier a ete respecte et les cofits unitaires ont ete largement reduits
par le recours a de la sous-traitance.
Les operations forestieres
14.    La regeneration des forets naturelles a connu un debut difficile pour ensuite prendre un rythme de
croisi&re de 2 400 ha par an, soit 60 % des previsions, A partir de l'annee 1992. La periode initiale a permis
de chercher les reponses A un certain nombre de questions techniques que se posaient les techniciens. Il a
fallu attendre 1996 et 1997 pour qu'une partie importante du retard soit resorbe. En matiere de chene-liege,
les objectifs ont ete legerement depasses, alors que ceux du cedre etaient atteints a 85 %. Par rapport aux
objectifs revises, le resultat est inverse, la regeneration du cedre ayant ete realisee a 109 % et celle du
chene-liege A 85 % seulement. La qualite de ces regenerations dependra beaucoup de leur entretien pendant
les premieres annees et du respect des mises en defens. Les cofits unitaires sont 20 % inferieurs aux
previsions, ce qui resulte peut-etre d'une connaissance insuffisante des techniques preconisees lors de la
preparation.
15.    Les superficies reboisees n'ont atteint que 14 300 ha soit 79 %  des 18 000 ha prevus. Les
principales raisons citees pour expliquer cet ecart sont les retards dans l'exploitation des parcelles devant
etre mises A la disposition des entreprises de dessouchage et la mise A la disposition du secteur prive (para.
16) d'une partie des terrains prevus pour etre plant6s les deux demieres annees du projet. Les cofits
unitaires sont 6 % plus elev6s que les previsions mais largement inferieurs aux couts revises. Les
rendements de ces plantations d'eucalyptus devraient etre proches des estimations faites lors de la
preparation. Les augmentations provenant du fait que pres de 70 % des plantations sont d'origine clonale
alors que le projet n'en prevoyait que 39 %, permettront probablement de compenser les baisses previsibles
de rendement du fait de prelevements delictueux et d'un entretien tardif.
16.    La revision de I'Arret  relatif au Fonds national forestier (FNF) dont l'un des objectifs est d'inciter
le secteur prive A investir dans les reboisements n'a ete finalisee qu'en 1996, soit avec pres de trois ans de
retard par rapport aux previsions. Depuis lors, une societe privee, Eucaforest, a dejA realise 5 500 ha de
plantations clonales et voudrait, dans une premiere phase arriver a 25 000 ha. Les principales limitations
concement la disponibilite des terrains, souvent greves de droits d'usage, que l'Administration peut mettre
A la disposition du secteur prive et une production de plants clonaux, que le secteur prive juge insuffisante.
Du fait de 1'evolution du taux de change DH-$ EU en cours du projet, l'analyse des cofits unitaires en $ EU peut
amener a des conclusions legerement differentes de celle faite en DH. C'est ainsi qu'en S EU les cofits unitaires
recenses pour les plans d'amenagement avoisinent les estimations initiales.
26



Implementation Completion Report                                               Loan 3156-MOR
Second Forestry Development Project
Cette premiere experience d'implication du secteur prive dans les reboisements peut actuellement etre
consideree comme un franc succes; les plantations ont bien demarre et les previsions de rendements sont
excellentes. L'Administration forestiere suit cette experience avec attention, veillant a faciliter la tache de
l'operateur dans toute la mesure du possible. II est, en effet, tres important que ses resultats soient
visiblement probants pour que d'autres investisseurs se decident a participer.
17.    Dans le cadre de I 'amenagement des bassins versants, les realisations ont d6passe les previsions en
matiere de reboisements, de traitements mecaniques et biologiques et de plantations fruitieres. Les
amenagements sylvo-pastoraux sont restes un peu en retrait (75 %) du fait de la difficulte d'obtenir l'accord
des usagers. Les couts totaux ont et, malgre ces depassements d'objectifs, largement inferieurs aux
pr6visions: 68 % de l'evaluation et 83 % de la revision, ce qui fait penser a une surevaluation des couits
unitaires lors de la preparation. Les resultats attendus sont incertains car l'entretien de ces infrastructures
qui devrait se faire en collaboration etroite avec les communaut6s villageoises riveraines risque de poser
des problemes. En effet, ces communautes n'ont pas ete consultees au moment oui les programmes
d'amenagement ont e  etablis et de ce fait ne se sont pas engagees a participer a l'entretien. Depuis la
preparation du PF II, I'approche retenue pour l'amenagement des bassins versants a radicalement change au
Maroc et la participation des communautes villageoises est actuellement au coeur du systeme. II serait utile
que les forestiers des Arrondissements d'Azilal et de Chefchaouen en collaboration avec leurs collgues
des Directions provinciales de l'agriculture assurent un suivi de ces travaux et essayent de convaincre les
populations locales de l'interet de bien les entretenir.
18.    La mise en ceuvre des amenagements sylvo-pastoraux s'est heurtee a de nombreux problemes et les
realisations physiques ont e  tres inferieures aux previsions surtout au Sahel des Doukkala. C'est en accord
complet avec les missions de supervision de la Banque mondiale que les travaux ont ete arretes. Par contre,
les etudes d'amenagement ont legerement depasse les superficies prevues. Bien que riches en donnees
diagnostiques, ces etudes manquent de propositions concretes qui permettraient leur mise en ceuvre. Les
investissements prevus pour l'amelioration de la ferme semenciere de M'Da ont et r6alises mais il reste
beaucoup a faire pour ameliorer la qualite des semences produites. Les principales raisons qui permettent
d'expliquer ces resultats modestes sont: l'opposition des populations aux ameliorations proposees du fait
principalement de leur manque d'interet pour ces diverses techniques, les facteurs climatiques et le manque
de formation des techniciens aux methodes de communication et a l'approche participative. Cette
composante a cependant contribue: (i) a une meilleure connaissance de la problematique de l'amenagement
sylvo-pastoral; (ii) a identifier, dans le cadre de l'appui technique de l'IAV, des techniques simples
acceptables par les populations; (iii) a introduire des methodes de gestion des parcours plus participatives;
(iv) a creer une dynamique en mati&re de formation de groupements pastoraux; et (v) a elaborer des outils
d'aide a la decision et a la planification.
19.    Le progranmme d'ouverture et de rehabilitation de pistes forestieres a et realise en presque totalite.
L'entretien des nouvelles pistes et des pistes rehabilitees n'a cependant ete fait qu'a 60 % environ. Les
colats ont e legerement inferieurs aux previsions. La qualite des travaux est consider&e bonne et leur
perennite dependra des credits que I'Administration attribuera a leur entretien.
Les activites de support
20.    La mise en ceuvre de la composante relative a la conservation de la nature peut etre consid6ere
comme tres satisfaisante. Les objectifs ont et6 globalement atteints, quoique avec retard, sans depassement
de couits. Les resultats attendus sont tres positif en terme de sauvegarde d'ecosystemes rares et d'impact
touristique; plus de 50 000 touristes visitent annuellement le parc national du Tazekka.
21.    D'une maniere generale, les activites de recherche forestiere se sont deroulees de maniere
satisfaisante. Tous les programmes n'ont pas evolue a la meme vitesse, mais des resultats interessants ont
27



Implementation Completion Report                                                Loan 3156-MOR
Second Forestry Development Project
ete obtenus dans les domaines principaux, quoique a des cofits un tiers plus e1eves que prevu. La poursuite
du renforcement des contacts du CNRF avec le MCEF est une condition importante de l'efficacite de cette
institution, de meme que le serait l'obtention d'un statut du chercheur, la concentration des efforts sur un
programme de recherche prioritaire et le renforcement des moyens de transport pour les activites de terrain.
-22.    Le programme de rehabilitation et d'entretien des maisons forestieres a et mene de facon tres
satisfaisante. Les realisations ont largement depasse les previsions A un cofit unitaire A peine superieur aux
previsions. Les travaux sont de bonne qualite et la perennite des resultats dependra du budget que le MCEF
accordera pour leur entretien regulier.
23.    Le projet a finance l'achat de 5 vehicules legers, soit 50 % des previsions, et 100 vehicules tout
terrain, 14 % de plus que prevu, pour un cofit total superieur de 53 % aux estimations de l'evaluation. Sur
les 25 postes informatiques prevus, seuls 16 ont ete achetes A un prix unitaire 75 % plus cher que les
previsions. Ces differences s'expliquent par une sous-estimation des cofits lors de la preparation.
24.    L'6tude de reorganisation du departement des eaux et forets a ete remise au ministere en 1992,
mais les decisions de restructuration n'ont ete prises que quatre ans plus tard. D'autre part, l'Unite de
planification et de suivi du projet a et transformee en Service de suivi et d'evaluation du departement en
1994 et a et6 renforcee progressivement par l'arrivee de trois ingenieurs. La formation du personnel: stages,
voyages d'etude, seminaires et consultations internationales, a ete confiee A la FAO dans le cadre du projet
UTF/MOR' 1 1/MOR. La mise en ceuvre de ce programme qui a permis de delivrer 45 personnes/mois de
consultants, soit 10 % de plus que prevu, et 55 personnes/mois de formation, a ete jugee tres satisfaisante.
D'autre part, des sessions annuelles de formation permanente ont ete organisees pour les ingenieurs et
techniciens du MCEF pour un total de 4 400 personnes/jour, soit 12 % A peine des previsions. Ces
previsions, A savoir deux semaines de formation par an pour chacun des 300 dipl6mes et une semaine pour
chacun des 1 100 techniciens, 6taient probablement un peu optimiste.
La composante communale
25.    Les Communes rurales, au cours des huit ans du projet, n'ont reinvesti en foret que le quart environ
de ce que le Dahir de 1976 leur enjoint de faire. Comme les cofits unitaires des reboisements et des
rehabilitations, les deux activites les plus importantes de cette composante, ont ete largement inferieurs aux
pr6visions, les realisations, en termes physiques, ont neanmoins atteint 38 % pour les plantations, 51 %
pour les regenerations, 227 % pour les pistes, 238 % pour le developpement sylvo-pastoral et 199 % pour la
fixation des dunes. Apres un demarrage relativement lent, le programme s'est totalement arrete au cours
,des annees 1994 et 1995 et du premier semestre 1996. L'insistance du departement des forets, fortement
appuye par les missions de supervision de la Banque mondiale, a permis de renouer le dialogue et de
remettre le programme en route. La presence d'un Ing6nieur forestier au sein de la Direction generale des
collectivites locales a certainement joue un r6le tres favorable dans ce processus. Les montants alloues par
les Communes rurales au cours des deux demiers exercices, plus de 40 millions de DH soit 64 % du total
des huit ans du projet, laisse bien augurer de l'avenir.
!Le suivi-evaluation
26.    L'UPS et A partir de 1994 le SSE ont fourni aux missions de supervision de la Banque mondiale les
donnees relatives A l'avancement des diverses cornposantes du projet. Ces donnees dont la qualite a et tres
satisfaisante, ont parfois et transmises avec retard. Ces retards peuvent etre partiellement expliques par la
ILongueur des circuits d'information et par la lassitude des responsables d'arrondissements forestiers du fait
de la multiplicite des demandes de renseignements provenant de diverses sources.
28



Implementation Completion Report                                           Loan 3156-MOR
Second Foresty Development Project
IV. COUTS DU PROJET ET FINANCEMENT
27.    Les couits du projet se chiffrent A 701 millions de DH soit 85 % des previsions'. Hors composante
communale, les couits se montent a 638 millions de DH ou 95 % du montant estime lors de la pr6paration.
Comme la majorite des objectifs ont ete approches ou atteints a l'exception des reboisements et des
amenagements sylvo-pastoraux, on peut en tirer la conclusion generale que les prix prevus ont ete
globalement respectes. La composante communale n'a pu mobiliser que 63 millions de DH, soit 41 % de ce
qui avait et prevu.
28.    Les decaissements de la Banque mondiale n'atteignaient le 2 septembre 1998 que 39,7 millions de
$ EU soit 81 % du montant du pret. D'autres decaissements pourront encore etre effectues avant la fin du
mois de septembre 1998; ces decaissements sont actuellement estimes a 1,9 millions de $ EU, ce qui
amenerait le total A 41,6 millions de $ EU out encore 85 % des 49 millions de $ EU qui etaient disponibles.
V. PERENNITE DES RESULTATS
29.    La qualite g6nerale des travaux finances dans le cadre du projet est bonne et leur perennite
dependra donc de la maniere dont ils seront utilises et entretenus. Les services forestiers disposent de tous
les moyens necessaires pour assurer ce suivi si une priorite suffisante dans le cadre du programme de
travail et du budget lui est accordee. Lors de la preparation des budgets annuels, il serait necessaire de
commencer par inscrire tous les besoins en matiere de gestion du capital existant pour ensuite se pencher
sur les nouvelles operations. L'importance accordee par le MCEF, ces dernieres annees, aux travaux
sylvicoles dans les reboisements atteste de l'interet que les responsables commencent a apporter A ce
probleme.
30.    L'evolution actuelle du ministere en matiere d'implication du secteur prive et d'approche
participative, devrait progressivement faciliter la tache du departement des eaux et forets. En effet, si le
MCEF confie une part grandissante des forks de production au secteur prive, il pourra redeployer ses
ressources sur ses autres taches prioritaires et donc mieux les assumer. De plus, les experiences
actuellement menees par le departement des eaux et forets de participation des populations villageoises
usageres A la gestion de massifs forestiers sont prometteuses. Le temps necessaire pour arriver a un accord
acceptable par l'Administration responsable du domaine forestier et par ces populations, est largement
regagn6 ulterieurement du fait d'un controle des operations grandement facilite.
VI. LECONS A TIRER
31.   II serait presomptueux, avant d'avoir analyse plus en detail les donnees collectees au cours de cette
mission, de vouloir tirer les lecons du projet PF II. On peut cependant indiquer certains points qui semblent
particulierement importants et qui seront developpes dans le rapport d'achevement. La liste provisoire de
ces points se presente comme suit:
* impliquer de plus en plus les communautes villageoises usageres dans la gestion forestiere,
tout en clarifiant le r6le regalien du MCEF;
* continuer le dialogue avec le secteur prive afin de preciser progressivement les modalites
de sa participation aux activites productives;
* poursuivre le dialogue avec la Direction generale des collectivites locales afin que ces
collectivites assument leur part de l'effort d'investissement en forets;
Donnees provisoires en date du 2 octobre 1998
29



Implementation Completion Report                                               Loan 3156-MOR
Second Forestry Development Project
* consacrer une partie suffisante des ressources a l'entretien des investissements anterieurs:
plantations, regenerations, maisons et pistes forestieres, etc.
* mettre en aeuvre les prescriptions des P.V. d'amenagement et affecter prioritairement les
fonds disponibles aux dessertes des parcelles venant en tour;
* poursuivre les travaux de regeneration en veillant A assurer un gardiennage et un entretien
suffisant;
* integrer les amenagements sylvo-pastoraux dans le cadre plus vaste d'un developpement
rural base sur l'approche participative;
* actualiser regulierement l'IFN et les divers plans d'amenagement;
* intensifier la formation permanente du personnel, particulierement en matiere de
communication, et recruter les profils socio-economiques qui manquent;
* s'assurer que le systeme de suivi-evaluation du departement ministeriel concemr  repond
aux normes de celui du projet avant de l'y integrer ou financer sa mise A niveau des la
premiere annee;
* faire un suivi regulier des decaissements en collaboration etroite avec le Ministere des
finances.
VII. SUITE A DONNER
32.    De retour A Rome, la mission elaborera une version provisoire en anglais du rapport d'achevement
qui pourrait etre envoyee A Washington A la fin du mois d'octobre 1998. Afin que ce rapport puisse etre
transmis au Conseil d'administration de la Banque mondiale avant la fin de l'annee 1998, le MCEF est
invite A envoyer ses commentaires A la Banque, sans delai, A la r6ception du document qui leur parviendra
de Washington. Ces commentaires constitueront le chapitre III dudit rapport d'achevement.
VIII. PROGRAMME DES FUTURES OPERATIONS
33.    Le programme des futures operations conceme le suivi que le Ministere charge des eaux et forets
compte apporter aux differentes actions realisees au cours du projet, y inclus le fonctionnement des
equipements foumis; il conceme egalement l'elaboration du programme forestier national qui devrait
deboucher prochainement sur la preparation du prochain projet de developpement quinquennal du secteur
des eaux et forets. Ces futures operations sont resumees dans la matrice ci-jointe.
34.    Le paragraphe 29 de l'Aide-memoire insiste sur l'importance A accorder a l'entretien des
investissements realis6s au cours du projet, que ce soient les reboisements, les regenerations, les maisons
ou les piste forestieres. L'importance accordee par le MCEF, ces dernieres annees, aux travaux sylvicoles
dans les reboisements atteste de la priorite que les responsables commencent A apporter A ce probleme. Lors
de la preparation du budget 1999-2000, A la fin de l'annee calendaire 1998, les responsables devraient
comrnmencer par inscrire tous les besoins en credit pour 1'entretien des investissements existants avant de
programmer les nouveaux travaux.
35.      L'implication du secteur prive dans les activites forestieres productives devrait se developper
progressivement au fur et A mesure oii les resultats positifs obtenus par la premiere societe priv6e
Eucaforest se confirmeront (paragraphe 16 de l'Aide-memoire). L'appui que le MCEF est pret a apporter
en cas de besoin A Eucaforest a et clairement affirme par les responsables marocains et ne devrait pas se
dementir dans le futur car le succes de cette premiere operation est pour eux le gage de la reussite de leur
30



Implementation Completion Report                                              Loan 3156-MOR
Second Forestry Development Project
politique d'implication du secteur prive dans le developpement forestier. En matiere de plantation
d'eucalyptus, les conditions actuellement prevues par les textes semblent suffisamrnent attractives pour
attirer des operateurs prives; il n'en est probablement pas de meme pour d'autres operations forestieres
telles que la plantation de resineux, I'amenagement de forets de production, etc. Il serait utile, au cours de
l'annee 1998-1999, de poursuivre les discussions avec des representants du secteur prive afin de definir les
conditions qui rendraient financierement rentables les types d'operation que le MCEF serait d'accord de
leur confier.
36.    Le dialogue qui s'est reinstaure entre la Direction genrale des collectivites locales du Ministere de
l'interieur et le MCEF en matiere de financement par les budgets communaux d'activites de developpement
forestier et qui a permis d'investir 40 millions de DH au cours des annees 1996-97 et 1997-98 (paragraphe
25 de l'Aide-memoire) devrait etre poursuivi au cours des annees futures. C'est la ferme intention des
responsables du MCEF qui esperent progressivement augmenter la participation communale pour atteindre
et si possible depasser le taux de 20 % des recettes forestieres prevu par le Dahir de 1976.
37.    Les experiences actuellement menees par le MCEF en matiere de participation des populations a la
gestion de massifs forestiers, a l'amenagement de bassins versants et aux amenagements sylvo-pastoraux
donnent des premiers resultats prometteurs et les responsables ont la ferme intention de les continuer et de
les etendre au fur et a mesure oiu la methodologie s'affinera (paragraphes 17, 18 et 30). C'est ainsi, par
exemple, que le Projet d'amenagement du bassin versant du Lakhdar est inscrit au budget 1998-99 et
devrait debuter avant meme que le financement de la Banque mondiale ne soit accorde. Les le,ons tirees de
ces experiences seront egalement utilisees lors de l'61aboration du Programme forestier national.
38.    Dans le cadre du projet, il a ete fourni au MCEF 100 vehicules tout terrain, 5 vehicules legers et 16
ordinateurs personnels. La majorite de ces v6hicules a et distribuee aux Arrondissements forestiers en
charge de la mise en cmuvre des diverses composantes du projet. Pendant toute la duree du projet, les credits
de fonctionnement ont permis de les faire fonctionner et de les entretenir de maniere satisfaisante. II
devrait continuer d'en etre de meme puisque ces credits sont inscrits dans le budget general du
departement. Les ordinateurs personnels ont principalement renforce les departements centraux et leur
fonctionnement n'a pas pose de probleme.
39.    Le MCEF a entrepris, au debut de l'annee 1998, la preparation du Programme forestier national
(PFN). Le PFN qui devrait etre termine en decembre 1998, a largement utilise les donnres contenues dans
les etudes recemment preparees dans le cadre du PDF II telles que l'Inventaire forestier, le Plan directeur
de reboisement, le Plan national d'amenagement des bassins versants, etc. afin d'elaborer une strategie a
long et moyen terme du secteur forestier. Le document final presentera un programme a moyen et long
terme de ce secteur couvrant le cadre strategique, les objectifs globaux et detailles, les programmes retenus
pour atteindre ces objectifs, les mesures d'accompagnement et les resultats attendus. Des que ce
programme a moyen et long terme aura e  approuve par le Gouvernement, le MCEF envisage de pr6parer
un Projet de developpement forestier qui pourrait couvrir les cinq prochaines annees, et de prendre attache
avec le Ministere des affaires generales et le Ministere des finances afin d'en discuter le financement.
Compte tenu du support constructif apporte par la Banque mondiale lors de la mise en euvre des PDF I et
II, la poursuite d'une telle collaboration serait souhaitable.
Analyse economique
40.    Le Second projet de developpement forestier (PDF 2) a finance une partie importante du
programme prioritaire, retenu par le Ministere charge des eaux et forets (MCEF), precedemment
l'Administration generale des eaux et forets et de la conservation des sols (AEFCS), pour la periode
quinquennale. Les trois composantes du projet: (i) le renforcement de la planification et de la politique
foresti&e, (ii) l'appui aux operations forestieres, et (iii) les activites de support, recouvrent donc de tres
31



Implementation Completion Report                                                Loan 3156-MOR
Second Forestry Development Project
nombreuses activit6s. Les donnees qui ont servi pour cette analyse economique ont e  principalement
collectees lors de discussions avec les responsables des differents departements techniques interesses du
MCEF. Certaines de ces donnres ont te vrifi6es lors de visites rapides dans les forets d'Ifrane et d'Azrou
dans le Moyen-Atlas et dans la Mamora. Du fait du temps limite imparti A la mission, il a, en effet, et
necessaire de selectionner quelques composantes et sites particulierement importants vu l'impossibilit6 de
visiter les 22 provinces dans lesquelles le projet a mis en ceuvre les 19 composantes et sous-composantes.
41.    Cette annexe presente les donnees de base qui ont permis d'estimer la rentabilite economique du
projet. Seront passes en revue successivement, les donnees relatives a la valeur de la production et A leurs
couts: superficies, rendements, prix economiques, facteurs de conversion, etc. pour les principales activites
productives et les taux de rentabilite economiques. Les raisons pouvant expliquer les differences marquees
entre les previsions et les realisations ou leurs estimations seront donnres chaque fois que possible.
Benefices economiques
42.    Lors de 1'evaluation du projet, les benefices economiques ont ete estimes pour les principales
composantes productives, a savoir les regenerations, les reboisements et les amenagements sylvo-
pastoraux. nI a ete considere, a juste titre, que les autres composantes contribueraient A la mise en valeur du
secteur forestier sans que leur impact puisse etre quantifie. Ceci devait etre particulierement vrai pour la
composante relative au renforcement de la planification et de la politique forestiere: l'inventaire forestier,
les plans d'amenagement de forets, la delimitation du domaine forestier et le plan directeur de reboisement.
Ceci devait etre egalement vrai pour l'am6nagement des bassins versants qui avait un aspect pilote et pour
les activites de support: recherche forestiere, protection de la nature et developpement institutionnel.
43.    Pour ce rapport d'achevement, il n'a pas ete estime les benefices resultant des amenagements
sylvo-pastoraux du fait des difficultes que cette composante a connu lors de sa mise en aeuvre. Les
rsalisations physiques ont e, en effet, fortement reduites et leur durabilite s'est revel&e aleatoire. Par
contre, cette composante a contribue a une meilleure connaissance de la problematique de l'amenagement
sylvo-pastoral, ce qui, pour les programmes futurs, sera tres utile. Les seules activites pour lesquelles des
b'nefices ont pu etre quantifies, ont donc e  les reboisements et les regenerations.
44.    En cours de projet, le traitement sylvicole des reboisements a progressivement pris de plus en plus
d'importance pour atteindre une superficie traitee totale de 17 551 ha. Cette sous-composante qui n'avait
pas ete specifiquement identifiee lors de la preparation du projet, aura certainement un impact economique
non negligeable. Lors de leur exploitation, la valeur des reboisements sera largement influencee par la
qualite des troncs d'arbre et donc par les soins apportes A la sylviculture. Les donnees disponibles ne
permettent cependant pas d'estimer les possibles benefices de ce traitement qui devraient etre quantifies par
essence et par date de plantation.
45.    Les benefices 6conomiques des reboisements ont e  estimes sur la base des hypotheses suivantes:
-    plantations d'eucalyptus couvrant 14 285 ha dont 10 000 ha de clones et 4 285 ha de
plants issus de semis par le MCEF et 4 216 ha sur fmancement communal;
-    rendement des reboisements d'eucalyptus issus de clones: 14 m3 par ha et par an, un peu
moins que les 16 m3 prevus lors de la preparation (18 et 14 m3 respectivement dans le
sub-humide et le semi-aride respectivement) car les prelvements delictueux qui ont e
inclus dans les benefices economiques, ont sensiblement reduit ce rendement;
-    rendement des reboisements d'eucalyptus issus de semis: 10 m3 par ha et par an, sort 10
% de moins que les previsions de l'evaluation;
32



Implementation Completion Report                                         Loan 3156-MOR
Second Forestry Development Project
-    rendement des reboisements communaux: 5 m3 par ha et par an d'eucalyptus pour tenir
compte de soins moins attentifs;
-    dessouchage sur 13 377 ha soit 93,6% des superficies reboisees par le MCEF, donnant
50 tonnes de souches par ha;
-    prix economique de 1'eucalyptus sur pied: 265 DH par m3 (Tableau 5) soit la moitie, en
DH constants (Tableau 9), de ce qui avait e  prevu lors de 1'evaluation; les projections
en 1989 prevoyaient, en effet, des taux de croissance annuels variant de 1 % pour le bois
a pate a papier a 4,4 % pour le bois de chauffage, alors que les projections actuelles ne
prevoient pas d'augmentation des prix pour le bois, simplement une resorption des
fortes baisses enregistrees en 1998 sur le marche asiatique et predisent une baisse pour
le charbon et le gaz naturel.
46.   Les hypotheses de base pour 1'estimation des benefices economiques des regenerations sont les
suivantes:
-    regeneration de forets de cedre d'une superficie de 11 350 ha et de forets de chene-liege
de 5 376 ha;
-    pour le cedre, les rendements de la regeneration assistee, nettement moins favorables
que ceux de la regeneration complementaire, ont et6 retenus car beaucoup de
regenerations ont e  realisees dans des forets claires ou des clairieres; la difference de
rendements par rapport a la situation sans le projet se presente comme suit (Tableau 3.5,
page 73, du Rapport d'execution):
- plus 10 m3 de cedre et 3 m3 de bois de chauffage (BCH) l'annee 1;
* plus 50 m3 de cedre et 18 mn3 de BCH l'annee 9;
- plus 20 m3 de cedre et 9 in3 de BCH l'annee 16;
- moins 40 rn3 de cedre et 18 mn3 de BCH l'annee 20;
* moins 30 in3 de cedre et 12 in3 de BCH l'annee 40;
-    pour le chene-liege, les rendements prevus dans le rapport d'6valuation ont e
conserves; par rapport a la situation sans le projet, les differences de rendement sont les
suivantes (Tableau 3.6, page 74, du Rapport d'execution):
* plus 60 mn3 de BCH et 5 000 kg de hiege male (LM) et moins 600 kg de liege de
reproduction (LR), F'annee 1;
* moins 600 kg de LR, l'annre 8;
* moins 9 in3 de BCH, 800 kg de LM et 500 kg de LR, l'annee 16;
* moins 6 in3 de BCH, 600 kg de LM et 400 kg de LR, l'annre 24;
* moins 9 m3 de BCH, 320 kg de LM et 400 kg de LR, l'annee 32;
* plus 280 kg de LR et moins 3 rn3 de BCH et 140 kg de LR, l'annee 40;
* plus 800 kg de LR et moins 9 m3 de BCH et 640 kg de LM, l'annee 48;
* plus 15 in3 de BCH, 2 080 kg de LM et 1 600 kg de LR, l'annee 56;
* plus 1 920 in3 de LR, l'annee 64; et
* plus 96 m3 de BCH, 8 000 kg de LM et 2 250 kg de LR, l'annee 72;
-    regenerations mnises en (euvre dans le cadre de la composante communale considerees,
par hypothese, comme 6tant a 50 % realisees dans les forks de cedre et a 50 % dans
celles de chene-liege;
33



Implementation Comnpletion Report                                              Loan 3156-MOR
Second Forestry Development Project
-    prix economique du cedre sur pied: 675 DH par m3 (Tableau7) soit un peu plus du tiers,
en prix 1998, de ce qui avait ete estime lors de l'evaluation; il avait, en effet, ete prevu
que les prix augmenteraient de 2,3 a 2,9 % par an entre 1989 et 2010, ce qui ne s'est pas
realise jusqu'a present et n'est pas projete pour les annres a venir; par contre pour le
liege male et de reproduction, les prix du rapport d'evaluation ont et conserves apres
actualisation.
47.    Le tableau 10 presente les benefices economiques attendus des reboisements et de la regeneration
des forets naturelles de cedre et de chene-liege, que ces programmes aient ete financ6s par le projet ou par
les budgets communaux. En matiere de regeneration, comme cela a ete fait dans le rapport d'evaluation,
c'est la valeur de la production additionnelle par rapport a la situation sans projet, qui a et estimee. En ce
qui conceme les reboisements, la production de la situation sans le projet a ete consideree comme
negligeable. Les calculs ont ete faits sur 80 ans afin de tenir compte de la duree des regenerations de chene-
liege (72 ans). L'echeancier des benefices economiques presente la particularite d'avoir des annees
negatives. Ces montants negatifs correspondent a des annees au cours desquelles la situation sans le projet
aurait genere une production superieure a la situation avec le projet, ce qui est le cas pour la regeneration
du cedre les annees 20 et 40 et pour celle du chene-liege de l'annee 8 a l'annee 48. Es se situent
principalement de l'ann6e 38 a l'annee 55 du projet.
Cofits 6conomiques
48.    Les couts economiques se referent essentiellement aux cofits du projet et aux cofits d'entretien des
reboisements et des regenerations.
49.    Les cofits du projet ont et transformes en DH 1998 afin de pouvoir les comparer aux benefices qui
ont ete estimes en prix 1998. Les taux d'actualisation utilises sont presentes au Tableau 9. Cette
actualisation a e faite sur la base des taux de l'inflation locale pour la totalite des cofits (monnaie locale et
devises etrangeres) sur la base de l'hypothese que le differentiel d'inflation entre le Maroc et les pays
exportateurs de biens et services est compense par les variations du taux de change DH-devises etrangeres.
Simultanement, les taxes en ont ete deduites sur la base du taux global de taxes (18 %), estime lors de
l'evaluation. La derniere correction a ete d'ajuster les cofits locaux (59 %, selon le rapport d'evaluation) par
le facteur de conversion standard (0,9) qui reflete la sur6valuation de la devise marocaine.
50.    Afin de pouvoir faire des analyses par activite, les cofits du projet ont ete presentes par grandes
composantes: planification forestiere, regenerations, reboisements, autres op6rations forestieres, activites de
support, regenerations et reboisements communaux et autres activites communales.
51.    Les couits economiques de production concernent le gardiennage des plantations d'eucalyptus les
annees 3 a 5 a raison d'un gardien par 300 ha et le covercroppage apres la premiere et la seconde coupe, les
annees 11 et 21. Le gardiennage des regenerations de forets de cedre et de chene-liege est prevu de l'ann6e
3 a l'annee 12. Les cofits de main-d'ceuvre ont ete corriges par le facteur de conversion standard.
Taux de rentabilite economique
52.    Le taux de rentabilite est tres satisfaisant puisque, pour les composantes productives, il est estime a
35 % (Tableau 10), les taux variant de 22 % pour les reboisements a plus de 50 % pour la regeneration des
forets naturelles. Ces taux sont n6anmoins inferieurs a ceux qui avaient ete estimes lors de l'evaluation du
projet qui etaient de 31 % pour les reboisements et plus de 50 % pour la regeneration. La principale raison
qui permet d'expliquer cette difference de rentabilite reside dans la forte baisse des prix economiques du
bois tant les eucalyptus que le cedre. Comme precise aux paragraphes 6 et 7, les projections des prix
economiques du bois en DH constants sont actuellement deux ou trois fois moins eleves qu'il y a dix ans.
Le fait que ces activites se revelent neanmoins rentables demontre qu'elles etaient techniquement justifiees
34



Implementation Completion Report                                               Loan 3156-MOR
Second Forestry Development Project
et que les benefices attendus permettaient d'absorber une reduction substantielle des avantages, ce qui avait
d'ailleurs ete note, dans le rapport d'evaluation, a la fin de I'analyse economique.
53.    Le tableau suivant r6sume successivement les resultats economiques du rapport d'achevement et
ceux du rapport d'evaluation.
Rapport d'achevement                     Taux de       Valeur nette   Switching Values'
rentabilite   actuelleI
(%)           (millions DH)
Valeur de la Couts
production
Composantes productives
- Regeneration des forets naturelles    + de 50       149,2          - 166        + 675
- Reboisements                         21,9           197,2          - 125        + 266
- Reboisements et regenerations communaux  36,8        52,0          -475          + 1131
Total des composantes productives     35,2           398,4          - 62         + 163
Projet total                             11,6          - 11,4         + 3           - 3
Rapport d'evaluation                     Taux de       Valeur nette   Switching Values'
rentabilite    actuelle2
(%)           (millions de
Valeur de la   Cofits
production
Composantes productives
Reboisements                             31            224            - 71          + 248
RWg6n&ration de forets naturelles        + de 50       421            - 91          + de 1 000
Total des composantes productives        39            485            - 60          +138
54.    On peut dire, en conclusion, que la rentabilite du projet, telle qu'estim6e au cours de la mission
d'achevement, est tres satisfaisante. Les b6nefices de trois composantes productives permettent presque, en
effet, de rentabiliser l'ensemble des investissements realis6s dans le secteur forestier, et cela malgr6 des
rendements reduits par rapport aux estimations de l'evaluation et des prix economiques nettement moins
eleves que pr6vu. Le taux de rentabilite pour le projet total est, en effet, de 11,6 % soit 0,4 % seulement de
moins que le couit d'opportunit6 presume du capital.
55.    La raison principale qui permet d'expliquer la difference entre la rentabilite attendue et celle qui a
ete estimee par la mission reside dans la forte baisse des prix economiques du bois, tant les eucalyptus que
A un cout d'opportunit6 presume du capital de 12 %.
2 A un cout d'opportunite presume du capital de 12 %.
35



Implementation Completion Report                                          Loan 3156-MOR
Second Foresty Development Project
le cedre. Comme precise aux paragraphes 6 et 7, les projections des prix economiques du bois en DH
constants sont actuellement deux ou trois fois moins 6leves qu'il y a dix ans. Le fait que le projet se revele
neanmoins rentable demontre qu'il etait fondamentalement sain et que les benefices attendus permettaient
d'absorber une reduction substantielle des avantages, ce qui avait d'ailleurs e  note, dans le rapport
d'evaluation, A la fin de l'analyse economique.
Tableau 1. Prix economique de 1'eucalyptus pour la pate a papier
Prix A l'importation CAF CasablancaaZ                     US$/t          67
DH/t         603
Frais portuairesb/                                        DH/t           24
Transport port-usine'/                                    DH/t           32
Prix livre usine                                          DH/t          659
Ajustement de 10 % pour la qualite moindre du bois local  DH/t           66
Transport foret-usined                                    DH/t           42
Prix en bord de route de l'eucalyptus de trituratione'    DIHt          551
DH/ln3       399
a Pnrix actuellement paye par la Cellulose du Maroc; pas d'augmentation prevue des prix internationaux au
cours des prochaines annees.
b/ 4 % du prix CAF.
C/ 75 km A 0,6 DH/t/km et facteur de conversion de 0,7.
/ 100 km A 0,6 DH/t/km et facteur de conversion de 0,7.
725 kg par m.
Tableau 2. Prix economique de l'eucalyptus pour les perches
1998        2005
Prix du marche de grosa'                           DH/t           500          500
TransportbW                                        DH/t            42           42
Prix economique des perches en bord de route"      DH/t           458          458
DH/m3          332         332
a' Pas d'augmentation de prix prevue pour les prochaines annees.
'' 100 km a 0,6 DH/t/km et facteur de conversion de 0,7.
725 kg par mn.
36



Implementation Completion Report                                         Loan 3156-MOR
Second Forestry Developnent Project
Tableau 3. Prix economique du bois de feu
1995        2000        2005
Prix du charbon FOBa'                   US$/t        35          34           32
Fret et assurance                       US$/t        20          20           20
PrixCAF (1 +2)                          US$/t        55          54           52
Prix CAF                                DH/t        495         486          468
Frais portuairesb'                      DH/t         74          73           70
Prix sortie port                        DH/t        569         559          538
Transportc'                             DH/t         42          42           42
Manutentiond'                           DH/t         25          25           25
Prix au marche du charbon               DH/t        636         626          605
Prix au marche du bois de feu/          DH/t         95          94           91
Transportl                              DH/t         21          21           21
Prix en bord de route du bois de feuW   DH/t         75          73           70
DH/m3        54          53          51
Projection en I'an 2000 et 2005. World Bank Commodity Market. August 1998.
bi Estim6 a 15 % du prix CAF.
C/ 150 km entre le port et le centre de commercialisation a 0,4 DH/t/km et facteur de conversion de 0,7.
d/ Facteur de conversion de 0,8 pour une main-d'oeuvre ordinaire.
e Coefficient d'equivalence energetique: bois de feu/charbon de 0,15 "Developpement des zones de
montagne du Haut Atlas Central" - 1987 - FAO, Division du Centre d'investissement - 17/87 DP-MOR
52).
f 50 km entre le marche et la foret a 0,6 DH/tlkm et facteur de conversion de 0,7.
g' Poids de 725 kg par m3.
Tableau 4. Prix economique des souches
1995      2000
Prix au marche du bois de feual                         DH/t         95         94
Ajustement de 20 % pour la qualite moindre des souches  DH/t          19         19
Cofit du transportb/                                    DH/t         21         21
Eclatement des souches et nettoyager/                   DH/t         25         25
Prix economigue en bord de route                        DH/t         30         29
a! Tableau 3.
b/ 50 km entre la for& et les consommateurs a 0,6 DH/tVkm et facteur de conversion de 0,7.
Cl Facteur de conversion de 0,8 pour une main-d'oeuvre ordinaire.
37



Implementation Completion Report                                            Loan 3156-MOR
Second Forestry Development Project
Tableau 5. Prix economique de l'Eucalyptus sur pied
Prix economique en bord de route             Part de la production  DH/r3
(%)
Perchesa'                                    20                        66
Eucalyptus pour la triturationb/              60                     239
Bois de chauffagec/                           20                       10
Sous-total                                                           315
Couit d'abattage                                                       50
Prix economique de l'eucalyptus sur pied                             265
" Voir Tableau 2.
b/ Voir Tableau 1.
C/ Voir Tableau 3.
Tableau 6. Prix economique du bois de sciage du cedre (DH/m3)
Projection en I'annee 2005 des prix des grumes a l'importation        1 756
CAF Casablancaa/
Frais portuairesb/                                                      70
Transport port-marche de grose!                                          6
Prix a l'entree de la scierie                                         1 832
Transport foret-scieried'                                               63
Prix en bord de route du cedre                                        1 769
a" World Bank Commodity Market. August 1998.
b4 % du prix CAF.
C/ 20 km a 0,45 DHlm3/km et facteur de conversion de 0,7.
dI 200 km a 0,45 DH/m3/km et facteur de conversion de 0,7.
38



Implementation Completion Report                                            Loan 3156-MOR
Second Forestry Development Project
Tableau 7. Prix economique du cedre sur pied
Part de la production DR/rn3
(%)
Bois de sciagea'                              45                      796
Bois de chauffagebl                           55                       29
Sous-total                                                            825
Coutt d'abattage                                                       150
Prix economique du cedre sur pied                                     675
a Voir Tableau 6.
b/ Voir Tableau 3.
Tableau 8. Liste des prix economiques et des facteurs de conversion
Prix &onomigues des productions s6lectionn6es       Unit6            DH
Cedre sur pied                                      m3               675
Eucalyptus sur pied                                 m3               265
Bois de chauffage                                   m3                53
Souches                                             tonne             30
Liege de reproduction                               quintal          516
Liege male                                          quintal           92
Facteur de conversion standard                                       0,9
39



Implementation Completion Report                                            Loan 3156-MOR
Second Forestry Development Project
Tableau 9. Actualisation des coits du projete
Ann6es                Taux   annuels   d'inflation   locale  Taux                  cumules
(%)                                    (%)
1989                  3,9                                    50,9
1990                  5,7                                    45,2
1991                  6,5                                     37,4
1992                  5,7                                    29,0
1993                  5,2                                    22,0
1994                  5,2                                     16,0
1995                  6,1                                     10,3
1996                  3,0                                     3,9
1997                  0,9                                     0,9
a Actualisation calculee sur la base de l'inflation locale pour la totalite du couit (en monnaie locale et
en devises etrangtres) sur la base de l'hypothese que le differentiel d'inflation (international et
local) est compense par les variations du taux de change du DH.
40



Appendix B
Borrower contribution to the ICR
COMMENTAIRES ET COMPLEMENTS DU MINISTERE CHARGE
DES EAUX ET FORETS AU RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT DU PF II
(Pret 3156 MIOR)
IMPORTANCE DU PF II
Ce prjet a constitue, avec le PCRN, le cadre essentiel du financement des activites
forestieres pendant 8 ann4es et demie de 1990 et 1998. En continuation du POM, le PF II a
g6n6ralis6 a l'echelon national les ameliorations obtenues par ce dernier.
Ainsi, la zone d'extension du PF II couvre 39 des 46 AEF, soit 52 sur les 66 provinces
et prefectures du Royaume (decoupage en fin de projet) ; il s'etend ainsi sur:
*  58.2% du terriroire regroupant 86.4%  de la population  du Maroc et la quasi
totalite de la population rurale (97.9%);
*  88% du domaine forestier avec 81.8% des forets et 98.6% des nappes alfatieres.
Le budget du PF U represente en moyenne 45%  du budget d'investissement de
1'AEFCS (Credits de paiements); avec le PCRN, le pourcentage est de 66%. Le graphique
<(Evolution du budget du PF(et PF II+PCRN) >> montre que le pourcentage maximum est
atteint durant les exercices 1993 et 1994, oui il avoisine les 75%.
ETUDES D'EVALUATIO?4
Le Projet, compre tenu de sa duree, de sonr extension territoriale, des nombreuses
activites qu'il a traitees (voir paragraphe d( Tmportance du PF II >>), constitue une ref6rence
serieuse pour la planification des actions futures. 11 gagnerait par cons6quent a etre complete
par des analyses detaillees et des etudes d'impact; les informations collectees constituent, a
cet effet, une banque de donn6es appreciable. La collaboration de la Banque (parag 48)
pourrait etre poursuivie sur ce chapitre afin de degager a la fois les actions prioritaires,
notamment en matiere de suivi et de maintenance, et les mesures d'accompagnement
indispensables.
IMPACT DES AUDIT
Les projets PF II et PCRN constituent un echantillon largement representatif des
activites forestieres. Les audits, qii ne sont pas encore systematiquement effectues en dehors
des projets, ont permis, par consequent, de mettre en exergue les am6liorations necessaires
dans la gestion courante. Ces arneliorations concement essentiellement la separation des
taches administratives et comptables, le red6ploiement du personnel et la formation
consecutive.
ASSISTAiNCE   TECHNIQUE   ET   SCIEjNTIFIQUE   AU   PF   II                 (Projet
UTF/MOIO1 1/MOR)
Les activites liees a ce projet entrent dans le cadre de la convention passee entre le
MCEF et l'Organisation des Nations Unies pour I'Agriculture et l'Alimentation (Convention
41



N°16/92 ) evaluee A 8 860 000 DH, soit l'equivalent de 1 055 037 dollars EU. Ces activites
s'articulent autour de deux composantes principales, a savoir l'assistance technique grace a des
consultants de haut niveau et la formation a travers l'organisation de stages dans des
institutions specialisees a l'htranger et de seminaires. II y a lieu de signaler que les durees
prevues initialement pour les deux composantes (respectivement 47 et 54 hommes/mois) ont
fait l'objet d'un reequilibrage concerte entre le MCEF, la Banque Mondiale et la FAO. Ainsi,
les themes du projet UTF MOR ont ete revises a plusieurs reprises pour s'adapter A
l'evolution des besoins en formations et en consultations d'une part, respecter un equilibre
entre ces deux activites d'autre part.
Formation
Les realisations physiques depuis le debut de la convention pour cette composante sont
evaluees A 56 hommes/mois. Comme le prevoyait le projet, elles ont. concern. la formation
du personnel ingenieur et technicien de I'AEFCS A l'etranger dans des institutions
specialisees ( 74 candidats) .
De plus, le projet a organise en France un voyage d'etudes dans les departements des
Hautes Alpes, de Provence et du Var au profit de 10 eleveurs des communes rurales de
Bouhsoussen, Aft Rahou et Moulay Bouazza. Ce voyage avait pour theme (< l'organisationf des
eleveurs, I'amn6nagement et la gestion sylvopastorale >> . Bien qu'encadre par deux ingenieurs
de l'Administration, il avait pour principal objectif de permettre aux eleveurs de la zone de
Bouhssoussen une prise de contact direct avec les eleveurs francais. II leur a permis, commne
en temoigne le sondage effectue lor d'une mission de supervision sur les lieux, de conforter
leur prise de conscience de la necessite de mieux s'organiser afin de tirer le meilleur benefice
des moyens disponibles, et de renforcer ces demniers. Le PF II est, a ce titre, un precurseur des
projets sylvo-pastoraux a caractere participatif.
UIne synthese des differentes formations effectuees montre que celles-ci ont ete tres
diversifiees et ont touche plusieurs domaines de 1'activite forestiere. Elles peuvent, en fait,
etre divisees en 9 grands themes. Les deux themes: (i) l'amelioration et I'amrnagement
sylvopastoraux et, (ii) la protection de la nature, ont totalis6 environ 28 h/m, soit 50 %. Trois
autres themes: (i) la genetique et ameliorations des arbres forestiers, (ii) l'amenagement des
bassins versants et (iii) l'economie et la planification forestieres ont totalise 13 h/m, soit 23 %.
Ces 5 themes constituent ainsi les 3/4 des formations realisees dans le cadre du Projet.
Par ailleurs, en ce qui concerne les pays de destination on note essentiellement la
France, la Belgique, les Etats Unis, le Canada, l'Italie, l'Espagne et l'Tran. La France constitue
la principale destinations de formation totalisant 46 individus et environ 30 h/m de formation,
le Canada 7.20 h/m et 8 individus formes, l'Iran 4.10 h/mr et 8 individus. Le siege de la FAO
aussi a accueilli 8 individus totalisant 3.27 h/m.
Consultations
L'etat recapitulatif par theme des differentes missions effectuees durant la vie du
Projet TJTF/MOR'Ol 1/MOR est donnee dans le tableau o< Consultations >).
Ainsi, les realisations en matiere d'assistance technique se sont elevees A 44.3
hommes/mois de consultations sur 49 h/mr prevus par la convention; ces missions ont ete
realisees par 23 consultants durant 47 visites, soit une moyenne de deux visites par
consultants. Cependant, en analysant de pres le tableau, on constate que 3 groupes de themes:
42



(i) la genetique forestiere, (ii) l'informatisation de 4a AEFCS et (iii) F'amenagement et
I'amrlioration sylvopastorales, ont totalise la moitie des consultations. L'appui a la Recherche
forestiere, a travers la genetique et l'Amelioration des arbres forestiers, a fait l'objet de 23
visites, soit 50 % des missions effectuees totalisant 8.8 h/m a raison de 0.38 h/m par visite de
consultant (soit un peu plus d'une semaine en moyenne).
Les pnrncipales consultations ont concerne:
a)  le Programme Forestier NVational (De MONTALEMBERT, CHIKHAoUTi de la FAO): Ces
deux missions ont initie le lancement de l'etude concernant le PFN dont le rapport final
est en cours de finalisation et sera pret en en debut 1999. L'etude du PFN constitue une
reference fondamentale pour le plan quinquennal 1999 - 2003 car il adopte les
orientations strategiques du Gouvemement en matiere de developpement durable des
ressources naturelles, d'integration des interventions, de participationdes populations et
du secteur prive au developpement economique et social. Ii trace egalement les
orientations pour le developpement durable du secteur forestier pour les 2 prochaines
decennies.
b) la G4n&tique forestiere: les impacts et resultats peuvent etre resumes comme suit:
  etablissement de liens de cooperation avec des organismes de recherche regionaux et
intemationaux. Les contacts ont permis de selectionner des themes de cooperation en
matiere de recherche et de constituer des equipes de chercheurs autour de projets
bilateraux ou internationaux;
  formation et mise a niveau des chercheurs marocains aux nouvelles techniques et
methodes, en complement des -formations en stages;
a  Orientation des programmes de recherche et elaboration du programme d'amelioration
genetique(ARBEZ) faisant ressortir l'importance des especes;
*  Coordination entre les institutions travaillant dans les memes domaines.
Les programmes elabores dans le cadre de cette composante sont en cours d'execution. Les
resultats sont consignes dans les actes du seminaire de conclusion des consultations (actes
adresses en fin sept 1998 a la FAO). Cependant certaines parties des recommandations des
consultations necessitent, pour leur mise en ceuvre, un renforcement de l'equipe actuelle du
CNRE.
c) I 'Ecologie et protection de la nature:
Pour le ChML:
*  Organisation de l'unite d'ecologie creee en 1990 et erigee en service en 1993 structure
en 4 sections (Faune, flore, aires protegees et SIBE) (DARROZE)
*  Revision du programme de recherche en ecologie en 1997;
  Etablissement d'une  methodologie  pour  l'inventaire  de  la  faune  sauvage
(BOISEAUBERT).
Le retard du lancement du projet UTF/MOR/0I1 I/MOR (octobre 1993 au lieu de mars 1992)
qui s'est traduit par un retard des premieres consultations, a limite l'impact de ces dernieres;
en effet la premiere consultation en ecologie (DARROZE), n'a eu lieu qu'en fin 1993 / debut
1994 alors que l'unite avait deja etabli son programme de recherche; l'intervention du
consultant dans ce cas s'est limitee a une revision de la forme plutot que du contenu du
43



programme; de meme, la consultation sur la vulgarisation (G.SMEKTALA), qui devait
aboutir a la creation d'une section vulgarisation au sein de l'unite d'ecologie, n'a pas eu lieu;
les termes de reference du consultant ont ete chan,es et il n'a ete sollicite qu'en avril 1994
pour reflechir, dans le cadre des travaux de restructuration de l'administration forestiere, sur
la creation d'une unite de vulgarisation forestiere ayant comme correspondant une section de
vulgarisation au sein du service d'&cologie.
Une 16' amelioration des consultations consisterait A privilegier les consultants issus
d'organismes ayant des relations de cooperation etablies ou potentielles avec l'Administration
sur des themes ou domaines de recherche communs, et les consultations sur des themes precis
et des programmes definis.
Un 2em facteur d'efficacite des consultants conceme la duree des missions :Ies
missions de longue duree devront etre evitees et fractionnees en missions de 10-15j
maximum, compte tenu de la disponibilite des encadrants et pour eviter les temps morts au
consultant.
Pour le service de la chasse:
Le consultant (TITEUX) a recommande des axes de developpement en cynegetique; une
convention de cooperation avec l'ONC (Office National la Chasse) en France a ete etablie
pour developper les principaux axes suivants: (i) formation du personnel, (ii) amenagement
du territoire de la perdrix, (iii) suivi patrimonial des especes de gros et petit gibier et (iv)
connaissance des orelevements de petit gibier par la chasse.
d)  l'Inventaire Forestier &Mtionai:
Les consultations dans le cadre du Projet UTF/MQRO011/MOR ont permis de degager les
options futures pour un second IFN, soit:
  mise a jour des resultats du le, EFN tous les 10 ans de proche en proche, par
circonscription et DREF, de maniere a couvrir l'ensemble du territoire au bout de cette
periode. Les travaux seraient menes avec la participation des SAFBV;
* les techniques d'inventaire devront etre revues, surtout en ce qui concerne le taux
d'echantillonnage, afin d'obtenir une precision significative au niveau de la region
forestiere. Des resultats relatifs a certains themes devront etre produits (biomasse,
productivite par essence, biodiversite);
* mise en place d'un systeme de surveillance et de suivi de 1'evolution de la foret a partir
d'images satellite et de techniques de sondage au sol;
F  equipement du Service TFN en moyens necessaires a la revision periodique de l'IFN.
Aucune application n'a encore eu lieu car le budget necessaire n'a pas ete mis en place. Des
propositions budgetaires sont faites dans le cadre du plan quinquennal 1999-2003 en cours de
preparation.
e) Consultations en informatique:
44



La duree relativement longue des consultations (11.3 h/m) s'explique par le retard
accumule par I'AEFCS dans le domaine de l'informatisation, qui sea lent a combler si
1'austerite  budgetaire  en  matiere  d'equipements  informatiques est maintenue. Ces
consultations ont permis de lancer l'etude du plan informatique et la mise en application des
premieres phases. L'etude r6alisee avait pour objectifs:
*  definir l'architecture globale du systeme d'information;
*  proposer un scenario d'infrastructure de materiel et de logiciels pour la mise en place
des applications informnatiques identifiees;
  definir un plan d'actions a court et moyen terme.
Elle s'est bas6e sur le recueil de 1'existant, selon une approche participative: le
consultant a fait adherer l'ensemble du personnel de l'administration forestiere en pr6conisant
un mode operatoire perTnettant de recenser les postes de travail, les proc6dures, les documents
manipules en interne et externe pour chaque poste de travail.
Concernant la Mise en c:uvre du plan d'action informatique, le consultant a prepar6 les
premiers marches qui ont abouti a l'acquisition des plate-formes de d6veloppement et de
formation et au pre-cablage du siege du MCEF. A ce jour les realisations concement en outre
le developpement d'applications prioritaires(suivi bugetaire notamment), un debut
d'acquisition de materiels pour le siege central et les services exterieurs, et la standardisation
de l'outil informatique.
Etude du prix du bois d'Eucalyptus:
Les conclusions de cette etude (lancee en 1992) ont inspire la revision des dispositions
regissant le fonctionnement du FNF relatives a la stimulation de l'initiative privee. Ainsi cette
etude a servi de reference pour l'etablissement de la convention avec la CDM par (i)
l'indexation du prix de cession du bois sur le prix international de la pate & papier, (ii) la
cession de terrains a reboiser.
COMPOSANTE AMELIORATION SYLVO-PASTORALE ET MAINTENAiNCE
(Parag. 21-22-38-49iv et vi du RAP)
Le projet a contribue a dynamiser les cooperatives de Bouhsoussen et permis la
realisation d'investissements en faveur des parcours difficilement supportable par les
eleveurs, mais qui les inciteraient a les supporter dans la mesure ou ils en percevraient le
benefice. Or, le creusement de puits, s'il permet theoriquement d'ameliorer le debit et de
garantir une disponibilite pernanente en eau , pose des  problemes nouveaux, dont le
pnncipal est l'augmentation du besoin en energie d'extraction, cette derniere etant
generalement le fait de jeunes bergers. Lors d'une mission de supervision, les eleveurs ont
emis le souhait que l'Administration se penche sur ce probleme, par la recherche de solutions
telles que l'energie solaire.
Ce probleme illustre la necessite d'une continuite dans les actions de confortement des
benefices  a tirer des investissements consentis en vue d'en assurer la perennite; en
l'occurrence, il s'agit d'une operation de vulgarisation et de demonstration en faveur du
rapport utilite maximale sur inconvenients, prealable a la participation et au renforcement du
sens d'appropriation par les collectivites locales(49vii). I1 est de meme nature que le besoin de
maintenance et de continuite mis en exergue a chaque occasion par le Projet.
45



La prise de conscience du projet concernant les travaux sylvicoles intensifies au cours
des 2 dernieres annees devrait, par consequent, setendre A toutes les activites du projets, et des
programmes prioritaires de maintenance devraient etre etablis A la faveur d'une evaluation des
impacts de d6veloppement socio-economique.
COMPOSANTE COMMUNALE
Le faible taux de realisations physiques (sauf pour les pistes) met en relief une
surestimation du programme de cette composante, compte tenu de l'evolution des communes
(atomisation suite aux decoupages administratifs, augmentation des besoins), de l' imprecision
du Dahir de 1976 quant a la part des recettes a consacrer aux investissements, de la non
designation   d'une structure de coordination nationale, et de I'anachronisme entre
programrnations budgetaire et physique. En effet, la circulaire du Ministre de l'Int6rieur (N0
4355/DAR/DDR/AFC, Octobre 1989) adressee aux Gouvemeurs des 12 Provinces (45
communes) concernmes au depart palliait l'imprecision du Dahir de 1976 en specifiant un
investisement dans les operations de reboisement et de regeneration d'au moins 20% des
recettes des communes. Le nombre de provinces est passe depuis a 13 et celui des communes
a60.
La coordination au niveau central signal6e (parag 24 du RAP) ainsi que le
renforcement de la cellule du MI char.g6e de piloter la composante communale ont permis de
redynamiser cette derniere.
La dynamique creee par le projet permet d'envisager, pour le futur, la realisation de
actions forestieres financees par les communes, a condition de lever l'anachronisme entre la
procedure budgetaire des communes (prograrmnation annuelle donnant la prionte aux
activites non forestieres, et dependant de l'excedent des recettes de l'annre) et l'imp6ratif
d'une prevision a moyen terne de la production de plants. A cela s'ajoute le probl6me de la
non disponibilite de terrains a reboiser dans les communes relevant des provinces de Kenitra
et Khemisset.
En attendant, il est prevu de financer  en 1998/99 sur le buget communal des
prograrnmes n'ayant pu etre realisees au cours de la rnise en ouevre du Projet, a hauteur de 29
millions de Dh.
NBl: le tableau << nvestissements communaux »> ci-joint apporte certaines corrections
au tableau 5 (p 19) du RAP
PROBLEMES LIES A LA COLLECTE DE L'INFORMATION ET AU SUJMVI (49viii):
Le probleme de la collecte des informations n'est pas sp6cifique au Service de Suivi
et de l'Evaluation; la solution ne reside pas en une simple coordination entre deux systemes
paralleles ou superposes; elle est plut6t a rechercher a travers une integration dynamique de
la collecte et du traitement de l'information dans le cadre d'un systeme global non
contraignant pour la source unique d'information qui est actuellement l'AEF (plus tard le
CDF, voire le triage). L'AEF est, en effet la source commune d'information pour un groupe
d'entites externes (Services centraux, DREF, Province...) . En d'autres termes, il s'agit en
premier lieu de menager la source et d'apprecier sa capacite a produire une information
performate, a savoir:
46



-exhaustive pour repondre en meme temps au plus grand nombre de destinataires et
reduire les pertes d'informations facilement disponibles;
-non redondante et coherente, conditions d'une bonne qualite, de la regularite et de la
celerite de l'information.
Ceci implique la standardisation de l'information brute de base, son traitement, autant
que possible, au niveau des demandeurs, F'amelioration des capacites de saisie et de stockage
A la source, generalement moins pourvue en structures centrales.
Dans le cas des services centraux et des DREF, les informations du Projet ont
constitue une tranche importante des informations sur les principales activites forestieres, qui
etaient synthetisees a la source pour differents destinataires sous des formats differents.
Une telle procedure pouvait etre acceptable dans le cas du 1" projet forestier (Gharb
Mamora), limite sur le plan geographique et des interventions. Or, le PF II (avec le PCRN qui
beneficie du meme suivi), conceme 1'ensemble des activites forestieres et la quasi totalite du
territoire forestier du Royaume du Maroc (Voir Parag Importance du PF II). En plus des
travaux en regie, ils ont mobilise plus de 300 entreprises (1475 marches dont 1100 pour le PF
II, 630 bons de conimandes dont 575 pour le PF II) .
Cette procedure a entraine par consequent, avec l'avancement des projets, une
surcharge de la source d'information (AEF), une information redondante et des problemes de
mise en coherence.
De tels inconvenients auraient pu etre minimises, si le systeme d'information des
Projets 6taft integre , des le depart, au systeme existant, qui aurait ete am6lior6 par Ia meme
occasion. L'experience a montre, en effet, que l'unite de suivi des projets n'a pas evolue en
unite de suivi de l'ensemble des activites comme le-prevoyait le rapport d'evaluation n° 7752
MOR du 28 novembre 1989.
Un systeme d'information integre aurait, par ailleurs, pallie sans nul doute les
inconvenients resultant de la discontinuite au niveau des membres de l'equipe de mise en
ceuvre et de supervision evoquee dans la partie I.
COUTS DU PROJET, MARCHES ET ENTYREPRISES
Le tableau 8A (Partie II Annexes statistiques) synthetise le << cout»> global ou prix de
revient (charges suppletives non comprises) en dollars par groupe de composantes.  :  n
serait souhaitable d 'expliquer le cout en devises de la composante communale).
Il nous parait utile de completer ce tableau par:
-le cout global exprime en monnaie locale;
-les couts unitaires a 1'entreprise, permettant de disposer de normes reelles pour
l'etablissement du budget;
L'analyse des couits unitaires fait ressortir les e1lments suivants:
- I'approche du cout par composante reste insuffisante pour etablir des nor-mes
precises: il existe en effet plusieurs variantes d'operations pour la meme
composante, et des ecarts geographiques sensibles. Une analyse des cofits par
47



operation serait plus adequate; elle est possible en partant des marches.
-  Le coCut moyen par composante ou par operation n'est pas une reference fiable : de
grands 6carts existent non seulement entre AEF, mais 6galement au sein du meme
AEF
-  L'analyse des couts annuels ne laisse pas apparaitre un effet <( ann6ee» significatif,
malgre la tendance moyenne a la hausse observee dans le cas du dessouchage et du
reboisement ( voir figures 3 et 4). Ceci pourrait s'expliquer par la concurrence des
entreprises et leur int6r8t pour les activites forestieres.
II faut souligner, cependant, qu'il s'agit de couit moyens d'adjudication de tous les
march6s (ex6cutla entierement ou resilies). Or les AEF incriminent l'entree en lice
d'entreprises peu qualifiees, qui se contentent de prix de reference relativement bas, ce qui
explique en partie les desistements et resiliations. II parait necessaire, par consequent, pour
serier les couits de:
*  introduire d'autres criteres tels que le contexte local, les variantes pour une meme
op6ration...
*  d'operer un classement des entreprises de travaux forestiers. L'abandon de
chantiers incheves est une cause frequente de r6siliation dans le cas des
reboisements: les entreprises concern6es delaissent les entretiens et regarnis,
relativement moins lucratifs que la mise en place des plantations. Cette
constatation a conduit l'Administration a reviser le CPS des reboisements dans le
sens d'une meilleure garantie d'execution des entretiens.
En attendant, 1'exploitation des marches (tableau 7 << Base de donnrrs des marches et
entreprise >) a permis a permis de caracteriser les entreprises de travaux forestiers et
leur environnement comme suit
-  pres de 40% des resiliations sont dues a la defaillance de 1'entreprise mais pres du
V/4 sont dues a la secheresse qui a marque la periode de nmise en opeuvre du Projet;
les contingences administratives entrainent 10% des resiliations (terrain non
disponible, procedure...); l'opposition des populations reste elevee (8% des
r6siliations)
-  les entreprises sont relativement specialisees (peu polyvalentes) :l'ecrasante
majorite d'entre elles se limite a une composante ou 2
-  leur zone d'action est limitee quasiment a 1 AEF
- leur capacite est limitee a I voire 2 marches et elles sont ephemeres: laplupart ne
soumissionnent que pour un exercice budgetaire; ceci pourrait s'expliquer par une
meconnaissance du marche de travaux forestiers qui conduirait A une autoselection.
au sein de la profession.
Ces elements mettent en exergue:
-  la necessite d'une analyse approfondie, fondee sur le traitement d'une base de
donnres sur les entreprises et les marches, aussi complete que possible, aux niveau
central et regional; la decentralisation de la gestion devrait permettre une forte
centralisation de l'information de base aux niveaux central et regional
-  la necessite d'une coordination 6troite entre les AEF
48



OBSER VA TIONS CONCERNANT LA COMPOSANTE REBOISEMENT(Appendice A du
RAP)
Parag 3: lire o Plan Directeur de Reboisement»> (et non Plan National de Reboisement)
Parag 4: le programme de reboisement prevu dans le cadre du projet porte sur 18000 ha( et
non 20000); en fait les 2000 ha ajoutes correspondent aux plantations de brise-vents
d'Eucalyptus gomphocephala pris en compte dans la composante Amenagement
Sylvo-pastoral au sahel Doukkala.
Parag 8 : les realisations de reboisement ont couvert 83% (et non 70%) des previsions.
Parag 11: 1'etude du PDR a et achevee avec un retard de 1 an( et non 2 ans). Le couit du
PDR n'a pas depasse les previsions. C'est une etude dont le financement n'a intervenu
qu'en 1993 lors de la revision du Projet. Le cofit prevu correspond au couit reel de
1'6tude.
Parag 15 : les superficies reboisees ont atteint 83% des 17245 ha prevus lors de la revision
du projet ( et non 72% des 20000 ha). Le projet prevoyait 40% des reboisements en
clonal (et -.on 35°5%)
Parag 16 : it na pas et enregistre de deficit en plants clonaux. La production etait suffisante
pour couvrir les besoins du programme annuel de reboisement.
OBSERvATIONS CONCERNANT LA COMPOSANTE RECHERCHE FORESTIERE
(Version preiliminaire du RAP)
Parag. 26 (page 7): Rajouter les recommandations suivante:
-recrutement accru de chercheurs
-regionalisation de la recherche
-reunir le comite d'orientation
Parag. 46 (page 12): Rajouter: << la recherche a beneficie d'une consultation pour sa
restruturation quia debouche sur la creation du CONRF en remplacement de l'ex
DREF(Division de la recherche et des experimentations forestieres et sur une programmation
aL long terme
49



MAP SECTION



IBRD 21506
PROJECT                                                 Th4i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tbot~~~'N'
~~~CONt~~~~~~~~ fORESTRY ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V~~~~LQPMENT~~~~h.~ .
P~~~~~~QCVACTfVIT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ES~~~T
~~~~EGeA 00    U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LR~~~~~~~~R~~~~~E
*   ~~~~~~~~~~~0A~~~~~~~~~~~9~ki
o  C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4x ~ ~ ~ ~      ~        ~        IA
LI  S~~~~~~~~~~~~~ylo~~~~~~~~~~~tM TEo 
WAT~~~~R  ~~~~  A~~~EMR?4T                       SETTAT.~25 510 75  10
~~~E O~~~~~~~~~MA~~~~~~~CA1IQN ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~      ~     ~     8 Okkoi- H0U
@~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                  0
~~~~~~~~~STt  CRAB~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UE18



