Document ok'
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No.  10336-MOZ Type:  tSAR)
ALVAREZ,  C/ X34386 / j311A9/ Ab'63N
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THE REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
FIRST ROADS AND COASTAL SHIPPING PROJECT
MAY 6, 1992
Infrastructure Operations Division
Southern Africa Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank 'aithorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(as of November 1991)
Currency Unit      =     Mozambican Meticais
US$1.00            =     Mt 1783.00 (Official)
=     Mt 1900.00 (Secondary)
=     Mt 2150.00 (Parallel)
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 to March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)             =      3.2808 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)        =      0.6214 miles (mi)
1 metric ton (tonnes)  =       1.023 short tons
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ASDI (or SIDA)    =      Swedish International Development Agency
ADT                =     Average Daily Iraffic
AfDB               =     African Develop.ment Bank
BADEA              =     Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa
BCM                =     Banco Comercial de Mocambique
BM                 =     Banco de Moacambique
BPD                =     Banco Popular de Desenvolvimento
BSTM H                   Banco Standard Tcta de Mocambique
CCCE               =     Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (France)
CFM                =     Empresa Nacional ce Portos e Caminhos de Ferro de
Mo,ambique, E.E.
CNA                =     National Commission for the Environment
DANIDA             =     Danish International Development Agency
DCA                =     Development Credit Agreement
DCE                =     Department of Civil Engineering, UEM
DEP                =     Provincial Department of Roads and
Bridges, DNEP
DN Alfandegas      =     National Directorate of Customs
DNEP               =     National Directorate o' Roads and Bridges
DNM                =     National Directorate of Maritime Affairs
DNTR               =     National Directorate of Road Transport
ECMEP              =     Provincial State Enterprise for Construction and
Maintenance of Roads and Bridges
EDI                =     Electronic Data Interchange
EEC                =     European Economic Community
ERP                =     Economic Rehabilitation Program
ERR                =     Economic Rate of Return
ESRP               =     Economic and Social Rehabilitation Program
FINNIDA            =     Finnish International Development Agency
FOB                =     Free on Board



FOR OMCILM USE ONLY
FR,               *     Fooder Roads program
r                 a      Federal Republic of  ermany
FY                *     Fiscal Year
BAPROMAR          a      Bureau of Maritime Projects. MTC
OC                a     General Consultant
ODP               *     Gross Domestic Product
00K               *     Govornment of Mozambique
GT1               -      Gesellsechaft fur Technische Zusa_enarbeit
(Germany)
HNM                     Highway Design and Maintenance Standards
Model
IDA               -     Internatlonal Development Association
WIP               .     international CompetLtive Bidding
Ila               .     Industrial Institute Belra
IIH               .     Induetrial Institute Maputo
YBAHBIW           a     National Institute for Hydrography and Navigation
KDF               *      Kuvait fund for Arab Economie Development
fU                a     Kreditanetalt fur Wiederaufbau (Germany)
LCB               a     Local Competitive Bidding
LRC               .     Local Road Contractors
LRCI              -     Local Road Construction Indubtry
*-S               a    man-months
MCA               *     Ministry of Construction and Water
HOT               -     Hinistry of Transport and Communications
MDF               -     Ministry of Finance
HTPU              -     Mechanical Training Production Unlt
NAVIQUE           a      State Navigation and Shipping Enterprise
N.A.              a     Not Applicable
NAB               a     Center for SCHQP Support
NORAD             -     Norwegian Agency For Development
Ns                -     Nautical School
OVA               -     Overseas Development Administration (U K.)
OZD               *     Operations EvaluatLon Department
XOL               -     Open General License Facility
p.a.              -     per annum
PDP               *     Priority Districts Program
PFI               a     Participating Financial Intermediary
PPF                     Project Preparation facility
PS                -     Port School
3OC                     Roads and Coastal Shipplng Projects
RSA               -     Republic of South Africa
RTPU              a     Road TrainLng Production Unit
RTSIX             -     Road TraLning Specialists & Instructors
Consultancy Services (a.k.a. Road Traning
Technical Assistance Services)
3SSC              -     Road Technical Training Center
SADCC             *     Southern Africa Development Coordination
Conference
SATCC             -     Southern Africa Transport and
CommunLcations Commission
SEAC              -     Southern and Eastern African Conference
SDC               a     Swiss Development Cooperation
SMZ               -     Small and Medium Enterprises
201               a     Statement of Eapenditures
TA                a     Tochnical Assistance
TD                .     Training Department, DNEP
SZ V                    Twenty-foot Equivalent Unlt (Container)
TOR               -     Terms of Reference
TRANSMARXTXMA     -     Maritime Passenger and reeder Cargo Transport
Company
TSC               -     Training Steering Cormitteo
TS                -     Technlcal/Vocatlonal Schools
USK               -     University Zduardo Mondlane
UNCTAD            -      United Nations Conference on Trade end
Development
UNCDF             "      United Nations Capital Development Fund
VNDP              -     United Nations Development Progre_
USAID             -      lnited States Agency for International
Development
vee "                    vehLcle operating cost
vpd               -      vehicles per day
m                 .      Vorld Food Progrmme
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



MOZAMBIQUE
FIRST ROADS AND COASTAL SHIPPING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY   .....   . . . . . . . . . . . . .   *... i-iv
I. TRANSPORT SECTOR AND THE MOZAMBICAN ECONOMY  . . .  . . . . . . 1
A. Iutroduction  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    .  .  .  .    .  1
B. Current Status of the Transport Sector     . .  . . . . .    3
C. Government Objectives and Strategy     . . . . . . . . .    4
Transport Sector Strateg  . . .                            4 .  . . . . . . . . . .   4
Physical Infrastructure ... .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    5
The Policy Environment  ... .  .  .   .  .    ... .  .  .  .    .    5
Human Resources and Organization     . . . .  . . . . .    6
D. Uncertainty and the Transport Sector Strategy    . . . .    6
The Security Situation  ... .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    6
Agricultural Uncertainty  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   8
E. irevious Bank Involvement and Lessons Learned  . . . . .    8
F. Rational for IDA Involvement         .    . . . . . . . . . . . . .   9
-I. THE ROAD SUB-SECTOR  . . . . . .     ...11
A. Introduction  ......................11
The Existing Road Network . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  11
Major Problems  .......  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..          .   12
B. Diagnosis of Current Problems . ..... . . . . . .    .    .   12
Lack of Security  . . .   .............  ..               12
Institutional Capacity of DNEP  . . . . . . . . . . . .  13
Operational Policies and Procedures . . . . . . . . . .  13
This appraisal report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission
which visited Mozambique in September-October 1991. The mission team
consisted of Messrs. Carlos Alvarez (Transport Engineer & Mission
Leader), John Roome (Economist/Financial Analyst), Kenjiro Kohriki
(Ports Engineer), R. Gopalkrishnan (Procurement Specialist), Charles
Powers (Sr. Highway Engineer, Consultant), Giuseppe Morra (Sr. Training
Specialist, Consultant), Carlos de Castro (Transport Operations
Specialist, Consultant), Ken Rogers (Equipment Specialist, Consultant),
Svein Jorgensen (Shipping Operations Expert, Consultant funded by
NORAD), Bjcrn Gildestad (Ports Planning Expert/Economist, Consultant),
Magda Lara-Resende (Environmental Expert, Consultant) and Erik Broens
(Port Management Specialist, Consultant). The Legal Officer for
Mozambique, Ms. Teresa Genta Fons, conducted appraisal of legal aspects
during a separate mission in December 1991. The Peers Reviewers for
this project are Messrs. Asif Faiz (INUTD), Thampil Pankaj (AF4IN), and
Sture Karlsson (APTIN). The Chief of the Managing Division is
Mr. Isaac K. Sam and the Director of the Managing Department is
Mr. Stephen Denning.



Staffing and Manpower Development. . . . . . . . . . .  15
Road  Funding    .a.  ..  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ..  16
The Vehicle Fleet . . . . . ... . . . . . . . . . . . .  17
C. Strategy for Chang e .       ..................    17
General  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ,  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  17
Staffing and Manpower Development... . . . . . . . .  18
Organizational and Operating Procedures . . . . . . . .  19
The Vehicle Fleet . t............................   21
D. FinJacing and Resource Mobilization .  . . . . . . . . . .  21
III.  TEII COASTAL SHIPPING SUB-SECTOR. . .... . ..099999999 ...    23
A. Introduction  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..  .. . .    23
D. Current Status and Issues . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  23
CoastalShipping  ...................   23
Feeder Shipping...................    23
Regional Ports  . . . ...        ***  e*0e*  9    24
Sma  Local Ports . . t.. . ....  ... . .   . .  . ..  24
InstitutionalWeakiLawse .                                25
Custom and Trade Facilitatio. ...........                26
C. New Policy Framework and Coastal Shipping Strategy  . . .  26
Coastal Shipping Recovery Strategy  . . . . .  . . .   27
Implementing a Now Regulatory Framework . . . . . . .    27
Structure of the Shipping Industry  . . . . . . . . . .  27
Restructuring Coastal Shipping  . . . . . . . . . . . .  28
Feeder Shipping Strategy  ...............   29
Small Ports Recovery Strategy. . . . . . . . . . . . .  29
Regulatory Reform ...... ............ .   29
Investments in Small Ports  .9.9. .9.99.9.9. ..          30
NavigationnlAid s .... . ..............   ...... 32
institutional Capacity  . ..............  .  33
IV. THEPROPOSEDPROJCC ....................... .   34
A.    Objective  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  .  .  .  .    ... .  34
B. Overall Project Scope . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . .  34
C. .Mscription of the Roads Component  . . . . . . . . . . .  36
institutional Support .Spo........  ...36
Mmnpower Development and Training .  ... . . 9 .         38
Planning and Engineering Service  . . . . . . . . . . .  39
Development of Local Road Contractors . . . . . . . . .  40
Trucking    .  .    .  .  .  .  . .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  41
D. Description of the Small-Ports and Coastal-Shipping
Component  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  42
Institutional Support and Policy Reform . . . . . . . .  42
Manpower Development and Training. ..........   44
Credit Line Investments..............    44
Supporting Port Infrastructure Investments  . . . . . .  49
Shipping Investments  .....Sa.iO50
Freight Transfers and Custom  Facilitation  . . . . . .  50
E. Cost stimates  . ...... . . 9.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .9..   52
F.  Financing . . . . . . . . . . .                            S 9 9 & 9 * 9  9 9 9 9  52
G.  Implemntation and Project Monitoring . . . . . . . . . .  53
1. Procurement . .. .. .. .    . . . . ....  . . . . . ..  55
1. Disbursement  . . . . .. . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . ..  56
J. Accounting, Auditing and Reporting  .... . . . . . .   .  58
K.    Supervision  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ......  ...  .  .  .  58



V. Is%ONOMIC JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS  .   . . . . . . . . . . ...    59
A.  Project Justification . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  59
B. Roads Components  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . .  59
Feeder Roads Program  ..................   61
C.  Coastal ghipping Components . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  62
D.  Technical Assistance and Training . . . . . . . . . . . .  62
E.  Impact on Areas of Special Attention  . . . . . . . . . .  63
Poverty Reduction . . . . . . . . . ua. ..     . .  .  . . .    63
Role of Women and Other Traditionally Disadvantaged
Groups    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  63
Environmental Impact  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  64
The Private Sector ..................  64
F.  Project Risks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  65
Security    ..........               .......             65
Institutional Capacity  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  66
Fudng u           nding o..o      ..0*       .          69
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS . . . . . . . . . . . .  70
A.  Agreements Reached at Negotiations  . . . . . . . . . . .  70
D.  Conditions of Credit Effectiveness  . . . . . . . . . . .  73
C.  Conditions of Disbursement  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  73
D.  Recommendation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  74
1-1  Major Policy Reforms
1-2  Past Lending in the Transport Sector in Mozambique and The Lessons
Learned
2-1  Procurement Study  - Terms of Reference
2-2  Equipment Management - Terms of Reference
2-3  The Road Fund - Terms of Reference
2-4  Overview of Road Transport Operations
2-5  Roads Organizational Structure
2-6  The Feeder Roads Program
3-1  Current Status of Each of the Small Ports
3-2  Outline of Proposed Shipping Patterns
3-3  Institutional Arrangements for the Management of the Ports
3-4  Traffic  Scenarios for Coastal Shipping in Mozambique
3-5  Proposed Organizational Structure and Responsibilities for Coastal
.hipping
3-6  Intermodal Trade Facilitation and Customs
3-7  Summary of NORAD assistance to Coastal Shipping
4-1  Summary of Technical Assistance and Studies for Roads
4-2  TOR for the GC - Roads
4-3  Training Annex - Roads
4-4  Trunk Roads to be Rehabilitated, by Years, Showing Distances
4-S  Selection Procedures and Criteria for Rural/Feeder Roads
4-6  Trucking Action Plan and Components
4-7  Summaary of Technical Assistance and StudLes for Coastal Shipping
4-8  Training Annez - Coastal Shipping
4-9  Investments to be Made in Each of the Small Ports
4-10 Financial Sector in Mozambique



4-11 Implementation Arrangements for tha Credit Line
4-12 Regulatory Technical Assistance - Terms of Reference
4-13 TransLt Logistics and Customs Facilitation - Proposed Action
Program
4-14 Table of Cost Items Showing Local Costs, Foreign Costs, Units, X
Local, Principal Donors.
4-15 Cost Table and Donor F4nancing
4-16 Implementation Plan
4-17 Draft Framework for Review of Technical Assistance
4-18 Supervision requirements for next 3 years for IDA components
4-19 Reporting Requirements and Format (standard for all donors)
4-20 Technical Assistance - Transfer of Expertise Guidelines
4-21 Summary of General Technical Assistance
4-22 Civil Works Contracts
5-1   Summary of Economic Analysis - Roads investmerts
5-2 Summary of Economic Analysis - Port investments
5-3 Environmental Issues
MAP: IBRD No. 23129



THE FOLLOW=I DOCORIIUTS AUE AVAILnARR II TME PROJECT FILEs
I.    Roads
1.    IBRD Report No. 88.. d-Z.  *Transport Sector Review" (two
volumes), October 31. 1989.
2.    FAO Report No. 151/91 CP-MOZ 23 PUP.  'Rural Rehabilitation
Project, Preparation Mission", December 20, 1991.
3.    UNDP Project Document  D0191/  /   /    .  'Management Assistance
to Labour-based Feeder Roads Rehabilitation and Maintenance
Programs, Phase IV, August 1991.
4.    *National Transport Survey-Main Report' by consultants VIAK (AB)
and Hoff & O0ergaard, September 1978.
5.    'Estudo Nacional de Transportes-Volume I, Relatorio Final' by
consultants VIAX(AB) and Hoff S Overgaard, September 1978.
6.    "Report on Paved Road Maintenance Study' by Roughton & Partners,
March 1987.
7.    'Components de Desenvolvimento Rural no PTIP (Distitos
Prioritarios) - versao qzase-finalw by GOM. 1990.
8.    'Report on the Feasibility Study for the Road LN 262 Between
Moamba and Sabie' (3 volumes) by consultants CONSULTEC and VWL
International, January 1992.
9.    'Report on the Feasibility Study for Roads EN106 and EN242 Between
Pemba and Montepuez' (3 volumes) by Van Wyk & Louw, Inc., December
1991.
10.   Report on the Feasibility Study for Road ENS Between Nampula and
Macala' (3 volumes) by CONSULTZC and VVL International, December
1991.
11.  'Marracuene-Manhica Road Feasibility Study, Vol. 1 Text - Final
Report' (4 volumes) by DKJM International, January 1992.
12.   "Draft Report - Feasibility Study for Rehabilitation and;or
Upgrading of Quelimane-Namacurra Road' by RITES, October 1991.
13.   'Final Report - Feasibility Study for Road R*habilitation,
Vanduzi-Changara Roadw by Civil & Planning Partnership. February
1992.
14.   'Staff Training and Development Plan' by Scott Wilson Kirkpatrick
and Crown Agents, December 1991.
15.   'The Accounting Report' by Scott Wilson Xlrkpatrick and Crown
Agents, December 1991.



16.    Technical Report D' by Scott Wilson Kirkpatrick and Crown Agents,
June 1991.
17.   'Technical Report C - The Five Year Plan' by Scott Wilson
Kirkpatrick, Feb,uary 1991.
18.   Final terms of reference and associated solicitation documents for
consultancies for for: (i) General Consultant to DNEP; (ii) Road
Training Technical Assistances (iii) Equipment Evaluation; (iv)
Road Technical/"ocational Specialiet (RTTC evaluation); (v) Study
of the Local Road Construction Industry; and (vi) Study of
Procurement Procedures.
19.   Ministerial Resolution designating DNEP as the GOM unit
responsible for mangement and Implementation of ROCS-1 project.
20.  Ministerial Resolution transferring MCA Training Center in Chimoio
to DNEP.
21.  Letter from Minister of Construction and Water formally adopting
the Policy Statement on Training (for roads).
22.   Copy of the 'diploma de criacao das ECMEPs' being processed by  OM
to legalize some parastatal construction/maintenance enterprises
as autonomous coumercial entities.
23.   Letter from DNEP affirming that GOM has no objection to the Bank
divulging that portion of any DNEP road feasibility study which
deals with environmental sssessment.
24.  Map of the current classified national road network of Mozambique.
25.  Map showing rehabilitation and maintenance works in the current
DNEP five-year plan.
26.   Various extracts of reports and data sheets relative to road
kilometrage and condition by province; current unit prices for
maintenance and rehabilitation works; work accomplished by
provincial parastatal ECHEPs; recent and projected DNEP budgets,
etc.
II.   Coastal ShipDing
1.    *Development of Coastal Shipping in Mozambique - Preliminary
Report on the Legal and Institutional Aspects' by Legal Consultant
Services, February 1992.
2.    'Port Investment Appraisals - Mozambique' by Nordic Consultancy
Group, November 1991.
3.    'Relatorio da Hissao de Avaliacao do Proyecto GAPROMAR' by
Cooperation Francaise, November 1991.
4.   "Mozambique Coastal Waterways Project (MC)t Feasibility Study
Presented by the DELMAS Group', December 1991.



5.     Final Report - DIivelopmnt of Coastal Shipping in Mozambique" (2
volumes) by 80GR1, October 1991.
6.    'Project Review of Maritims Sector - Mozambique' by NORAD.
Septes0kr 1991. 7?.Outline Proposal for the Privatization of
NAVIQtISZ by Nordenfjeldske Dampskilsselskab AS, October 1991.
8.    'Coastal Transport Studies - Mosambique (1: Passenger Transport),
by the Norwegian Institute of Transport Sconomics, July 1989.
9.    'Development of Coastal Shipping - Final Report on Visits to Small
Ports' by DANPORT, October 1991.



REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
FIRST ROADS AND COASTAL SHIPPING PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT StMKARY
Borrowers         Republic of M4ozambique
Beneficiaries:    The  Ministry  of  Transport  and  Communications,  National
Directorate of Maritime Affairs, Bureau of Mar4time Projects,
National Directorate of Road Transport,  ti"  finistry of
Construction and Water, National Directora    f Roads and
Bridges, the Ministry of Finance, National oirectorate of
Customs, and the Banco de Mocambique, of the Borrower.
Amounts           SDR54.1 million (US$74.3 million equivalent)
Terms:            Standard IDA Terms, with 40 years maturity
OnlendiUg Terms:  The Borrower will pass on US$5.8 million equivalent to the
Banco de Mogambique (Central Bank), which would lend the funds
to qualified PFIs under terms and condition satisfactory to
IDA.   Onlending interest rates charged by PFIs to sub-
borrowers would be positive in real terms and will be
periodically reviewed by IDA (interest rates are being
liberalized under IM  and IDA supervision).   The foreign
exchange risk would be borne by the Government.
Co-financing:     The Project, with a total estimated cost of the equivalent of
US$144.7 million, is expected to be parallel co-financed by
AfDB, BADEA, DANIDA, EEC, France, FINNIDA, Germany, NORAD,
RSA, SDC, ASDI (SIDA), Spain, UNDP, UNCDF and USAID. As shown
in the Financint Plan (page iv), total external financing
amounts to the equivalent of US$123.8 million, with GOM
contributing US$20.9 million, plus annual road maintenance
budgets,  from  its  own  resources.    The  annual  budget
requirements are within the ceilings set in GOM's 1992-94
Public Investments Three-Year Plan (PTIP).
Proiect
Objectives:       The primary objJctives of the Project are to: (i) develop the
institutional capacity in MCA and MTC necessary to effectively
plan and supervise the rehabilitation and maintenance of roads
and the efficiency improvement of small coastal ports serving
the priority districts, and (ii) implement policy reforms in
the trucking and coastal shipping sub-sectors, required to
effectively support the ESRP and the agricultural development
contemplated in GOM's PDP. In particular, ROCS-1 would begin
IDA's long-term assistance to GOM in developing the
institutional and managerial capacity and the pct'icy and
regulatory framework required to successfully implement and
sustain transport improvements through this and forthcoming
projects.



- il -
Proiect
Descriptions      The proposed Project includess  i) technical assistance to
DNH/GAPROHAR and other coastal shipping organizations, and to
DNEP, intended to provide guidance and assistance during
implementation of this and the two proposed subsequent ROCS
projects, includings (a) overall project management, (b)
policy end regulatory reform, (c) facilitation of greater
private  sector  involvement   (awarding  port  management
contracts,  preparing  transport  state  enterprises   for
diveititure), and (d) development and preparation of
subsequent phases of a long-term roads and coastal shipping
transport sub-sectors improvement programs (ii) the first five
years of a comprehensive training pro&ram for road and coastal
shipping personnel; (iii) studies and implementation of
recommendations for policy and regulatory reform in road
financing, procurement, trucking, and the local road
contractors industry; (iv) initial assistance for intermodal
facilitation, and for customs efficiency improvement; (v)
small ports investments in infrastructure and in cargo
handling equipment and tugs - the latter to be funded through
a credit line, in five of the fifteen tertiary ports and in
one of the five regional ports; (vi) investments in small port
navigational aids and communications; (vii) final desiKn and
preparation of tender documents for rehabilitation of about
1,800 km of priority primary roads (approximately 35Z of the
paved national network); and   (viii) the first phase of a
long-term nationwide Feeder Roads Program (FRP), for the
rehabilitation and maintenance in 22 priority districts of
approximately 12? of the estimated 21,000 km feeder road
network.
Justification
and Risks:        Unless accessibility to primary agricultural areas is improved
and transport costs are reduced, the economic recovery
programs cannot be sustained and, without significant policy
reform  and   institution  building,   existing   transport
bottlenecks will not be overcome.   Therefore, substantial
quantifiable and non-quantifiable short and long term benefits
are expected from the Project, particularly in terms of
institutional capacity and policy and regulatory reform
necessary for the massive rehabilitation and efficiency
improvement of the transport sector required upon attainment
of peace to support agricultural production recovery, increase
employment, reduce food costs, alleviate poverty and famine,
increase export of cash crops, and reduce GOM's financial
burden imposed by its transport state enterprises. There are
significant risks, particularly the unpredictable security
situation due to the ongoing hostilities, which may delay
Project implementation or increase costs. The current lack of
coordination between Government agencies involved in the
transport sector and their limited institutional capacity are



- iii -
also potential risks. Flexible design, substantial technical
assistance, training and supervision, frequent formal reviews,
and early implementation of policy and regulatory reform have
been included in the Project to reduce the risks.   The
proposed Project is the second operation in the transport
sector and the third investment in physical infrastructure
supported by the Bank Group in Mozambique.  It is also the
first project addressing policy and regulatory reform in the
infrastructure  sector.    Lessons  learned  from  the  Beira
Transport Corridor Project (Credit No 2065 MOZ), in which
IDA's participation includes significant capacity building and
technical assistance, and from the road and street
rehabilitation and maintenance component of the Urban
Rehabilitation Project (Credit No. 1949 MOZ), have been given
full consideration in the detlgn of this new operation,
particularly in terms of addressing problems and delays in
procurement of goods and services, and of providing for the
prevailing lack of implementation capacity. Project design
has taken full account of experiences described in the recent
OED Report No. 8573: Free-standing Technical Assistance for
Institutional Development in Sub-Saharan Africa, by including
performance-based procedures for coordinating and monitoring
the Project's TA.
Cost Istimates,
Costs (USf li IIIon)
A INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT
1 Roads TA -ndStudies            5.7   28.9   29.6
2 Roads Training and D.v-lopmnt    10.1   18.2   26.2
a Trucking Studies               0.1    0.6      0.5
4 Coastal Shipping TA & Studies  1.5    6.7    8.2
b Shipping Training and Devolop.  0.'    1.5    1.9
6 Custom4  A Trade Facilitation  0.,    0.7    0.0
7 Transport Sector Institution   0.4    1.6    2.0
8 Environmantal Division         0.1    0.6    0.7
Sub-total Part A                13.8    8.a6   71.9
B ENGINEERING SERVICES               0.0    0.0    0.0
1 Roadn                          1.8    7.2    9.0
2 Coastal Shi punm               0.1    1.2    1.8
Sub-toal Part e                  2.1    12.4    14.5
C COASTAL SHIPPING REHABILITATION    0.0    0.0    0.0
rTrdit Lin Invostents             1.0    5.5    6.5
2 Other Port Investments         0.7    8.7    4.4
Sub-total Part a                 1.7    9.2   10.9
D FEEDER ROAD REiJAIUTATION        11.6    9.9   21.5
TOTAL SASM COST                   8.      65.1   118.8
Physical Contingencls          2.4    5.2    7.6
Price Continoencles            5.6   12.7    18
TOTAL COST                        41.7  0io2.9   44



- Lv -
Financing Plan:
SOURCE                 AMOUNT          Percent
(US$ million)
IDA                      74.3           51.3
OTHER DONORS             49.5           34.2
SUB-TOTAL        123.8           85.5
MOZAMBIQUE               20.9           14.5
TOTAL            144.7          100.0
Estimated Disbursement of IDA Credit:
(US$ millions equivalent)
IPA    FY9    FY94    FY96    FY96    FY96   FY07
ANNUAL DISBURSEMENTS      74.8    10.2   16.6   16.6   15.7    7.9    8.1
Annual Percentage                 14X    25X    25X    21X    llX          4X
C5UULATIVE DISBURSEMENTS          10.2   26.5   47.6    S.8    71.2   74.8
Cumulatlve Percentage              14X    ass    64X    4C%    96    1O0X
Econamic           14Z to >150Z for feeder-road rehabilitation; >15Z for trunk-
Rate of Return:   road rehabilitaion with minimum traffic.  Estimated to be in
excess of 12Z for coastal shipping investments.
map:               IBRD No. 23129



MOZAMBIQUE
FIRST ROADS AND COASTAL SHIPPING PROJECT
I.  TRANSPORT SECTOR AND THE MOZAINBICAN ECONOMY
A. Introduction
1.1     For the last two decades the economy of Mozambique has
experienced a substantial decline in output as a result of : (i) the war
of independence and the internal civil strife that followed
independence; (1i) the ensuing exodus of Portuguese skilled workers; and
(iii) mostly exogenous constraints which precluded the adoption of
adequate economic policies. Between 1980 and 1986 in particular,
overall production fell by about a third while exports declined by
approximately 752. At the same time external imbalances, aggravated by
an overvalued currency, resulted in significant arrears in external debt
servicing, while internal fiscal deficits and subsidies required by
state enterprise tripled the money stock, despite a shrinking output.
Administrative controls on prices and ineffectual allocation of goods
created inflation, and barter and parallel markets for goods and foreign
exchange. These produced such an inadequate allocation of resources
that a series of corrective measures applied between 1980 and 1986 were
not able to stimulate any economic recovery. By 1988 per capita GDP had
fallen to about $120, making Mozambique one of the poorest nations in
the world. As a consequence of the ensuing economic chaos and the
insecurity brought on by the civil war, large elements of the population
either fled the country, or have taken refuge in urban centers, with
resulting chronic unemployment, poverty, famine and desperation. It has
been estimated that two thirds of the population live in conditions of
extreme poverty.
1.2     In 1987 the Government of Mozambique (GOM) launched the Economic
Rehabilitation Program (NIP) to revitalize the economy and correct its
structural distortions. The URP addressed both external factors (such
as debt rescheduling and improvement in the utilization of foreign
assistance), and internal macroeconomic and sectoral reform issues. The
elimination of price distortions, especially in terms of an overvalued
exchange rate, and below-cost prices for basic food items and public
services, was central to the internal program elements. Specifically,
the ERP includeds (M) devaluation of the metical by 96Z between January
1987 and November 1990; ($$) large changes in official price levels to
correct Imbalances in marketing and to permit the price mechanism to
play a more important role In the allocation of resources, goods and
services; (1i1) demand management to relieve excessive domestic
liquidity and contain recurrent expenditures; (iv) channeling of
external resources through loans, bilateral assistance and emergency
aid, to speclfic economic targets (such as goods and services for local
consumption) to revitalize the economy and to stimulate the agricultural
sector; and (v) strengthening of the tax revenue base aa a result of the
EUP, matched by an improvement in the effectiveness of taz collection.
1.3     The results of the ERP have been favorable, reversing the
collapse in production of the early 1980's and sustaining a GDP growth



2-
rate of 5.31 per annum (p.a.) in real terms since 1986, implying an
increase in real per capita income of nearly 2.SX p.a. Light
manufacturing output 1s significantly higher following improvements in
raw materials and spare parts availability, agricultural production has
improved, and local markets in most major cities now have more to offer
the domestic consumer than they did in 1987. However, Mozambique is
still extremely dependent on donor community assistance (the 1990
current account deficit was about 542 of GDP before grants and 232 after
grants).
Real Average Annual Growth (X)
1987      1988       1989      1990
GDP              4.62      5.5Z       5.32      3.12
Agriculture      7.0      7.21       4.7?      2.01
Industry        8.91       7.5       7.41      3.01
1.4     As can be seen above, agricultural production responded well to
increased producer prices and greater emphasis on Qmallholder
production. For example, marketed maize production, which declined by
151 pa. between 1980-86, has increased 2.7 times since 1986.
Unfortunately, the potential to turn policy reforms into increased
overall agricultural production and hence higher farm incomes, and
additional foreign exchange earnings, has been severely limited by:
(i) the continuing insecurity, (ii) the severe transport and processing
bottlenecks, (iii) the inability of the rural population to take maximum
advantage of economic incentives due to displacement and disruption of
storage/marketing, and (Lv) the negative effect on the urban poor of
price increases on cons-umption items resulting from exchange rate
adjustments.
1.5     Since 1989 the Economic and Social Rehabilitation Prograu (3SIP)
has extended the ERP to ensure that the poorest Mozambicans benefit from
the adjustment process. Central to the ESRP is the Priority Districts
Program (PDP) which, by stimulating recovery and growth in the
agricultural sector (in particular for the family sector), would both
improve incomes for the rural poor, and provide surplus agricultural
produce to feed hungry urban dwellers and for export.
1.6     The proposed First Roads and CoaWtal Shipping (ROCS-1) Project
and subsequent ROCS projects will support the PDP by initiating the
removal of transportation bottlenecks to agricultural production,
distribution and marketing, through the rehabilitation and proper
maintenance of basic transport infrastructure in selected priority
districts and corridors. In so doing ROCS-1, and subsequent ROCS
projects, will help to alleviate poverty and hunger by increasing
employment, increasing food supply and reducing its cost, and improving
rural income. In the short term, due to weaknesses In implementation
capacity, limited financial resources, the lack of security in certain
areas, and uncertainty as to how the economy will develop, the ROCS-1
Project will cover only a portion of the country's urgent needs for road
and coastal shipping transport improvement. However, as the first of a
series of Odevelopment' projects, as opposed to emergency



- 3 -
rehabilitation, ROCS-1 will address the severe lack of institutional
capacity in the transport sector by launching the first phase of a long
range institutional development program that will build the capacity to
manage the transport system effectively over the nezt decade and into
the 21st century, while the proposed subsequent project, ROCS-2, would
include the implementation of road rehabilitation and maintenance civil
works.  In order to improve allocation of l.mited resources and to
ensure that no critical bottlenecks are left unresolved, ROCS-1 has been
designed (and ROCS-2 is being prepared) with an integrated sub-sectoral
programmatic approach. Hence, they integrate and include: (i) all
significant transport activities from farmgate to market place, and (ii)
everything that GOM and the donor comaunity plan to do over the next
seven years in connection with rehabilitation and efficieucy improvement
in the roads and coastal shipping sub-sectors.
D. Current Status of the Transport Sector
1.7     Due to a variety of factors described earlier in this chapter,
Hozambique's transport sector has deteriorated significantly over the
past two decades. Activity has declined dramatically for all transport
modes except aviation, with the rail system showing the most significant
fall, from from 20.7 million tons in 1973 to 4.2 million tons in 1991.
Highway network serviceability has fallen to the extent that less than
30Z of the approximately 29,000-km network is in fair to good condition.
Where all-weather services can be offered, increasing pavement roughness
is resulting in extremely high road transport costs. The supply of
trucking services fell first as a result of shrinkage in the stock of
vehicles (the current national fleet is still less than one-half of pre-
independence levels), and then from repeated armed attacks on inter-
urban vehicles, necessitating convoy protection.
1.8     The present poor condition of the transport infrastructure is
attributable to many factors including: (i) the security problem which,
especially since 1982, has led to much destruction of the transport
infrastructure and has significantly curtailed the performance of timely
and proper maintenance; (ii) the historical and ongoing shortage of
managerial and skilled manpower in Hozambique; (iii) the diminished
resources available for investment in infrastructure as a result of the
serious deterioration in the economy; and (iv) inappropriate transport
sector policies pursued by the Government.
1.9     Investment in the transport sector in Hozambique has
traditionally been biased towards the major port-rail transit corridors
serving Hozambique's inland neighbors. As a result of this lucrative
commercial opportunity, the transport sector in 1973 contributed a
surplus of US$110 million to the services account of the balance of
payments. However, a decline of more than 70Z in the provision of
international transport services by Mozambique over the subsequent
decade resulted in a contribution of only US$34 million In 1984. By
1989 this had increased slightly in nominal terms to US$42 million.
Even now this part of the transport sector accounts for just over 101 of
the gross domestic product and could potentially again be a significant
earner of foreign exchange and generator of employment.



-4-
1.10    Unfortunately, however, investments in transit corridors have
led to relative neglect of the transport infrastructure to serve the
needs of the Mozambican domestic and export economy.
C. Government Oblectives and Strategy
1.11    Overall objectives of GOM for the transport sector are two-fold:
(i)  to complete the port-rail corridor rehabilitation program
begun in the 1980's aimed at restoring their earlier
ability to generate foreign exchange surpluses; and
(ii) to stimulate and support economic recovery by selectively
rehabilitating and adequately maintaining the principal
elements of the transport network.
1.12    While the port-railway corridors rehabilitation program has the
long term potential to generate foreign exchange, its development has
been hampered by the security situation. Although the Beira Corridor is
still relatively on target, the Maputo and Nacala corridors are still
suffering significant reduction in their transit traffic, in part due to
the ongoing security problems. In order to improve the commercial
efficiency of the Maputo Corridor, serious consideration is being given
by GOM to awarding private leasing contracts for the management of its
land-side operations to arrest the significant reduction in transit
traffic currently being experienced. Under current conditions these
elements of Mozambique's transport sector are adequately supported by
the donor commmnity.
Transport Sector Strategy
1.13    Given the limits placed on economic recovery by the
inefficiencies and bottlenecks in the transport sector and the inability
of past ad-hoc policies to alleviate the situation, GOM's new transport
sector strategy (based on the World Bank's October 1989 Transport Sector
Review (Report No. 8656-MOZ)] shifts the rmphasis toward the coordinated
development of a more efficient transport industry, capable of
supporting the objectives of the ESRP and, more specifically, the PDP.
This new Transport Sector Strategy has three key elements:
(i)   supporting the ESRP by removing the limitations that the
present transport infrastructure and services place on
economic activity by investing in physical infrastructure
rehabilitation and maintenance, with emphasis on trans-
portation routes between coastal ports and major domestic
areas of production and consumption, and on increasing
road transport and coastal shipping capacity;
(ii) reforming the policy and institutional environments to
improve efficiency in the sector and to ensure that
investments made are properly and opportunely maintained;
and



(iii) commencing the development of the institutional.
organizational and human resources capacity required
effectively to plan for, manage and operate the
Mozambican transport sector once peace returns, and to
support economic recovery into the 21st century.
Physical Infrastructure
1.14    The new strategy will shift the focus of transport investments
from the port-rail corridors to those that will assist in getting
agricultural produce to markets and materials to farmers. Given that
'he development of cost-effective and safe North-South trunk roads is
infeasible in the near future due to the security situation and the
historical emphasis on east-vest transportation, the focus must be on
rehabilitating transport routes to the sea and the associated ports,
and on improving the efficiency of the coastal shipping sub-sector.
This includes (i) the rehabilitation and maintenance of feeder roads and
trunk roads leading to the railway-port corridors and to coastal
shipping ports; (ii) the development of the appropriate and cost
effective capacity to transport commodities to the port by road and
rail; (iii) the rehabilitation and maintenance of *regional* ports
(Pemba, Nacala, Beira, Quelimane and Maputo); (iv) the rehabilitation of
small ports (such as Chinde, Angoche, Pebane, Macuse and Mocimboa da
Praia), with focus on achieving cost effective operations; and (v) the
enhancement of the coastal shipping industry's capacity and efficiency
both between the small and regional ports, and between the regional
ports.
1.15    Priority will be given to those investments that contribute most
towards poverty alleviation through increased domestic production and
marketing of food and traditional cash crops, and generation of
employment. Priority will also be given to investments serving
productive areas to facilitate export, and transport of basic inputs and
consumer goods. The investments selected will take into account GOM's
PDP aimed at rural rehabilitation in forty priority districts (the
initial phase of the Feeder Road Program - a key element of the ROCS
Projects - will encompass about 22 of these districts). Roads serving
areas affected by insecurity will continue to receive only minimum
maintenance, as available resources and security conditions permit, to
mitigate further deterioration.
The Policy Environment
1.16    The new strategy focusses on policy reform and mechanisms to
create a more efficient transport system. It must be recognized that
full development and implementation of some of these reforms may require
several years, but will be initiated under this project. Revised
policies and operating procedures are intended tos
(t)   stimulate the active participation and growth of the
private sector;



(ii)  improve the utilization and allocation efficiency of
available physical resources (capital equipment, spare
parts, fuel, etc.) and of foreign exchange;
(iii) improve the pricing structure of transport services
provided, leading to full cost recovery, plus adequate
allowance for funding of capital investments;
(iv)  improve transport efficiency by coordinating policy-
making, planning and usage of all transport modes (in
particular roads and coastal shipping); and
(v)   implement GOH's divestiture of state transport
enterprises to assure their long term viability.
1.17           Annex 1-1 outlines the policy changes adopted by GOH as a
result of the recent Transport Sector Review.
Human Resources and Organization
1.18    The new strategy also focusses on building the capacity to
manage the transport sector in the decades to come. This will includes
Ci) improving the management systems and procedures within the
Government's transport sector organizations and (ii) expanding human
resources availability and capacity. The latter will be achieved by
strengthening the existing GOM personnel management system and
formulating and implementing a coordinated long term manpower
development plan. The challenges associated with implementing such a
plan should not be under-estimated. Clearly these are long term
objectives that will reap rewards only in the future. In the short
term, Mozambican capacity will need to be supplemented by substantial
technical assistance in order to ensure that the substantial volume of
work that is required can be accomplished.
D. Uncertainty and the Transvort Sector StrateRy
1.19    The new strategy is designed to meet the long term transport
sector needs in Mozambique, but must at the same time take into account
the short-to-medium-term realities by adapting tot (i) the difficult
securitr situation; and (ii) the uncertainties surrounding the pattern
and speed of agricultural recovery.
The Security Situation
1.20    Lack of security has severely afflicted the Mozambican economy
for two decades. Huge tracts of agricultural land have been abandoned
as refugees fled the strife-torn areas and, in the rural areas, rampant
banditry has resulted from the economic chaos. As long as the
insecurity persists, agricultural production will not recover. Outside
of the main cities, land transport operations have been significantly
disrupted by the threat of attack, the destruction of infrastructure and
rolling st3ck, and the inability to conduct routinely even basic
maintenance. The rehabilitation of such services will require, at a



- 7 -
minimum, that those carrying out the works be able to do so in relative
satety. While the security situation wvil not have a d&rect impact on
coastal shipping, it will have a significant impact on coastal shipping
traffic demand.
1.21    Clearly, therefore, a key element to the success of the Project,
and indeed of the recovery of the Mozambican economy, is the cessation
of hostilities and the wide-ranging armed banditry at the earliest
possible date.   Peace negotiations have been going on for over two
years, and there is hope that some agreement will be reached this year.
Unfortunately, there has been an increase recently in armed attacks in
the Maputo area, which may have an adverse effect on the peace talks.
1.22    Without peace, what can be accomplished in terms of transport
sector rehabilitation will be very limited in comparison with the needs.
On the other hand, should reliable countrywide transport service not be
re-established, there will be little chance for significant and
sustainable economic recovery in all sectors, and the originally
politically-oriented civil war will increasingly become an ongoing
strife motivated by lack of food and economic opportunity.
1.23    The challenge facing the transport sector is, therefore, to
begin to implement an integrated long term strategy for transport to be
ready to respond to an improvement in the securiti situation (which will
require a correspondinp increase in road rehabilitation and other
transport services) while, at the same time, commencing much needed
priority rehabilitation under difficult conditions. Hence, the new
transport strategy has been designed to be  robust  in that it will be
appropriate regardless of the prevailing short-to-medium-term security
situation. The rationale is as followss
(i)   first, to accomplish the limited rehabilitation program
currently planned, substantial strengthening of skills is
required. In order to manage any increase in the
program, the development of human resources is essential.
Given the long term nature of the skills development
process, initiatives must begin now in order to reap the
rewards later;
(ii)  second, the proposed institutional and policy reforms are
vital for the rapid development of the transportation
industry as soon as security conditions permit.
Successful delivery and management of the increase in
construction and transport services that will be required
as a result of peace will necessitate significant private
sector involvement, a shift in Government
responsibilities from "doing" to "planning and
regulating", and streamlined decision-making within GOM.
The policy and institutional reforms envisaged explicitly
address these issues; and
(iii) third, the planned infrastructural investments are valid
regardless of the security situation. Increased coastal
shipping capacity and efficiency will be required in



peace time since this is expected to remain the most
economical mode of north-south transport for many
categories of commodities. Likewise, when peace is
finally attained, the proposed investments in
rehabilitation and maintenance of feeder roads and of
primary and recondary road are still required. It is
largely the timing of investments that will change with
changes in the security situation - and the new strategy
builds in flexibility to deal with this uncertainty.
1.24    In the short to medium term, security problems will determine
which roads to rehabilitate first, and will initially limit road
rehabilitation to a relatively modest program.  Although a preliminary.
list of priority roads has been identified, the rehabilitation and
maintenance priorities will be modified as Pecurity conditions warrant.
Agricultural Uncertainty
1.25    The transport sector strategy is to support the PDP, which is
aimed at the recovery of the agriculture sector. There is, however,
significant uncertainty over the likely structure and rate of recovery
of the agricultural sector, and hence of the development of transport
demand. While a useful working assumption is that production and
processing capacity will recover to the same level as pre-1980 with the
same geographical structure and withiu a reasonable period, there are
likely to be significant variations around this norm. Furthermore, it
is impossible at this stage to obtain accurate, detailed and
disaggregated agricultural production data (or data that can usefully be
used to project agricultural potential). The latest available whard
data" is aggregated at provincial level (not district) and is based on
the 1964 censusl Therefore, investments in road and port infrastructure
will be closely coordinated with agricultural and industrial investments
and recovery. First, the core districts for the feeder roads program
are the same as the core districts for the PDP. Second, all investments
in roads and ports will be phased so as to avoid over-investment. and
decisions on some major investments will be postponed until better
information becomes available.
1.26    To help mitigate the uncertainty, the IDA lending strategy
envisages three successive ROCS projects to be initiated over the next
five years covering the roads and coastal shipping sub-sectors within
the same overall strategy, that will enable our lending operations to be
adapted to the changing environment. In addition, it is proposed that
an experienced IDA transport specialist be seconded to UNDP and assigned
to Mozambique to assist GOM with the overall coordination of ROCS-1 and
subsequent ROCS projects, and with the planning and integration of
future transport projects. Lastly, a significant mid-term review has
been built into the ROCS-l Project, and enhanced supervision is
envisaged from IDA and other donors.
Z. Previous Lank Involvement and Lessons Learned
1.27    This would be the firet IDA operation in Mozambique's transport
sector involving policy and regulatory reform, and infrastructure



rehabilitation. However, lessons learned from the Beira Transport
Corridor project (Credit No. 2065 MOZ), in which IDA's participation
includes rail and port institution building and technical assistance
(TA), plus procurement of locomotives, as well as from the road and
street rehabilitation and maintenance component of the Urban
Rehabilitation project (Credit No. 1949 MOZ), have been given full
consideration in the design of this proposed new operation,
particularly problems and delays in procurement of goods and services,
and in managing civil works contracts. Also, Project design has taken
full account of experiences under TA projects in Africa described in the
recent OED Report No. 8573: Free-standing Technical Assistance for
Institutional Development in Sub-Saharan Africa. The Africa PCR Data
Base does not at this time contain a project aimed at rehabilitation and
efficiency improvement of coastal shipping transport services. Lessons
learned from the Small and Medium Enterprises Development Project (Cr.
2082-MOZ) and the Agriculture Rehabilitation and Development Project
(Cr. 2175-MOZ) with respect to the provision of credit lines to the
private sector have also been built into this project. Annez 1-2
summarizes relevant Bank operations.
P. Rational for IDA Involvement
1.28    This is an integral part of IDA's assistance to GOM in
accomplishing its macroeconomic reform and embarking on sustainable
economic recovery. As recommended in the Transport Sector Review, such
assistance should now focus on removing the transport sector bottlenecks
that are obstacles to ESRP, and on extending manpower development
efforts to the transport modes serving domestic development needs.
1.29    The objective of the proposed IDA Rural Rehabilitation Project
(RRP), currently under preparation, is to promote recovery of
agricultural production in the PDP districts. The ROCS projects would
provide the transport infrastructure services essential for the success
of the RRP. IDA, through the Agricultural Rehabilitation and
Development Project (Cr. 2175-MOZ), is already supporting the cashew
farmers in Central Mozambique, who will be major users of many of the
small ports and roads to be rehabilitated under the ROCS projects. The
Agricultural Services Project (Cr. 2337-MOZ), approved by the board on
February 11, 1992 also supports agriculture in many of the priority
districts.
1.30    IDA is already funding manpower development in the Beira
Transport Corridor Project (Cr. 2065-MOZ) for the Beira Corridor and the
Limpopo Line of the Maputo Corridor because they are key foreign
exchange earners.
1.31    The emphasis on shifting investments to the private sector as
far as possible, as well as on mobilizing private sector investment
through supporting regulatory reform, is an integral part of the Bank's
strategy to focus GOM's limited resources where they are most needed.
1.32    GOM and the donor community agree that IDA's main role should be
to assist in implementing the detailed strategy, framework and



- 10 -
priorities outlined by GOM for the transport-sector recovery and
sustainability. as well as assisting the implementing agencies of GOM in
the coordination of donor participation in the ROCS projects.



- 11 -
II   THE ROAD SUB-SECTOR
A. Introduction
The Existing Road Network
2.1     The national road network is estimated at approximately 29,000 km,
according to current DNEP inventory data. Of this, about 5,000 km are
paved roads (mostly primary), some 3,000 km were once engineered collector
or distributor gravel roads that have reverted to earth surfacing, and
approximately 21,000 km are stabilized earth roads or simply tracks.
2.2     The National Directorate of Roads and Bridges (DNEP) of the
Ministry of Construction and Water (MCA) is responsible for planning and
supervision of construction, rehabilitation and/or improvement, and
maintenance of the network. It is estimated that less than 10 of the
network is now in good condition, and more than one-third currently is not
transitable on a regular basis, either because of actual war damage or
because maintenance cannot be performed safely. These conditions have led
to much higher transport costs, and have made it impossible to aove goods
in and out of major areas of the country.
2.3     Road condition information for 1991 was compiled by the current
ODA-funded DNEP planning consultants from inventory data supplied by DNEP
representatives in the ten provinces. The following table gives, by
province, the recorded length of paved and unpaved roads at the beginning
of 1992, and the proportion of the network in fair/good condition, as well
as that in poor condition or worses
stlgaal Road Net"ork - 1991
Province                Paved   Unpovod    Tot l    I X of    %Fair  IP oor
War -            Iko _      ;50   TooTd . W .-.
_ MAPUT0                    416     1016       1482       C       28     77
GAmA                      472     1747      2219       *       16      U4
INHBNE                   617      1700      2897       a       14      ea
SOFALA                    494     2100      2594       9       14      e6
MANICA                    48      1558      2096       7       85      65
TETE                      61    2246       8107      11       14    _6
ZAMBEZIA                  474     4081      5805      10       15     e6
NAMPULA                   60      *299      J867      18       62      80
CABO DELGADO              630     2021      2651       9       41      s9
NIASSA                    200     8090      8299      12       21      79
TOTAL$                   5266    28692     28967      100.0
Wel hted Aver.go                                               26      74
Sources  DNEP, March 1992.



- 12 -
2.4     The so-called feeder roads are low-volume secondary and tertiary
roads, most of which are in poor condition and many of which are
currently impassable. The bad condition of these roads, coupled with
the fair-to-poor state of the primary and secondary roads which link
principal agricultural production areas to the small and regional ports,
or to the port-rail corridors, constitutes a major bottleneck to the
transport of farm produce to the points of consumption and export.
Understandably, this has drastically disrupted agricultural production
and rural life throughout Mozambique, and must be corrected if the ESRP
and PDP are to succeed. Fortunately, a significant effort to
rehabilitate and maintain some feeder roads in three priority districts
has been underway for the past four years with the assistatce of the
United Nations Development Program (UNDP), Gesellschaft fur Technische
Zusammenarbeit (GTZ) of Garmany, and various other donors.
Malor Problems
2.5     The major problems which currently impede effective transport
service in the road network are:
(i)   lack of security;
(ii)  inadequate institutional capacity;
(iii) inefficient operational policies and procedures;
(iv)  lack of adequate, assured funding; and
(v)   the advanced age, poor condition and low utilization of
the trucking fleet.
D. Diainosis of Current Problems
Lack of Security
2.6     The inaccessibility of many areas due to the widespread guerilla
activity and banditry, plus inadequate funds and not fully adequate
operational procedures in the road infrastructure sub-sector (discussed
later in this chapter), have reduced maintenance of much of the road
network to totally inadequate levels, and precluded their timely
rehabilitation. Furthermore, numerous road transport corridors are not
transitable over much of their length because of war-related destruction
of bridges and mining of roadbeds. Consequently, vehicular traffic is
now very low and sporadic on much of the network. An early resolution
of the security Droblem is a prerequisite to the full implementation of
the necessary nationwide programs of rehabilitation and maintenance.
However, it is reasonable to expect that, by project initiation, work
can be carried out safely on the high priority portions of the network
to be included in the ROCS-2 project (detailed design services for which
are included in ROCS-1).



- 13 -
Institutional Capacity of DNEP
2.7     DNEP suffers from the same lack of institutional capacity that
characterizes most governmental agencies in Mozambique. This is
attributable to inadequate or inappropriate governmental policies, as
well as historical organizational, managerial and operational
weaknesses. Long-term institutional development will require changes in
GOM's personnel and pay policies, as well as the implementation of a
comprehensive manpower development plan. Specific shortcomings which
limit DNEP's institutional capacity are:
(i)   the absence of an appropriate functional organization
with well defined lines of authority and job
descriptions;
(ii) a chronic shortage of capable, well trained staff,
attributable to generally low skill levels nationwide,
and a weak personnel management system within GOM which
inhibits the recruitment and retention of scarce
qualified personnel (the 1991 Bank Public Sector Pay and
Employment Review for Mozambique strongly confirms the
urgent need to reform the public-sector pay and personnel
management system to eliminate gross inequities and
distortions);
(iii) the lack of a long-term training program within DNEP, and
the low level of education and literacy, both of which
hamper current training efforts; and
(iv) the lack of an assured source of funds to cover normal
recurrent expenditures, although a Road Fund for
Maintenance based on fuel taxes has recently been
established.
Operational Policies and Procedures
2.8     Some operational policies and procedures of DNEP and its
predecessors have contributed to the current low level of regular
rehabilitation and maintenance of the road network. These include: (i)
concentrating available funds and physical resources almost entirely on
new construction during the 1970's; (ii) relying almost entirely on
inefficient governmental organizations to execute road rehabilitation
and maintenance programs (the provincial ECHEPs--Enterprises for
Construction and Maintenance of Roads and Bridges), even though it is
recognized that conditions in recent years have not been propitious for
the development of local private road contractors (prevailing
insecurity, a limited road program, and shortages of foreign exchange
for the purchase of equipment and spare parts); (iii) providing large
amounts of expensive road equipment as capital to the 'contractor"
ECPs without an effective equipment management system being in place;
and (iv) cumbersome procurement regulations.



- 14 -
2.9     DNEP already contracts out essentially all road maintenance and
rehabilitation to the ECMEPs, which were formed between 1985 and 1987 to
perform road rehabilitation and maintenance under contract on a
comercial basis. Most design and construction supervision is performed
by consultants. Although the contracting of road rehabilitation and
maintenance has been shown in most countries to be cost effective,
deficiencies in manpower capability and equipment availability have
rendered the ECMEPs less efficient than is desirable. Because of the
very limited market in recent years, private local construction firms
have developed little capacity for roadwork and foreign firms have not
been attracted to work on Mozambique's road network. Consequently,
significant efforts will be required to attract foreign contractors to
Mozambique and to strengthen the local 'contractor side' in order to
accomplish the extensive rehabilitation and maintenance works needed to
substantially improve road conditions in the country.
2.10    The concentration on new construction during the 1970s, followed
by the security problems of the 1980s, has resulted in the virtual
abandonment of all types of road maintenance on a systematic, programmed
basis. Road maintenance planning (which is the responsibility of the
Maintenance Department of DNEP in collaboration with its provincial
representatives, the Departments of Roads and Bridges (DEPs), has been
rendered futile by the security problem of the past several years, and
the modern road maintenance management system borrowed from Portugal is
not being properly applied except in isolated instances. Such recurrent
maintenance (herein defined as pothole patching, crack sealing, grading
or dragging, and spot re-graveling) as is feasible is done on a largely
ad-hoc basis. Routine roadside maintenance, and some patching, is
regularly performed by the ECHEPs on the national and regional roads
that are accessible, but a major portion of their efforts are expended
on machine-intensive road rehabilitation, and hardly any periodic
maintenance (resealing, overlay, re-graveling) has been performed in
recent years, except as part of donor-financed projects.
2.11    Although equipment maintenance by the ECMEPs has improved
somewhat due to on-going (ODA-funded) technical assistance and training
in this field, it is still inadequate because of: (i) insufficient
qualified staff; (ii) low maintenance and repair budgets; (iii)
inadequate planning of spare parts needs; (iv) difficulties in obtaining
foreign exchange; (v) the cumbersome procurement and customs clearance
processes within GOM; and (vi) the proliferation of different makes and
models within the current road equipment fleet. Some private repair
capability exists in the larger cities, but this is utilized by GOM
agencies only to a very limited extent due to its perceived high cost
and relative inefficiency. It must be noted, however, that the Ministry
of Construction and Water (MCA), the GOM agency responsible for the
ECMEPs, is adopting a policy to be out of the ownership and maintenance
of road equipment as soon as possible (para 2.28).
2.12    It has been estimated that, if security conditions and available
funding would permit the accomplishment, over the next ten years, of all
the road rehabilitation and maintenance works shown to be justifiable,
as much as US$50 million worth of additional heavy equipment would need
to be imported into Mozambique. However, because of the poor record of



_ 15 -
public agencies in managing heavy equipmant, GOM has agreed that, except
for the US$9 million worth of equipment now scheduled for donation by
traditional donors (in 1992/93)--and excepting equipment for the FRP, no
more heavy road equipment will be acquired by Government unless it is
needed to maintain a minimum effective fleet in those areas of
Mozambique where equipment leasing may not bL feasible for many years.
2.13    GOM's cumbersome reRulations for procurement of goods and
services, and the bureaucratic procedures of the Mozambican central
bank, the Banco de Mo;ambique (BM), and the Ministry of Finance (MDF),
all tend to be major obstacles in the procurement process, causing
inordinate delays in the execution of contracts, and in obtaining spares
and other goods which DNEP, through the newly created Center for ECHEP
Support (RAE), purchases on behalf of the ECMEPs. A review of GOM
procurement procedures was conducted in September 1991 under UNDP
auspices, and standardization of some contracts has been accomplished
recently by GOM and its consultants; however, there is urgent need for a
more comprehensive study and recommended improvements of both general
and particular application.
Staffing and Manpower Development
2.14    Insufficient existing staff and training capacity is one of the
most critical problems DNEP faces. Acute shortages of skilled workers,
as well as of qualified and experienced managers, are particularly
notable in the roads sub-sector. The tabulation presented below, taken
from the December 1991 report on staff training and development prepared
by DNEP consultants, shows that staff for more than 0S of the posts
recommended for the new DNEP organization (including provincial
representatives) need to be recruited. The report also points out that
many of positions presently occupied are filled by staff lacking the
necessary qualifications. Accordingly, there are insufficient
experienced DNEP permanent staff to plan and monitor the work being
carried out by local road contractors--mostly state enterprises at
present--and many line positions will have to be filled by expatriates
for the next several years. Future recruitment of personnel at
management and skilled-labor levels, with no experience in road works,
will not enhance the roads sub-sector unless supported by more effective
staffing and training policies. DNEP has organized some training
courses since the mid-1980's but results have been limited due to: (i)
weak institutional capacity; (ii) lack of sound training policies and a
long-term national training plan; (iii) low levels of education and
literacy of most trainees; (iv) lack of funds; (v) shortages of trainees
because of lack of incentives and other institutional constraints; and,
most importantly, (vi) a government-wide, weak personnel management
system which does not provide proper motivation through competitive
salaries and career development opportunities.



- 16 -
DIVISION                       EXISTING      FORECAST    TO RECRUIT
DNEP:
NATIONAL DIRECTOR'S OFFICE      2             3           1
MAINTENANCE DEPARTMENT          8            22          14
PROJECTS AND STUDIES DEPT.      7            10           3
TRAINING DEPARTMENT             1            93          92
ADMINISTRATION DEPARTMENT       26           24          -2
INVESTMENT DEPARTMENT           4             6           2
INSPECTORATE DEPARTMENT         9            18           9
FEEDER ROADS DEPARTMENT         1            15          14
PROV. DIRECTORATE (10 NO.)      0           150         150
SUBTOTAL           |         58          341           283
2.15    Low levels of education and literacy of most trainees is a
significant problem that training alone will not resolve. Technical/
vocational and university education also must be strengthened and
expanded. At independence in 1975, Mozambique was hampered by an
illiteracy rate of 93Z. Fifteen years later, notwithstanding some
noteworthy progress, especially in the development of a higher education
system, basic human resources development remains as the country's
single greatest need. This problem is further compounded by the recent
departure of several professors from the University's Department of
Civil Engineering for more remunerative careers. The Bank has assisted
the Faculty of Engineering under the Education I and II projects, by
including funds for laboratories and mechanical workshops, as well as
computers, audio-visual equipment and vehicles, but considerably more
needs to be done to achieve lasting improvement.
Road Funding
2.16    Fundins for road maintenance has been inadequate in recent
years, even though DNEP is currently only able to carry out routine
maintenance on less than one-fourth of the national network because of
inaccessibility. Years of neglect, compounded by insecurity, the lack
of forward planning, and comparatively high operating costs, have led to
high per-kilometer expenditures, merely to keep surfaces in fair
condition.
2.17    Unfortunately, the desirable objective of financing recurrent
road maintenance costs from user charges has yet to be achieved in
Mozambique. Although there are no reliable current figures, in 1976
vehicle taxes and duties brought in a net amount of US$16 million, which
was less than half of the annual highway budget of approzimately US$33
million (contrary to the situation in most developing countries, where
road users subsidize public expenditures in other sectors). The 1978
National Transport Survey, carried out by international consultants,



- 17 -
reported that the trucking industry was heavily subsidized, leading to
inefficient allocation of goods between modes, and between light and
heavy trucks within the road sub-sector. A major recommerdation, to
raise the diesel price by at least 10OX, with a concomitant increase in
the fuel tax, was never implemented. User taxes paid by truck operators
are insufficient to cover the additional cost of building and
maintaining pavements for trucks, compared to what would be required for
light vehicles only, and this situation should eventually be remedied.
The Vehicle Fleet
2.18    Reliable figures on the current size of the vehicle fleet in
Mozambique are not available. The World Bank's Transport Sector Review
estimated the 1987 vehicle fleet at approximately 40,000 vehicles, of
which some 23Z were trucks and buses, compared with total vehicle
registrations at that time of 64,000. Fuel consumption data are more in
agreement with the vehicle numbers estimated in the World Bank report.
The present number of operational vehicles is reckoned at no more than
45,000, which is slightly more than one-half of the fleet which was
operational in 1976 and, understandably, is older and in much poorer
condition, on average. This means that vehicle operating costs are much
higher than they should be, leaving aside road-surface condition, and
that the cost of transporting goods and passengers is, therefore.
substantially higher than it would be with a well maintained, reasonably
modern fleet.
2.19    The trucking industry is riddled with inefficiencies, as
evidenced byt (i) the prevalent low annual utilization in ton-
kilometers; (ii) very short vehicle life due to poor roads, lack of
maintenance, and inadequate repair facilities; and (iii) poor business
management. A large part of the problem stems from the fact that many
non-transport state enterprises operate large own-account ilests with
extremely low utilization rates. In a way, however, the public
enterprises fleet performance is typical of the environment of transport
in Mozambique (poor roads, war hazards, vehicle destruction, unavailable
maintenance. lack of spare parts, etc.) which is a deterrent to private
ownership of vehicles and to the private sector entrepreneurial
capacity. The composition of the state enterprise fleet reflects also
the proliferation of vehicle models of disparate origins which results
in difficult procurement and management of spare parts and represents a
serious problem for vehicle rehabilitation and maintenance. Annex 2-4
contains a summary of trucking operations in Mozambique.
C. Strategy for Change
General
2.20    Restoration of the national road network is an expensive, long-
term undertaking but is absolutely essential to recovery of the national
economy. In consideration of the risks inherent in the current
circumstances of insecurity, the core of the roads strategy lies in
initiating as soon as possible the reform of the regulatory environment
and strengthening of the institutional capacity of DNEP, through human



- 18 -
resources development, reform of operating procedures, and reform of the
road transport operating environment. This is to be followed by
restoration on priority road links, through minimal-cost rehabilitation
and deferred maintenance works, which will provide a reasonable running
surface and retard deterioration, by which time it is expected that
conditions will permit proper long-term planning for more permanent road
works. The institutional and operating-environment strengthening, which
would continue at least through the proposed ROCS-2 project, should
ensure that DNEP has the capacity to manage the rehabilitation and
maintenance of the entire road network by the end of the decade.
2.21    Given the magnitude of the required rehabilitation works and the
likelihood that it will be several years before the country returns to
complete normalcy, it will not be possible in the immediate future to
rehabilitate the entire road network to a level that will enable regular
maintenance to be performed at reasonable costs. Therefore, priorities
in the roads sub-sector during ROCS-1 will be on institutional
strengthening, through policy reform and capacity building, and
preparation of final design and tender documents for high priority sub-
projects which will support the national objective of economic recovery
by improving access to markets for agricultural produce and inputs (the
on-going Feeder Roads Program will continue under ROCS-1). ROCS-2 will
be designed to continue institutional strengthening while implementing
the following works:
(i)   rehabilitation of additional unpaved feeder roads in
reasonably secure priority districts;
(ii)  rehabilitation or deferred periodic maintenance of
selected paved main roThds serving coastal ports; and
(iii) rehabilitation or improvement of unpaved
collector/distributor roads leading to major cities,
railheads or trunk paved roads.
Staffing and Manpower Development
2.22    DNEP and the Local Road Contractors (LRC) are well aware of the
inefficiencies caused by the acute shortage of managers, skilled and
semi-skilled personnel and have begun recruiting additional staff.
However, until sufficient personnel are engaged and trained, it is
expected that many key positions must be filled by consultants. It is
important to note that the recent Bank report on its review of the
public sector pay and employment in Mozambique clearly states: OIt must
not be forgotten that the central problem is that skilled labor is in
extremely short supply. In the long run, the only solution is to expand
the country's skill baue while permitting the import of highly skilled
workers from abroad". In anticipation of a comprehensive staff
development program to be financed under the project, DNEP has adopted a
sound policy statement on training (available in the Project files)
which stresses, inter alia, career development linkages to training and
a system of professional standards and certification.



- 19 -
2.23    With assistance from UNDPIILO, SIDA, IDA and other donors, DNEP
is taking formal steps to establish its training capacity at national
level by setting up a permanent Training Division to be responsible for
planning and implementing all road training activities. Special
emphasis is to be given to those tasks dealing with the improvement of
management and technical capability of DNEP and LRC personnel. Based on
recent recommendations by DNEP's highway consultants and on data
collected during the ROCS-1 appraisal, the Project will include funds
for the first phase of a long-term training program aimed at training
and upgrading sufficient DNEP and LRC road and equipment personnel for
the anticipated road program. It is expected that the shortage of
trained personnel should be alleviated by 1998 provided that public
sector pay and other civil-service-related benefits are more in line
with those prevailing in the private sector, which is expected to
experience increasing demand for skilled personnel as GOM's contracting
of works and services expands.
2.24    Within the context of the ROCS-1 Project, technical and
vocational education will be strengthened through expansion of
facilities at both the Industrial Institute of Maputo and the Beira
Industrial Institute, and re-establishment of the three-year diploma
course for road and bridge technicians. The Project will also provide
funds for the University's Department of Civil Engineering (DCE) to
enable it to conduct its full program more effectively. In addition, a
Bank Education Capacity Building project is expected to be appraised in
September 1992. The ROCS-1 Project will cover: (i) facilities,
materials and training to strengthen the university; (ii) strengthening
of upper secondary education through training, materials, facilities
construction and curriculum reform; (iii) strengthening of legal
institutions through training and provision of data base and library
services; and (iv) strengthening of public administration through the
creation of a unit to oversee civil service reform, technical assistance
and training to support public-sector management, and the creation of a
fund for public administration training.
Organizational and Operating Procedures
2.25    There have been recent improvements in the DNEP organizational
structure, including the strengthening of technical/administrative
services to the ECMEPs through the creation of a support unit (NAE) at
DNEP headquarters, and the formation of a project management group to
deal with the ROCS projects' road components. A broad plan of
institutional capacity building, staffing, and manpower development is
now under consideration by DNEP. Training needs and resources required
to prepare and implement the manpower development and training program
for roads personnel also have been identified.
2.26    GOM is committed to implementing the regulations and procedural
changes required to permit the expeditious procurement of civil works,
goods and services by DNEP and its contractors (including reasonable
access to required foreign exchange for purchase of spare parts and
other imported goods). A study will be carried out under the project to
identify essential improvements in GOM procurement management in
connection with the roads and coastal shipping sub-sectors, and to



- 20 -
outline an action plan for their implementation. Agreed terms of
referenco are attached as Annex 2.1. '.he study consultant would liaise
with the World Bank/ITC project "Public Procurement in Africa', and a
subsequent study under ROCS-2 would examine Government-wide procedures.
2.27   A major responsibility of the Roads General Consultant (GC),
which is being contracted by DNEP to assist in management of the highway
program, will be to aid in developing and implementing improved
cperational systems and procedures. One of the most important of these
is the Road Maintenance Management System (RMMS). Maintenance service
levels will be reviewed (in light of expected traffic and funding),
level-of-effort and performance standards and unit prices updated, and
reporting and control procedures strengthened. The experience of the
DNEP consultant currently implementing the RMKS in the Beira-Machipanda
corridor, and the work of the current ODA-funded consultant to DNEP,
will be considered in determining what modifications to the system are
needed.
2.28    ODA has recently funded technical assistance to aid the ECMEPs
to implement an appropriate equipment maintenance management system, but
much remains to be done to extend the system nationwide. Some ECMEPs
have received considerable new equipment from GOM within the past two
years, while others are scheduled to receive new units in 1992/93.
However, in consideration of the long history of inefficient fleet
management by public agencies in many countries, GOM has agreed in
principle that management of most units of basic heavy equipment for
roads will be transferred to the private sector (or a mixed-capital
venture). An evaluation of GOM equipment now in the hands of the ECHEPs
will be carried out to establish the size and condition of the fleet,
and to quantify the cost of rehabilitating those non-operational units
which can be cost-effectively reconditioned (see Annex 2-2). The actual
transfer, and rehabilitation if needed, of road equipment units to
private or mixed-capital management, would take place under the proposed
ROCS-2 project. The provision of equipment by an "equipment and plant
pool%, and by private leasing companies, equipment dealers and
contractors, is expected to ensure that adequate equipment will be
available for the road program at more favorable ratios of real cost to
production.
2.29    The development of adequate road contracting capacity, including
the entry into the Mozambican market of experienced regional and
international contractors, will increase the efficiency of
rehabilitation and maintenance operations, thereby reducing the total
cost of road transport. A study on development of the local road
construction industry will be funded under the Project, following which
GOM would create conditions which will provide incentives to promote the
establishment of small and medium local road contractors which can carry
out a significant portion of the road rehabilitation and maintenance
workload. A TA program to facilitate this creation of competent LRC
also will be funded under ROCS-1. If suitable counterpart personnel can
be found to take full advantage of the technical assistance and training
proposed to strengthen the LRC industry, several of the ECMEP state
enterprises, to which GOM has now indicated it will give complete
commercial autonomy, may be capable of becoming competent road



- 21 -
contractors within the medium term. It is encouraging that one large
international private construction firm is presently doing
rehabilitation work for DNEP in the Hanica province in joint venture
with the local ECHEP.
The Vehicle Fleet
2.30    A shift from public to private enterprise in road transport
requires careful consideration of the environment in which private
trucking services will grow. Divestiture of assets from public vehicle
fleets and re-establishment of private-sector technical capacity are
essential elements in improving access by private operators to
agriculture markets--hence the rationale for trucking studies at this
stage. The proposed trucking studies should pave the way for increased
development of private-sector transport services, which in turn will
contribute to better use of existing and future resourcs4.
2.31    After the adoption of policy changes needed to promote the
growth of private-sector road transport companies, technical assistance
to such companies will be required to help them establish adequate
preventive-maintenance, costing and replacement practices which will
ensure their commercial viability. The country's road transport pricing
will need to be modified so that full cost recovery can be achieved by
suppliers of transport services. In addition, proper pricing will allow
for building a reserve to fund vehicle replacement and other capital
investments.
2.32    It is estimated that about one-fourth of the non-operational
vehicles in the Mozambican parastatal fleet could be rehabilitated at a
reasonable cost, although a detailed fleet inventory and costing study
would be required to confirm this. An important prerequisite to such
rehabilitation would be the effecting of policy changes to encourage the
development of greater capacity in private-sector maintenance and repair
workshops. Required policy changes to address restricted spare parts
availability and vehicle maintenance licensing will be documented in the
studies to be conducted under the project (see para 4.19).
D. Financing and Resource Mobilization
2,33    The 1993-1997 five-year financing plan for DNEP shows an
estimated US$112 million being budgeted for road maintenance (including
periodic) and repairsw. This entire amount is shown as being derived
from the recently reestablished Road Maintenance Fund, which is overly
optimistic judging from available data (e.g., the 1991-1993 PTIP--
Three-Year Public Investment Program document--indicates that the road
fund's contribution to the DNEP budget will be only of the order of
US$10 million by 1993). According to DNEP, the portion of the Road
Maintenance Fund applicable to national roads has not yet received any
money, with such fuel taxes as are presently being allocated to the fund
being assigned to the rehabilitation and maintenance of urban roads and
streets (para. 2.35).



_ 22 -
2.34    GOM has counitted itself to increase budgetary allocations for
maintenance of the national road network so as to ensure the local
funding, by 1997, of at least a reasonable level of routine/recurrent
road maintenance. To finance this requirement the Government intends to
improve cost recovery from road users in order to make the sub-sector
financially self-sufficient in terms of covering the costs of routine
and recurrent road maintenance operations, and eventually of normal
periodic maintenance as well. Ideally, the sub-sector should also make
a net contribution to the GOM general tax revenues which would cover the
budget requirements for future road construction and/or improvement
(after the network has been fully rehabilitated).
2.35    In order to ensure the availability of the required resources,
additional revenues will be allocated to the Road Maintenance Fund.
Revenues currently earmarked for the Fund are generated primarily by
taxes on fuel, but the portion now being collected is dedicated
exclusively to local municipalities for urban road and street
maintenance (this policy is now under review). A road-financing study
(terms of reference are attached as Annex 2-3) is included in the ROCS-1
Project to establish appropriate tax levels, distribution procedures,
and a more effective revenue collection system, including
recommendations as to the type and level of user charges which should be
levied, and what proportion should be dedicated to the Road Maintenance
Fund. Whatever the final form of the road financing scheme, it is
intended that road-user charges generate at least enough revenue for
DNEP to fund adequate routine and recurrent (and some periodic)
maintenance of the national road network so that road users can be
assured of a reasonable level of serviceability.
2.36    With allocation of a greater proportion to DNEP, the annual
revenue estimated to accrue to the Road Maintenance Fund, at current
fuel prices and using recent consumption figures, would be about US$ 12-
15 million during the life of the project. If this entire amount were
to be dedicated to the national network, it would be sufficient to
finance adequate routine and recurrent maintenance on the entire
network, after it has been rehabilitated, but would be insufficient to
provide for necessary periodic maintenance. Inasmuch as properly
programmed and executed periodic maintenance is absolutely essential to
obtain the service life and economic benefits expected from road
rehabilitation, assured funding for this activity must be established by
the end of the ROCS-1 Project. With increased operational efficiency,
the average annual cost of periodic road maintenance of the entire
national network is estimated to be at least US$12 million, at current
prices. It is envisaged that ROCS-2 would include conditionalities
regarding specific targets for road maintenace financing.



- 23 -
III. THE COASTAL SHIPPING SUB-SECTOR
A. IntroductLon
3.1     The Mozambican ports and shipping industry serves two distinct
traffic needs. The first, transit traffic, comprises imports to and
exports from Mozambique and its neighbors, the latter via the main
road/rail corridors and associated ports. The second, coastal shippinR,
provides North-South transportation, aimed at the evacuation of
Mozambican produce either for export or to markets within the country.
Given difficulties of overland transport, the efficient operation of the
integrated coastal shipping sub-sector has a crucial role to play in the
recovery of rural production and exports. In both the short-term and
the long-term, the lowest cost development route for the evacuation of
most agricultural produce is by sea via the small ports.
S. Current Status and Issues
3.2     Unfortunately the small ports and coastal shipping sector is not
adequately organized to play this .ole effectively because of: (a)
inadequate coastal shipping capac'ty due to weak management and old
equipment of the state navigatior. and shipping enterprise; (b)
inadequate barging and feeder shipping capacity around the small ports;
(c) inadequate infrastructure, navigational aids and handling equipment
in the small ports; (d) poor operatLonal and financial management in
both the shipping and ports sectors; and (e) an inappropriate regulatory
environment that restricts private investment and commercial pricing.
Coastal Shipping
3.3     Coastal shipping servlces between the regional ports is provided
by NAVIQUE, the state-owned navigation and shipping company. Shipping
capacity ls limited and costly due tot (i) inefficient management and
aged equipment of NAVIQUE, and (ii) inadequate handling equipment and
infrastructure, and inefficient operations in the main ports and in the
regional and small ports. Shipping rates are regulated, but at a level
that reflects the inefficiencies in the system. At an average of about
US$40/tonnell, rates for containerized domestic cargo traffic within
Mozambique are high in comparison to international rates (eg. US$50/
tonne Karachi to Maputo). It has been estimated that costs could be
reduced by about 30Z through more efficient operatlons and vessel
management.
Feeder Shipping
3.4     Feeder shipping services transport passengers between the small
tertlary and the reglonal ports, evacuate food crops from the small
ports, and supplement the evacuation of the bulk cash crops that are
shipped directly from the small ports. Feeder services are provided by
1/ Based on US$725/TEU and 15 tonnes per TEU which gives US$42/tonne.



- 24 -
TRANSMARITIM  and by a number of small informal operators who are unable
to serve this market efficiently. Very few ships are operational as a
result of poor maintenance and repair facilities and shortages of spare
parts. The largest feeder operator, TRANSMARITIMA, which is owned by
CFM, NAVIQUE and TERMAR, is poorly equipped, organized and staffed to
effectively fulfill its role.
Regional Ports
3.5     Five regional ports (Pemba, Nacala, Beira, Quelimane and Maputo)
function as transshipment points for traffic to and from the small ports
and as outlets for the major towns. Four of these are already receiving
adequate donor support under present conditions as follows& Beira
(Various), Maputo (NORAD), Nacala (FINNIDA), and Pemba (NORAD). A
rehabilitation feasibility study is underway for Quelimane (funded by
KfW) where additional multipurpose cranes may be required for efficient
container cargo handling. KfW has expressed interest in funding any
infrastructural investments that might result from the study. IDA is
undertaking rehabilitation of the Beira Corridor (Cr. 2065-MOZ) (see
Annex 1-2). In addition initiatives are currently underway, with IDA
support, to see if the Maputo corridor can be rehabilitated with private
sector participation. It is envisaged that these initiatives will be
sufficient to serve the needs of transit traffic for the foreseeable
future.
3.6     In the port of Maputo, a new coastal terminal has been dedicated
for coastal shipping. By establishing this terminal, stevedoring,
alongshore and storage activities for the coastal shipping have been
integrated under one terminal operation and administration. The
allocation of berths, laborers and cargo handling equipment to the
coastal shipping sector has thus been made independent from the
allocation of those to the international shipping in other sections of
the port. In addition, documentation and certification for shipping by
government agencies can be reduced substantially now that the coastal
shipping cargo has been separated from the foreign trade cargo.
3.7     In some regional ports, facilities for feeder services between
the regional ports on one hand and smail local ports on the other are
either insufficient or rudimentary. For example, small boats which
carry passengers and cargo to and from small ports cannot berth safely
along quays in the Quelimane and Pemba ports. Small boats have to use
the ill-maintained and defective private piers remote from the main
harbor (in Quelimane) or try to share already congested narrow quays
with far bigger coastal cargo ships (in Pemba). The inefficiency and
inconvenience attributable to these poor conditions are primary causes
of poor performance in maritime transport.
Small Local Ports
3.8     About 15 soall coastal ports (mostly tertiary) in Mozambique are
the main outlets for rural agricultural production areas not served
directly by regional ports. In preparation for this project, the five
high priority ports in Central and Northern Mozambique were studied in
detail (Angoche, Chinde, Macuse, Mocimboa da Praia, and Pebane).



- 25 -
Traffic levels in each of these ports is very low (ranging from 3,000 to
17,000 tonnes per year) due to limited agricultural production in the
hinterland and the poor condition of the ports and the local shipping
industry.
3.9     Traffic through the small ports consists mainly of emergency aid
coming in and cash crops from both the commercial and family
agricultural sectors going out. As the economy recovers, and food crop
production in the hinterland improves, the level of emergency aid and
food crop imports may be expected to fall. However, each port typically
serves one dominant product (eg. copra in Macuse or cashew in Angoche)
that accounts for the bulk of the traffic for that port, and recovery in
this sector will dramatically increase traffic through the port.
Depending on how the economy develops, traffic could grow by up to about
8Z p.a. compounded over the next twenty years. The table below shows
traffic projections for the five small ports. Annex 3-4 sets out the
detailed traffic projections for these small ports.
Por'. Traffic, 1000 tonne.
1990      1998        2000       2012    X Growth
Moc1.e.a de Pritl              1 07 I      u:7T       El:        T 2%
Macu..              1$.0       1.0.        84.9       65.5       0.5X
Chlnd.               6.0       12.2 3.0               17.0       1.61
P.b.s.               8.0       24.2        10.9       27.0       0.6X
Ancoch               3.0       11.6        25.0       40.0       6.7X
3.10    Officially each port is owned and operated by CFH.  However,
since CFM has been unable to provide the necessary management, in many
cases the port users (agricultural producers and shipping companies)
are, in practice, running the ports. Most of the ports are cu-rently
losing money due tot (i) the low traffic levels caused by to the current
political and economic situation in Mozambique; (ii) poor, and in some
cases non-existent, revenue collection; (iii) high operating costs and
over-staffing; and (iv) port charges2/ that do not reflect the long-
run costs of operations.
3.11    In general, infrastructure, navigational aids, and handling
equipment in the small ports are insufficient and in such poor condition
thatt (i) waiting times for ships are extremely long and shipping costs
consequently high; (ii) palletization is not possible; and (iii)
capacity will not be sufficient to meet the projected growth in traffic.
Annex 3-1 sunmarizes the current status of each of the small ports.
Institutional Weaknesses
3.12    Shortages of qualified personnel and inadequate organization are
the most pressing shortcomings affecting maritime activities. The
National Directorate of Maritime Affairs (DNM) and the Bureau of
Maritime Projects (GAPROMAR) of the Ministry of Transport and
2/      Small port charges are typically: (i) 4-5 times lower than
charges in the main ports, and (ii) standardized regardless of
the cost structure of the particular port.



- 26 -
Comunications (HTC), which are to be made responsible for the
supervision and co-ordination of the small ports and coastal shipping
sector, are not adequately staffed and lack the necessary organizational
structure to manage the coastal shipping sub-sector in general and the
small ports in particular.
3.13    The maritime resulatory framework is obsolete.  Although
agreement has been reached in principle to have a commercial and
competitive sector, the maritime regulations have not yet been modified
to support this objective.
Customs and Trade Facilitation
3.14    Transit logistic inefficiencies contribute to high cost of
transport to, from and within Hozambique. Dwell-time at portt for over
60Z of imported freight is over 50 days. This results in immobilization
costs which are estimated to be eleven times normal CIF destination
costs. At current traffic levels, the cost of transit inefficiencies
(immobilization) at Maputo Port3/ can be estimated at well over US$ 25
million per year - penalizing importers (public, private, and donor
agencies) and contributing to an extremely negative non-factor services
(transport and insurance) balance of payments.
3.15    An assessment of the operations and financial returns of the
public-sector enterprises performing freight-forwarding and customs
brokerage services suggests that substantial gains in cost effectiveness
could be obtained by liberalization of all freight-forwarding activities
and of freight transfers to domestic shipping. In addition, obsolete
customs documentation and procedures delay considerably the documentary
credit process for foreign trade. Introduction of computerization of
customs transactions compatible with both regional standards and with
the domestic data information systems of banks, freight-forwarders and
transport, is an urgent task. Finally, poor development of domestic
freight-forwarding capacity results in less than optimum terms of trade
(imports negotiated C&F, exports FOB) and prevents foreign currency
flows, associated with forwarding activities, from reaching Hozambique.
Annex 3-6 provides an analysis of the key issues with respect to trade
facilitation.
C. New Policy Framework and Coastal ShinninA Strateav
3.16    GOH has recognized the important role that the coastal shipping
sub-sector plays in the distribution of agricultural produce and is
embarking on a program to increase efficiency in both shipping and small
ports sectors. GOM has agreed to adopt and promulgate a firm policy
comiitment to promote and maintain full competitiveness in this vital
transport sub-sector (para 6.2 iv). The recovery strategy involvess (i)
3/      2.42 million tonnes of international freight handled in Haputo
in 1990 (excluding domestic freight, and oil products handled at
Hatola).



- 27 -
*reforming the regulatory environment, (ii) encouraging greater private
sector involvement, (iii) long term training and operational assistance;
(iv) selective investments in shipping and ports; (v) re-orientation of
the Ministry of Transport and Comunications into a planning and
supervisory organization; and (vi) implementation of a facilitation
program to remove bottlenecks to trade.
Coastal Shippins Recovery Strategy
3.17    A viable shipping industry is the critical link in the recovery
of the sector. With donor support, GOM is currently considering a
number of options for the restructuring of the shipping industry, all of
which include significant private-sector involvement and increased
competition in this sub-sector.
Implementing a New Regulatory Framework
3.18    With the guidance and assistance of TA financed under the ROCS-1
Project, a new regulatory framework for shipping will be implemented to
ensures
Mi)   commercial pricings Fares to be more easily adjusted, but
still subject to governmental review;
(ii)  suitable provisions for new private sector entry: It is
envisaged that new entry will be on a concession basis
with clearly spelled out service criteria;
(iii) fair competition: The same rights and obligations will be
assigned to all participants; and
(iv)  Consumer protections Since it is not certain that the
Mozambican market can support, more than one coastal
shipping organization in the foreseeable future, the
regulatory framework will include provisions to protect
the rights of Mozambican shippers in the event that
unrestricted competition results in an eventual monopoly.
Structure of the ShiDping Industry
3.19    Given the uncertainties surrounding traffic development and
private-sector intentions, it is uncertain what the ultimate shipping
pattern for marine transport for small local ports will be in
Mozambique.   There are three possible solutions which are summarized in
the next table. (Annex 3-2 provides a more detailed description of
these patterns).



- 28 -
Shipping    Barge Carrier       Fed.r/B.ach.r         Cargo/Lighters
Pattern                                               _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Maritim_    Barge Carrior atop.   Convontional ship. serve  New 1SO0t-2500t
acess to    In reglonal porte    the min regional ports,  conventional ships serve
port        and dlecharge/picke  where transshipment   reglonal port. and load
up bar7.. oft-shore   takes place to maller   to/from lighters
___________   at maoer pofte    bechehr                offshore In *sma  ports
Cargo       Barge. unloaded from  C00t beachers provide    Lightro transfer goods
handling    carrier transport    feoder services to the   to shore, stay In port
operation    goods to port, load   Sm 11 porte.       and carry cargo out to
in small    up and wait for                           cargo ships
port        carrier to return
3.20    In the short term, and perhaps even in the long term, a
combination of systems is likely to operate and infrastructure
investments will need to take account of this. In any event the futu..e
of the shipping industry depends largely ons (i) provision of adequate
feeder services; (ii) the restructuring of NAVIQUE; and (iii) the
actions of private enterprise interested in entering the industry.
Restructuring Coastal Shipping
3.21    GOM has agreed that, within one year of Credit Effective Date,
and prior to the first annual Project review, it will take the necessary
measures to: (i) present an acceptable action plan and timetable for the
restructuring of all state-owned coastal shipping companies; (ii) adopt
a policy commitment conducive to full competitiveness in the coastal
shipping sub-sector; (iii) adopt a system of cost-based tariff policies
applicable to small ports and coastal shipping; and (iv) adopt a policy
allowing full private-sector access to the coastal shipping feeder-
service market (see paras 6.2 ii and 6.2 iii). It is expected that,
initially, GOM will empower NAVIQUE to operate in a comercial manner
under a simple performance-based management contract with a private
sector company. The action plan will include clearly monitorable
targets and deadlines, covering both 'external restructuring", such as
changes in the ownership structure and holding of shares, as well as
linternal restructuring', involving staff and fleet rationalization. It
is envisaged that any re-equipment will be funded from the private
sector as part of the overall restructuring strategy.
3.22    Without staff rationalization and financial restructuring it
will be difficult to interest a private sector organization in acquiring
NAVIQUE. A strategy to resolve these issues will be developed by TA
provided under the Project. Any action taken in this regard will require
that an overall restructuring plan, as indicated above, be in place. IDA
and NORAD have both expressed willingness to try to use credits or
grants to assist in this process (under ROCS-2), if necessary.
3.23    A French shipping group has expressed to GOH an interest in
providing coastal shipping services in Mozambique. The proposal
envisages using a custom-built barge carrier to transport barges up the
coast, with barges being dropped off in the small ports to be loaded and
unloaded and collected on the return journey. Also envisaged is a fleet
of smller conventional vessels. The estimated cost of the proposed



- 29 -
project is about US$30 million. A full feasibility study for the
project was submitted to GOH and IDA, and to potential financiers
including the International Finance Corporation (IFC), the European
Investment Bank (EIB) and the Caise Centrale de Cooperation Economique
(CCCE) of France. The project requires further development to finalize
a financing structure suitable for the risk of the operation. GOM has
indicated that it is unwilling to take an equity stake in the venture.
3.24    As part of its conditions of entry, the French group would
require assurance that: (i) land-side operations would be efficiently
carried out (preferably in joint venture); (ii) improved navigational
aids and comunuications would be installed; and (iii) GOM would adopt
simplified downstream documentation and a levels regulatory framework
(i.e. one that is fair to all competitors in the shipping industry.)
Feeder Shipping Strategy
3.25    Recognizing the importance of the feeder shipping industry, GOM
has agreed to: (i) restructure TRANSMARITIMA on a fully commercial
basis, and (ii) allow private sector access to the feeder service
market. A study to restructure TRANSMARITIMA, and to ensure that there
are no legislative or other barriers to new entry and to assess the
availability of finance for the small-port operators will be funded
under ROCS-1. Financing for the restructured company (equipment, TA,
training) will be provided, if necessary, under ROCS-2.
Small Ports Recovery Strategy
3.26    The strategy for recovery of the small ports calls for (i)
changing the regulations to allow private sector operators to manage the
small ports in a commercial manner, (ii)  awarding concessions for the
management of the small ports, (iii) facilitating the rehabilitation and
re-equipment or development of these ports, and (iv) supporting
institutional development to allow the small-port operators to manage
the facilities efficiently and GOM to regulate the industry effectively.
Reaulatory Reform
3.27    Maritime regulations will be changed to allow cost-related
tariffs to be charged for small port operations, and contracts for the
coumercial management and maintenance of the small ports (concessions),
to be issued to independent operators. Furthermore, IDA financing of
investments in the small ports will be conditional on an acceptable
concession being in place for that port. Guidelines applicable to the
negotiation and award of management andlor concession contracts by GOM
will be presented to IDA within six months following effectiveness of
the Development Credit Agreement (DCA).
3.28    As a first step towards awarding the concessions, and prior to
negotiation of the concessions, responsibility for the small (tertiary)
ports will be formally transferred from CFH to DNMIGAPROMAR. Next,
appropriate provisions will be made to grant long-term concessions to
main users or experienced operators. In the longer term ownership may
rest with DNM/GAPROMAR, with the local governments, or possibly with the



- 30 -
concessionaire. This will be decided before the concessions are
awarded, based on the recommendations of TA funded under the project.
3.29    While negotiating such contracts will be a challenge, it is
believed that suitable concessions can be structured on a port by port
basis. This may include users, shipping companies or joint ventures
between various interested parties. Concessions may be awarded to the
same concessionaire for the operation of multiple ports within a region
(e.g. Moma and Angoche) to allow benefits to be obtained from economies
of scale. To ensure transparency, open advertising for bids for the
award of concessions would be required.
3.30    Once awarded, the concessions will be monitored by DNM/GAPROMAR
to ensure that maintenance responsibilities are adhered to and that
operating procedures and pricing structures are not implemented to the
detriment of competitors. These issues will be addressed in the
structure of the concession agreements, but GOM also will need to
acquire or develop the skills to negotiate effective initial contracts
and to subsequently supervise them. A summary of these institutional
arrangements is included as Annex 3-3.
3.31    The structure of the concession fee will need to be negotiated
between the interested parties, but preliminary analysis shows that it
can be structured with both a fixed and a variable portion to split the
investment risk between the Government and the operator such that: (i)
the ports themselves will be financially viable, and (ii) overall fees
(although higher than in the past) should be acceptable to shippers due
to the improved service that they will receive.
3.32    TA to help draft concession documents and to assist GOM in
negotiation thereof will be provided under the project (see the Terms of
Reference in Annex 4-12). In light of the longer-term need to build
capacity in supervision of small port contracts, longer-term TA and
training will also be provided. GOM has agreed to assign Mozambican
counterparts to work with the TA consultants to develop local capacity
in supervision. Since port operation concessions are a priority issue
(being a condition for investments in each port), initial funding for
these TA positions has been provided under PPF advances for the Project.
Investments in Small Ports
3.33    Given limited resources, five local ports in Central-Northern
Mozambique were initially selected for priority rehabilitation, mainly
because of their importance to agricultural production. However,
detailed feasibility studies conducted using PPF funds in preparation
for the Project and by the appraisal mission revealed that the level of
ec,momically viable investments is unlikely to exceed US$6 million for
the five small ports. In general, the economic analysis confirmed the
stated preferences of the users in each port regarding what they were
willing to pay for and why. The following would be the key elements of
the small-port rehabilitation strategy:
Mi)   significant investments in new infrastructure are not
economically viable and were not identified by port



- 31 -
operators as high priority. Limited rehabilitation or
reinforcing of the existing structures in Macuse, Chinde
and Mocimboa da Praia is required, although without more
detailed engineering the extent of economically
justifiable requirements cannot be fully defined;
(ii)  more marine equipment (tugs, barges), is definitely
required. Indeed, in most cases, the principal
bottleneck in port capacity, for the level of traffic
expected in the foreseeable future, is the availability
of barges and tugs as opposed to the quay structure or
land-side equipment. Given the high opportunity cost of
the main ships, the high cost of dredging and of
infrastructure construction, the lowest cost solution to
improving port capacity is by investing in barges that
would be pre-loaded prior to the arrival of the large
coastal shipping vessels. Almost all users rated marine
equipment as their most important need;
(iii) land-side equipment requirements (cranes, tractors, etc.)
are less significant to serve the operational needs of
the ports, although in some cases new equipment would
improve productivity;
(iv)  while beyond the scope of the initial feasibility studies
it is clear that over and above the demand for port
investments there is demand for: (i) more marine
equipment (tugs and barges) to fetch and carry
agricultural produce from up-river; and (ii) more land
based equipment (tractors and trailers) to carry produce
to and from the port;
(v)   ship repair facilities will allow the urgently needed
barges and small ships to be rehabilitated (or
constructed) and maintained in Mozambique; and
(vi)  improved small-port management would bring significant
returns.
3.34    The following table summarizes the level of investment in the
five small ports that is considered justifiable at this timp.
(USS'OOO)    TOTAL  RADIO  BARGES   LAND   INFRA- I FIR     CONTINGENT  eA
COSTS  LIG      UGS  EQUIP  STRUCT. I COSTS   I INFRASTRC   SEA LAW
Angche              60    70    400    106         0     575I        0       0      80
Chnd                J0    70    120       1C    500       705        0       0     100
mecu.              2265    70    400       45    400       915     1100    240       0
Peban-              OJC    70    240       15      20      945        0     240    100
MocXboo de Praia   1160    185    400    a"5    610    1510           0       0     170
Total FMv Ports    3hl2    i      1MAm I z                   I  -           480     40
1/      Infrestructure Invetments thet mlght be Justiflablo depeding on detailed surveys
2       Additional Investment. In tus and bargoe to fetchf nd carry produce from up river
8,      Tractors and tra lers to transport produce to and    the port.



- 32 -
3.35    It is difficult to prove categorically a priori what the most
appropriate investments are and what their economic rate of return will
be, because of the current uncertainty with respect to: (i) how fast the
traffic will develop; (ii) the shipping patterns and operational
procedures likely to develop to meet that traffic; and (iii) current and
potential productivity levels in each port. In order to mitigate the
effects of uncertainty, it was agreed to maintain as much flexibility as
poassible with respect to the exact structure and timing of investments,
and to base investments primarily on local knowledge and commercial
realities faced by the operators. Thus, decisions regarding the nature
and timing of investments would be made by the private operators holding
the concessions for the ports based on expected profitability. For land
and sea equipment concessionaires would approach their commercial
bankers for loans to finance their planned investment program. IDA would
make finance available to the commercial banks for this purpose through
an "apex' organization. The credit line will be open to any
concessionaire that has an acceptable concession agreement with GOM.
This allows the small-port rehabilitation and development program to be
extended beyond the five already listed. It would have been very
difficult for IDA to effectively finance a traditional investment
project for the small ports and shipping project in Hozambique within
the current environment since IDA's loan documentation and procurement
procedures would be too cumbersome for small investments such as these.
3.36    For infrastructure investments the credit line approach is more
difficult to apply since: (i) other donors (eg. EEC and AfDB) are keen
to invest in port infrastructure but are unable to do so through the
credit line mechanism; (ii) possible mismatches between the remaining
term of a concession lease and desired term for infrastructure loans4/
may make it difficult to obtain wsecurity' for the loan; (iii) the long
term required for infrastructure loans may also cause difficulties
because local banks are reluctant to accept long-term loan exposures;
and (iv) the legal inability to own the quay structures might make it
difficult for concessionaires to raise funding for investments in real
assets that they do not own. However, decentralized decision making and
government recovery of investment costs will be maintained through a
process under which the concessionaire would agree on the investments to
be made with DNH/GAPROMAR, DNHIGAPROMAR would contract the works and the
operator would then pay an incremental lease fee calculated on the say
basis as the loan repayments would have been.
Navigational Aids
3.37    Investments in, and maintenance of, channel buoys and other
simple navigational aids, as well as of hydrographic surveys, will
continue to be the responsibility of INAHINA, a national institute,
rather than of the small port operators, since: ti) the needs are more
easily identifiable, and tii) INAHINA already has the specialized skills
and economies of scale that the acquisition, installation and
4/ In order to keep costs per tonne down to an acceptable level the term
of an infrastructure loan would need to be quite long - possibly longer
than the remaining life of the lease.



- 33 -
maintenance of buoys require. INAHINA vill continue its proposed
investment program for navigational aids in the small ports baead on the
following principless (i) appropriate technology (low levels of
maintenance required), (ii) investments as agreed with the users, and
(iii) standardization as far as possible. A cost recovery program,
currently in place to allow INAHINA to finance its ongoing operations,
will be extended to the small ports; however, a study will be conducted
under the Project to determine whether or not a more flexible and more
cost-based pricing structure would be appropriate.
3.38    To control the increased level of pollution that might result
from increased traffic, oil reception facilities vill be installed in
the larger regional ports (Pemba, Nacala, Quelimane) under ROCS-1.
Institutional Capacity
3.39    The new strategy implies a significant change in the role and
responsibilities of GOH with respect to the coastal shipping industry.
Within six months after the Effective Date of the DCA, GOH will prepare
an action plan and timetable, acceptable to IDA, for transferring the
responsibility of administration of the small ports from CFH to DNH. The
eventual restructuring will allow GOH to effectively regulate and manage
the newly privatized, ports and shipping industry. A draft of these
responsibilities and of the new organizational structure is included in
Annex 3-5. Technical assistance will be provided under the project to
implement the new organizational framework.
3.40    Shortages of qualified personnel is one of the most pressing
shortcomings affecting maritime activities. Regardless of the fact that
responsibility for the management of the small ports will be passed on
to private operators, improvement of managerial and technical skills
will be required. This implies additional staffing, a well structured
training effort, and continued monitoring and sustained investment by
either GON, or the private sector, or both. Accordingly, the Project
will finance a comprehensive program for the training and upgrading of
coastal shipping and small port personnel at all levels, as well as
selected staff of DNH/GAPROHAR. In preparation for this program,
GAPROMAR will issue new training guidelines, stressing, inter alia,
career development linkages to training, a system of professional
standards, and certification including the recognition of diplomas in
term of higher salaries. Satisfactory guidelines will be issued by
DNH/GAPROMAR within one year after credit effectiveness (para 6.2 vii).
3.41    A consultant financed by IDA has identified basic training needs
and resources required to strengthen DNMH/GAPROMAR and improve the
technical skills of most port and shipping personnel. Funds have been
provided under the Project for training TA and for the preparation and
implementation of a staff development progrm.
Donor Participation
3.42    Mozambique has received considerable assistance from various
donors in the maritime sector, some related to cabotage, some to the
sector as a whole, but supportive of cabotage activities. Annex 3-7
summarizes the activities of NORAD, the most active donor in the sector.



- 34 -
IV. TUE PROPOSED PROJECT
A. Oblectives
4.1     The principal objectives of the ROCS projects are:
(i)   to provide sufficient qualified human resources (skilled,
semi-skilled and managerial) to the roads and coastal
shipping sub-sectors by financing the first phase of a
long-term manpower development and training program for
transport personnel, in order for the sector to meet the
peace-time needs of the Mozambican economy;
(ii) by providing technical assistance and training at all
management levels, to strengthen GOM institutions, state
enterprises and newly formed, local private companies
involved in the roads and coastal shipping sub-sectors,
encompassing DNEP, local road contractors (including the
ECMEPs), DNH/GAPROMAR, and new small-port operators, to
allow them to cost-effectively manage transport infra-
structure and services;
(iii) to encourage and assist in implementing policy reforms
necessary for effective management of national resources
and increased involvement of the private sector in road
rehabilitation and maintenance, small-port management,
and the provision of adequate trucking and cabotage
transport servicess and
(iv)  to support GOM's Priority Districts Program (PDP) by
removing transport-related obstacles that are hampering
employment generation, alleviation of poverty, self
sufficiency in food production, expansion of exports, and
improvement in business mobility.
B. Overall Proiect Scope
4.2     To meet the above objectives, the ROCS projects will improve
transport infrastructure and services through selective investment in
rehabilitation and maintenance of key road and port facilities, and in
increasing the capacity and efficiency of the trucking and co-istal
shipping industries. The initial effort, to be supported by the ROCS-1
Project, will focus heavily on laying the groundwork for future
initiatives in this sector through the provision of extensive technical
assistance to strengthen institutional capacity, and the reformation of
crucial GOM policies to improve efficiency in the transport sector and
to provide reasonable assurance that rehabilitation investments will be
properly and opportunely maintained.



- 35 -
4.3     Capital investments made under the ROCS projects will be
primarily for rehabilitation of local feeder roads serving priority
agricultural production areas, of badly deteriorated sections of the
main roads leading to key coastal ports, of the small ports themselves,
and of the local coastal shipping fleet. Policy reforms vill be
directed to attaining greater efficiency in the transport sector through
increased private participation, and the improvement of transport
pricing and asset utilization to ensure comercial viability of
transport enterprises. The first phase of a long-term manpower
development program vill screngthen the planning, execution and control
capabilities of transport sector personnel.
4.4     The original ROCS project was conceived because of the urgent
need to strengthen the transport sector through an integrated strategy
to facilitate the land/sea movement of goods and people between priority
agricultural districts and the centers of consumption and distribution.
However, because of the overwhelming magnitude of the required
rehabilitation effort, and the difficulties inherent in preparing a
comprehensive transport project under prevailing conditions of
uncertainty due largely to the civil war, the ROCS project will be
carried out in several stages. In view of the crucial importance of
policy reforms, and the critical need to enhance GOH implementation
capacity and to initiate long-term training, it is envisaged that the
first stage, the ROCS-1 Project, will concentrate on policy issues,
human resources development and improving the efficiency of the coastal
shipping sub-sector while the second project would focus on investments
in the roads sub-sector. Subsequent ROCS projects, which will depend on
the implementation performance on the first two, have not yet been
defined. The following are the principal elements of the first two ROCS
projects:
(i)   ROCS-l:
(a) studies and initial implementation of study
recommendations for reforms in road financing.
procurement, trucking, freight forwarding, custces
and the local road construction industry,
(b) first phase of a comprehensive training program for
roads and coastal shipping personnel,
(c) technical assistance to DNH/GAPROHAR and other
coastal shipping organizations,
(d) technical assistance to DNEP,
(e) initial assistance for transport and trade
facilitation, and for customs efficiency
improvement,
(f) seall ports investments,
(g) coastal shipping investments,



- 36 -
(h) final design of priority trunk-road rehabilitation,
and
(i) first phase of a nationwide Feeder Roads Program
(FRP).
(ii)  ROCS-2:
(a) trunk roads rehabilitation and maintenance,
(b) feeder roads rehabilitation and maintenance (second
phase of PRP),
(c) technical assistance to roads entities,
(d) strengthening of trucking and freight forwarding
industries,
(e) additional investments in coastal shipping and small
ports, and
(f) subsequent phase of assistance for transport and
trade facilitation, and for customs efficiency
improvement.
C. Description of the Roads Component
4.5     The principal elements of road infrastructure and transport
improvement, which are described in detail in this section, are as
follows:
Ci)   institutional support to DNEP,
(ii)  manpower development and training,
(iii) planning and engineering services,
(iv)  development of local road contractors,
(v)   the feeder road program (PEP), and
(vi)  strengthening the trucking industry.
Institutional Support
4.6     To augment the agency's institutional capacity, substantial
technical assistance (TA) and training will be provided to DNEP, of
which a significant portion will be funded by IDA. This assistance is
aimed ats
(i)   strengthening the planning and supervisory capabilities
of DNEP and its provincial departments of roads and
bridges (DEPs); and



- 37 -
(ii) enhancing the capacity of the )arastatal ECMEPs (expected
soon to become comercially autonomous), to efficiently
perform road rehabilitation and maintenance.
DNEP also vill benefit from the technical assistance and training
included in the Project to develop private local contractors capable of
undertaking road vorks. A summary of the TA to be provided to the road
infrastructure sub-sector is included in Annex 4-1. Because of the
dearth of managerial talent at the present time, the required TA is
estimated at some 2,600 staff-months over the life of the Project (but
of which nearly half are lower paid individual engineers or technicians
involved in the Feeder Road Program).
4.7     Given the magnitude of problems facing the roads sub-sector, the
Project vill represent only the modest start of a long-term effort to
build adequate institutional capacity while attending to urgent
rehabilitation and maintenance needs. A preliminary list of major tasks
to be accomplished under this component of the Project includest
(i)   implementing an appropriate organization for DNEP, and
for the provincial supervisory and executing entities
(DEP/ECMEP), with adequate staffing;
(ii)  revisinR existing DNEP procurement regulations and taking
suitable corrective measures for the entire procurement
process, including reorganization of the materials-supply
management function; and
(iii) implementing appropriate policies to ensure adequate
local funding of at least the necessary routine and
recurrent road maintenance activities by the end of the
Project.
Annex 4-1 also includes a summary of studies to be financed under the
Project.
4.8     In order to coordinate the activities of the various consulting
firms expected to be vorking on key elements of the ROCS projects" roads
component at any given time, assist in planning future roads programs
and organizational responsibilities, and provide management support to
the DNEP at headquarters level, a roads General Consultant (GC) will be
financed under the project as a major component of the planned TA.
Terms of reference for this GC are included in Annex 4-2. GOM will
provide and maintain adequate counterpart staff to york with these
consultants. DNEP has received and evaluated the proposals of four
short-listed firma for the GC services, and contract award is expected
in May 1992. Mobilization of at least the Teem Leader prior to credit
effectiveness would be financed under a PPF advance granted by IDA, or
under retroactive financing offered by GOM.
4.9     In order to enhance technology transfer as a result of technical
assistance, guidelines have been developed and will be included in all
TA contracts. These guidelines are included as Annex 4-20.



- 38 -
Manpower Development and Training
4.10    A five-year program for the training, retraining and upgrading
of road personnel at all levels will be administered by DNEP through the
newly created Training Division. Improvement of technical skills is a
long-term process which requires continuing monitoring and sustained
investment (para 2.22). Accordingly, the Project would finance the
first phase of a 15-to-20-year staff development program which would
provide training for some 3,500 DNEP and LRC personnel, including
managers, technicians, inspectors, equipment operators, mechanics and
administrative staff. Upgrading of senior staff and managers will be
conducted mostly by TA consultants through seminars and workshops, and
through special study-visits abroad (fellowships). Training of road
supervisors, foremen, and technicians will be conducted partly at the
Road Technical Training Center (RTTC) in Chimoio, Province of Manica,
and partly in the field with the Road Training Production Unit (RTPU) by
adopting a system of *training by doing'. While various basic training
courses will be the same for certain categories and levels of the
workforce, specific courses will be designed for DNEP and LRC mid/high-
level staff according to their expertise and particular
responsibilities. Training of equipment operators and drivers will also
be conducted through the RTPU. Although the purchase and management of
heavy road rehabilitation and maintenance equipment will eventually be
privatized, training of mechanics will be carried out through the mobile
Mechanical Training Production Unit (MTPU) which will travel to
provincial equipment workshops for an average of eight to twelve weeks
according to an agreed priority schedule. In addition to some general
theoretical training to be conducted in the vicinity of the MTPU, most
training of mechanics would focus on repairing broken equipment under
the supervision of experienced mechanical instructors, thus providing
trainees with a continuous, practical production/training experience.
Substantial training technical assistance will be provided to prepare
and implement the program and train Mozambican trainers as they are
gradually assigned to consultants or other positions (para 4.12).
4.11    DNEP has adopted a new training policy which will guide the
activities of the recently established Training Division. A Training
Steering Committee will be named, whose main responsibility will be to
determine training priorities and assist in implementing the objectives
of the training policy. The Training Division will be staffed initially
almost exclusively by consultants and will be responsible for: Mi) the
planning, budgeting, implementation, supervision, and evaluation of all
training activities; (ii) setting up the RTTC by rehabilitating an
under-utilized MCA center in Chimoio; and (iii) organizing one Road and
one Mechanical Training Production Unit to complement training courses
to be conducted at the RTTC. In addition, DNEP has entered into
agreem nts with the Eduardo Mondlane University's Department of Civil
Enginee'ring, and other technical vocational institutes and centers, to
organize training activities which cannot be carried out at the RTPU or
the MTPU.
4.12    The Project will provide financing for the resources needed to
implement the program, such as: (i) technical assistance, encompassing
training specialists and instructors; (ii) training equipment and



- 39 -
materials, audio visual training aids, and *off-the-shelfl courses;
(iii) training in-country and abroad (fellowships); and (iv) other
training-related expenses. Training courses will be available to all
interested personnel/entities directly connected with the road sub-
sector, with course fees being established on the basis of gradually
increasing recovery of most recurrent costs from the trainees or their
sponsors. Upon satisfactory completion of training courses, MCA/DNEP
will award trainees a certificate representing a record of competence,
recognized by the Ministry of Education (MOE). Because of the existing
uncertainties in Mozambique, some flexibility has been included in the
training technical assistance services, to permit adjusting training
activities to those which actually can be effectively carried out during
the period 1993-1998. In view of the substantial amount of technical
assistance and training inputs from other agencies/donors, close
coordination will be essential among all those involved with training to
prevent costly duplication of efforts. Financing has also been provided
under the Project for an independent mid- and end-project triining
evaluation, including the preparation of a follow-up training program.
Annex 4-3 and attachments provide details of the training component,
including the objectives, key elements of the program, staff estimated
to be trained, cost estimates, and a brief outline of the terms of
reference for the training technical assistance. Specific terms of
reference fort (i) Road Training Technical Assistance Services (Training
Specialists and Instructors); and (ii) Road Technical/Vocation
Specialists (RTTC), have been agreed with DNEP and are available in the
Project file.
Planning and Engineering Services
4.13    Based on techno-economic studies by international consultants
funded by IDA (under PPF funds) and other donors, the initial phase of
the trunk road rehabilitation program to be prepared under ROCS-1, and
executed under ROCS-2, is expected to encompass, over a six-year period,
the following works: (i) the rehabilitation or improvement of about 900
km of paved trunk roads, as described in Annex 4-4; (ii) the upgrading
of some 140 km of earth/gravel roads to paved standards (also included
in Annex 4-4); and (iii) the procurement and installation of about 850 m
of temporary Bailey-type metallic bridges at some 40 sites along primary
and secondary roads (the list of tentatively agreed sites is available
in the Project file). Design standards for the roads to be
rehabilitated will be agreed at the time TOR for final design are
approved, based upon final results of the feasibility studies and the
general standards in effect in the SADCC countries. Under prevailing
conditions, it is expected that minimum standards will be applied for
initial rehabilitation works on most road links.
4.14    Planning and engineering services for the rehabilitation works
described above, and for some six other trunk roads of second-tier
priority, will be financed under the ROCS-1 Project. These services
include the necessary economic and financial feasibility studies;
preliminary engineering and environmental studies; and final design and
preparation of tender documents. Civil works for these second-phase
trunk roads will be included in ROCS-2, if practicable, or in a
subsequent infrastructure project. Under ROCS-1, contract documents



- 40 -
also vill be prepared for performance of deferred periodic maintenance
on some 1,650 km of paved roads, and of intensive routine/recurrent
maintenance on about 3,050 km of paved roads and 6,350 km of unpaved
roads (following which normal routine activities can be performed on an
annual basis).
Development of Local Road Contractors
4.15    Several years of intensive rehabilitation and periodic
maintenance will be required before the entire Hozambican national
highway network can be brought to a condition that will permit normal
road maintenance at a reasonable cost. Recent DNEP estimates indicate
that routine (roadside) and recurrent (carriageway) maintenance of only
those road sections presently expected to be rehabilitated under the
ROCS-2 project, plus about 9,400 km (in total) of complementary, high
priority sections, would cost nearly US$ 25 million over the six-year
project period. When the cost of required periodic maintenance of the
second priority level of paved roads is included, the amount rises to
more than US$ 90 million. Although DNEP has requested annual funding,
by 1994, of US$ 15 million solely for periodic maintenance of paved
roads, it is noteworthy that its entire maintenance budget for 1991 was
less than US$ 5 million.
4.16    Periodic road maintenance is particularly suitable for
small/medium indigenous road contractors, but such firms do not yet
exist. Assuming that the security situation will be normalized by the
time the ROCS-2 project is initiated, the strengthening of the
contracting capacity in-country is of utmost importance. For that
reason, the formulation and implementation of a program to develop local
road contractors LRC) capable of executing the planned road maintenance
program has been included in ROCS-1. The first phase of this assistance
is a study to evaluate the feasibility of developing small-to-medium
LRC, including the pi.anned strengthenir,g of existing parastatals
(ECMEPs), who would be capable of undertaking the rehabilitation and
maintenance of an increasing share of the road network. Depending on
the outcome of this study, and of the independent audit of candidate
ECMEPs (para 2.29), financing will be provided for institutional
development of the LRC. In addition, most ECMEP and other LRC personnel
will receive operational training under the ROCS-1 Project. More
effective use of the current DNEP road maintenance management system is
also needed and should result from work underway by consultants in the
rehabilitation of the Beira-Machipanda Road (funded by AfDB),
conplemented by efforts of the DNEP General Consultants.
The Feeder Roads Program
4.17    The rehabilitation and/or upgrading to engineered gravel
standards, predominantly by labor-intensive methods, of about 2,600 km
of feeder roads will be included in the Project as a continuation of the
on-going Feeder Roads Program (PMP) funded by UNDP and other donors. A
preliminary economic analysis was performed by DNEP, using vehicle
operating cost data from the IDI model and representative vehicles and
road lengths, to facilitate choosing the specific feeder roads to be
rehabilitated and/or upgraded. However, these priorities may change as



- 41 -
better information become available and as the security situation
improves. Criteria for the definitive selection of specific secondary
and tertiary roads to be rehabilitated/upgraded under the Project have
been tentatively agreed with GOM and IINDP/ILO (see Annex 4-5).  Within
these criteria, a flexible approach to final selection will be adopted
to reflect changing security and resettlement conditions.
4.18    As a complement to the  MPP, a pilot program of improvement of
access to villages in eight high priority districts has been suggested
by the UNDP in its project document (in Project files) proposing a rural
rehabilitation project for these districts. These access roads and
bridges would be constructed by the villagers concerned, with the UNDP
project providing technical assistance, maintenance training, hand tools
and sae building materials and equipment hira.
Trucking
4.19    With regard to the trucking industry, it is proposed that the
ROCS-l Project include four studtes in support of improved road
transport. The rationale for trucking studies is the high concentration
of poorly utilized freight transport capacity in parastatal and
government fleets and the need to propose flexible guidelines for its
privatization, for the liberalization of the regulatory environment, for
the professional development of private sector operators, and for the
technical rehabilitation of the fleet. As a preliminary action, and
while studies get underway, it is proposed that GOM remove entry
barriers into the trucking industry for inter-city long-distance freight
transport; it is also proposed that GOM remove compulsory tariff
barriers by, as an ezample, setting up maximum and minimum levels for
all freight services within the national and regional inter-city
network. Consequently, the following four studies are proposed as part
of a road transport rehabilitation program to be carried out jointly
with USAID's private-sector development program:
(i)   establisLment of guidelines for shifting the balance of
the trucking industry from the public to the private
sector, thus reducing the inefficient use of own-account
transpcrt;
(ii) formulation of guidelines for the liberalization of
regulatzons and other restrictions on private-sector road
transport activities, including economic regulation,
keeping government involvement to a minimum, while
enhancing safety, insurance and technical standards;
(iii) identification of types of training and/or assistance
required by emerging private-sector operators and
identification of training and/or TA needed by government
agencies to fulfill their reduced role in road transport
activities; and
(iv)  assessment of the potential for rehabilitation of
existing vehicles, in particular, vehicle fleets of
parastatals, complemented by an assessment of mechanical



- 42 -
skills at the workshop floor level, with proposals for
workshop licensing deregulation and improved distribution
channels for spare parts.
4.20    A description of the action plan of this component is to be
found in Annex 4-6. Terms of reference for components (i), (ii), and
(iv), which have been agreed with USAID and GOM, are included in the
Project file. It is envisaged that the ROCS-2 project will provide
support to the trucking industry based on the outcome of these studies.
USAID has indicated a willingnesa to support the private trucking
industry in Mozambique.
4.21    Preparation of terms of reference for manpower training and
assistance to private road transport operators will be part of the work
assignment of the consultants selected for the initial inputs to the
privatization and liberalization study. The end product of the training
and assistance study should be a private-sector-oriented program
complete with manpower targets, types of training, types of curricula
and cost eatimates. The program will be aimed at encouraging private
sector skills in trucking and mechanical workshop capacity.
D.  Description of the Small-Ports and Coastal-hiding Component
4.22    The component involving small ports and coastal shipping is
structured to support the Project objectives in the following manner:
first, reform the regulatory environment; second, transfer the ports to
private sector operators; third, start long term training and
operational assistance; and, fourtb, invest in port infrastructure and
shipping operations rehabilitation and/or improvement.
4.23    This Project component will comprise the following elements:
(i)   institutional support and policy reform;
(ii)  manpower development and training;
(iii) credit line for small ports investments;
(iv)  supporting investments in port infrastructure; and
(v)   trade facilitation.
Institutional Support and Policy Reform
4.24    Institutional support will be included in the form of technical
assistance and studies in the following areas:
(i)   regulatory reform of the coastal shipping and small ports
industries by: (a) comprehensively reviewing the exieting
regulatory arrangements; (b) designing and implementing
revised regulatory frameworks to facilitate fair
competition, and private operators' involvement in the



- 43 -
sector, including the transfer of the management of the
small ports to qualified private-sector operators; (c)
assisting OM in the planning of, and negotiations for,
the divestiture of some state-owned enterprises and the
entry of new private-sector operators on concession terms
for both ports and shipping; (d) a study to refine the
revised DNM organization and to define the DNM's
relationship with other HTC entities for the ports and
shipping transport sub-sector; (e) performing ongoing
supervisory functions in the ports and shipping sub-
sectors for a period of three years while training
Hozambicans to assume these responsibilities; and (f)
advising GOM on the overall structure and efficiency of,
and planning for, the sub-sector;
(Li)  strengthening of the planning and management capability
of DNM and GAPROMHR, and to assist in the implementation
of ROCS, through: (a) an administrator to supervise the
implementation of the coastal shipping component; (b)
management assistance to establish appropriate planning,
budgeting and financial control systems within DNMH; and
(c) rehabilitation of the DNMIGAPROMAR building and the
provision of suitable office equipment such as personal
computers, photo-copiers, office communications equipment
and general supplies;
(iii) direct assistance in other priority areas including: (a)
the management of NAVIQUE (from NORAD) leading to its
increased commercialization and ultimate privatization;
(b) the development and implementation of a feeder
shipping services strategy, including assistance in the
restructuring of TRANSMARITIMA; (c) the development of a
small-ship repair and building strategy with special
reference to viability of supporting local entrepreneurs
in this area; and (d) assistance to INAHINA to review its
cost recovery strategy for navigational aids;
(iv)  project engineering for the detailed design of solutions
for: (a) telecommunications for coastal shipping; (b)
environmental protection facilities for Pemba, Nacala and
Quelimane; and (c) civil engineering services in Macuse,
Chinde and Mocimboa da Praia; and
(v)   assistance to ancillary sectors such as: (a) the banking
sector to enable the ports and shipping sectors to have
access to private credit; (b) GOM's new National
Commission for the Environment (CRA) to protect the
coastal environment of Mozambique as traffic increases;
and (c) the transport sector as a whole through the
assignment of a resident Project Coordinator specialist
to assist in the coordination and integration of roads
and coastal-shipping rehabilitation and efficiency
improvements.



- 44 -
4.25    Annex 4-7 sets out the TA and studies to be financed under this
project for the coastal shipping sector, including number of man-months
required, approximate cost, and summary terms of reference. To ensure
technology transfer from technical assistance, guidelines have been
developed and will be included in all TA contracts (see Annex 4-20). In
addition, guidelines and procedures for monitoring technical assitance
have been agreed with GOM.
Manpower Development and Training
4.26    The Project will finance a comprehensive program for the
training and upgrading of coastal shipping and small port personnel at
all levels, as well as selected staff of GAPROMAR. The three-year
training program will provide courses for some 200 GAPROMPR and other
coastal shipping personnel, from senior staff and port managers to
tallymen, equipment operators, and mechanics. However, since most
personnel are expected to attend tvo repeat courses, the cumulative
total will be substantially higher than 200. In addition to in-country
seminars/workshops expected to be conducted by the project technical
assistance, GAPROMAR staff, and senior coastal-shipping staff, will
also participate in short-term training abroad (fellowships) at selected
ports whose activities correspond approximately to those in Mozambique.
Training of lower level port personnel will be conducted in-country, at
the Port School of Maputo, Training Center of the Beira Port, Nautical
School of Maputo, and selected regional ports. Because of the low level
of education and literacy of most port personnel, in addition to
relevant technical subjects, many trainees may also take more general
subjects such as arithmetic, Portuguese and English, in order to
strengthen their educational background. Training courses financed
under the Project will be available to all interested entities directly
connected with the coastal shipping sub-sector on a recurrent cost
recovery basis. Upon satisfactory completion of training courses,
MTC/DNK will award trainees a certificate recognized by the MOE.
4.27    To achieve these objectives, a port training advisor will be
provided under the Project to assist GAPROMAR in planning and
implementing the program. The advisor will be retained for a total of
36 months and, together with a counterpart, will review and expand the
recommendations of earlier consultants, prepare and commence the three-
year training program and, later, periodically monitor its
implementation. Because of the nature of training, IDA would finance
100I of all local and foreign costs. Annex 4-8 and attachments provide
details of the training component for the coastal shipping sub-sector,
including the objectives, elements of the program, staff to be trained,
cost estimates and a brief outline of the technical assistance services.
Draft terms of reference for the port training adviser to be financed
under the Project are available in the Project file.
Credit Line Investments
4.28    As explained in Chapter III, investments in the small ports will
be implemented through a credit line accessible to any small-port
operator that has negotiated a suitable small-port management concession
agreement with GON (para 6.4 ii). The credit line arrangements will



- 45 -
mirror those already in effect in Mozambique through two other IDA
credits: one for the development of small and medium-size businesses
(Cr. 2082-MOZ) and one for the development of the cashew industry (Cr.
2175-MOZ).
4.29    The targeting of credit-line funds to the small coastal shipping
sector is justified and arrangements either are in place or will be put
in place under the project in compliance with the recently issued OD
8.30:
(i)   Term credit targeted towards the coastal shipping sector
is required since, at this stage of development of the
financial sector, term credit is not available and
because the banking system has little experience of, and
information on, the small ports sector and is uncertain
as to the structure and operation of the future small
port concessions. The project will address these
weaknesses through technical assistance (para 4.34) that
will increase the banking sector's awareness of the small
ports sector and increase their ability to make term
credit available to the sector;
(ii)  While much remains to be done, policy reform in the
financial sector is already underway and will be
supported by IDA's Economic Recovery Credit (FY 92) and
Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (FY 94). Immediate
priorities for reform (many of which are underway)
include separating Banco da Mozambique into a commercial
bank and a central bank, strengthening the central bank,
developing indirect methods of macro-monetary control,
restructuring and strengthening the existing commercial
banks and encouraging the entry of new commercial banks
into Mozambique. An overview of the financial sector in
Mozambique is included as Annex 4-10. The Mozambique
Financial Sector Study (Report 10269-MOZ), published in
green cover at the end of April 1992, discusses the
financial sector in more detail;
(iii) The process established for the review of projects by IDA
(para 4.39) and BM (para 4.33), and the feasibility
studies completed by IDA consultants in preparation for
this project (para 4.31) will substantially reduce the
risk of mis-allocation of resources to un-economic
activities;
(iv)  The establishment under this project of well defined
small port concessions and the liberalization of port
pricing policies will go a long way towards ensuring
longer term access of the sub-sector to the financial
markets;
(v)   The use of the credit line stimulates private sector
development by allowing the private sector to make
investments in areas that would alternatively have been



- 46 -
the responsibility of the Government and because the
private-sector operators managing the ports will make the
investment decisions and take some of the associated
risks, investments are likely to be more flexible with
respect to changes in conditions and more responsive to
local needs and concerns.
4.30    Funds allocated to the line of credit will be transferred by the
Government to the Bank of Mozambique/Central, in accordance with a
Subsidiary Administration Agreement to be entered into between
BM/Central and GOM, under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA (para
6.4 i) (which means that, inter alia, the Agreement will have to comply
with the requirements of OD 8.30). BM/Central will on-lend the funds to
the participating financial intermediaries (PFIs) who will in turn on-
lend funds to the concessionaires for sub-projects (para 6.2 ix).
BM/Commercial, BPD, and BSTM will be eligible to operate as PFIs and
implement lending operations, provided that each one has entered into a
Participation Agreement with BM/Central, under terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA.
4.31    The concessionaires will be responsible for the initial
preparation of sub-projects, using assistance from private consultants
if necessary. For those ports and investments that have already been
appraised by IDA, feasibility documentation will be made available to
the concessionaires to facilitate the preparation of the required
documentation. In order to speed up the processing of the credit line,
Project funds will be provided to package the existing studies into a
form acceptable to the PFI's and to explain the analysis already
performed to the potential concessionaires and to the PFIs. In addition
IDA will make funds available through the Project for both expatriate
and local consultancy studies.
4.32    The concessionaires will present the sub-projects (and studies)
to the PFI of their choice. Because PFIs' autonomy is accepted as a
guiding principle by GOM, they will review the sub-projects in
accordance with their own loan analysis procedures. Such projects for
which rehabilitation feasibility studies already have been prepared may
be turned down by the PFIs. Subsequent to sub-project review, the PFIs
will prepare an appraisal report according to a standard format, which
may vary in depth and detail according to the size and nature of the
sub-project. The report will cover relevant information about the
proposed investment, including its technical soundness, financial
viability, economic efficiency, and borrower managerial capacity. The
report will also set down loan security requirements. Financial rate of
return (PER) calculations (based on a cash flow analysis) and suitable
analysis of the enterprise balance sheet (debt/equity; liquidity) will
be required for all sub-loans. As a guideline, financial rates of
return should be greater than 12Z and each enterprise should have at
least 1O of its capital in the form of equity after the sub-project has
been approved. An economic rate-of-return (ERR) calculation will not be
required for sub-loans sincet (i) differences between economic prices
and financial prices are small (the willingness of ship operators to pay
increased cost based port dues should therefore reflect savings in ship
waiting times); (ii) preliminary economic analysis has established the



- 47 _
viability of various sub-projects; and (iii) economic analysis skills
within the PFI's are limited and this requirement would considerably
delay processing. PFI's will be required to verify eligibility for
financing from the line of credit.
4.33    Once satisfied, the PFI's will submit the sub-projects to
BM/Central, where a small administrative unit has been established to
administer this and other credit lines, for refinancing approval. This
unit will ensure that the proposed sub-loan is indeed eligible for IDA
funding under the credit line and will review the quality of the
financial and credit analysis supporting the sub-loan.
4.34    Capacity to prepare and appraise the loans within the PFI's is
weak. In order to facilitate the processing of the sub-projects and to
strengthen that capability of the financial sector to appraise the sub
projects, the project will provide 36 man-months of TA for the PFI's.
This TA will include: (i) assistance in the processing of the sub-
projects under this credit line, and (ii) the strengthening of term
credit and financial analysis skills within the PFI's.
4.35    Approval of any port civil works proposals through the credit
line will be contingent on presentation of an environmental evaluation
of all 'dentifiable direct and indirect negative environmental impacts,
and presentation of concrete measures to avoid or correct them all of
which must meet the minimum environmental criteria of IDA and the
Mozambican National Commission for the Environment (CNA). The sub-
project proposals and pertaining environmental evaluations must be
analyzed and approved by the CNA prior to submission to the Bank of
Mozambique (BM). Proposals not including civil works should follow
environmental guidelines developed by CNA. Technical assistance
provided under the Project to the National Commission for the
Environment (CNA) will be available to assist in these reviews.
4.36    Sub-loans granted under the line of credit will finance lOOZ of
the foreign costs and all local costs up to a combined total of 901 of
total sub-project costs. Thus, sub-loan beneficiaries will contribute,
in cash or in kind, not less than 101 of sub-project costs. Terms for
repaying sub-loans for land and marine equipment will range from three
to seven years. The PFIs will have the commercial flexibility to
determine terms of repayment in response to the strength of each
application. The interest rates charged on sub-loans to final
beneficiaries will conform with the prevailing structure of interest
rates which has been endorsed by the International Monetary Fund (IDF).
4.37    The PFl. will pay interest on funds on-lent by BM such that they
will retain a spread (determined as a result of consultations within the
banking system and based on current banking conditions) that ensures
that the spreads are realistic in comparison to those on other funds in
Mozambique at the present time. Due to high perceived risk of term
lending for investment purposes and in order to motivate PFIs to provide
longer term investment credit, BM has provisionally proposed that it
would retain 702 of the final onlending rate for sub-loans of up to a
seven-year term, and 601 for sub-loans of more than a seven-year term.
This implies that the PFI's will retain a spread of approximately 101 to



- 48 -
14S at the February 1992 rate of 352. The spread arrangements will be
reviewed annually until such time as a more market related solution may
be established in the financial sector.
Schematic Diagram of Credit Line
[~~~~LX                         B~~T:1
4.38    The foreign exchange risk will be borne by the Ministry of
Finance on behalf of GOM. This is necessary, in the short run, to allow
for the benefits of the financial sector reforms to materialize fully.
GOM (through BM) will retain the interest paid by the PFI's (21? to 25?
at February 92 rates) to cover the costs of administering the line of
credit and to offset the foreign exchange risk.
4.39    A pre-negotiations mission to finalize the credit line's modus
operandi took place in February 1992. Conditions associated with the
credit line are as follows:
(i)   on-lending arrangements, eligibility criteria, sub-loan
processing procedures, lending terms, conditions, and
interest-rate mechanisms were agreed at nego 'iations and
will be reviewed annually by IDA (para 6.2 ix);
(ii)  receipt by IDA of (a) a satisfactorily signed and
authorized subsidiary administration agreement between
the Government and BM; (b) a satisfactorily signed and
authorized participation agreements between BM and at
least two of the PFIs; and (c) adoption by GOM of a
policy commmitting itself to the award of long term
renewable contracts for the management of small ports
will be a condition for disbursing funds to the line of
credit (para 6.4 i);
(iii) under ongoing IDA operations, GOM and IDA will jointly
review each year, starting not later than March 31, 1993,
the structure and level of interest rates, and the level
of spreads for PFIs (see para 6.2 (b));
(iv)  the first sub-loan for any port not in the Ofirst five",
and any sub-loan of over US$200,000 will be subject to
prior IDA review and approval except that investment
included in the initial IDA package will be exempted from
prior review. Thereafter, IDA will review a sample of
sub-projects on an ex-post basis during project
supervision, for which substantial resources are
estimated, as indicated in Annex 4-18;
(v)   procurement arrangements under the credit line will
require at least three quotations for proposed



- 49 -
investments over US$ 100,000 and full ICB for investments
of over US$1 million; and
(vi)  all PFI's and the apex institution (BH) will be required
to submit satisfactory annual audits to IDA (see para 6.2
b).
4.40    The following elements will be eligible for funding under the
credit linet
(i)   land-based equipment such as mobile cranes, tractors and
trucks both for port services and for the transportation
of goods to and from the ports; and
(ii)  marine equipment such as lighters and tugs.
4.41    Annex 4-9 summarizes the results of the analysis of the
investments that could be made in each of the small five small ports.
Bearing in mind that the credit line will be made available to the
marine transport sector in general, US$5.8 million will be allocated to
the credit line, to be topped up if necessary under the proposed ROCS-2
project.
Non-Infrastructure Needs in Five Ports
US$'000
Viable Investments               $2,520
Additional Land and Sea Items      $880
Total for Five Ports             $4,500
Allowance for other ports        $2,000
---------------------------------------
Grand Total in Credit Line       $6,500
Local Contribution                 $700
---------------------------------------
IDA Contribution                 $5,800
Supporting Port Infrastructure Investments
4.42    Infrastructure rehabilitation or upgrading, including both
marine infrastructure (e.g., quays, dredging) and land infrastructure
(storage, paving roads) will be financed directly under the Project as
described in Chapter three.
4.43    The Project will finance the installation of elementary
navigational aids for the ports of Chinde, Angoche, Pebane, Macuse,
Mocimboa da Praia and Quelimane at a cost of US$1.5 million. This
component will be implemented by INAHINA. Financing will be provided
for: (i) the supply of simple landfall and marine navigational aids
(financed by SIDA); (ii) the purchase of a Geographical Positioning
System (GPS) and cartographic equipment required to undertake surveys
and to correctly place the buoys (which will later be used to survey and
mark the other small ports in Mozambique); (iii) time charter for



- 50 -
shipping services to conduct the surveys and to install the buoys; and
(iv) a study of cost recovery and pricing issues for INAHINA (to be
financed by SIDA). Ongoing Nordic assistance for the management of
INAHINA will continue.
4.44    To mitigate the impact of increased shipping volumes, oil
reception and separation facilities will be installed in Quelimane,
Pemba and Nacala under the project. The construction of simple waiting
rooms and latrines for passengers will be financed under this project
provided that the concessionaire will build the structures and that
maintenance thereof will be part of the concession agreement.
4.45    Design and installation of a telecommunications system along the
coast of Mozambique to allow advance warning of, and preparation for,
ship arrivals.
Shipping Investments
4.46    Investments in coastal shipping of US$40 million to US$80
million will be required over the next 10 years to rehabilitate the
industry. However, in line with the new transport sector strategy, the
bulk of these investments will be made by the private sector, since
shipping is a commercial activity. Most of these investments will be
made by an at least partly privatized NAVIQUE, or by new entrants. In
view of the as yet unfinalized level of, and financing arrangements for,
such investments, they have been excluded from ROCS-1.
4.47     The fragile nature of the Mozambican economy means that these
private sector investments will not occur automatically. They will need
to be encouraged. Hence the commitment of TA to develop an appropriate
regulatory environment (para. 6.3 (ii)]. This should help mobilize
funding from the private sector and from commercially oriented
development institutions to finance private-sector ventures in coastal
shipping. CCCE has already indicated its willingness to support the
French shipping proposal, and EIB and IFC have also been approached.
4.48    The investment requirements of, and suitable financing
arrangements for, the feeder services, the smaller artisanal shippers
and ship building and repair activities will be identified in the feeder
services and shipyards studies financed by the project (para 4.24).
Financing for investments will be arranged as appropriate in ROCS-2. In
the interim, private companies capable of justifying its utilization may
access financing through the existing IDA SHE credit line or through the
ROCS-1 credit line described above (paras 4.28-4.40).
Freight Transfers and Customs Facilitation
4.49    Facilitating domestic and international freight transfers
through the regional and small ports will be improved by strengthening
and privatizing (when necessary) freight forwarding, cargo handling,
customs brokerage, shipping agencies and, in general, transport
intermediaries. The following components have been identified as
potential candidates for intermodal facilitation:



- 51 -
ti)   facilitating documents and procedures to international
layout key standards;
(ii)  revising and redrafting the ezisting freight-forwarding
regulatory framework to encourage local private-sector
participation;
(iii) updating and redrafting carriers' liability provisions
and terminal operators' liability standards to meet
international container transport requirements; and
(iv)  revising and redrafting insurance regulatory provisions
and reviewing the role of the national insurance company
on freight liabilities.
4.50    Technical assistance and support to the National Directorate of
Customs (DNA) will be provided through a program which will be prepared
under the ROCS-1 Project, and is expected to be implemented under ROCS-
2. The customs facilitation program would include the following
components:
(i)   facilitating customs documents and procedures for
domestic coastal-shipping transfers and international
traffic; and
(ii)  supporting introduction of electronic data processing in
the Customs administration, and preparing the way for the
introduction of freight tracking systems and
conmmunications via Electronic Data Interchange (EDI).
4.51    A summary of the customs and trade facilitation component,
including a detailed description of the proposed Transport and Trade
Facilitation Committee that would coordinate the intermodal facilitation
program, is included in Annez 4-13. Terms of reference are included in
the Project file.



- 52 -
L. Cost Estimtes
4.52    Total project cost is estimated at US$144.7 million over a 5-
year period, of which IDA's contribution would be US$ 74.3 million.
Costs have been estimated net of taxes; allowances for physical
contingencies and inflation are estimated separately. Costs are based
upon preliminary cost estimates developed by GOM consultants in the
course of pre-feasibility and feasibility studies. Because of the
difficulty of obtaining accurate data on which to base cost estimates at
appraisal, estimates of project components will be reviewed midway
through implementation.
First Roads and Coastal Shipping Project
Proiect Cost Estimate
Costs (USS million)
Local   Foreign   Total
A INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT
1 Roads TA and Studies                   5.7     23.9      29.6
2 Roads Training and Development        10.1     18.2      28.2
3 Trucking Studies                       0.1      0.5       0.5
4 Coastal Shipping TA & Studies          1.5      6.7       8.2
5 Shipping Training and Develop.         0.4      1.5       1.9
6 Customs & Trade Facilitation           0.1      0.7       0.8
7 Transport Sector Institution           0.4      1.6       2.0
8 Environmental Division                 0.1      0.6       0.7
Sub-total Part A                        18.3     53.6      71.9
B  ENGINEERING SERVICES                      0.0       0.0      0.0
1 Roads                                  1.8      7.2       9.0
2 Coastal Shipping                       0.1      1.2       1.3
Sub-total Part B                         2.1     12.4      14.5
C  COASTAL SHIPPING REHABILITATION           0.0       0.0      0.0
1 Credit Line Investments                1.0      5.5       6.5
2 Other Port Investments                 0.7      3.7       4.4
Sub-total Part B                         1.7      9.2      10.9
D  FEEDER ROAD REHABILITATION               11.6       9.9     21.5
TOTAL BASE COST                           33.8     85.1    118.8
Physical Contingencies                2.4      5.2       7.6
Price Contingencies                   5.6     12.7      18.3
TOTAL COST                                41.7    102.9    144.7
F. FInacIn
4.53    The total estimated cost of US$144.7 million for the ROCS-1
project is expected to be co-financed by the following multilateral and
bilateral institutionos EEC, KfW, SIDA, BADEA, CIDA, ODA, FINNIDA, IDF,
NORAD, ICEP, DANIDA, GTZ, SDC, UNCDF, UNDP, AfDB. Annez 4-15 shows a



- 53 -
matrix of components and co-financiers. For a number of components in
the program, donors have expressed interest in providing finance, but
have as yet been unable to finalize arrangements. In such cases
financing has been earmarked for IDA, but in line with its "donor of
last resort" strategy IDA is willing to step aside and let other donors
fund some of these components even after the project has begun. The
only component that IDA believes it definitely should fund is the
regulatory consultants for GAPROHARIDNH (para 4.24 (L) and item A.5i in
Annex 4-14.)
First Roads and Coastal Shipping Project
Financing Plan
DONOR                           US$ million        2
IDA                                           74.3           51.32
SIDA                                          10.9            7.5Z
UNDP                                           7.9            5.59
BADEA                                          6.1            4.22
EEC                                            2.7            1.92
FRANCE                                         2.6            1.82
UNCDF                                          2.5            1.72
SWISS                                          1.8            1.22
NORAD                                          1.7            1.2Z
OTHER FINANCIERS                              13.3            9.22
(AfDB, DANIDA, GERMANY, RSA, SPAIN, USAID)
MOZAMBIQUE                                    20.9           14.52
TOTAL                             144.7         100.02
0. Imlementation and Prolect Monitorint
4.54    Principal responsibility for project implementation will be
assigned by GOM to two of its existing ministries, Transport and
Cuommumications (MTC), and Construction and Water (MCA), through
DNM/GAPROMAR and DNEP, respectively. These ministries have provided IDA
with copies of ministeriel resolutions formally designating DNM and DNEP
as the GOM's units responsible for management and implementation of the
ROCS-1 project, with full authority for the National Director of DNM and
the Director of GAPROMAR to act on behalf of MTC, and for the National
Director of DNEP to act on behalf of MCA, on all project-related issues
applicable to the project components under the responsibility of each of
the individual ministries.
4.55    DNEP will be assisted by a general consultant (GC) and
DNHIGAPROHAR will be assisted by regulatory and supervision consultants
with responsibility for managing procurement, providing management
information systems, monitoring progress, supervising IDA's special
account and reviewing progress towards implementing policy reforms.
The roads GC will be contracted before credit effectiveness (see para
6.3) and one of its first tasks will be to agree objective performance
indicators for its area of technical assistance. Terms of reference for
the roads GC are included in Annex 4-2 and for the coastal shipping TA
in Annex 4-7.



-54 -
4.56    To facilitate overall coordination between IDA, GOH and other
co-financing donors, to coordinate the various project components and to
guide and assist as required in the preparation of subsequent transport
sector improvement projects, a transport management specialist (funded
by UNDP and other donors) will be assigned to the project as the Project
Coordinator for approximately three years, on secondment from IDA,
under an arrangement similar to a successful one implemented in 1990 for
the Integrated Roads Project (IRP) in Tanzania (Credit No. 2149-TA).
4.57    IDA has granted PPF advances of US$750,000, in June 1990, and
US$750,00 in August 1991 for feasibility studies and detailed
engineering. In addition IDA has agreed to retroactively finance up to
$500,000 of GOM expenditures towards preparing for implementation of the
project. As indicated below, preparation is well advanced for IDA-
financed components, beginning in the first two years of the project
period:
(i)   Roads: Detailed engineering is expected to be completed
by late 1992 for rehabilitating at least two of the eight
trunk roads for which feasibility studies have already
been undertaken or agreed. Funding for these design
services will be provided under ROCS-1 by IDA and by co-
financiers, to expedite implementation of ROCS-2.
(ii) Coastal Shipping: Detailed terms of reference for TA
positions have been agreed. The initial feasibility
studies for the project will be discussed with possible
port operators during the first supervision mission in
1993 and packaged to facilitate access to the credit,
which will be implemented along the same lines as other
IDA credits to increase the speed of implementation. The
regulatory and supervision technical assistance
consultants will be in place prior to any disbursements
being made for expenditures under this component (paras
6.2 vi and 6.4).
4.58    Annex 4-16 shows implementation charts for both the roads and
the coastal shipping components. Annex 4-17 shows the current status of
all components and key actions required over the next twelve months for
implementing the IDA-financed components. The IDA Credit is expected to
become effective by November 1992. The ROCS-1 project should be
physically completed bv December 31, 1997.
4.59    Because of the complexity of the project, the uncertainty of the
Mozambican environment, and the number of donors involved in parallel
financing, a Project Launch Workshop will be held in Mozambique once the
IDA Credit is declareid effective. DNEP and GAPROMAR directors and
senior staff, together with senior representatives from GOM, will have
the opportunity io review, in detail, all the project components
together with the participating donors, and agree on an action plan
similar te that included as Annex 4-16. In addition to GOM's annual
project review meetings with IDA and other participating donors, a
comprehensive mid-term review will be carried out by October 195, on
progress in implementing the project, which will be concluded with an



- 55 -
Implementation Review Workshop involving the same participants as above.
Agreement has been reached that the Government will conduct the
following workshops for the project: the Project Launch Workshop, annual
internal workshop, annual donors workshop, and, by October 1995, an
Implementation Review Workshop (para 6.2 i). The services of a
consultant to facilitate the Launch Workshop and the reviews will be
financed out of project funds.
H. Procurement
4.60    Procurement packages have been compiled with the aim of
obtaining the most economically efficient costs.
4.61    Procurement of equipment and non-proprietary spare parts from
IDA funds (US$50,000 equivalent per contract, up to total of US$300,000
equivalent) may be accomplished by prudent shopping from local or
internationcl suppliers (minimum of 3 quotations). Equipment and spare
parts of a proprietary nature for existing equipment (up to US$300,000
equivalent in contracts not to exceed US$50,000 equivalent each) may be
procured, with prior IDA agreement, by direct contracting.
4.62    Estimated civil works contracts are shown in Annex 4-22.  Where
justified the contracts will be packaged to allow International
Competitive Bidding (ICB). These are estimated to total about US$3.0
million equivalent, of which IDA will finance up to US$2.7 million, and
include the houses for DNEP consultants and facilities at the Industrial
Institute of Maputo (IIM). However, much of the IDA-financed civil and
building works (including quay rehabitation for the small ports)
comprises small contracts in widely dispersed locations to be
implemented by different organizations according to differing timescales
and are, therefore, difficult to package for ICB. Contracts of less
than US$700,000 equivalent, up to an aggregate amount of US$2.9 million,
of which IDA will finance up to US$2.6 million equivalent, may be
awarded by LCB procedures acceptable to IDA, which will include local
advertising, pre-qualification, public bid opening, specific criteria
for bid evaluation and award to the lowest evaluated bidder; foreign
firms, if interested, would not be precluded from bidding. The credit
will also allow minor building works of up to the equivalent of
US$20,000 each, up to an aggregate of US$100,000 equivalent, to be
conducted by force account, with prior IDA agreement, if they are too
small or remote to justify the mobilization of contractors. It is
anticipated, however, that in the normal course of events such force
account activity will not be required.
4.63    Consultants for IDA funded technical and managerial assistance,
and for studies (US$44.3 million equivalent), will be appointed in
accordance with IDA guidelines. Details of the technical assistance and
outline terms of reference are included in Annexes 4-1, 4-7, 4-21.
4.64    Given the great importance of skills development and training,
the project will finance part of the local costs for local training,
such as per diems and operating expenditures, up to an aggregate of the
equivalent of US$3.7 million. The credit line (US$5.8 million



- 56 -
equivalent) will operate on the same lines as the other credit lines
already in ezistence in Mozambique. Procurement under the credit line
will require at least three quotations for proposed investments over
US$100,000 equivalent, and full ICB for investments of over US$500,000
equivalent.
4.65    All goods packages above US$100,000 equivalent will be subject
to prior review by IDA, as will all consultant contracts and training
proposals, all civil works contracts of over US$250,000 equivalent, and
the first LCB contract regardless of size. This represents about 85Z of
IDA financing, which is considered satisfactory for the nature of goods
to be procured. Selective post review will be performed for about one
in four contracts outside of the prior review regulations. The packages
to be financed by various parallel co-financiers will be prepared
according to the practices or guidelines of the respective donors.
4.66    Procurement arrangements are suummarized as follows:
Summary Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
ICB     LCB     OTHER   NLA b  TOTAL
Civil Works                3.0     2.9       0.1     13.0     19.0
(2.7)   (2.6)    (0.1)             (5.4)
Equipment & Spare Parts                      0.6     16.5     17.1
(0.6)             (0.6)
Consultant Services                         45.3     23.8     69.1
(44.3)            (44.3)
other
Training Costs                             5.3      0.3      5.6
(3.7)             (3.7)
Credit Line                                6.5               6.5
(5.8)             (5.8)
PPF Refinancing                            1.5               1.5
(1.5)             (1.5)
Base Costs                 3.0     2.9      59.3     53.6    118.8
(2.7)   (2.6)   (56.0)            (61.3)
Contingencies              0.5     0.3      11.7     13.4     25.9
Grand Total                3.5      3.2     71.0     67.0    144.7
Al Figures in parentheses indicate financing by IDA.
hi Not applicable (includes bilateral donors).
r Disbursemnt
4.67    There are no comparable projects in Mozambique whose historical
disbursement profile may be followed. Initial disbursements will be



- 57 -
greater than historic levels for other projects in Mozambique due to
refund$ng of the PPF advance and the initial deposits into the Special
Accounts.   The Credit is expected to be fully disbursed by June 30,
1998. The IDA CredLt wvll be disbursed against the following
categoriess
Allocation and Disbursement of IDA Credit
(in US$ milllons)
IDA         Z of Expenditure
Category                    Amount       to be Financed
(1) Roads Components
(a)  Consultants' services     36.0         100X
(b)  Training                   3.1         100? foreign; 60Z local
(c)  Civil works                4.0          90?
(2) Coastal Shipping Components
(a)  Consultants' services      6.0         100?
(b)  Training                   0.6         100? foreign; 60X local
(c)  Fquipment, vehicles        0.3         100?
(d)  Civil works                1.5          90Z
(3) Trade Facilitation
(a)  Consultants'services       0.7         100X
(b)  Equipment and spare parts  0.2         100X
(4)  Line of Credit                   5.8         90X
(5)  Impl eme ntatlon and Audits      1.6        100?
(6)  Refunding of PPF                 1.5        Amount due
(7)  Unallocated                     13.0
TOTAL                           74.3
4.68    Disbursements for procurement of goods and works costing less
than US$50.000 equivalent may be made against statements of expenditures
(SOE).  Other disbursements will be made against standard documentation.
A revolving fund will be established for IDA funds in three Special
Accounts opened In foreign currency, one in the name of MCA (for roads
components and project launch workshop), one in the name of MTC/NOF (for
coastal shlpping and trade facllitatlon) and one for DM (for the small
ports credit line). Advances of US$ 3.5 million (MCA) and US$ 1.0
million (MTC) respectlvely from IDA funds into the Special Accounts will
be made after credit effectlveness, to cover about four months of
project expendLtures ellglble for IDA flnancing. Once the conditions of
dLsbursement for the credit line have been met (para 4.39, para 6.4), an
advance of US$1 mallion will be made to the BM Special Account. Speclal



- 58 -
Accounts will be replenished upon application for reimbursement by DNEP,
DM, and BM, together with appropriate supporting documentation.
4.69    GOM will provide adequate annual budget allocations for
recurrent expenditures associated with the project. Counterpart funds
will also be made available by the Government through its budgetary
allocations. Formal appropriation of the following year's allocations
will be agreed at each annual project review, including appropriate
provision to pay for Mozambican taxes and duties imposed on foreign
consultants employed under the project, which will be borne in their
entirety by GOM (para 6.2 xi). DNEP and DNM will manage all accounting
records and will prepare supporting documentation and SOEs.
J. Accounting. Auditint and Reporting
4.70    DNEP and DNMH/GAPROMAR will prepare brief monthly reports
tabulating physical and financial progress during the previous month,
and accumulated against agreed targets, and highlighting areas and
aspects which are causing problems, with recommendations for solving
them. These reports will be distributed within ten days of the end of
each month and will be the subject of the next management meetings of
DNEP and DNM. Minutes of these meetings will be attached to the
following monthly report, with comments indicating actions taken since
the last meeting. Every quarter the last three monthly reports will be
forwarded, with additional information, to all donors involved in the
ROCS-1 project. These quarterly reports will summarize the status of
each component and the degree of compliance with covenants and
agreements. They will also raise any issues of particular importance
for the donors. The format of these reports were agreed at negotiations
(para 6.2 xiv). Within six months of the closing of the credit, DNEP
and DNM/GAPROMAR wilL prepare a report on the implementation of the
project.
4.71    AnnuaL audits will be carried out by auditors acceptable to IDA
on the project accounts, including the Special Account and SOE's. Each
audit, together with a management letter for the agencies receiving
assistance under the project, will be sent to IDA and the other donors
within six months of the close of the fiscal year. The management
letter will include observations and recommendations of the auditor
regarding possible improvements in accounting and financial management
practices, and in operational control procedures (para 6.2 xiv).
K. Supervision
4.72    The project will require substantial resources for supervision.
The TOR for the general and supervisory consultants have been written to
include elements of supervision from the project side9 so as to reduce
as far as possible IDA resources required for supervision. A summary of
IDA requirements for the supervision of this project is included in
Annex 4-18.



- 59 -
V. UCONOSIC JUSTIMICAtIO1 AND RISKS
A. Prolect Justification
5.1     The Project i  aimed at building the institutional capacity and
policy environment to ensure that GOM has the capability to effectively
manage the transport sector in the next century. It is an integrated
package of sectoral policy reforms, institutional reorganization and
strengthening, manpower development, and limited investments, directed
to Initiating the long process of rehabilitation and maintenance of the
surface transport infrastructure in Hozambique. The Project, and its
envisaged successors, are justified byt (i) the contribution they will
make to the overall performance of the economy through: (a) a reduction
in the costs of transport over the entire farm-gate to market-place
network, and (b) an increase in transportation capacity over the
network, that, without the projects, would continue to be a bottleneck
to economic development; (ii) the depth and breadth of policy reforms
and institutional changes which are being undertaken by GOM, which will
ensure that the improvements are more sustainable; and (iii) the high
economic benefits expected to be generated by the individual investments
to be undertaken.
5.2     ROCS-1 is the first of three planned operations and is aimed
primarily at building the initial institutional capacity required to lay
the ground work for the projects that will follow.
S. Roads Compoents
5.3     As described in Chapter IV, the feasibility studies, final
design and preparation of tender documents for the rehabilitation of
some fourteen trunk-road sections will be financed under the ROCS-1
Project (feasibility studies for half of these are already completed).
with the actual rehabilitation works and supervision expected to be
financed under the subsequent ROCS-2 project. Technical and economic
analyses of seven of these priority sub-projects are available in the
Project file and demonstrate the economic viability of proposed
rehabilitation works (see para 5.6 for details).
5.4     Benefitss  The direct benefits from the rehabilitation and
maintenance of the priority trunk-road sections will be a reduction in
vehicle operating costs (voc)5/, which will, in turn, be translated
Into lower transport costs for the movement of agricultural products and
Inputs. Much of the rehabilitation work envisaged is, in fact, major
"deferred maintenance. If this were not to take place, deterioration
of the existing pavement infrastructure would continue to accelerate,
further increasing voc and significantly increasing the cost of future
5/      Forecasts of reduct.ons are based on common assumptions for the
vehicle operation data, cost of inputs, and a common analytical
model (Highway Design and Maintenance Standards Model (HDM).



- 60 -
rehabilitation. Ancillary benefits, from improved access and mobility,
not taken into account in the economic analysis, Includes (i) the
stimulation of production In areas which had limited access prior to
rehabilitation; (11) year-around access In areas which are now isolated
during the rainy seasons and (iii) reduced spoilage and losses caused by
lack of timely transport services. Additionally, since rural road
maintenance Is by nature labor intensive, it will generate substantial
employment opportunities and provide a steady income to many local
inhabitants. Since project works will be spread widely throughout
Mozambique, most parts of the country will benefit from the employment
generated by the Project.
5.5     Costst The economic analysis, which utilizes suitable shadc-w
pricing, includes routine and periodic maintenance costs at a level
sufficient to ensure that estimated road-user savings from improved
surfaces will indeed be realized   There is, unfortunately, considerable
uncertainty over likely rehabilitation costs because the only existing
pertinent data in Mozambique are the administrative rates used by the
1CM0Ps and some small periodic-maintenance contracts. There is little
reliable data on internationally competitive rates since there have teen
very few road contracts awarded to international firms in the country
for the last fifteen years. Base rehabilitation costs have been
estimated from limlted current local data as well as recent civil works
contracts In neighboring countries.
5.6    Sconomic Viability: Average daily traffic levels on most of the
roads under consideration are very low at present (less than 500 vpd).
This is due primarily to the security situation, which limits traffic to
daylight hours and sometimes to convoys escorted by heavily armed
soldiers, and also to current low levels of agricultural production and
the poor condition of most roads. Therefore, the most important
variable in determining the required level of rehabilitation of these
roads, and the economic viability thereof, is the assumed rate of
recovery of traffic. Without an increase in traffic levels, substantial
new investments would not be viable. In order to maximize the
likelihood that investment in road rehabilitation will at least be
viable, even if not always optimal, and to Ostretch available resources
as far as possible', it has been agreed to limit initial rehabilitation
work on the major trunk roads to the preservation of pavement and
shoulder integrity and some reduction of surface roughness. This will
be accomplished generally through heavy patching and bituminous surface
treatment, and sm drainage rehabilitation or improvement, with
reconstruction of short sections of pavement which are severely damaged.
Geomtric design standards for these roads vill be kept to the original
'as-built' standards. Only when peace returns, traffic significantly
Increases and becomes more predictable, and an effective road
maintenance organization is in place, will full SATCC road design
standarde be adopted.
5.7     Based on minimal rehabilitation works and reasonable assumptions
as to future traffic volumes, the feasibility analyses indicate that all
Project roadworks vill have an economic rate-of-return in excess of the
estimted opportunity cost of capital (122). For ease of analy3is it
has been assumed in the base case that traffic will gradvally recover to



- 61 -
historical (1975) levels within three to five years after completion of
rehabilitation, and then grow at moderate rates typical of those in the
Southern Africa sub-region. Sensitivity analyses were performed to test
the impact oft (i) variations from the basic rehabilitation costs; (ii)
variations from the initial normal-traffic volumess and (iii) the effect
of delayed opening of the rehabilitated road (not done on all sections).
The economic indicators on individual sections are satisfactory and
relevant data are shown in Annex 5-1.
Feeder Roads Program
5.8     The total length of  feeder, roads to be rehabilitated under the'
Feeder Roads Program (ERP) is expected to be at least 4,000 km in the
forty currently designated priority districts within GOM's Priority
District Program (PDP). This is estimated to be about 30 percent of the
kilometrage of secondary and tertiary (feeder) roads in these districts,
and approximately 15 percent of the national total. The first phase of
the FRP, comprising about 2,400 km in 22 districts, at a total cost of
about US$ 37 million, has been included in ROCS-1. This component is
funded entirely by various donors other than IDA.
5.9     Given the large number of individual roads and the scarcity of
relevant data, a detailed economic analysis cannot be conducted for each
segment of feeder road. Instead, a general analysis has been performed
comparing typicaV costs for feeder-road rehabilitation in Mozambique,
by labor-based methods, with typical benefits. This shows that, on
average, significant economic returns are attainable, as indicated in
the table belows
Economic Rat. of Rturne|
Care / day  With1t     With
Convoy      Convoy
100      1453        1203
40       s1X         523
20       143_
5.10    In addition, a few *sample* roads have been analyzed in more
detail. As an ex mple, a summary of the analysis for the fairly heavily
travelled Mbaize-Romoine Romd section (25km), which has a base case ERR
of 174Z is shown in Annex 5-1.
5.11    Experience from other countries has shown that rehabilitation
works of the kind envisaged in this project generally generate rates of
return of at least 302 to 40S. provided that 'appropriate' investments
are made and some form of screening of projects is employed. To ensure
that rehabilitation work will be economically viable, it has been
agreed to use standard criteria to screen the selection of specific
roads to be rehabilitated, within the priority districts designated by
the GON, based on factors related to anticipated costs and benefits.
These selection criteria are set out in Annex 4-5.



- 62 -
C. Coastal Shiln4ina Coiamemts
5.12    Most of the coastal shipping investments included in the ROCS-1
Project will be implemented either through the credit line or through
the private sector. As described in Chapter IV. the credit line will
include a requirement that a full financial analysis be provided for all
projects, and that all projects of over US$250,000 will have a rate of
return of greater than 122. Since the private sector will be repaying
the loans associated with these investments, it is believed that the
resources will be prudently invested. Furthermore, a preliminary
analysis of the major investments (available in the project file)
reveals that there are sufficient investments that generate a
satisfactory ERR to justify the credit line. A summary of this
analysis, port-by-port and investment-by-investment, is shown in Annex
5-2.
5.13    Benefits  The economic benefits of port investments and
improvements fall into three main categories:
ii)   Reduction in ship's stay time in the ports
(ii) reduction in damage and pilferage to goods; and
(iiI) net value of increased production.
5.14   Cost:s  The preliminary economic analysis includes the costs of:
(i) investments in infrastructure and equipment; (ii) maintenance of new
infrastructure and equipment; (iii) changes in operational costs; and
(iv) other improvement costs (administration, technical assistance).
All cost and benefits were calculated in real terms in US dollars.
Economic cost were used, which, inter alia, means that: (i) cost of
local labor is evaluatvjd at 302 of its financial costs; and (ii) a
ashadow exchange rate of 2,00OHt - US$l was used. The analysis was
conducted one item (or package of items if they need to be regarded
jointly) at a time to ensure that each incremental item was economically
justifiable.
D. Technical Assistance and Training
5.15   Technical assistance and training are expected to have a
generally beneficial effect on all roads and coastal shipping
activities, but the quantitative benefits have not been determined. At a
most fundamental level, without the technical assistance and training
being provided under this project, the implementation of a future
investment and maintenance program will be difficult, if not impossible.
The net benefits from this future program will outweigh the costs of the
technical assistance and training provided under this project. As can
be seen in Annex 5-1, rehabilitation of the seven road sections for
which analysis has been completed shows an aggregate net present value
(at 122) of about $65 million, roughly equal to the estimated cost of
all the institutional support to be provided under this project,
including coastal shipping.



- 63 -
5.16   The policy changes to be implemented with technical assistance
and training under the Project should help to mobilize some US$10
million to US$30 million of additional (largely private) capital in the
coastal shipplng sector, regardless of the ultimate structure of the
sector. In addition, reform of the Government's role in the trucking
industry could encourage additional donor and private funding of at
least $30 million in that industry. Furthermore, it is believed that
the awarding of concessions for the management of mall ports could lead
to an increase in productivity of at least 15-20S over current levels.
5.17   It is recognized that the technical assistance proposed is
expensive, and should be phased out as rapidly as GOM agencies acquire
the ability to plan and monitor the execution of future programs in
these sub-sectors without such assistance. Hence there is great
emphasis on training, to minimize the time during which MHozambique will
need to depend on expensive foreign technical assistance.
R. Impact on Areas of Special Attention
Poverty Reduction
5.18   Poverty reduction in rural areas will be achieved through:
(i)   increased access to markets, at lower cost, and hence
higher incomes for farmers. Average rural farm incomes
are expected to increase as a result of the Project.
Estimated increases in rural per-family income is one of
the key criteria for selection of feeder road sub-
projects. To the fullest practicable extent, local
consultation and involvement in feeder road selection will
be encouraged;
(ii) the generation of about 16,800 full-time equivalent
unskilled rural iobs on labor-based feeder road
rehabilitation and about 1,000 full-time road maintenance
jobs as lengtbmen. The ease with which crews have been
recruited for labor-based feeder road rehabilitation and
maintenance pilot projects undertaken in Mozambique with
the support of UNDP/ILO and GTZ, and the length of waiting
lists for positions on crews, are indications of the level
of existing unemployment and the extent to which this
project will provide much needed employment. Given the
need to find employment for demobilized soldiers, this
employment could contribute to the enhancement of
political stability in Mozambique. Guidelines based on
successful pilot projects in-country will be followed for
the size, composition and eqi;lpping of crews, and
recruitment and remuneration of crew members.
Remuneration will be at the official minimum wage. All
work will be on a task basis, allowing workers adequate
time to attend to other activities such as farming. Crew
formation will be done locally to enhance the feeling of
ownership of the YRP. Crew numbers, composition and



- 64 -
accomplishments will be monitored during supervision of
the Project; and
(iii) the support that the ROCS projects will give to the
overall growth of the Mozambican economy, and the
availability of lower cost produce in urban markets.
Role of Women and Other Traditionally Disadvantaged Groups
5.19   The labor-based, feeder-road pilot projects have overcome
initial shyness and have increased the employment of women on feeder-
road rehabilitation and maintenance crews to about 1SZ. This item will
be included in the reporting requirements of the Project and will be
monitored during supervision. Guidelines for the participation of women
in road works are included in the Project file.
5.20   Forty percent of the participants in the pilot labor-based
feeder roads projects are Ideslocadosl (displaced persons due to war and
famine) and many more are returning miners. The ROCS projects will also
provide jobs for demobilized army personnel in the future.
Environmental Impact
5.21   The Project involves rehabilitation of feeder roads and small
coastal ports. Its successors will involve increasing amounts of road
and port rehabilitation and, consequently, major civil works including
some earthwork which may have a negative impact on the environment,
particularly on the coastal areas. Therefore, ROCS-1 and its successor,
ROCS-2, have been classified as Category B projects from the
environmental standpoint and all feasibility studies include an impact
assessment and recommended design and construction measures to prevent
eventual negative impacts from disposal of channel dredging materials,
road excavation and borrow operations, coastal erosion, etc.
5.22   Environmental guidelines for port and road rehabilitation and
maintenance were agreed at negotiations. Application of these
guidelines will be compulsory for all road and port investments of over
US$1 million, and environmental reporto will form part of the annual
reporting requirements (para 6.2 v).
5.23   The environmental issues identified in relation to the feeder
roads and small ports components of ROCS-1 include direct and indirect
negative impacts. Expected direct impacts would result primarily from
civil works and other construction-related activities. The indirect
impacts would result if improving transport and shipping efficiency were
to promote non-sustainable exploitation of valuable or fragile
resources, leading to resources depletion and degradation of important
ecosystems. The envlronmental impact studies presented for both coastal
shipping and roads lead to the conclusion that the direct negative
impacts should be negligible at the proposed levels of rehabilitation
and/or improvement. The indirect impacts are more pertinent to both
components, but are difficult to estimate vith the level of information
available. ROCS-1 and subsequent projects, nonetheless, would include
the necessary provisions to counteract or mitigate both direct and



- 65 -
Indirect Ispacts, as part of th  Einal design process.  Annex 5-3
presents key conclusions and recomendations on the environmental Lssues
for both roads and coastal shipping.
5.24   With due care, road and small ports rehabilitation and/or
improvement will contribute to improvlng envLroonmtal conditions within
specific areas, and help increase environmental awareness of GOM and the
affected populations.
The Private Sector
5.25    The reform of the transport sector in Mozamblque will include a
number of initiatives to increase the patticlpatLon of the private
sector (do estLc and forelgn) in civll works for rehabilitation and
maintenance, port operations, and direct investment in shipping and
trucking.
5.26   Through contracting out of the major civil works, the capacity
of the nascent prlvate construction Industry wILl be greatly enhanced.
TechnLcal assistance to ensure that such contracting is performed
efficiently, and the strengthening of management system and procedures
wLthin DNIP, wlll further strengthen the private sector. Furthermore,
finacing is included in the Project to train local road contractors
(LRC) in the necessary business and managemnt skLils, and GOH lntends
to gradually transfer the mnagement of its road equipment fleet
(currently with the  CMHEPs) to the private sector.
5.27    The proposed 'road transport industry development program" will
target private-sector advancement through:
(i)   developing guLdelines for shifting the balance of the
trucking industry from the public to the prlvate sector,
including assessing the financing needs, procedures and
Intermediaries to effect privatLzatLon. VarLous
alternatlves to outrlght prlvatlzation will be examlned,
from full scale privatization of parastatal fleets, at one
extreme, to sub-contracting maagement, maintennce and
training functions to private-sector organizations, on the
other extreme (including leasing and concessions); and
(ii)  developing guidelines for the liberalization of
regulatLons and other current restrictions on private-
sector road transport actlvLtLes, including the
development of cost-based tariffs and regulatory
guldelines to encourage transport growth, whlle keeping
GO involvement in road transport actlvLtLes to a mlnium.
5.28    The development of a more efflclent coastal shipping industry is
predlcated on a more substantLal role for the prlvate sector. The
techaLcal assistance provided in thLs project will help to facllitate
prlvate-sector partlclpation in coastal shipping and encourage the entry
into the market of new private-sector enterprises, as demand warrants.



- 66 -
5.29   Port ooerations will effectively be transferred to the private
sector under the Project through the award of concessions for the
management of the small ports.
5.30   Technical assistance will be provided under the Project to the
commercial banks, to facilitate implementation of the credit line. This
will have an impact on increasina the role of the private sector beyond
the scope of this proiect.
F. Prolect Risks
5.31   There are significant risks associated with the Project,
relating to three broad areas (i) the difficult security situation;
(ii) the weak institutional capacity in Mozambique; and (iii)
competition for both local and foreign financing.
Security
5.32   The main risk stems from the difficult security situation in
Mozambique. The first element is the possibility that field studies for
final design of road rehabilitation, and subsequently the actual civil
works, will come under attack. Experience has shown that, with well-
planned military support, these risks can be minimized. Other donors
have managed this risk by financing GOM security forces which protect
the campsites from being attacked. However, possible disruptions are to
be expected. In addition, selection of roads to be rehabilitated in any
given period will depend in part on the fluid security situation.
5.33   The second implication of the insecurity is the impact that it
will have on agricultural recovery. Depending on how peace develops,
the rate and pattern of agricultural recovery may differ, and hence the
need for transport services in particular areas may vary. To overcome
this risk the project has the built-in flexibility for making
investments, such as through the selection criteria for feeder roads to
be rehabilitated, and the use of the credit line to finance small port
investments.
5.34   Furthermore, as set out in Chapter I, if the transport
infrastructure is not rehabilitated, then the likelihood for peace is
more remote. In any case, the physical investments recommended to be
made are valid in both war and peace, and the policy reforms and
institutional development included in this project are essential
building blocks for restoring the prosperity of the country. Since
building this institutional capacity is a long term process, the sooner
the process starts the better.
Institutional Capacity
5.35   There are risks that Implementation of the Project will be
delayed by the existing weak institutional capacity within Mozambique.
Indeed, it is these institutional weaknesses that the Project is
explicitly designed to address. The key risk elements in this area are:



- 67 -
(i)   delays stemoing from inability to adhere to agreed
grocurement schedules due to administrative-financial
bottlenecks in the GOM instLtutions involved vith the
project and in the Banco de Mocambique. Policy changes
aimed at reducing these risks have been built into the
Project. Significant *implementation technical
assistance wili be required as conditions of
effectiveness or of disbursement (paras 6.3 and 6.4);
(ii) delays in the implementation of policy reform. Although
GOM is committed to reform, it lacks the analytical
capacity to readily set out the options for reform and to
implement them. Significant technical assistance has been
included and a large degree of IDA supervision is
envisaged to assist GOH in this area. The other risk is
that, in the short term, political uncertainty will lead
to a decision making paralysis in which no one is willing
or able to make difficult decisions. Covenants will be
included in the DCA to increase the incentives for
implementing the most critical policy reforms required;
(iii) lack of maintenance equipment and qualified manpower. To
minimize this, maintenance of rehabilitated roads during
the life of the Project will be performed by contract,
with annual work programs being agreed and paid for on the
basis of unit prices for actual quantities of work
performed.  To attract regional contractors, appropriate
long-term contracts (up to five years) will be designed
for maintenance of trunk roads;
(iv) lack of suitably qualified staff to train may hinder the
training program and retaining trained staff within the
government may be difficult. The proposed capacity
building program, and the emphasis on basic training for
both roads and shipping staff, should improve the basic
skills of staff to be trained in technical areas.
Ensuring that training will lead to recognized diplomas
and to greater chance for advancement will help to retain
good staff, but in any case, provided that the retrained
staff remain in the country, training will not be lost to
Mozambique even if trained staff leave the Government.
5.36    The Project includes significant technical assistance
components. Given the poor long-term results of many technical
assistance programs in Africa, there is some risk that these components
will not meet their objectives. However, project design has taken full
account of experiences under TA projects in Africa as described in the
recent OED Report No. 8573: Free-standing Technical Assistance for
Institutional Development in Sub-Saharan Africa, as is shown in the
table belows



_ 68 -
MaJor Recoesendation                        Actions taken In this Projest
Torm  of  teference: TO  should be         TOR have boe  agred with 01M for *11 required
spelled out in  onlidrable dabtail wlth    roads TA and final dsign o  road sub-project.
timtoble and reult. exp cOte.  Studies   Draft TOR have ben eompletd nd discussed
should only be undertakes  with the full    with 00  for othor project componont
support of the Governmet; should be         Preparatlon ot TOR for 9me, additlonal studies
actlon oriented (and not excuses for        will be done under the lmplemontation phas.
Inaction); and should be properly          Sank e view of critical output. has been
supervised by the Bank.                     nacorporated. and implemetotion of result. has
een ineluded whare applicable as conditions of
disbursement or procssIng of subsequent ROCS
prolects.
fTrin!n: Clear guidelines should be         Training policy statement., acceptable to IDA,
iibllished for training and agroed with   have been adopted by both DNEP and
Government.  Training within Africa Is      DNU/GAPROMAR.  Initial target. for numbers of
encouraged since It Is cheper.  Other       staff to be trained each year have been agroed
donors should be used wherever possible    and will be monitored during each annual
to fund grant..                             review.  Other donors wlll oarticinate.
SuDervilont Intensive superviolon io        Th  minimum requird supervision resources are
r-quired b7yftnk staff.  For complox TA    set out In Annex 4-16.  Theo  aere discuossd
projects more supervision resources are    with the country team.a  the yllow coor
required than  llow ed for by the normal    review and agreement was reached on levole of
Sank coefficient.  It should not be         funding for  ank supervision to be included in
considee d abnor ml to alter the course    the Country Asslstance Manag me nt (CAM) during
of project. as the situation demands,       the Implem_ention period of the project.
Annual and mid-term reviews have been Included
to allow for change  In the direction of the
projoct In response to change In the highly
_______________________________volatile Mozambican context.
Use of Consultant.s Slnce consultants       Specific TOR have bee  developed  and close
account for  ignificant cost overruns       monltorlng will be ensured, partly through the
care should be taken to ensure that jobs  assignment of a resident transport speclalist
are cowleted properly and on tel            from IDA staff as Project Coordinator.
Key Indicators of Performance:              Thes will be Included In the agreed work
pro" I for each TA position, to Include not
only 4 ) tangible outputs for each aslin mnt,
but also mesures of transfer of expertis 4o
_th  Mozambican countergarts.
Definition of the Bank's Roloe  The         The ROCS project. combine the activities of all
Bank'c rol- *hould be clearly defined       t3onorc In the sector In an Integrated mnner.
vIl a via other donors.                     IDA's role has been to: (I) ensure that all tho
important aroe  have bee  covered; (II) draft
the TOR for all mjor assignments; (i1l) fund
thos re ulatory TA positions where IDA's
*nutrality' Is Important. IDA esentially has
bee carrying out a coordinating role for tho
donors in the sector.
Prosoct Co-ordination: TA will require      General consultants have been provided for both
rgniaid ae proj c  co-ordinotlon.           ro  and coastal shipping.  On  of their clear
reponslbilitles In to establish a system for
the monlitorno of TA performnce and co-
ordination. Training coordinators have also
been provided. A senlor transport specialist
will be seconded from IDA to GW to help manage
the Interface betw n the different pollcy
element. tO ensure that TA io *on track. The
specialist will alse     s o let 00  with the
coordinatlon of donors In the sector.
Institutionol Strateuies should be          Thi  project Is the first mjor step in a 15-
clearly *pelled out well In advance of      yar Institutional developmnt paroc        nd is
the start of the technical assistance      bCood on an alredy agreed Instutional
progrm.                                     strategy for each sub-sector that will Involve
moving the govern_nt out of the direct
provision of services and Into a stronger
planning and supervision role. Training and
technical assistance have ben Integrated to
ensure that local training picks up where the
.TA lves off.



- 69 -
Fundint
5.37   The Project, and subsequent ROCS projects, are a multi-year
endeavor. To be fully successful, they require on-going funding for the
capacity building components and for the physical investments for many
years to come, both from local resources and from international donors.
In particular:
(C)   since the institutional and human resource development
technical as3istance covered under this project is only
the first phase of a proposed 15-year manpower development
program for the transport sector, adequate resources will
have to be dedicated to this sector after the projects are
completed in order for the desired results to be achieved;
(ii) once peace returns, competing priorities may result in the
availability of matching local funds (GOM contribution)
being limited and, hence, delaying implementation of some
rehabilitation or improvement. Donors will need to stand
ready to finance additional local expenditures, if
required; and
(iii) both before and after peace, significant donor funding
will be required for the road sub-sector. The risk to
overcome is that some donors might either reduce their
comitment to Mozambique or to the transport 3ector.
5.38    Other elements of the projects which will contribute to
reduction of the financing risks are: ,i) the gradual introduction of
cost recovery into the training program; (ii) the full implementation of
the Road Maintenance Pund; (iii) the introduction of cost-based tariffs
for port operations and shipping; (iv) reforma aimed at making the
sector more attractive for the private sector; (v) the phasing out of TA
with increased emphasis on local training (over time); and (vi) an
integrated strategy to keep donors well infonred on accomplishments of
the projects (reporting and annual reviews), focussed on the critical
issues, and interested in continuing to assist Mozambique.
5.39   The DCA will include requirements that GOM cousult with IDA
prior to undertaking any road investments having an estimated cost of
over US$4 million, or any coastal shipping investments costing more than
US$2 million, which are not included in this project.



- 70 -
VI. AGRRIUUYS RACMED AND RZCOMIINDATIONS
A.  Agreemsnts Reached at Negotiations
6.1    During negotiations areements were reached with GOM on the
following matters:
(i)    a Project launch workshop vill be conducted following
credit effectiveness, a comprehensive mid-term review
will be carried out in October 1995, and &n,ual reviews
will be conducted beginning one year after credit
effectiveness (para 4.59). During these reviews, any
necessary adjustments agreed upon will be introduced in
connection with the implementation of:
(a)   improvements in the policy, legal and regulatory
framework (paras 2.20, 2.25-29, 3.16 and 3.18),
(to be developed with the assistance of
consultants to be employed under the Project);
(b)   the scope and effectiveness of Project training
programs (paras 4.10-12 and 4.26-27);
Cc)   the credit line for improvement of small ports
(paras 4.28, 4.35 and 4.37);
Cd)   recommendations from studies relative to roads
infrastructure (Annex 4-1), road transport (Annez
4-6) and intermodal facilitation (Annex 4-13); and
Ce)   measures to ensure efficient utilization of
Project TA, including appropriate transfer of
technology to local counterparts (Annex 4-20)g
Cii)   cost-based tariff policies for coastal ports and
shipping (para 3.27), with provision for periodic
updating, will be agreed with IDA and adopted by GOM by
no later than one year after credit effectiveness;
(iii)  action plans and timetables, acceptable to IDA, will be
prepared by GOM and submitted to IDA as indicated below:
(a)   implementation of the Road Maintenance Fund, with
respect to national non-urban roads (paras 2.17,
2.35 and 4.7), not later than one year after
credit effectiveness;
(b)   restructuring of all coastal shipping companies
owned by GOM, or by any of its state-owned
enterprises, and adoption of a policy allowing
full private-sector access to the coastal shipping
feeder service market (para 3.25), not later than



- 71 -
one year after credit effectiveness and prior to
the first annual Project review;
(c)   transfer of responsibility for administration of
the small ports from CYH to DNH/GAPROHAR Cparas
3.10 and 3.28), within siz months after credit
effectiveness;
(d)   development of guidelines applicable to the
negotiation and award by GOH of management and/or
concession contracts (para 3.27), by no later than
six months following credit effectiveness;
(e)   divestiture of own-account trucking fleets by all
relevant state-owned enterprises (para 2.19),
within one year after credit effectiveness and
prior to the first annual Project review;
(f)   removal of existing tariff and entry barriers for
long-distance road-transport freight services
(paras 4.19 and 5.27), within one year of credit
effectiveness and before the first annual Project
review;
(g)   adoption of policy measures to encourage the
development of private sector maintenance and
repair workshop capacity (paras 2.32 and 4.19),
not later than one year after credit effectiveness
and before the first annual Project review; and
(h)   ensuring Hozambique's membership in the
International Harine Pollution Convention-MARPOL
73/7a (Annez 5-3), within one year of
effectiveness of the credit;
(iv)   GOH will adopt a policy commitment conducive to full
competitiveness in the coastal shipping transport sub-
sector not later than one year after credit
effectiveness and before the first annual Project review
(para 3.16);
(v)    GOH shall take all necessary measures during
implementation of the project tos
(a)   not undertake any proposed investment in the roads
sub-sector estimated to cost more than US$4
million equivalent, nor any proposed investment in
the domestic shipping/port sub-sector estimated to
cost more than US$2 million equivalent, unless
such investment has an estimated economic rate-of-
return of at least 12Z, taking into account soclo-
economic criteria acceptable to IDA (paras 5.7 and
5.12) and, prior to implementation. to submit such



- 72 -
proposed investment to IDA for its review and
comment (para 5.39); and
(b)   have carried out an environmental assessment and
to have adopted design standards and construction
methods aimed at minimizing possible adverse
environmental impact, before undertaking any new
road or smll-port investment project estimated to
cost more than US$1 million equivalent, in
accordance with environmental guidelines
satisfactory to IDA (para 5.22 and Annex 5-3), and
with available CNA guidelines;
(vi)   the appointment and retention throughout Project
implementation of GOM's Key Project Management Staff
(plus suitable counterparts--see paras 3.32 and 4.8),
including the General Consultant (GC) for roads (para
.4.8), the Regulatory and Supervisory Consultants for
coastal shipping (paras 3.32 and 4.24), the resident
Project Coordinator (para 4.56), and the Transport and
Trade Facilitation Committee (Annex 4-13). Training
consultants and TA for the DEPs also will be retained
for the length of time agreed necessary;
(vii)  GOM, through DNH/GAPROHAR, will issue coastal-shipping
training guidelines (to be developed with the assistance
of TA provided under the project) (para 3.40), within
one year of credit effectiveness;
(viii) the scope and progress of Project-financed training
programs (paras 4.10 and 4.26) to be evaluated during
the annual Project reviews;
5is)   on-lending arrangements, eligibility criteria, sub-loan
processing procedures, lending terms and conditions, the
interest rate mechanism, and disbursement status for the
small-ports credit line (paras 4.30, 4.36, 4.37 and
4.39), to be evaluated during the annual Project
reviews;
(z)    implementation of policy, legal and regulatory reform in
the coastal shipping sub-sector (para. 3.18), to be
completed on or before the Project's October 1995 mid-
term review;
(xi)   0OM will provide adequate and timely annual budget
allocations for Project recurrent expenditures and
counterpart financing during each year of
Implementation. Formal appropriation of the following
year's 0OM allocation to be agreed at each annual
Project review, including appropriate provision to pay
for Mozambican income taxes of foreign consultants
employed on the Project, which will be borne in their
entirety by GOM (para 4.69);



- 73 -
(zii)  GOM will formally adopt and implement improved
procurement and materials management procedures (paras
2.13 and 2.26) on or before the October 1995 mid-term
review, in accordance with studies carried out by GOM;
(ziii) GOM will initiate action to implement reconmmendations of
the Project-financed equipment evaluation study. by no
later than one year after credit effectiveness and
before the first annual Project review (paras 2.11-12
and 2.28); and
(ziv)  GOM will adopt Project reporting, auditing and
monitoring procedure. acceptable to IDA, including
maintenance of all Project accounting in dollars, and
the timely preparation and submission of quarterly and
annual financial reports, and of external audits within
six months from the end of each fiscal year (paras 4.70-
71).
B. Conditions of Credit Effectiveness
6.2    An agreed condition of effectiveness is that the General
Consultant to DNEP is to have been selected, under TOR and other terms
and conditions satisfactory to IDA (paras 2.27 and 4.8).
C.  Conditions of Disburs em nt
6.3    Primary conditions for disbursement for all categories relating
to Coastal Shipping are: (i) that IDA receive satisfactory memoranda of
understanding between GOM and the bilateral development agencies of
Norway and France, setting out the specific elements in the coastal
shipping sub-sector that would be financed by each agency and expressing
concurrence with the World Bank's role in seid sub-sector; and (ii) that
GOM has selected regulatory and supervision consultants, under TOR and
other terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. Additional conditions of
disbursement cf the credit line funds for the coastal ports:
(i)    for disbursement to the Bank of Mozambique/Central (para
4.39):
(a)     a subsidiary administration agreement to be
entered into between GOM and BM/Central on terms
and conditions approved by IDA;
(b)     signed and authorized participation agreements
(satisfactory to IDA) entered into by BM/Central
and at least two participating financial
institutions (PFI) under which the proceeds of
the credit line will be lent to such PFI for on-
lending to finance sub-projects in the small
ports; and



- 74 -
(c)     GOM to have adopted a policy committing itself
to the award of long-term renewable contracts
for the management of small ports, acceptable to
IDA; and
(ii)   for disbursement by a PFI to a port operator for
investments in one of the small ports, presentation of
an executed management contract acceptable to IDA for
that individual port (para 4.28).
D. Recommendation
6.4    On the basis of the above actions, conditions and agreements,
the proposed project vould be suitable for an IDA credit of SDR54.1
million (US$74.3 million equivalent).



- 75 -
ANNEX 1 - 1
Page 1 of 2
MOZAMBIQUE
FIRST ROADS AND COASTAL SHIPPING PROJECT
MAJOR POLICY RECOUENDATIONS OF TEE TRANSPORT SECTOR REVIEW
1.        There are several key respects in which transport equipment
utillation can be enhanced, with consequential reductions both in the
demand for additional capacity and in vehicle operating costs. With
respect to state enterprises:
(i)    they should be directed increasingly to hire services
from the private sector. This would reduce the
existing severe under-utilization in the state sector,
and foster the professionalization and role of the
public and private for-hire operators;
(ii)   they should increase utilization and back-haul capacity
of their own-account fleets by providing for-hire
services on their return trips, and during their down-
times or off-peak periods;
Miii) GOM ministries should be made accountable for the
fleets of their state enterprises and should direct
them to treat the transport fleets as cost/profit
centers; and
{iv)  when the security constraint is alleviated, own-account
operators such as AGRICOM and DPCCN should be required
to phase out or significantly reduce their own fleets.
2.        With respect to the ezercise of Government controls over the
iaik@tt
Ci)   restrictive licensing should be eliminated to allow the
own-account fleets of rural traders and state
enterprises to be used for the transportation of goods
and passengers:
(Li)   registration fees and vehicle licenses should be
increased in order to encourage improved utilization of
the vehicle stock, and should be uniformly applied to
all owners, with the scale of user charges being
related to the power, size and weight of the vehicle;
and
(Lii) private transporters should be accorded the same rights
and privileges as state enterprises, particularly those
enjoyed by TRANSCAIGA.



- 76 -
AM011 I - I
Page 2 of 2
3.        The principal objective of the allocation of trucking capacity
should be to incorporate all types of vehicles, employed in the
productive and distributive sectors of the economy, into the System for
the Non-administrative Allocation of Foreign Exchange (SNAAD). There
would be two additional requirements in this caset
Mi)    only vehicle dealers certified by the Ministry of
Transport and Communications (HTC) as able to operate
or have access to an adequate maintenance network would
be eligible, and
(ii)   dealers would have to comply with MTC's provincial
quotas to ensure an equitable regional distribution.
4.        Tariff policy should be Luided by the following principles:
Mi)    for the intercity market, the introduction of total
deregulation in the short term may be premature since
there are currently insufficient private transporters
to guarantee competitions
(ii)   the fundamental principle should be to set tariffs so
that they fully cover the long-run marginal costs of
the operation plus appropriate contribution for
overhead nd profit: they should reflect both the type
of infrastructure, the trip durations, and the added
cost and risk of operating in rural areas; and
Ciii)  the tariffs should be updated regularly to reflect cost
changes and should only require the ex-post approval.
Civ)   when the number of transporters in each province is
sufficient to guarantee adequate competition, intercity
tariffs should be completely deregulated.
5.        Other policy msasures should focus on:
Ci)    Government divestiture from transport parastatals and
the creation of an enabling environment to attract more
private operators in the sector;
(ii)   a road fund to ensure that financing is provided on a
regular basis for the rehabilitation and maintenance of
the road system;
(iii)  redirecting donor attention to the road and coastal
shipping sub-sectors; and
(iv)   continuation of the transport manpower development and
training program started with the Beira Transport
Corridor Project (Credit 2065-HOZ).



- 77 -
ANNAX 1 - 2
Page 1 of 3
MOZAMBIQUE
FIRST ROADS AND COASTAL SHIPPING PROJECT
PAST AND CURRENT PROJECTS IN MOZAMBIQUE - AND THE LESSONS LEARNED
1.    This would be the first IDA operation in Mozambique's transport
sector involving infrastructure rehabilitation and policy and regulatory
reform. However, lessons learned from the Beira Transport Corridor
Project (Credit No. 2065 MOZ), in which IDA's participation includes
capacity building and technical assistance (TA), plus procurement of
locomotives, and from the road and street rehabilitation and maintenance
component of the Urban Rehabilitation Project (Credit No. 1949 MOZ),
have been given full consideration in the design of this project.
Problems and delays in procurement of goods and services, and in
managing civil works contracts have been particularly noted. Also,
project design has taken full account of experiences under TA projects
in Africa described in the recent OED Report No. 8573: Free-standing
Technical Assistance for Institutional Development in Sub-Saharan Africa
(See Chapter V). The Africa PCR Data Base does not at this time contain
a project aimed at rehabilitation and efficiency improvement of coastal
shipping transport services, but the design of this component has
benefited from the experience of NORAD and SIDA who have been involved
in the sub-sector in Mozambique for some years now.
2.    The lessons learned from the credit line components of IDA's Small
and Medium Enterprise Development Project (Cr. 2082-MOZ) and of the
Agricultural Rehabilitation and Development Project (Cr. 2175-KOZ) have
been built into the small port infrastructure rehabilitation and
improvement of cargo handling elements of the coastal shipping component
of the ROCS-1 project.
A.    TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECTS IN MOZAMBIQUE
Beira Corridor Project (Cr. 2065-MOZ)
Amount: SDR 31.0 m (US$40.0 m )
Board Date: September 28, 1989; Closing Dates June 30, 1996;
Im4ementing Agencys Beira Corridor Authority.
Amount Disbursed (as of 12131/91): $ 7.2 million
3.    The project consists of:  (a) technical assistance to run port and
railways operations in the Beira Transport Corridor during the project
period; (b) manpower development and training at all levels of CFM(C);
(c) rehabilitation and acquisition of motive power for main line and
shunting operations; (d) technical assistance for the study and
implementation of a railvay/port cost accounting system and a management
information system in CFM(C); and (e) studies and te'chnical assistance
for future investments.



_ 78 -
ANNEX 1 - 2
Page 2 of 3
4.    As of September 1991, the contracts for TA are under finalization,
five mainline locomotives, financed by Japan, have been received and put
into service. The six shunting locomotives have been contracted for.
CIM(C) has made appreciable improvements in operational efficiency and
an MIS strategy study and a short term marketing study are being
organized.
B.   OTHEa INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECTS IN MOZAMBIQUE
Urban Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1949-MOZ)s
Amounts SDR 44.0 M (US$60.0 M)
Board Dates October 19, 1988; Closing Date: December 31, 1995.
Implementing Agenciest Ministry of Construction and Water,
Ministry of Labor, Ministry of State Administration.
Amount Disbursedt (as of 12/31/91) $ 23.9 million
5.    The project aims to:  (a) rehabilitate key elements of urban
infrastructure and housing; (b) provide employment th,ough labor-
intensive construction methods and stimulation of small and micro-
enterprises; (c) strengthen the local institutions responsible for
provision and maintenance of urban infrastructure and services, and
their efforts towards becoming more financially independent through cost
recovery and stimulation of local resource mobilization; and (d) support
initiatives already being undertaken by the Government in cost recovery,
institutional reform and new policy directions.
6.    The project is well underway, with only minor cost overruns
projected, and with disbursements largely on schedule. The first civil
vorks contract has been completed and remaining civil works contracts
have been started. Delays by the Ministry of Finance and Bank of
Mozambique in the approval of contracts and payments for good and
services continue to hamper performance of the project, and may
eventually affect the overall completion timetable.
C.   FINANCIAL SECTOR PROJECTS IN MOZAMBIQUE
Economic/ Financial Management T A (Cr 2066-TA)
Amount: SDR 16.5 M (US$21.0 M)
Board Dates December 1, 1989; Closing Dates  December 31, 1997;
Implementing Agencies: Ministry of Finance and Bank of
Mozambique.
Amount Disbursed: (as of 12131/91) $ 1.7 million
7.    The project's objectives are to provide support to the Ministry of
Finance (MOF) and the Bank of Mozambique (BOM) to: (i) carry out
technical analyses in the areas of economic policy formulation, capital
budgeting, and Improvement of banking operations; (ii) define specific
needs and prepare programs of institutional support as the basis for
lmnediate action as well as subsequent follow-up; (iii) increase the
stock of qualified professionals needed in accounting and economic
analysis; and (iv) increase productivity and effectiveness of the MOF
and BOM by furnishing them with the basic systems and equipment needed



- 79 -
ANCZX 1 - 2
Page 3 of 3
for their day-to-day operations, particularly in financial systems and
production of basic economic information.
8.    A Project Coordination Assistant has been on board since mid-1990
and has helped speed up project implementation. Preparations for the
Project Annual Review, to be carried out in early 1992, have started.
Small and Medium Enterprise Development Project (Cr. 2082-MOZ):
Amount: SDR 25.1 M (US$32.0 M
Board Dates February 7, 1990; Closing Datet December 31, 1996;
Implementing Agency: Bank of Mozambique.
Amount Disbursed: (as of 12/31/91) $3.2 million
9.    The objectives of the project are to:  (a) promote the
rehabilitation and development of Small/Medium Enterprises (SMEs) by
financing fixed assets and working capital for SMEs capable of efficient
operation; (b) to promote institution rebuilding by restoring the
capacity of the banks; and (c) to Assist in the formulation of
Government policy for SME development. The project components consist
of a line of credit of US$28.5 million for investment financing, and
US$3.5 million for technical assistance. The line of credit will be
channelled through the Bank of Mozambique (BM) for onlending to
coumercial banks. It will be supervised by an apex unit in BOM. A
training program is continuing, funded by UNDP and IDA, to train banking
and promotional staff in loan appraisal processing. Technical
assistance is being provided to BOM for the startup and operation of the
apex unit, for assisting with financial restructuring of the commercial
banks, and for upgrading of commercial bank accounts. The project is
also supporting the establishment of a Business Advisory Se rice in
Maputo and Beira. As of December 31, 1991 the pipeline for the entire
credit line was committed.
Agricultural Rehabilitation and Development Proiect (Cr 2175-MOZ)s
Amountt SDR 11.9 M (US$15.4 M)
Board Dates September 24, 1990; Closing Date: June 30, 1999.
Implementing Agency:  Ministry of Agriculture.
Amount Disbursed: (as of 12/31/91) $1.2 million
10.   Project implementation has just began.  However a detailed and
updated project implementation plan has already been prepared, and
discussions with involved institutions and staff have been initiated. A
cashew research program has also been prepared by the FAO. Bidding
documents for staff and goods were published, and bidder offers have
already evaluated in a satisfactory manner. Due to 'red tape, in the
MOF and BOM, and in spite of resolutions received during the last
Project Implementation Review, the State Secretariat for Cashew is
encountering mounting difficulties in using project funds. This is
expected to translate into a slower than plunned implementation pace.



- s0 -
ANNEX 2 - 1
Page 1 of 4
MOZAMBIQUE
FIRST ROADS AND COASTAL SHIPPING PROJECT
IfO         STUDY
TEEMS OF UEPEUNCI
1.    The Government of Mozambique (GOM) has applied to the International
Development Association (IDA) for a credit for the First Roads and Coastal
Shipping (ROCS-1) Project. The principal GOM implementing agencies are the
National Directorate for Roads and Bridges (DNEP) and the National Directorate
of Maritime Affairs (DNM). To ensure prompt and effective implementation of
the project, these agencies wish to review their present procurement practices
with the aim of reflecting GOM policy and IDA guidelines in achieving economy,
efficiency and fairness in procurement. This vill require reviewing,
revising, consolidating and streamlining present procedures to ensure the most
effective utilization of available resources.
2.    The above-named implementing agencies require technical assistance from
external sources to provide guidance in the improvement of procurement
practices through development of standard bidding documents and operational
directives for procurement of goods, services and civil works. Recommended
improvements will be compatible with findings of the on-going study "Public
Procurement in Africa". To this end the GOM wishes to retain a consultant
(financed by SIDA of Sweden) with appropriate background in public procurement
organizations and practices.
Obiectives
3.    The objectives of the assignment ares
(i)   To evaluate current organizational and operational constraints on
rapid procurement by DNEP and DNK/GAPROMAR, and to estimate the
approximate annual cost to GO of such constraints;
(ii) To recommend an appropriate organization and approval process to
allow decentralized and expeditious decision making, with adequate
monitoring and audit provisions; and
(iii) To develop standard contracts, manuals and proceduras to
accelerate procurement by DNEP and DNH/GAPROMAR, and which will be
compatible with expected future improvements in general public
procurement practices in Mozambique.
Scope of Work
4.    The scope of work shall include, inter alia, the following tasks:
(i)   Review the present regulations and practices for the procurement
of goods, services and civil works by GOM agencies, and any



- 81 -
ANX 2 - 1
Page 2 of 4
related current studies, in light of estimated present and future procurement
needs of DNEP and DNMIGAPROMAR;
(ii) In consultation with all authorities concerned, develop
standardized tender documents and contracts, as well as improved
procurement guidelines and procedures, consonant with
recommendations of the World Bank/ITC study 'Publlc Procurement in
Africa. Items to be treated in the guidelines include:
(a)   organizational structure
(b)   the approval process (as simplified as posslble)
(c)   monitoring and auditing
(d)   delegatLon and authority limits
(e)   specification requirements
(f) format of tender/proposal documents, including bonds
'g)   Justification and regulations for shopping, direct
contracting and other non-competitive procurement
(h)   procedures for evaluation of tenders and proposals, contract
award and monitoring of contract performance; and
Ciii) Develop a set of standard procurement documents for goods,
services and clvil works, based on those already in use or being
developed by Ministry of Finance. Standard documents (pre-
qualLfication, tenders/proposals, evaluation of tenders and
proposals, standard contracts) will be required for 'r  following
types of procurements
(a) International Competitive Bidding (ICB) for goods
(b)   International CompetLtive Bidding (ICB) for works
(c)   Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) for works
(d)   other procurement
5.    The Consultant will develop the required documents based on standard
documents now in use by, or being developed for, the GOM. Such documents will
comply with the requirements of the major donors and be acceptable to the
relevant authorities in Mozambique; findins9 of the study "Public Procurement
in Africa' also will be considered.
Qualification and zxPerience Rewuired
6.    The selected consultant should have substantial experience in public
procurement, especially with relation to infrastructure, and in organizational
development with special reference to developing countries.
Responsibilities of the Government
7.    GOM will put together a team comprising senior Oepresentatives of all
relevant authorities to supervise the work of the Cnsultant (the Steering
Committee). This team will include at least representatives of DNEP, DNM,
Banco de Mozambique, Ministry of Finance and the Attorney General's Chambers.



- 82 -
AMNNX 2 - 1
Page 3 of 4
The Consultant will submit all reports to this group, and be guided by them in
all policy matters.
S.    Within one week of the Consultant's arrival In Maputo, the responsible
GOH agency will supply the Consultant with the followings
(i)   A copy 'f current general procurement regulations and practices in
Mozambique
(ii)  A sumary of the scope of the ROCS-1 project, including  probable
donors and the components they intend to finance
(iii) A clear indication of who within GOH need to approve any new
procurement procedures and documents, what their areas of
responsibility are, and the modus operandi for obtaining their
eventual clearance
(iv)  A set of standard contracts and other draft documents which the
Consultant should use in developing acceptable standard documents
for DNEP and DNK/GAPROMAR, including information from the 'Public
Procurement in Africa, study.
9.    The Consultant shall be solely responsible for use and interpretation of
data provided by GOM, and for the applicability of its recommendations.
10.   GOM shall provide the Consultant, without charge, the followingt
Ci)   Suitable furnished office space, including utilities, use of a
photocopier, telephone (for domestic calls), necessary office
equipment and supplies, and secretarial services:
(ii)  Use of a suitable microcomputer (IBM compatible), with ancillary
equipment (printer, UPS, etc.);
(iii) Assistance in obtaining any required customs clearances, visas and
any other official permits;
(iv)  Land transport as reasonably required to carry out the services;
and
(v)   Such other support facilities as may reasonably be needed for the
expeditious performance of the services, including pertinent
files, documents and working papers.
11.   Should GOM be unable to furnish required support personnel, office
space, equipment and office supplies, or other sucb facilities and support
services as may reasonably be needed, the Consultant shall arrange for their
provision, after consultation with, and approval of, the responsible GOa
officials, and any reasonable expenditure agreed to will be reimbursed to the
Consultant.



- 83 -
AMNhX 2 - 1
Page 4 of 4
12.   The Consultant and its expatriate personnel providing the services
specified in these TOR shall be required to pay local taxes on the incomo and
profits derived from these services, unless otherwise provided in the
respective contract. Should the contract require payment of such taxes, it
also shall include provision for reimbursement by GOH (in local currency) to
the Consultant and its expatriate personnel of any amounts actually paid.
These taxes must be separately identified and detailed in the contract.
Work Schedule
13.   It is expected that the proposed assignment will require about 6 man-
months of effort. The Consultant is expected to prepare its detailed work
plan, and carry out the assignment, in close consultation with officials of
DNEP and DNH/GAPROMAR.
14.   The project will be divided into the following phasess
Phase          Activity                 Output                  Timing
Orie.tbelon    001 to brlof the         Briefling package       Within one week of
*riefiog:      Consultant on current    delivered to Consultant   Consultant arrival
procedures                                      In Maputo
Phase OS.t     Consultant to review     Brlof report reviewing    Thre weekc Into
vexiting procedures In    strenrthe and woeknesem   study
R vt-r         depth                    of ex sting systm 
Presentation to Stoering  Four woeks Into
Comittee               study
Phao Twot      Consultant to prepare    Written proposal to     Ten weeks Into study
receomendations for     Steering Comittee
Developent of  Improved procurement
st*ndard       proceduse                Meeting with S.C.to     Twelve weeks Into
documants *nd   ________________________ dlcuses proposals      study
new
regulations    Consultant to preparo    Draftt submitted to S.C.  Sixteen weke Into
and procedure   draftt of standard tender                       st.udy
doc_ument, having
discueud th. key lsuee
with relevant ptrtles
Phe. Throes    Steering Commlttee to    Coome nt to Consultant,   Twenty weeks Into
eviou and cement on    reflecting views of 001   sudy
Review and     recoomnndations
approval of
proposed       Consultant to finalize   Final report dolivered    Twenty-four weeks
docmen_ts end   regulations and standard   *a S.C. In ten copies  Into study
regulatione    documents
15.   The concerned agencies of GOM will be responsible for the timely
adoption and implementation of the improved procurement organizations,
regulations, and procedures, including the appropriate use of standard
tender/proposal documents and co"tracts.



- 84 -
Annex 2 - 2
Page 1 of 3
MOZAMBIQUE
FIRST ROADS AND COASTAL SHIPPING PROJECT
TERMS OF REERENNCE - EQUIPRIT EVALUATION
I. OBJECTIVES
1.1       The National Directorate of Roads and Bridges of Mozambique (DNEP)
requires an updated inventory and condition assessment of the construction and
maintenance eqtipment it has transferred to the provincial ECMEPs (road and
bridge construction and maintenance enterprises), and recomamendations as to
the serviceability of the units in the existing fleet. For that purpose, it
is seeking the services of a highly qualified individual consultant for a
period of approximately three months. The necessary services will be provided
in accordance with these TOR and the respective contract.
II   SCOP  OF SERVICES
2.        General
2.1.1     The Consultant will be expected to visit the workshops and yards
where the bulk of the equipment is located, accompanied by a counterpart
designated by DhSP who is knowledgeable of heavy equipment and familiar with
the operations of the ECHEPs. The counterpart will facilitate the field
visits of the Consultant, and will assist in the compilation of inventory and
condition data, but the responsibility for the assessment of equipment
serviceability will rest solely with the Consultant.
2.1.2     The services shall be carried out in accordance with generally
accepted standards of professional practice, following recognized equipment
management principles and practices. The scope of work of the Consultant
includes all activities necessary to accomplish the stated objectives of these
services, whether or not a specific activity is cited in the TOR.
2 2 2     Principal Duties and Responsibilities
2.2.1     The Consultant will be required to carry out the following tasks:
*       Appraise the existing "Subsistema de Equipamentog and its
implementation in all the ECKEPs; particular attention
should be paid to the current omissions and deficiencies.
*       Visit all ECMEP headquarters and major equipment depots
(security permitting), and prepare a master equipment
register, in spreadsheet format, showing fleet registration
number, type of equipment, model, manufacturer, serial
number, date of purchase and estimated price, current



- 85 -
Annex 2 - 2
Page 2 of 3
location and condition, and other pertinent information.
The master equipment register wlll not include minor support
equipment (e.g., pumps, small generators, welders and air
compressors, pedestrian compactors, etc.) but will include
all vehicles, trucks, and other units covmonly used for road
maintenance.
*       Visually inspect and make random operational checks of
approximately 75Z of construction equipment less than 10
years old, and of vehicles less than eight years old, listed
in the master register &   classify the units as being
operational, non-operational but repairable, or non-
repairable (in which cases a recommendation will be made as
to appropriate disposition of the units).
*       Estimate equipment availability percentages for each ECMEP
fleet, comparing total fleet and total fleet less non-
repairable units.
*       Prepare an estimate of parts and/or consumable supplies
required to bring the fleet availability to at least 75Z
(excluding units to be scrapped or auctioned), and an
estimate of the time needed to achieve this goal.
*       Prepare spreadsheets, based on the completed provincial
master registers, listing the total fleet by equipment type,
manufacturer, and condition, and compiling master lists
showing which fleet units are operational, which are worth
repairing, and which should be disposed of.
_       Such other analyses and recommendations as are necessary in
order to accomplish the stated objectives of these services.
2.3       Reports
2.3.1     The Consultant shall present, at the conclusion of his services, a
report clearly describing his activities under this consultancy and presenting
his principal findings, conclusions and recommendations.
2.3.2     All documents and reports developed by the Consultant and paid for
under these services shall become the property of GOM upon completion of the
services. Language of the documents and reports shall be English, except that
the master registers of equipment shall be in Portuguese. The format of the
registers and the final report shall be agreed with DNEP.
2.4       Contract Period
2.4.1      The contract period for carrying out the services specified in
these TOR shall be three calendar months, unless otherwise agreed by the
contracting parties, although it is expected that the field work will require
no more than 60 calendar days. Services under the respective contract shall



- 86 -
Annez 2 - 2
Page 3 of 3
begin within 15 days of receipt of the official Notice to Proceed. DNEP has
the option of cancelling this contract for the convenience of the Government,
as well as to negotiate an extension thereof if it so chooses.
3 0 LOGISTICAL SUPPORT
3.1       DNEP shall provide the Consultant, without charge, the following:
*       A qualified counterpart acceptable to the Consultant, with a
good working knowledge of English, to work full-time with
the Consultant during his stay in Mozambiques
*       Suitable furnished office space, including utilities,
necessary office equipment and supplies, secretarial
services, and use of a photocopier and a telephone (for
domestic calls);
*       Transportation within Mozambique, by land and air, as
appropriate;
*       Use of a microcomputer (PC - IBH compatible) with word
processing (WordPerfect) and spreadsheet (Lotus) software,
and required ancillary equipment;
i       Assistance in obtaining any required customs clearances,
visas and any other official permits; and
*       Such other support facilities as may reasonably be needed
for the expeditious performance of the required services,
including pertinent files, documents and working papers.
3.2       Should DNEP be unable to furnish required office space,
transportation, equipment, office supplies and services for the reasonable
needs of the Consultant, such facilities and services shall be arranged by the
Consultant after consultation with DNEP, and any reasonable expenditures
agreed to will be reimbursed to the Consultant.
S3 3      The Consultant shall not be liable for payment of Mozambican customs
duties on articles brought into the country solely for use in the consultancy,
provided they are expended or re-exported, nor shall he be required to pay
local taxes on income and profits derived from these services.



- 87 -
Annex 2 - 3
Page 1 of 6
HOZAMBIQUE
FIRST ROADS AND COASTAL SHIPPING PROJECT
DEVELOPUHEU  OF A PROGROM TO IROVS REVENUE GONERATION
AND BUDGET ALLOCATION POR TSE ROAD SECTOR
DRAFT TERMS OP RXFERCNCE
Background
1.    The Government of Mozambique (GOM) is embarking on a major roads and
coastal shipping project (ROCS) aimed at supporting its Economic and Social
Recovery Program (ESRP). In addition to a large rehabilitation program
covering some 1,000 km of trunk roads and 6,000 km of regional and feeder
roads, ROCS aims to ensure that funding will be available to maintain the
road network once initial investments have been made.
2.    The total resources required to finance a priority program in the
roads sector over the next five years is expected to be about US$200
million. Of this the Government contribution is expected to be US$20
million (from the development budget) plus about US$50 million for
maintenance costs through FY1995196. Table 1 below sets out an estimate of
the local cost financing requirements for the next five years. To mobilize
the required local resources GOM has decided to increase the contribution
to be provided by road users.
Local Expenditures       1991   1992   1993    1994    1995    1996
(US$m)
Development
Reauirements
Maintenance
Reauirements
I Total Local
Requirements
3.    The resource mobilization objectives of GOK are to improve cost
recovery from road users in order to make the sector financially self-
sufficient in terms oft (a) covering the recurrent costs of road
maintenance operations; and (b) making net contributions to the.
Government's general tax revenues which would cover at least a part of the
budget requirements for road development and rehabilitation. It is not yet
clear how much of the development budget should be recovered from road
users and how large a contribution (if any) should be made by road users to
the general government budget.



- 88 -
Annex 2 - 3
Page 2 of 6
4.    Current mechanisms to generate income from road users includes
Source of          Detaill          Commuents
Revenue
Bridge Tolls       Tete             Approx. $2m p.a.in total
Xai-Xai          Admin. costs, taxation costs for Xai-
Xai borne by DNEP. Many exemptions
granted.
Foreign Vehicle   Namaacha           Not being collected on some borders.
Taz                Ressano Gracia   Collection at others via coupon system
Tete-            payable from Harare.  Only limited
Machipanda       information on level of income.  Total
income currently estimated at US$2m
P.&*
Fuel Tax           Mt250/litre       Recently approved. Estimated at $12m
(25Z of price)   for 1990. To be collected by customs
on importation; transferred quarterly
to Road Fund
Publications                        Not substantial income
Fines              On Contractors   Not substantial income
Supertax           Not currently    Provision exists in legislation
in use
Sales tax on       Not allocated    No clear idea on level of revenue or
vehicles           to Road Fund      possible allocation to Fund.
Annual vehicle    Not allocated    Included in revenues allocated to
taxes              to Road Fund      roads in many countries.
5.    To ensure that the funds will be available as required, and to
allocate user fees to road maintenance activities in an efficient and
timely manner, GOM has decided to implement a Road Fund for which the
enabling legislation was approved in late 1989. However, further
refinement of the modus operandi of the road fund as well as practical
solutions for actually improving revenue generation and collection are
necessary for the program to be effective. As currently conceived the Road
Fund faces a number of difficulties and uncertainties:
a.    The furd is required to allocate 802 of the revenues on fuel
received to the rehabilitation and maintenance of city roads,
while the major requirement for funding is on rural roads.
b.    IA 1991 the road fund will be able to cover the estimated costs
of road maintenance and rehabilitation, but as requirements
increase, the fund will prove inadequate,



- 89 -
Annex 2 - 3
Page 3 of 6
requiring central government to make additional contributions
to road activities. This raises three issuess
i.    Should other road user charges (such as vehicle taxes) be
added to the road fund?
Ui.   Should Mozambique increase its taxes on fuel? How do the
taxes on fuel compare with those in neighboring
countries? and
iii.  Shorld supplemental allocations from the central budget
be routed via the Road Fund?
Issues and NsthodoloRg
6.    In view of the foregoing, the Ministrv of Finance (MOF) and the
Ministry of Construction and Water (MCA) would like to receive practical
recommendations on the following specific issues:
a.    how best to increase overall revenue intake from road
users and to ensure equitable distinction between users;
b.    now to improve the revenue collection system from road users to
minimize leakages; and
co   how to refine the operating modalities of the road fund.
7.    Increase Revenue Intake.  The consultants will investigate reasonable
options for increasing the overall intake of revenues from road users to
finance the road budget requirements. This may be through increase in
levels of charges or through the introduction of new forms of collections,
such as vehicle registration and /or sales taxes. In analyzing the
specific means to increase the revenue intake from road users, the
following key e.znents will be taken into consideration:
4.    different types of heavy commercial vehicles and passenger
vehicles should be taxed according to the extent to which they
cause road damage.
b.    the tax system proposed should also apply to all foreign
vehicles entering into Mozambique (particularly the heavy
vehicles), including provision for heavy penalties on over-
loaded vehicles entering and exiting the country (as well as on
domfestic vehicles);
c.    the tax rates should refla't the distribution of gross vehicle
loading over available axles, depending on vehicle
configuration and legal loads, taking into account the
exponential damage to roads caused by the overloading of single
axles and of a series of tandem axles;
d.    the tax should not decrease with the age of the vehicle, as
this bears no relation to the damage caused;



- 90 -
Annez 2 - 3
Page 4 of 6
e.    value-added tax, whose base increase depends on the level of
inflation, is preferable to fixed tax rates;
f.    administration of tax collection should be kept as simple as
possible vith sufficient safeguards to minimize tax evasion and
leakages.
g.    small revenue sources which barely cover the cost of
collection, or which are difficult to collect, should be
dropped. The tax on spare parts, the bulk of which unfairly
falls on private vehicle owners, also should be removed as this
would lower the cost of vehicle maintenance and rehabilitation,
and lengthen service lives, consistent with GOM economic
recovery objectives.
8.    In estimating the total revenues to be generated, funds should cover
at least the costs oft (1) Government contributions to routine and periodic
maintenance; and (2) the net contribution of road users to the general
revenues of the Government. The estimated level of revenue requirement for
each year is given on the bottom line of Table 1. As noted in the table,
the requirements will continue to increase. The proposed tax regime
should, therefore, take these into account by proposing a gradual increase
in the level of taxation, rather than a large one-time increase, and
establish a mechanism for automatic increases to cover government
objectives. The proposal for various tax levels should also take into
consideration the assumption that the volume of road traffic as well as the
importation of vehicles and spare parts will increase in line with the
forecast economic growth (4-5Z per annum GDP growth) and with improvement
in the security situation in Mozambique.
9.    Based on these assessments, propose a program to change the tax
administration and levels of taxation, on an annual basis, outlining the
actions to be taken as well as the annual targets for revenue generation
from each of the tax instruments. Additionally, the consultants will make
an estimate of the overall cost increase of end users (in percentage terms)
caused by the increase in the tax levels.
10.   Revenue Collection.  It is believed that there are considerable
leakages in the existing instruments used to raise road user revenues. For
example many exemptions are granted for Xai-Xai lBridgel such that actual
collections are about 60Z of potential revenue. At the same time the
methods for collection of tolls are believed to be less efficient and more
costly than they might be. The consultants should discuss each potential
collection instrument with officials responsible for operating these
instruments to discern practical ways to reduce the leakages and simplify
collection. The consultants will review specific causes of leakages as
well as the high rate of exemption being granted in many cases and propose
ways in which to rectify the situation. Specific time-bound actions should
be proposed by the consultants to improve the situation.



- 91 -
Annex 2 - 3
Page 5 of 6
11. Road Fund. In managing the funding requirement for road maintenance,
MOF would like to consider various options for the practical implementation
and operation of the Road Fund.
12. The exact mechanism of road fund administration has yet to be fully
clarified, and the consultants are requested to propose various options to
MOF In this regard. In specific, the consultants will consider the
following Issues in analyzing the various options:
a.    the proportion of annual revenues entering the road fund to be
automatically allocated to road maintenance (e.g. 502, 80,
100 etc.) and the logic behind the proposed level;
b.    the sources of funds - revenues from which road user charges
should be deposited into the fund, should they all go into the
fund or should some go directly to the central budget;
c.    how should the fund be held (e.g. in the central bank,
commercial bank, escrow account, etc) and who would be
responsible for managing the fund;
d.   what should be the method to permit allocating to road
maintenance any remaining amount in the fund, after the
automatic allocation is made;
e.    role of MOF, the Parliament and the Ministry of Construction
and Water (MCh),including the National Directorate of Roads and
Bridges (DNEP), in managing the fund;
f.    who should be held accountable for the management and how to
control the use of the fund to minimize misuse;
s.    how should the funds be disbursed.
13.   In considering these options, it should be kept in mind that the
budgetary requirement for road maintenance will continue to increase for
the next several years and that the proposed fund should be sufficiently
flexible to take this situation into account. The consultants should
clearly spell out the pros and cons of the options being proposed, and that
a provision for adequate monitoring and control system be installed in the
system.



- 92 -
Anne: 2 - 3
Page 6 of 6
study
14.   The full study will be ct   *d out in eight weeks.  Within two days
of their arrival in Maputo, thi -:nsultants will attend a one- day meeting
chaired by H4F and DNEP Staff (p.. t.icularly by the staff eosponsible for
the Road Fund), to obtain information on past revenues generated from the
road users, description of the existing tax instruments and how revenues
are collected, latest proposals for the operation of the road fund
(including the allocation of resources from the fund) and the opinion of
GO0 Staff on the specific areas of weakness in the collection system. A
further meeting will be spent on providing information to the consultants
on how the recurrent budgets are allocated, the strength ard weaknesses of
the ezisting system, and how HOF and DNEP staff view the actions that are
required to transform the "road fund" into a more efficient instrument to
finance recurrent budget for at least road maintenance. Finally a meeting
will need to be held with MOF to confirm government policy regarding the
contribution that road users will be expected to make to the general
governmnt budget.
15.   As part of this initial briefing the consultants shall meet with
DNIP's general consultants, Scott Wilson Kirkpatrick (SWK)to discuss their
initial work in the area of the road fund and shall be provided with the
following documentation:
a*    Latest relevant legislation
b.    SWK report on Road Fund
Co    SiK five-year road plan (latest version)
d.    ROCS inltial project brief
e     Updated version of table one of these terms of reference
16.   Thereafter, the consultants will carry out their own investigations,
including meeting the various higher level management of MOF, MCA  and
DNEP. At the end of two weeks, the consultants will make a presentation of
their interim findings to a joint meeting of senior officials of the
aforementioned agencies. Within three weeks of completing the mission to
Mozambique the consultants will be responsible for providing (i) a short
paper on the reconmended changes in revenue collection and taxation regime;
(ii) a schematic diagram illustrated recommended changes in the operation
of the Road Fund; and (iii) a draft timetable of actions to implement the
program, which will enable M4O to fulfill annual road budget requirements.



- 93 -
Anne: 2 - 4
Page 1 of 10
MnZAMBIQUE
FIRST ROADS AND COASTAL SHIPPING PROJECT
ASSESSNENS OF ROAD TRANSPORT SERVICES PERFORMANCE
1.        The review in tais annex covers road transport. Intermodal
transit logistics are covered in Annex 3-6. A. detailed review of the
sector is included in the project file.
2.        At the outset it is important to note that existing data is
scarce, not always - .liable and sometimes contradictory. There is an
overriding need for consistency in collecting and processing
information. With regard to transport services, this need will be
addressed in the proposals for an action program in Annex 4-6.
I. Cost. Operational Performmace and Options for Private Sector
Participation
3.        Trucking in Mozambique has three overtiding operational
characteristics  first, poor vehicle utilixation in terms of loaded
kilometers (an average of 30,000 km. per year at about 60Z load factor);
second, short vehicle life (between 18 and 48 months on the average);
and third, poor maintenance planning, facilities and services. In
addition, inputs to the road transport industry are in short supply
(poor availability of spare parts, as an example, is partly the result
of foreign-currency scarcity and, partly the result of proliferation of
vehicle models of disparate origins - about ninety makes and models in
total) and, when available, expensive (landed costs for vehicles and
spare parts in Mozambique are about 60X over CIF costs).
4.        As a result, vehicle operating costs are high, ranging from
120 meticais (MT) per ton/km (about US$ 0.09) for a large/medium size
truck operated by a private operator with well organized preventive
maintenance and fleet control, to 186 meticais per ton/km (USS 0.14) for
a long-distance high-capacity freight vehicle operated by a public
transport enterprise , to around 555 meticais per ton/km (US$ 0.41) for
a medium distance, medium size vehicle operated by AGRICOM. As a
comparison, vehicle operating costs for similar vehicle types in the USA
range between US$ 0.035 and 0.06 and in Pakistan between the equivalent
of US$ 0.025 and 0.04.
S.        Vehicle operating costs and fleet indicators for AGRICOM, a
public enterprise engaged ginter alia in transport and distribution of
agricultural products suggest that AGRICOM's performance is lower than
average industry performance (private operators or TRANSCARCA of Beira)
as an example; this is due to tbe operational conditions of AGRICOM's
fleet, one-third to one-half of which operates in rural areas in harsh
operating conditions. In a way, however, AGRICOM's indicators are
typical of the environment of road transport in Mozambique (poor roads,



- 94 -
Annez 2 - 4
Page 2 of 10
war hazards, real time risk of vehicle destruction, unavailable
maintenance, etc.) which is a deterrent to the growth of private sector
entrepreneurial capacity. In fact, on account of current vehicle prices
and potential high cost of operation, road transport is not an
attractive venture to investors.
6.        As a consequence, the private sector has a very minor
participation in overall capacity and the demand, a large part of which
develops in rural areas or in areas affected by war, and thus is served
by parastatals (public and own-account) with poor incentive to offer
quality services and vith poor fleet management and maintenance
practices. The hostile environment, in both physical hazards and costs,
should be given as much responsibility as the policies of the Government
of Mozambique (GOM) in discouraging the private sector.  If normal
conditions return with peace, there should be a gradual return of
entrepreneurs to private operation of transport in particular small
traders. According to various sources, no more than one hundred small
transporters offering their services for hire (other than traders)
remain in Mozambique, and those are limited because of the ages of their
vehicles, and are mostly concentrated in the south. GOM, through the
its National Directorate of Road Transport (DNRT) is now encouraging
these operators to form cooperatives and is seeking international
assistance to develop more effective support and coordination.
7.        In spite of this, the private sector shows signs of vitality.
The lowest vehicle operating costs fouad by the ROCS-1 appraisal mission
in Maputo belong to a mostly passenger transport operation. Another
efficient private operator has built up its own fleet from older
discarded vehicles bought from public enterprises, with assistance from
German rehabilitation aid programs, together with assistance and
trainink from a well known automotive supplier in Maputo.
S.        On the end of the public transport services spectrum, the
massive food aid programs underway in Mozambique, carry out substantial
expatriate-managed road transport operations and have been responsible
for bringing into the country substantial transport resources (about 300
vehicles in this services could be privatized in the foreseeable
future). Joint ventures, such as TRANSCARGA of Beira, which has enjoyed
technical assistance Yrom SIDA, are operating at above average
performance levels, and are earmarked for privatization in the future.
Other public or semi-public transport companies, such as Camionagem de
Mozambique (35 vehicles of which 25 are operational), Rodoviaria
Nacional de Passageiros (RONAP, 95 vehicles, of which 40 are
operational, and 1439 employees), Transportes Publicos de Maputo (TPM,
177 vehicles, of which 95 are operational and only 31 in service, and
1.035 mployees), have an extremely high ratio of employees per
operational vehilel (about 30/40), extremely high operating costs, and



- 95
Annm.z 2 - 4
Page 3 of 10
although earmarked for privatization 1/, it is unclear when and how
such change could take place. Often, is in the case of RONAP, the
assets of such companies are so depleted that there is little to
privatize, except dilapidated plant facilities and a few operational
vehicles.
9.        Although Mozambique has recently issued new transport
regulations21, the policies contained in such regulations represent a
continuation of former policies rather than a change.  The core o. &he
regulations is still protection to railway transport through conW       of
entry (licenuing ,and pricing (tariffs).  In specific aspects, s .  as
international transport, current policies are drastically restrictive
and will not encourage private investment even in a market like
Mozambique where about 552 of freight moved from ports is transit
freight.
10.       There is no doubt that policies in the transport sector,
including tariffs and privatization, have been influenced by the Bank's
Transport Sector Review. No significant changes have been made in spite
of that. The general impression seems to be that new policies will not
be a drastic departure from past guidelines or regulations. In other
words, entry for the private sector will not be facilitated, labor
policies will not be changed, and tariff deregulation will not be
complete. dew policies will probably emphasize that truck and spare
parts allocation will not be based on quantity allocations, will promote
the SNAAD (non-allocation system of foreign exchange), and will also
promote, at least on paper, for-hire transport. The feeling exists,
however, that there is a basic difference between the Bank's thinking on
privatization and GOM's perception of the process. For the Bank,
privatization means the sale to private parties of public assets or
parts of them. For GOM, privatization means the conversion of a
parastatal company into a company of limited responsibility, or
alternatively, the sale of a public sector company to other public or
semi-public enterprises, but not necessarily an outright sale to private
interests 3/.
11.       In light of the high inefficiency of the industry, of the
proliferation of unused and unusablq resources (vehicles in need of
1/ The Commissao Instaladora (a GOM organization dealing with
privatization of public enterprises) was requested to prepare the
privatization of public transport enterprises in July 1990.
2/ Regulamento de Transporte em Automoveis (Council of Ministers Decree
No. 24/89 of August 8, 1989).
3/ As an example, Camionagem de Mozambique could be sold to NAVINTER
and TTA (both public) as part of the privatization process, or allowed
similar corporate arrangements as TRANSCARGA.



- 96 -
Annex 2 - 4
Page 4 of 10
rehabilitation) and of the entrepreneurial capacity which the private
sector seems to have preserved, more clear policies in this area are
extremely urgent.
12.       Various alternatives to direct privatizatiou (which may or may
not be feasible in light of the depleted assets of existing companies)
should be examined. Once GOM has decided to broaden the role of the
private sector in transport, there is a range of options open to it from
full scale privatization of all parastatal fleets at one extreme, to
contracting out management, maintenance and training functions and
operating concessions to private sector interests, at the other.
Whatever proportion of the parastatal fleets demand are to be met by the
private sector will depend crucially on (a) the strength of the private
sector, and (b) the willingness of GOM to allow current public sector
activities (such as priority commodities distribution and international
transport) to be carried out by private entrepreneurs in a non-hostile
policy environment. The point to remember is that a positive 0O0
attitude towards private sector involvement will be essential to the
devel6pment of cost effective and efficient transport. There are three
main reasons for this: first, conditions of employment in the public
sector tend to result in low discipline and motivation, making it
difficult to sustain a results-oriented management; second, there exists
*lready a competitive private sector with a wide range of skills, which
further development depends entirely on the future policy environment of
004; third, development of sound road transport requires equipment and
facilities through the country that no government organization can
manage and can afford at an economic cost; thus, selective use and
encouragement of private sector facilities can greatly increase the
szope and cost-effectiveness of the Mozambican vehicle fleet.
13.       Development of private sector initiative can take two formst
Mi)    where the private sector provides a substantial and
increasing part of the total demand through
liberalization of existing restricdtve policies and
financial facilitation of investments; and
(ii)    where the private sector provides specific services to
GO and parastatal fleets.
In this latter role, the private sector can be particularly effective
across a whole range of economic activities. Some of these activities
ares
*       Management by concession:  with the aim of
strengthening fleet and labor management, workshop
management and training.
*       Maintenance democratization:  aiming at
diversification and development of automotive
maintenance workshop capacity at the lower level of



- 97 -
Annez 2 - 4
Page 5 of 10
the fleet nperators (owner-operators and traders),
through dic^ntinuing current licensing barriers and
opening up access to foreign eschange resources.
*       Spare parts supply democratization (tied up to a more
efficient SNAAD).
*       Training# by encouraging training of operators and
mechanics by the private sector through adequate
incentive systems, and by stipulating training
covenants as part of flees and workshop equipment
procurement.
II, Tariffs, Regulations and Institutional Capacity
14.         The Government has long controlled the prices of all types
of transport in Mozambique. Established tariffs are comuonly considered
insufficient to meet the real costs of road transport. Small tariff
increases have not reflected the large import content of transport
costs, a depreciating metical, declining road conditions, and increasing
security risks. The industry shortfall of tariff rates was stated at
IS0Z for the last quarter of 1990 and at 302 for the first quarter of
1991. Under realistic assumptions, the official tariff of 1989 did not
cover transport costs even with the best of road conditions. To the
extent that tariffs continue to be fixed at unrealistic levels and state
transport firms continue to be given an advantage in access to foreign
exchange and a subsidy in covering at leart part of the transport cost
differentials, it is difficult for private sector firms to compete vith
the public sector or indeed to invest at all in transpor' enterprises.
15.       Despite the fact that the Government has recently increasingly
deregulated prices in the economy, and that this trend is likely to
continue, several noteworthy aspects of the pricing system still
represent potential constraints to the healthy development of
Mozambique's domestic marketing networks. Three of such constraints in
particular are a deterrent to efficient operationst
Mi)     established margins between various stages of the
marketing process may be too narrow to encourage the
private sector to compete with subsidized state
marketing agents;
(ii)    controlled transport tariffs may be too low to permit
private traders (or transporters) to compete with
their public sector counterpartsl and
(iii)   the pan-territorlal nature of fized prices discourages
competition and indeed any private sector activity in
remote or Insecure areas.



- 98 -
Anne: 2 - 4
Page 6 of 10
16.       The margins at different levels of the agricultural
distribution system are officially and centrally fixed vithout regard
for differential costs of moving goods various distances under vastly
different road and security conditions. As private trading begins to
emerge throughout Hozambique, differential costs are reportedly being
factored into prices actually paid and received. But with the state
still the overwhelming participant in the marketing process, such
differential costs continue to be covered by government subsidies,
despite GOM's attempt to price at an average level throughout the
country. In fact, these subsidies are exaggerated because market
influences ensure that private traders leave the higher-cost marketing
functions to AGRICOM as the "buyer of last resort, while outpricing
AGRICOM in lower-cost situations. To the extent that pan-territorial
prlcing is binding, it acts to discourage private sector competition
with the more easily subsidized state marketing and transport firms. It
further acts to inhibit normal market flows from surplus to deficit
areas, since scarcities and abundances cannot be reflected in prices,
thus reducing marketing activities and, eventually, if surpluses cannot
be marketed, reducing production.
17.       USAID has made liberalization of transport prices a covenant
to their proposal to increase by US$10.0 million the assistance provided
under the ongoing Private Sector Support Program for FY1990 41.
18.       In addition to road transport tariffs, two regulations affect
delivery of transport services and would affect entry of the private
sector in trucking operations. These are the Automotive Transport
Regulation (Regulamento de Transporte em Automoveis), Decree 24/89 of
August 8, 1989. and Law No. 7/79 of July 3, 1979 regulating comnercial
activities by the private sector.
19.       The Automotive Transport Regulation has been referred to in
paragraph 10 above. It substitutes former regulation No. 2055 of
January 7, 1961, but does not introduce modern and flexible channels to
develop sound and efficient transport services. In the light of GOM's
plans to improve transport services, the current regulation should be
reviewed.
20.       The law regulating private sector commercial activities dates
from 1979, does not provide an adequate policy for development of strong
private sector participation in transport activities and should also be
a candidate for review. Updating of this law vould be a priority.
21.       In conclusion, bringing transport economic, administrative and
operational regulation to modern and cost-effective standards, is a
4/ The other covenants are: liberalization of agricultural pricing
policies, and to open to the private sector the sales and services
networks for providing inputs through the country (USAID, PSSP amendment
656-0208 and 656-0218).



- 99 -
Anne: 2 - 4
Page 7 of 10
priority. In spite of the fact that costs produced by the industry in
support of tariff increases may reflect a high percentage of
inefficiency 51.
22.       Finally, the institutional responsibility of road transport
operations at GOM level, needs strengthening. DNTR shares control of
industry operations with the Vehicle Services Department of the City of
Maputo's Transport and Traffic Directorate (DTT) for licensing of
vehicles and drivers, and with the National Police for control of
overloading. There is no evidence of planning, and management appears
to be inexperienced, appoin 3d for political reasons, and lacking
professional background. L. a result, essential activities such as
traffic inspections, administration and licensing, driver testing, and
control of overloading are not professionally managed or discharged.
23.       At the institutional level, the two most important needs are
by far vocational training and professional motivation.
24.       One direct consequence of weak institutional capacity is that
Mozambique has a poor traffic safety record. The high accident rate and
the high mortality rate clearly show that there is a serious road safety
problem in Mozambique. Research in other developing countries indicates
that the real cost of road accidents to the society as a whole is
somewhat like 2-3 percent of GNP or may be even higher. With a GNP of
approximately 160 billion Meticais in 1986, the cost of road accidents
in Hozambique can be estimated to be some 3-4 billion Meticais a year.
An important part of this sum represents repair to, or replacement of
vehicles. This is paid in foreign currency, which is badly needed for
better purposes.
25.      The Department of Road Traffic of DNTR is the office for
vehicle control and vehicle registration. In each of the 10 provinces
there is an ezecutive Road Traffic Office. Vehicles are, in principle,
Inspected when they are brought into the country for permanent use in
Mozambique. There is no technical equipment for vehicle control and no
experienced manpower for this task, and the inspection is therefore
purely visual. If the vehicle is considered not to be in running
condition, the owner may be asked to get it repaired before
registration. The earlier practice of biannual control of vehicles is
no longer followed up. The police is undertaking some random inspection
on the road, but this is also purely visual. The present lack of spare
parts calls for a certain indulgence from the police. All vehicle
registers are kept manually and there are no data available on vehicle
Sl If Mozambique operators could reach the productivity levels of
Zimbabwean operations (100.00 to 200.000 km per year at 75Z load
factors) current tariffs would appear reasonable. Even at current
private sector operational levels (paragraph 5) current tariffs would
cover costs (excluding depreciation of replacement costs at current
prices).



_ 100 -
Annex 2 - 4
Page 8 of 10
control and the technical standard of the vehicle fleet. The quality of
the fleet is poor and some of the units are in very poor shape. There
is also a considerable passenger transport in unauthorized vehicles,
reflecting the great need for transport and the lack of public transport
facilities.
26.       Driver training and examination is also the responsibility of
the Department of Road Traffic vithin DNTR. There is one public Driving
School in each province plus one in the City of Haputo. The one in
Haputo is the biggest school, with 19 instructors and 600 candidates a
year. Six years of primary and secondary school plus a driving license
are requLred to work as a driver instructor. Most of the instructors in
Maputo have experience from before independence and there is no
structure for training new instructors or examiners. The Institute for
Driver Instruction in Harare, being open also for candidates from other
SADCC countries, has never been used by Mozambique.
27.       Overloading is a problem in all the countries in the region,
in particular on the most mountainous parts of the road network. Heavy
overloading is often combined with poor braking systems and, in this
respect, Mozambique is certainly no exception. Based on a regional
problem description, a proposal to harmonized legislation and control
system has been prepared by SATCC. Subsequently, a National Project on
weighbridges has been prepared for Mozambique.
III. Vehicle Resources. Maintenance Capacity and Foreitn Exchanae
Allocation
28.       Details of Mozambique's vehicle fleet vary considerably.  The
latest estimates can be traced to the Bank's Transport Sector Review
based on 1987 data. More recent estimates of operational vehicles
(possibly 1988) appear in SATCC, Mozambique's Road Safety Project
prepared by the Institute of Transport Economics of Oslo, Norway (Table
10). DNTR and USAID place the number of vehicles today at nearly 50.000
with about 202 heavy vehicles and a very depleted bus population of
about 2.5 (including minibuses).
29.       These figures, however, could be misleading.  The companies
visited and those institutions for which information was available
(CARE, DPCCN) represent a total ownership of about 1.800 heavy vehicles
and buses, a substantial 20S of the heavy vehicle and passenger bus
fleets in the country. These companies have reported averages of about
50 to 60S operational vehicles in their fleets. Of these operational
vehicles, however, only about 60 to 70Z were available for service. A
visual inspection of vehicle yards and workshops indicated that a high
percentage of the vehicles shown as operational were in long-term
unavailability due to lack of spare parts or major components.
Unavailability periods might last for years. If such sltuation is
accounted for, the vehicle fleet available for service in Mozambique
could be drastically reduced.



- 101 -
Annex 2 - 4
Page 9 of 10
30.       As Di other African countries, the diversification of the
fleet (about 90 different makes and models represented among the
companies visited), makes provision of spare parts and components and
expensive and difficult undertaking.  Indiscroiunate Ifport of vehicles
by donor agencies and government institutions without adequate spare
part supply quotas (many from Eastern Europe which are now obsolete)
seems to be at the origin of the problem.
31.       In spite of the critical situation of the fleet, however, the
estimates for vehicle replacement prepared by donor agencies such as
USAID, or by AGRICOn and DPCC, do not seem to take into account the
potential for rehabilitation of existing resources already in the
country.  These resources are substantial and valuable and should yield
a high percentage of vehicles suitable for rehabilitation at an economic
cost. Preliminary estimates show that about one-third of the vehicles
in non-operational condition could be rehabilitated at a cost of less
than US$15.000 (excluding vehicles of over 5 years of age) 6/. An
inventory of current vehicle resources and needs for rehabilitation
and/or replacement seems essential.
32.       Haintenance capacity in Mozambique is concentrated in few
concessionary companies located in the main cities (in particular
Maputo), with no significant network (ENTREPOSTO Comercial de Mozambique
is an exception). Most operators vith ten vehicles and over, and all
parastatal companies are, therefore, obliged to have their own
maintenance facilities, which in the case of most parastatals are
inefficiently managed. On the other hand, the few Import
concessionaires operate in oligopoly conditions and their prices reflect
these conditions. As a result of the scarcity of facilities for
maintenance, of the high cost and scarcity of spare parts (related to
poor foreign currency allocation systems), and of the continuous imports
of new vehicles into the country (mostly by donor agencies or with
specific bilateral credits), there exists no motivation to repair, in
particular at the parastatal level.
33.       If Mozambique is to upgrade its transport industry to cost
effective levels, it is essential to open up the current restrictive
workshop capacity environment by deregulating lt first, and by
effectively encouraging development of a-equate workshop capacity at the
lowest level. Three measures seem essential and should be tied up for
decision-making purposes:
lFirst, deregulativn of those aspects of workshop licensing
which are related to installation of workshop capacity for
foreign vehicles and authorizations for Imports of spare parts
and components from foreign suppliers. This measure should go
a long way in encouraging private sector and small
entrepreneur access to work shop capacity.
6/Eight to te'J percent of replacement cost (Table 2).



- 102 -
Annex   2 - 4
Page 10 of 10
Second, facilitating foreign exchange allocatlon for workshop
equlpment spare parts and components at all levels related to
automotive maintenance and by speciflcally provLding a
mechanism for such facilitation within the SNAAD.
Th'rd, encouraging development of workshop capacLty at the
provincial level.
34.       A recent report from USAID suggests that the *non
admlinitrative allocation of foreign exchange' (SNAAD) does not operate
sufficLently well. Procedures in the SNAAD are not less cumbersome than
those under any other administratlve allocation system (the process of
obtainLig forelgn exchange unde- the SNAAD takes over 200 days) and
access to the SNAAD is barred to importers who wish to compete with
manufacturer-authorlzed comodity dealerships llcensed in Mozambiaue.
WLth a parallel market rate now running at about twice the level of the
official exchange rate, there is little doubt that the metical is still
sLgnificantly overvalued at its official level. Consequently, the
establishment of the 'secondary foreign exchange market' in October 1990
was an important move. The problem now facing Mozamblque on the
exchange rate management side is how to ensure that the SNAAD and the
secondary market, as two separate experiments in market-based foreign
exchange allocation, can become complementary. The future decisions on
the foreLgn exchange policy environment in Mozamblque wlll be cruclal to
the establishment of a strong workshop capacity with adequate supply of
foreign inputs.



Anue 2-5
pap I of 1
IUIIJLIC 0F  IZNIQU
ROADS AND COASTALS SHIPPING PROJZCT
ORGANIZATIORAL STRUCTUR - ROADS
1m=
lA(MUtT    Co IdI3 me inm            CF 4mWuWfl .'F HU|l IN                                                  t
I-.
_              I                     ~~~~~~                                                            ~~~~~~~I  I  IC
l   .                           |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
0m         me wA          LG - - - --  - -         - - - - -  - - 
+ C  | _                                    I~~~~~ I
+~~~~~~~~~~neb forN the fieldwor              dNE
aint        of Pa  an  -_.
-~~~ I
DIlSIRCr OFV1GIS / 7ZNF.;
Construction arKmi Wintenjivsi of
Nationawl  ard  I&ic.Joil th.,k;
I (lPrinirry & Sexxdary)  (hlrt.i.uy)



- 104 -
Anne: 2-6
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF MO BLOBIQUE
FIRST ROADS AND COASTALS SHIPPING PROJECT
ESTIMATED ANNML RIEBAILITATION OF FINDER ROADS IN KILOMETERS
Province      District         '93  '94  '95  '96  '97  '98   Ims
GAZA         XAI-X&I            30    _-    -    -            -      30
CRIBUTO            25   25   10    -    _    _         60
MANJACAZE          25   25   25   15    _    _         90
INHAMBANE    FUNHALOURO         20   25   25   25   25   20    140
HOMOINE            25   25   25   25   25   20    145
MORRlUMBENE        15   25   25   25   25   20    135
_____ __  VILANCULOS        -   25   25   25   25   15    115
SOFALA       PANDA              25   25   25   25   25   25    150
BUZI               10   20   25   25   25   20    125
MANICA       MANICA             25   20   15    _       -    -       60
SUSSENDENGA        25   25   25   25   25   20    145
ZAMBEZIA     PEBANE             10   20   25   25   25    -    105
GURU               20   25   25   25   25    -    120
.______  ALTO MOLOCUE       -   10   25   25   25   15    100
CHINDE              _   20   25   25   25   25    120
NAMPULA      MONAPO             15   25   25   25   25    -    115
NAHAPA              -   20   25   25   25   25    120
RIBAUE              _   20   25   25   25   25    120
TXTE         ANGONIA             -   10   20            -    -       30
TSANGANO            -   10   20   25   25   15         95
NIASSA      MNNDIMBA            20   25   25   30   25   25    150
C. DELGADO   MONTEPUEZ           -    -   10   20    -    -          30
MUEDA              10   15   20   25   25   25    120
MOCIMBOA/PRAIA.    -   10   15   15    -    -          40
NANGADE             -    -   10   1S   15    -         40
BALAMA              -   10   25   25   25   15    100
Total Kms                       300  460  545  520  465  310  2600
ouns NOCS Projec tlve-_er plan per DWEP/SW, October 1991.



- 105 -
ANNEX 3 - 1
Page 1 of 2
MOLAMBIQUE
FIRST ROADS AND COASTAL SHIPPING (ROCS-1) PROJECT
CURIECNT STATUS OF LOCAL PORTS
Introduction:
1.    The following table shows the current traffic levels in each of
the small ports, as well as the key product and key operator in each
port. Annex 3-4 sets out traffic projections.
I          fRey          [lMain   fl Current ||
!          tProduct      fuser    I Traffic f
I Chinde    iSugar       ISena   11  6,000  11
Il Macuse    iCopra     IlBorror  11 13,000  f
I Pebane    fCopra       I|Borror  11  3,000  H
I Angoche   iCashew     hlCaju    f  8,000  11
I Mocimboa  ITimber      Hadeira f 17,000  f
iTotal                               47,000  11
2.    The table on the following page szumarizes the status of the small
ports. In generals
(i)   the infrastructure in the small ports is in poor condition:
(a)   *quay  infrastructure is non-existent (necessitating
operations from the beach), or in deplorable condition due
to lack of maintenance and requires urgent rehabilitation;
(b)   dredging would be required along some quays to allow barges
to be able to discharge their cargo 24 hours out of 24; and
(c)   transhipment to and from barges and lighters needs to be
made more efficient.
(ii)  In most of the small ports handlint epuipment is idle due to lack
of spare parts, or is obsolete. In many ports goods are loaded to
and from lighters manually.
(iii) In all of the small ports the current navigational aids systems
are inadequate, making night time channel entry-exit impossible
and day time entry-exit dangerous, limited and slow due to the
shallow draft and constant shifts in the entrance channel due to
siltation and the development of the bar.



ANEX 3-1
Page 2 of 2
Port                Infrastrueture             'Flotilnog Equipmnt          'quay' EquIpmnt                   Other
faci lities
Chindo      Incoming cargoes nre unloaded   1 Oft  otorized barge (1)   1 Ct crawler crone        1 700t she
from grounded lightors to an    2 SOt rivor bargo  (1)       S tractors               1 diel tank
old wreck which is In very       1 tug boat                  1 excavator              1 workshop
poor condition (uneven           2 (90tA12Ot) tanker ships   S bulldozers             1  t hoist tackle
surfac  and long term                                        5 tral lore              1  par parte shop
stability In doubt). Outgoing                                 (mny of the above       1 lOOkVA powor plant
cargoes vice vera._ are not operatlonal)
Macuse      Reinforced concrete open pile   2 200  ba rge                 1 excavator             5 transit sheds in good
Jetty (So0xlm): Poor            1  lOOt barge               1 olectric conveyor    condition (9000t)
Condition. Jetty tip has         4  25t barge                  bolt
collopeed along lie length.      2 tugs (350-400W)           1 2. St FLY              Workshop building, no tools
Water depth becomee zero at      1 beach ferry               4 tractors
low tide due to siltation.                                   4 trallre
1 10 m water truck
Pebnno      Floating pontoon (15mx7m) A      2 self prop, barges (A-A)   2 7t trucks (A-A)        2 sheds in good condition
movable landing bridge are       I 7ct barge (A-A)           1 7t truck (Borror)      (20Gb/OOt)
used exclusively by food aid    1 260 HP tug (A-A)           1 7t tractor/tra ler                                                0
program. Other cargoare                                       (Borror)
handled from the river bank.                                                             _
Angoche     Earth and rock filled Jetty      1 tanker barge               1 I/7t  obile crane     1 rep) r shop
made from a wreck for            1 SOt river barge           1 St FLY
berthing and transhipment.       1 lOOt river berge          1 derrick winch
Masonry Jetty wlth stairway      1 launch                    1 tractor
and acess rmp. Damaged and
showing signs of erosion
Moceaboo    Open pile jetty In re-           No barge or tugs reserved   1 tractor (shipper)      2 sheds 6000t
nforced concret forming T        for MdP. Manic&             2 trallore (shipper)    10 00Gm  paved
with shore. (SOexiSm)            mobilizoo equipmnt from    1 pay loader              15 OOOnm unpaved
Deteriorating wooden fnders    other porte                   (shipper)                2 sheds 20,00Dt (Agric.)
and corroded concrete piles.
NOte:          Nubebr  In brackete Indicate  qulpmnt under rehabilitation
All quipmnt belongs to CFM unles  otherwise lndlcated



- 107 -
Annez 3-2
Pass 1 of 2
FIRST ROADS AND COASTAL SHIPPING PROJECT
ALTERNATIVE SHIPPIN! PATTERNS FOR COASTAL SHIPPING
1.      At this time, two broadly different shipping patterns for
marine transport for small local ports are possible in Mozambique.
2.      The first (as originally set out in the Coastal Shipping Master
Plan) calls for integration of two independent shipping networks. A
regional network would transport cargo between the main ports using
vessels of 1500 deadweight tonnage (DWT) or more. At the same time a
local network will transport cargo between the priority small ports and
the closest main ports, using 500 DWT beachers. Transhipment would then
take place at the main ports to allow all the small ports to be
connected into the network. This shipping pattern has become known as
the '*asterplan' or the 'Beacher Plan".
3.      The second system envisages the transportation of cargo by
ships of over 1500 DWT by direct access between the small ports and all
the main ports. Since dredging the small ports to allow access for
these larger ships would be extremely costly, this system requires that
the larger ships anchor offshore and tranship cargo by smaller vessels
to the smaller ports. Two sub-systems have been proposed for this
operations
(i)   The first alternative is to use cargo ships of 1500 DWT
to 2500 DWT for the long haul shipping and to use
lighters, powered by port-bound tugs, to perform the
transhipments. This has become known as the "Improved
RAVIQUE Plan' or the "Lighter Plan".
(ii)  The second alternative is to use a custom-built barge
carrier of about 4000 DWT, which would carry about 40
barges along the coast, dropping empty barges and
collecting full ones at the small ports as it moves up
and down the coast. This has become known as the 'DELMAS
System" or the *barge carrier system".
Barge Carrieor          Feeder/Beach.r            Caroo/Liahters
IDELMAS -               *lbsterIlanI            l*mprovsd 4AVZqUE
Barge Carrieor stops In  Conventional ships to main   1OOt-2SOOt conventional
regional porte and      regional ports           :hips serve regional porte
disochergo bergs off-                            *nd load to/f ro lighters
shore mller ports                                 offshore In small ports
Barge unloaded from     *00t Boachers provide     Lighters stay In port and
carrier are left In port   feeder serviceo, double  carry cargo aut to cargo
for carrier to return   handlIng for moat goods   ships



- 108 -
Annex 3-2
Page 2 of 2
4.      Given the poorer economics of transhipment in the regional
ports it is likely that most cargo bound for the bigger port. will go
via direct access, and local traffic wvil go via beacher. Likewise it
is unlikely that local traffic will be carried by the larger craft.
S.      The government's commitment to encouraging competition by
shipping lines in order to ensure efficient services, creates some
uncertainty as to the type of shipping pattern that vill emerge. It is
likely that more than one joint-venture shipping line wll be
established and wiil operate their shipping services based on their own
perception of what makes the most economic sense. It would be counter-
productive for the government to lay down the law to private shipping
companies. Hence, it is likely that multiple systems will operate.
6.      Since the optimal shipping patterns will in part be determined
by the level and mix of traffic, (which wiil in part be determined by
the security situation) it is difficult to predict the exact mix of
shipping patterns that will eventually become predominnt in these
areas.
7.      Further uncertainty is provided by the privatization of port
administration which may improve present port productivity
substantially. This may also affect the future shipping pattern.
S.      The exact structure of regional and mall coastal shipplng will
therefore be determined by market forces. Unfortunately planning for
port infrastructure requLres some understanding of likely future traffic
patterns. The main implicatLon of this li that any infrastructure
Investments to be made should aim for neutralLty between the two
system.
9.      Ship sizes and type of ship whlch are now being proposed are no
more than indicative and subject to further studles, dlscussion and
trLal by each shipping lines. According to available informatLon,
dimensions of vessels planned by shipplng llnes are as follows:
Barge carrier            4000-5000 DWT            Draft 5.0 m
Container ship           250TEU/4500  DWT         Draft 5.0 m
Conventional cargo ship 1500 DWT                  Draft 3.5 m
Beacher                  500 DWT                  Draft 2.5 m



- 109 -
Annez 3-3
Page 1 of 3
IOw43BIQp
FIRST ROADS AID COASTAL SHIPPING PROJECT
Proposed Institutional Arranements for Small Ports
Overview
1.    The Government of Mozambique has agreed to transfer the operation of the
small ports from CFM to private *terminal cargo handling companies" in return for
a concession fee. Subject to meeting the service conditions of the concession
the operators will be granted the freedom to manage the ports in a commercial
manner. The first ports to be awarded to concessionaires will be Mocimboa da
Praia, Angoche, Pebane, Chinde and Macuse (the five small ports under this
project). At a later date concessions may also be extended to other small ports.
In the light of the importance of this regulatory change, a condition of the
utilization of the credit line for investments in each of the small ports will
be the execution of a concession agreement for that port.
2.    Responsibility for the small ports will first be transferred from CFM to
the DNH in the Ministry of Transport and Communications (MTC). These facilities
will then be awarded on a long term concession basis (ten to twenty years) in
return for a negotiated fee. The concessionaires will be able to choose whether
or not to take the existing equipment and will be allowed to choose which
employees they would like to continue to employ. (MTC would have to cover any
severance payments separately). The infrastructure investments envisaged under
this project will be decided upon by the concessionaire in conjunction with MTC
and will be financed from the project.  The concession fee will be suitable
adjusted for such investments to reflect the loan payments that the
concesssionaire would have had to have made, had the concessionaire taken out a
long term loan to cover the infrastructure costs.
3.    Training in port management and operations for the new concessionaires will
both be financed out of project funds, but the concessionaire will be expected
to cover at least part of the costs of these services.
Responsibilities and Regulations
4.    The concession agreement will clearly spell out the rights and obligations
of the company. The concessionaire will be free to: (i) set its own cargo
handling tariff; (ii) hire, fire and pay workers on a market related basis,
including the payment of incentive bonuses; and (iii) make investments as desired
(with the agreement of MTC).
5.    In return, the concessionaire will be required to: (i) handle third party
traffic in a non discriminatory way; (ii) clearly post and operate tariffs that
are non  discriminatory;  and  (iii)    perform  routine  maintenance  on  the
infrastructure.  The concessionaire will not be able to sell his concession
rights to another operator without the consent of MTC.
6.    The governemert will retain responsibility for the maintenance and marking



- 110 -
Annex 3-3
Page 2 of 3
of the channel (through INANINA).
7.    To be financially viable the franchise will need to be awarded over a long
enough period of time, however this will result in a monopoly for the successful
operator.   Furthermore the initial contract is likely to be awarded by
negotiation, not competition. While the operator should be allowed to charge
commercial rates, he cannot be allowed to ezercise his monopoly power through
extortionate rates. In negotiating the concession structure, provisions will be
made to mitigate this risk and to include some provision for transferring the
concession in the event of poor performance.   Significant regulation and
supervision of the port operator will therefore also be required.
8.    Although the concessionaire will have the right to make additional
investments if these are deemed justifiable, responsibility for the longer term
planning and major infrastructural investments will remain with the state. These
decisions will be made so as to be appropriate for the political environment as
it emerges in Mozambique. Bach port may have "supervisory committee" including
representatives of the Ministries of Transport, Trade and Agriculture as well as
the provincial governor. In the case of the larger ports local (city) government
may play a greater role. DNM will provide a 'technical secretariat' to perform/
undertake planning and supervisory functions, including the preparation of 7-10
year coastal shipping development plans.
Choosins the Concessionaires
9.    In a more developed competitive economy, companies may be short-listed to
compete for the concessions. However, in Mozambique, at this time, the market
is not yet inviting enough to attract competitive bids. It is therefore proposed
to enter into direct negotiations with potential port operators. In selecting
the port operators there are, in principle, three types of company that might be
interested - a shipper, a ship owner and an independent stevedoring company.
10.   Various shipping companies have already expressed an interest in operating
stevedoring services in some.  The following are target candidates among the
shippers for negotiating the concessions.  In most cases these are the main
shippers from each port and in many cases are already the de facto port
operators.
SWl I Port                                 Potentll Operator
Chind. and Zambexla River                  $ena Sugar
Anooeho                                    CaJu; Monica
Macuga                                     Sorror
Mo.loebt de Praia                          A'rico; Coupon. de Madeira; Manic.
11.   It might be possible to negotiate the concession with a joint venture
company comprising both a shipping company and a shipper or to negotiate
independently with two parties to obtain an element of competition.  To the
extent that it can be avoided shipping lines will not be allowed to operate as
10O concessionaires, but will be forced to operate as joint ventures.



- 111 -
Annex 3-S
Page 3 of 3
Fees
12.   The concession fee, in principle, will be related to the costs of the
infrastructure transferred to the concessionaire. In order to allow the operator
to be financially viable from the outset the fee will start at a lower level and
increase over time as traffic increases. This could be achieved through a flat
annual fee plus a fee related to the level of traffic. This will have the added
benefit of splitting the risk of the capital infrastructure investments between
the port operator and the government.
Viability of the Privately Operated Ports
13.   The small ports are currently not financially viable since the fees are
administratively set too low. However, in order for the concession scheme to
work the operation of the ports must be financially viable for the private
operators.   Preliminary analysis shows that it is possible to structure a
financially viable concession for the small ports. Howevoer the exact structure
of the concession fees will need to be negotiated between MTC and the operators.
Next Steps
14.  Action required, and tentative deadlines, to implement this strategy
includes
Description of Action Required                                       Deadline
Transferring responsibility for the assets from CFH to DNM           Sept 92
Making required changes to legislation to allow the granting of    Jan  93
concessions. This will require an initial decree from the
Ministers Council and will then be achievable through Diplomas
Ministerias from the Ministry of Transport.
Drafting an initial concessionaire agreement for negotiation         June 93
with potential operators (to include proposals for the level and
structure of the concession fee and the port fees)
as a basis for aj--W*MM, of their  .TCML7 *WW    4_______3_ ___
| Negotiating the details with potential operators                     June 93
15.   In order to implement this strategy DNM/GAPROMAR will require:
(i)   Initial technical assistance to oversee the privatization process
(ii)  Short-term  support  in  the  form  of  technical  assistance  and
consultancy services to draft the required concessionaire contracts
and to recommued changes to legislation
(iii) Ongoing technical assistance and training to help regulate the small
port concessions.



- 112 -
Annex 3 - 4
Page 1 of 5
ROADS AND COASTAL SHIPPING PROJECT
TRAPFIC SCENARIOS FOR COASTAL SHIPPING IN MOZAMBIQUE
1.        The traffic forecasts are based on:
-       past commercialized production by major commodities in port
hinterlands;
-       previous maximum port throughputs by major commodities;
-       present commercialized production (including emergency aid);
-       assessment of production potential (year 2000) based ons
-    substantial improvement in security situation by  year
2000, which will imply a decrease in emergency aid;
-    assessment of present production by main    producers
and the family sector in the area;
-    indications of required investments in agricultural
processing units and rehabilitation of agricultural
areas, and source of financing;
-    growth rates by major crops and for some districts as
given in projections by the Ministry of Agriculture
2.        No detailed market studies have been carried out to ensure that
production will be competitive. Forecasts have been made based on interviews
w'th producers and port operators during field visits. A few controls of data
has been made through visits to the producers' headquarters in Maputo and
Quelimane.
3.        A summary of traffic in and out of each port is given in the table
attached to this annez. All ports increase their traffic over the analysis
period (1993-2012), although Pebane and Chinde should experience a decrease in
the first years due to reduced emergency aid. The growth rate differs between
ports and type of cargo in the interval 1993-2000, while a general increase of
41 annually is assumed for the interval .001-2012 for most types of cargo,
except for emergency aid which is assumed to disappear by the year 2000.
CRIND!
4.        Traffic through Chinde port itself has been and is very small and
mainly based on shipment of copra out and food aid in. Chinde has previously
been used as a transhipment point for sugar and molasses from the Sena sugar
factories at Marromeu and Luabo. However, transhipment of sugar took place
offshore, unloading barges from the factories to a floating warehouse" (old
vessel) anchored about 500 m offshore in the river estuary. Thus, the port of
Chinde will not be directly affected by possible revival of the sugar
production and exports, which might be in the range of 25 000 tons p.a. in
year 2000 (first stage of envisaged rehabilitation at Marromeu). Construction
materials for the rehabilitation of the sugar factories or inputs in future
production will not go through the port itself. The analysis does however
account for more consumer goods and general cargo coming into Chinde as a
result of any such development.
5.        About 10 000 tons of emergency aid (213 food and the balance, other
consumer goods) is said to arrive in Chinde this year. In addition, Copra



- 113 -
Annex 3 - 4
Page 2 of 5
from Sena (400 tons) and from the family sector (600 tons) will be shipped
this year to Quelimane and Beira.
6.        Forecasts for year 2000 assume substantial reductions in emergency
aid (from 10,000 to zero) and some increase in local copra production. No
figure on total productlon capacity in peace situation vas given, but it is
assumed that copra production can double. Including other goods in and out of
the port the traffic volume in 2000 is estimated to be about 8000 tons. Thus,
a reduction of volumes going through the port is envisaged by year 2000.
WACUSE
7.        Macuse is the transhipment point for copra from surrounding estates
and family production. Boror is the main producer and operator of the port. In
its peak year (1972) about 35 000 tons of copra went through the port (in and
out again), of which 18 000 tons came from Boror and the rest from the family
sector (and the other estates). 90 Z of the copra arrives by sea, 10 X by
truck. Boror picks up copra by barge from 4 central warehouses.
8.        Estimates of 1991 traffic range from 12-16 000 tons copra (into the
port and out again). Total tonnages handled in the Port are double i.e. 24 -
32 000 tons (since most copra arrives and departs by sea). In addition about 1
500 tons of food aid arrives by vessel this year. Other consumer goods come
from Quelimane by truck.
9.        Based on peace and some replanting of estates the production could
reach a maximum 25-30 000 tons by year 2000. Such an increase would require
infusion of new capital in Boror which most likely vill go into joint venture
vith a foreign company.
10.       Pebane is the transshipment point for copra from surrounding
estates, in particular Madal, Boror, C. de Zambezia and Morroa. Most of the
copra comes by barge to the port where it is unloaded to warehouses for later
shipment out.
11.       Mazimm quantities handled in the past (1981) vere 3 000 tons of
copra from Boror and 9 000 tons from the other estates. Apart from most of the
Boror copra which comes over land, these quantities are both into the port and
out again. In addition to copra about 5 000 tons of general cargo used to
come into the port. 1991 Boror production of copra was only 66 tons, while
that of other estates vas only at 9 000 tons. Total estimated food aid through
the port of Pebane in 1991 is 20 000 tons.
12.       According to Boror their maximum copra production could reach 5 000
tons vithin 5 years due to new plantings already made and further
rehabilitation/replanting of the estates. Production of the other estates is
assumed to stay as today. In addition to these volumes it estimated that about
2 000 tons of general cargo will go into the port. It is assumed that food aid
is stopped by year 2 000 due to improvements in security situation.



- 114 -
Annex S - 4
Page S of S
ANGOC
13.       Angoche is the outlet for an important caju (cashew) and groundnut
producing area in Mozambique. Wood and cotton is produced in its hinterland.
At present there are only two state-owned caju factories working, i.e. Caju I
and Caju II. The most recent maximum throughput of caju in the port was 15
000 tons in 1987. This production was halved in 1989 due to the security
situation. The production for 1990/91 was 7 500 tons, of which 4 000 tons went
by ship and the rest by road to Nacala (380 km away) due to lack of shipping
capacity. In addition, about 800 tons of wood went out of the port and nearly
6 000 tons of maize, oil, general cargo came in. Local transport of goods by
small vessels amounts to 800 tons, handled on the beach outside the port area.
14.       The forecast for year 2000 is based on the assumption that the 1987
caju production and throughput in the port can be reestablished, i.e. 15 000
tons out. Apparently the district of Angoche is comparatively rich and well-
run, and the major constraint for increased caju production seems to be the
security situation for the family sector. In addition it is assumed that the
present 7 000 tons of maize, salt, wood and general cargo will grow to 8 500
by year 2000.
OCIMB0A DZ PlATA
15.       Mocimboa de Praia is the main outlet for a rich wood and maize
producing area. In addition caju (1000 tons in 1990) and beans are shipped out
of the port. Agricom has stopped the purchase of maize from the family sector
because their warehouses are full and there is a lack of shipping capacity.
Some maize and beans are therefore trucked to Pemba (350 km). Total
commercialized production of maize in 1990 was 4 000 tons, of which 3 400 went
through the port, giving a total of agricultural produce of nearly 5 000 tons.
16.       Production of wood is also limited by lack of port/shipping
capacity. In 1990, 8 000 tons of wood was exported through the port, and 200
tons were trucked to Pemba. The acreage available for logging 125 000 ha, of
which 22 000 ha are worked at present. Immediate increase in log export given
better port/shipping conditions was said to be 60?.
17.       The port of Mocimboa appears to limit present production, and
benefits of port/shipping improvements can lead to increased production.
Projections of future traffic have taken this into account. Thus, about 20 000
tons of wood and 10 000 tons of maize and other agricultural produce are
projected to pass through the port in year 2000.



n~~~~~~~-                                                                                     -t
0~~~~~~ 'U>,Z                                                                                 -It|iXRz  %Xs
.~ ~~~~~I 0RKX~b"3              sURNNstz       
| . iNsssssssX^zzx ^ iNssssssss^zZzza o - S~~~~~~
Z  .  iNsssssssUMxX o iNssssssssXX^s i | l~I                                     -a o
. iRSN&X&XRUMM0--9D   "   |   iNURR&XSNURMUXzS   .   .                   3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
.~~~~~~ 0   NsNssszZ 
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 2NssxsM%XKissEssyzz   
| Z issssssssURzzZZ E l~~~~ sUNsssszzz  
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
fi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ a
. . X ss*|slla                                                                                0..                    
|~ ~ ~ ~~I 0z                  sUaa%zzZz                            @aa 
fi~~~~~~~~                    I                          a.z                                  a  gz^Xz^z       X X    
| r^zzz   X          ltz'z'x'x'>zz          I ~o                                   0 tsssssr  
| g x^X-zOOO   ^       1tzzz=Eax-             1 *         |                       I 
g | ^X z   O        1 tzzzzzzzzzzza           |             laNssssSssss           | 
|~~~~~~~ ,z ,,    .                                                                               sozzzzzz       {asssUaY 
|~~~~~~ ,,,,                                                                                        N g2zZzzZ, I.|l"""zIZ|
|  |  1  IMXzZZZzfMXX^zz | . l I ' 1N~~~~~~~~~~o                                 *
|  _   <  11 BXzZZZZZZZZZZZZA      I w         | lSNNNNNSNNS&X          I C      I
| | zzz2 -_Ct  oXI l%zzX^- Xzzzz4S   | 0          1iXXXXXs>t2S3         I n *    a
| exzzzz_  r   x !ffiXzz^zZz^zzz   1 3           4iXX&X~~XX&XYt    |*          oNg
_         ~     ~    ~ ~~ .                                                                     LA..zzzzzzzS   I|    
________________________________________ I  _______________________________________



Annex 3-4
Page 5 of S
C"DODE         1998  1994  1995  1996  1997  1996  1999  2000  2001  2002  2003  2004  2006  2006  2007  2006  2009  2010  2011  2012
EmERmENCY AID io,ooo 8,000 6,000 4,000 3,000 2,000 1,00o0   5           0     0      0      0     0--                  0     0      0      0 oo
COPRA         1,000 1,100 1,210  1,881 1,464  1,611 1,772 1,949 2,027 2,106 2,192 2,230 2,871 2,466  2,564  2,667 2,774 2,686  8,000 2,120
GENERAL CARGO   500 1,000 2.s00 3.500 4.s00 4.s00 4.500 5.200 5.010 8.06o  8.551  7.075  7.841  8.2M2  8.912  9.825 10.396 11.226 12.125 13.004
BASIC        11,500 10,100 9,710 6,831 8,964 8,111 7,272 7,649 7,643 8,173 6,748 9,854 10,011 10,717 11,476 12,292 18,166 14,111 15,124 16,214
GENERATED       575   506   486   442   448   406   864 _82   882   409   487   46    501   536   574   615   e05    70    756   611
TOTAL        12,075 10,o6- 10,196 9#,27  9,412 *,516 7,65  6,081 0,025 6,s2  9,100 9,622 10,612 11,268 12,060 12,906 18,827 14,817 15,6s1-r1,025
MACUSE         199U  1994  1995  1996  1997  19    1999  2000  2001  2002  2008  2004  200s  2006   2M00   2006  2009  2010  2011  2012
COPRA        14,000 15,540 17,249 19,147 21,258 28,591 26,186 29,066 0,2  81,483 32,696 84,008 o5,864  ,776 83,249 89,779 41,870 43,02  44,746 48,58u
OTHER         2.000 2.220 2.484  2.785 8.038  8.870 8.741  4.152 4.31  4.491 4.671  4.608  6.052 5.2S4 5.484 5.688 5.910 6.148 6.892 68.48
BASIC        16,000 17,700 19,714 21,882 24,289 26,9X1 29,927 8a,219 84,547 85,929 87,866 88,861 40,415 42,082 48,718 45,462 47,280 49,172 51,186 53,14
GENERATED       800   80    sao   1 094 1 214 1 840 1.496  1.661  1 727  1.796  1.68  1.948  2.021 2.102 2.196  2.27   2.864  2.469 2.657 2.869
TOTAL       s1o,0 16,041 20,699 22,976 2s504 2809  1,42S 84,879 80275 37,726 89285 40,604 42,486 44,184 45,;9 47,7  49,644 51,60 U,69  55,948
MIOCUOA        1998  1994  199   1996  1997  1996  1999  2000  2001  20   2008  2004  2005  2006  2007  2006  2009  2010  2011  2012
woW       - ,600 9,718 10,9W1 12,409 14,022 15,e46 17,90 20,232 21,042 21,6S6 22,769 23,669 24,6L1 25,600 26,624 27,689 26,797 29,949 61,147 82,898
AGRIC. PRODUCE 4.400 4,972 6,018 6.849 7.174 3.107  9.81 10,851 10.788 11.198 11,644 12.110 12.594 13.096 18.622 14.167 14.783 15.82  15.938 16.567
BiScC        18,000 14,60M 16,60  1,78 21,196 28,9s2 27,06s 3,564 81,608 8U,060 4,408 86,779 87,210 a8,69s 40,246 41,5  48,W0 46,272 47,082 48,966
GERTED          650   785   8O   9J8  1.060 1.198 1.836  1.529  1.690 1.654 1.720 1.789  1.860 1.s85  2.012 2.09a 2.7n  2.264  2.854  2.446
TOTAL        ll,6C5 15,426 17,4t0 19,69622,256 25,149 2,419 82,118. 6,   84,788 86,128 87,566 89,070 40,0U 42,-269 48,949 45,707 47,u5  49,487 51,414
PEBANE         1998  1994  1995  1996  1997  1996  1999  2000  2001  2002  200M  2004  2005  2006  2007  2006  2009  2010  2011  2012   '
EMERgoNCY AID 10,000 6,000 6,000 4,000 8,000 2,000 1,000         0     0         0      0   0     0      0      0      0     0      0      0      0
COPRA        12,000 12,360 12,781 18,118 18,650 18,911 14,829 14,76 15,849 15,99U 16,601 17,286 17,966 13,674 19,421 20,199 21,000 21,340  22,720 28,629
GENERAL CAROO 1.000 1.040 1.092 1.125  1.170 1.217 1.286  1.816  1.a69 1u42a  1.4e0 1.589  1.601  1.666 1n782  1.901 1.87a 1.946  2.026  2.107
BASIC        28,00  21,400 19,612 16,236 17,670 17,126 16,594 16,074 16,717 17,336 13,062  1,f6  19,557 20,889 21,158 21,99  22,379 28,794 24,740 25,78
GEETED        1.160 1.070   991   912   834   O65    680   604   686    669   904   940   978 1.017  1.068 1.100 1.144  1.190  1.287  1.297
TOTAL        24,150 22,470 20,603 19,149 13,560 17,964 17,424 16,676 17,558  U 3,25 16,9o 19,745 20,535 21,856 22,210 28,099 24,023 24,64 25,98 27,o22
ANGOCIE        1998  1994  199   "996  1997  1996  1999  2000  2001  2002  2006  2004  2005  2006  2007  2006  2009  2010  2011  2012
O n           4,000  4,64   5,65   7ju6  06,74 10,875 12,554 15,190 15,79  16,429 17,007 17,770 18,481 19,220 19,96  20,789 21,620 22,486 28,864 24,820
0HER          7.000 7.210 7.426  7L649 7.e79 0.116  6.88 6.609 e     .953 9.812 9.6e4 10.071 10.474 10.898 11.a29 11.72 12.258 12.744 13.253 13.768
BASIC        11,000 12,050 13,238 14,75 16,458 16,490 20,912 23,799 24,751 25,741 25,771 27,842 23955 80,118 81,813 82,571 U,674 85,226  o,6oa  8,103
GENERATED       550o  60    664   787   32    924 1.048  1.190 1.2a8  1.267 1.389 1.892 1.446  1.506 1.U0 1.629 1.694 1.7M   1.U2  1.906
TOTAL        11,550 12,05  13,47 15,472 17,276 19,414 21,5  a4,n 25,    2,o23 23,103 2s,2u4 80,408 81,619  2,364  4,199   ,7  6,990 86,47 40,0
Grew"            Percom6ag Gra.t  Per -Ammi
A.ou.ti.s           198400       6001-12
Chilb - Cor             10            4
Chla - Oftr            0             4
M..u..-AlI              11            4
mci.be - AllI           1s            4
t_btl -ai n              s            4
rem     - ou             4            4
A.ed  - Ca JZ         n             4
Aeod  - O*h r         *             4
rmot  tmtflo Is _sudt be              5  6o bm  etf lc



- 117 -
Annex 3-5
Page 1 of 2
FIRST ROADS AND COASTAL SHIPPING PROJECT
NM ORGANIZATIONAL RESPONSIBILITIES FOR COASTAL SHIPPING
Oraanization of the Coastal Shipping Sector
Current Structure
1.    Responsibility for the management of the coastal shipping sector
and the development of the small ports currently lies with DNM. Under
DNM there are a number of parastatal companies responsible for the
operation of transport services and infrastructure. These include
Navique, Transmaritima, Emarna, Inahina and Escola Portuaria. Recently
the Bureau of Maritime Projects (GAPROMAR) was created to manage the co-
ordination of the different development projects within the coastal
shipping sector.
Future Structure
2.    The future vision for DNM sees the following shift in emphasis
(see diagram on next page).
a.    The parastatal operating entities will acquire more
managerial and commercial independence. Some companies will be
formed into companies with DNM controlling the Government's share.
Some companies may be fully divested. Others may stay under DNM's
control in the longer term (eg. Inahina). DNM's role will become
more supervisory than managerial, with management and
implementation responsibilities allocated to the individual units.
b.    DNM wIlll be responsible in the short to medium term for the
restructuritg of the small ports and the coastal shipping sectors
to allow greater competition and private sector participation,
concentrating on changing the regulatory environment and
negotiating small port and shipping concessions.
c.    In the medium to long term DNM will assume planning and
regulatory responsibilities for the small ports and shipping
sector, as well as safety and security in the ports. This
includes (i) monitoring the port and shipping concessions,
including the preparation of a status report on conditions in all
ports at least every two years, (ii) reviewing tariffs to ensure
that monopoly exploitation is avoided; (iii) ensuring that
development of the sector is co-ordinated with other economic
developments (iv) development of 7-10 year development plans for
coastal shipping and ports.
d.    GAPROMAR will remain as a "projects unit" within DMN
responsible for the co-ordination and supervision of ongoing
maritime development projects (eg. Quelimane, Pemba) and for donor
co-ordination. This will include monitoring the progress of
project implementation, compiling reports for donors and ensuring
that accounts are maintained and audited by external auditors. It
is not envisaged that GAPROHAR will get into the details of civil



- 118 -
Annex 3-5
Page 2 of 2
design work and feasibility studies, but will manage the civil
works consultants to be funded under the project.
e.    DNM will retain limited administrative functions for their
own office management and budgetary control.
f.    DNM will maintain a training unit, responsible for planning
the training of its own staff and for developing a training
program for the entire coastal shipping sector.
3.    Agreement on a vision for DNM and GAPROMAR will need to be
obtained at negotiations.
aPERATDN: 1    | REGULATORY           SAFTY      W UROMAR |
ETTES               a   PLANDN 
E       3Hn                      $Ms. PonT 
INUT ao        m
tb          to be JV or
retained     privatized                    DNCT   Posts A Telocom
DNAC   Civil Aviation
DWCF  Port & Rail
DNTR   Road Tr anport
4.    In the short to medium term expatriate assistance will be needed
in most of these functions. However, DNH will concentrate on developing
the human resources required to perform the regulatory duties, planning
and supervision as a matter of priority. Engineering skills will be
bought in'. However, should DNH take on a broader supervisory role
with respect to the larger ports, it might be necessary to build up some
limited in-house supervisory engineering skills.
S.    In order to develop this capacity, technical assistance and
studies for DNH/GAPROMAR will includes
a.    Short term assistance and studies to restructure the
shipping and ports industries as in 2(b) above.
b.    Longer term assistance to perfonm the supervisory roles
until such time as this can be transferred to Mozambicans.
c.    An organizational study to clarify and build commitment to
the new DNM organizational structure.
d.    Short term assistance to strengthen DNM's management
capability.
e.    A longer term organizational study to clarify DNH's
relationship vis-a-vis the other units in MTC, especially with
respect to strategy and planning for the large ports.



- 119 -
Annex 3-6
Page 1 of a
MDLUMBIQVS
FIRST ROADS AND COASTAL SHIPPING PROJECT
ASSESSNENT OF TRANSPORT SERVICES PEORMANCE
1.    This review covers intermodal transport logistics.  It includes
freight-forwarding, customs brokerage and other related services
provided by such institutions as insurance companies, customs and banks
on imports/exports and transit of freight.
2.    At the outset it is important to note that existing data is
scarce, not always reliable and sometimes contradictory. There is an
overriding need for consistency in collecting and processing
information. With regard to transport services, this need is addressed
in the proposals for an action program in Annez 4-11.
I.    Rol, of Private Bnterprises and Private Sector Prospects.
3.    The key logistic chain services for international and domestic
traffic (including transfers to coastal shipping and transit traffic to
landlocked countries) is served by mainly parastatal companies, most of
which lack motivation, are bankrupt technically and do not offer the
service standards to ensure expeditive and cost effective services.
There are a few international joint venture private operators offering
mainly ship agency services, including limited coastal shipping, and a
very limited number of domestic private sector transport intermediaries
offering a variety of services including inland transport.
4.    An assessment of the services provided by the public sector
enterprises is not favorable. At the end of April 1991, there was a
backlog of over 700 import containers at the port of Maputo waiting for
clearance. At the same date, about 800 containers in transit to
domestic destinations were waiting for coastal shipping capacity. The
dwell time at port for over 602 of these containers exceeded 50 days.
5.    Of the 2.42 million tons of international freight handled in
Maputoi (excluding national freight, and oil-products which are handled
at MWtola port), 1.34 million tons (55Z) were transit freight to South
Africa, Zimbabwe and Swaziland. This high percentage of transit freight
is only indicative of the potential existing, which is now partly
channelled through other ports (mainly South Africa).
6.    Poor performance of the logistic chain in Mozambican ports in
terms of transit time results in cost increases and contributes to the
vulnerability of cargo which insurance coverage expires sixty days after
unloading from vessel. As a result, the Southern African and Eastern
Africa Conference (SAEC) Conference has imposed a surcharge of US$300
per TEU on Maputo-bound freight and may increase it to US$600 if there
is no improvement in delays, damage and pilferage. In the same manner,
poor risk performance by Mozambique has influenced an increase of
between 251 and 501 in re-insurance rates.



- 120 -
Annex 3-6
Page 2 of 8
7.    As a result, the costs for port handling and storage in transit on
imports account for a hefty 21Z of C & F costs in Mozambique. If
insurance and reinsurance premiums are added, costs in Mozambique ports
are a deterrent to transit traffic.
8.    On freight transfers between domestic ports by coastal shipping,
the present tariff rates are extremely high. At an average of US$40 per
ton, these rates for container cargo for coastal domestic transfers
compare poorly with international shipping rates in the sub-region
(US$50 Karachi-Maputo as an example) and add a new cost element to the
high price of imports. Opening of coastal shipping to a more
competitive environment should yield cost savings of between 30 and 352
which is the estimated premium now paid for the inefficient operation of
the parastatal fleet.
9.    An assessment of the operational characteristics, administration,
staff motivation, financial situation and performance of the five public
enterprises suggests that substantial gains in cost effectiveness and
efficiency could be obtained by encouraging competitive practices while
assisting the port of Haputo in privatization of port handling and
stevedoring operations, and the customs administration in modernization
and improvement of its operations. At stake are the competitiveness of
Mozambique regional freight transport corridors and the potential
financial fall out (foreign currency earnings) normally associated with
a sound and competitive freight forwarding industry.
10.  The following issues are important factors contributing to cost
and undesirable performances
(i)   poor coordination, control and handling of cargo at all
regional portst
(ii)  poor development of freight forwarding;
(iii) complexity of documents and procedures in the logistic chain
including transport, customs and trade documents;
(iv)  insufficient responsiveness of transport intermediaries to
loss and damage;
(v)   restrictive insurance practices;
(vi)  poor financial liquidity of importers; and
(vii) deficient communications.
11.  Ln addition to the above issues, the current security situation in
Mozambique affects sound modal interface between rail and road transport
by drastically curtailing railway services.



- 121 -
Annex 3-6
Page 3 of 8
II. Analysis of Issues
12.   Poor coordination, control and handling of cargo at Maputo Port
The traditional railway domination in Mozambican logistics has not yet
found a compromise with road transport. New stevedoring, port handling
or dispatching techniques adapted to container handling and to modern
requirements should be essential to produce productivity gains 1/.
Although the handling equipment maintenance condition is not good enough
to allow good rates of equipment availability (as an example, the
container cranes were delivered eight years ago without spare parts nor
operational training and have not had significant maintenance ever
since), motivation, training and management seem to be the most
overriding needs. Marginal gains in freight unitization could be
translated into substantial savings in time and therefore in cost (as an
example 'thruputs of unitized cargo at the 'liner traffic' pier is 900
to 1000 tons per 24 hours against 500 to 700 tons at the NAVIQUE's non-
unitized coastal shipping pier).
13.   Issues affecting international transfers at the port handling and
stevedoring level can be summarized as follows:
(i)   poor equipment availability as a result of scarce foreign
currency to procure spare parts and lack of maintenance
21!
(ii)  poor coordination of port logistics due to lack of
locomotive power for shunting operations and not enough
planning for alternative modal choices; as a result, slow
turn-around of railcars at port drastically curtails railcar
capacity availability;
(iii) substantial pilferage, in particular on food aid
consignments, and high rates of damage partly as a result of
long dwell-times, partly as a result of poor security;
(iv)  poor motivation resulting from low salary levels;
(v)   insufficient know-how of modern equipment capabilities,
means of efficient use, and equipment management in general,
at middle management level; and
(vi)  poorly designed port logistics for intermodal operation.
I/    Actual container Ithruput' is 12 TEU's per hour against a
potential of 20 TEU's per hour with similar ANSALDO type gantry
cranes in other ports.
21    Craness 29 operational out of 59.
Fork-lifts: 54 units standard specification, 3 units for timber, 3
units for containers with 50Z availability rate.



- 122 -
Annex 3-6
Page 4 of 8
14.   Two on-going studies should be instrumental in providing knowledge
of ways and means to improve port operations:
Mi)   The Port Master Plan (Technical Assistance Project)
completed on April 1991 by PORTIA with ODA financing.
(ii) Study on privatization of stevedoring operations (this
latter study does not seem to include privatization of port-
handling operations which would have been complementary).
15.   In addition, two on-going projects will attend to limited needs in
equipment rehabilitation:
(i)   HPC Project (AMN) financed with German assistance; and
iii) RELIABLE Project for the rehabilitation of CLARK fork-lifts,
financed with own-funds.
16.   Poor development of freight-forwarding:  A by-product of the
dominance of the public enterprises in international logistics is the
poor development of freight-forwarding capabilities. ANFRENA 3/
does not have the capabilities to compete with regional counterparts on
transit traffic nor the expertise and motivation to do an expeditive job
in parastatal-captive traffic. MANICA, a joint-venture of South-African
and regional interests handles substantial transit traffic, has an
efficient but small coastal shipping operation, but is limited to handle
private sector interests. MOCARGO, originally a freight bureau for the
control of freight rates on movements of parastatal cargo, has recently
started to compete successfully on transit and private sector movements
and shows management potential and capabilities. A smaller fourth
freight-forwarding operation competing on private sector business with
MANICA and MOCARGO completes the freight-forwarding scenario.
17.  Lack of competition in freight-forwarding contributes to high cost
of services. Comparatively, transit through Maputo to South Africa
,Swaziland, and to a lesser extent Zimbabwe, would be the natural
choice. Transit prices from FOB vessel Haputo to Mozambican border for
South-Africa and Swaziland are, however, about 62Z of the through
freight rate from Lisbon to inland borders
1           US1/ton
-     Sea freight Lisbon/Haputo             34           125
-     CAP/BAF and surcharge                  4            15
-     Port handling                         14            50
-     Other expenses up to border FOB
railcars.                             48          175
3/    The Agencia Nacional de Prete e Navigacao (ANFRENA) employs 536
persons and, in the first quarter of 1991, handled 145,000 tons of
stevedoring and 915 tons of transit.



- 123 -
Anne: 3-6
Page 5 of 8
18.   Poor development of freight-forwarding results in all freight
transactions negotiated on C + F terms on import and FOB terms on
exports, with all international parts of the trade contract the
responsibility of Hozambique's trade partner. These contracting
practices reduce the potential for foreign-currency earnings on
international transport contracts to Mozambican transport operators (in
particular international freight-forwarders). In today's competitive
and container dominated multinational transport scenario, freight-
forwarders act as multinational operators and are able to attract to the
countries from where they operate substantial financial flows (payables
and receivables) much in the same way airlines or shipping companies
do, but with less or marginal investment.
19.   Complex documents and procedures:  The Mozambican documentary
process has been partially modernized since independence.
Modernization, however, is limited to the most critical documents, such
as the 'customs declaration,. Other documents and procedures need to be
laid-out to the UN standards prior to introduction of electronic
coimunications. Facilitation of documents will reduce the odd forty
pieces of documentation needed for an import documentary declaration
(including banking, trade, customs and transport documents) to
three/four basic formats with a maximum of ten final documents.
20.   The complexity of procedures attached to the documentary process
is substantial with numerous signatures and seals at each stage of the
process. Once documents are facilitated, procedures may be reduc6d
coinciding with the introduction of electronic co_munications.
21. The compatibility of the customs, port, freight-forwarders and
banking computer programs will be essential and needs to be planned
ahead of time.
22.   Two projects aiming at the simplification of customs
administration procedures are currently under way (or awaiting
approval):
(i)   Project MOZ/89/018, financed by UNDP (US$238,000) and
executed by UNCTAD, provides for support to the customs
administration and has the following objectives:
*     improve collection of revenues on international trades
*     harmonize the legal basis, mechanisms and procedures;
and
*     study the feasibility of economic and technical
external assistance to improve the customs
administration.
(ii) Project aAF186/046 is a joint UNDP|UNCTAD regional project
executed by UNCTAD which has already produced some valuable
results such as the introduction of the coupon system for



- 124 -
Annez 3-6
Page 6 of 8
transit traffic on the Halawi/Hozambique/Zimbabwe corridor.
It has the three following objectives:
*     facilitation of transit traffic;
*     introduction of modern data management techniques
related to the introduction of electronic
communications; and
*     monitoring of cargo movements (ACIS);
23.   None of the two UNCTAD executed projects provides, however, for
the facilitation of documents and procedures. The facilitation of
customs, transport and trade documents seems an essential step forward
while administrative regulations and procedures related to transport and
trade are redrafted and simplified and while a decision on the
computerization of customs is made as part of project M02/89/018.
24.   UNDP would be willing to increase financing under project
MOZ/89/018 to include document facilitation. This item will be part of
the intermodal facilitation program proposed under the project.
25. Insufficient responsiveness of transport intermediaries to loss
and/or damages Mozambican ports and, in particular, Haputo port are
considered high risk by international reinsurance companies and a
surcharge of US$300 is levied by the SAEC Conference on Haputo-bound
freight. The liability provisions of transport operator (road, rail and
water) go back to pre-independence days and are not adapted to modern
comodity values and to container traffic. The same applies to terminal
operators (Maputo port) and freight-forwarders. Under present
provisions, recovery of damage/loss would be regulated by liability
principles no longer reflecting reality.
26.  Updating liability regulations under curreut commercial law, and
reviewing available transport liability conventions seems an essential
step to bring terms and conditions of carriage and terminal operators
responsibilities to modern standards.
27.   A review of current liability provisions followed by drafting of
modern terms and conditions of carriage for transport and terminal
operators will be proposed as part of the intermodal facilitation
program.
28.   Insurance practices:  A draft proposal that all imported freight
into Mozambique be subject to compulsory domestic insurance coverage, if
enforced, would uimediately result in higher insurance premiums for
Mozambican-bound cargo. At present only parastatal freight imported
into Mozambique is subject to compulsory coverage by EMOSE (Empresa
Mozambicana de Seguros). The recomendation follows UNCTAD's general
attitude towards protection of shipping and insurance of domestic
interests in developing countries. Recommendations concerning insurance



- 125 -
Annex 3-6
Page 7 of 8
were initially made by UNCTAD in the 1960's and have resulted, in a West
African example, in a proliferation of insurance monopolies not in the
best interest of the countries. Review of UNCTAD's rationale behind the
encouragement of domestic insurance is urgently needed.
29.   In the meantime, urgent action would be required in two areas: (a)
procedures for compliance by shippers and operators with provisions for
reporting damage upon arrival of cargo to Mozambican ports, and (b)
procedures for compliance by shippers and freight-forwarders with
provisions for extending risk coverage at port beyond the 60 days
coverage for imported goods in transit or awaiting for clearance.
30.   Poor financial liquidity of imDorters:  A high percentage of the
containers awaiting clearance at the Haputo port cannot have the
documentary credit provisions confirmed by the Bank of Mozambique due to
lack of counter value deposits in local funds by the importer (often a
parastatal company) or lack of funds for customs duties. As a result,
containers and general cargo must be left at port, usually beyond the
sixty days insurance coverage period, until documentary credits are
confirmed.
31.  Since the financial liquidity of importers is not likely to
improve in the near future, it is suggested to change current import
license fund deposit provisions to make compulsory deposit by importers
of lOOS of countervalue funds, or to support their import license
request with an adequate bank commitment accordingly. Otherwisp, the
situation of containers stored in the Maputo port will worsen.
32.   Deficient communications:  Cosmunications within Hozambique and
with the sub-region are poor. For customs and transport purposes
deficient communications are one of the most important problems facing
introduction of modern standards and practices. Computerization of
customs and transport documentation will be contingent on better
communications. Although not within the scope of this project,
assistance to communications is clearly a priority area.
III. Transport and Trade Stratemy
33.   Introducing competition and cost effectiveness in domestic and
intermodal transit logistics, and in freight-forwarding, would go a long
way towards improving the balance of payments account deficit by
increasing the non-factor services (transport and insurance)
contribution in foreign-currency earnings.
34.  While dismantling public monopolies in transit logistics is
eminently desirable in the long term, actions can be taken in the short
and medium term to increase cost-effectiveness in transit services.
Such actions aret
(i)   facilitation of trade and transport documents and procedures
to UN lay-out key standards;



- 126 -
Annex 3-6
Page 8 of 8
(ii) making transport intermediaries more responsive to loss
and/or damage by updating legal liability levels for
carriers and terminal operatorsg
(UiL) reviewing insurance legal provisions and practices; and
(lv)  facilitating customs transactLons by improving communLcation
and computerizing operations.
35.   The proposed trade and transport facliLtation program should be
identified and prepared under the ROCS-1 project, and implemented under
the subsequent ROCS-2 project.



- 127 -
Amnez 3-7
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF MIOZMBIQA
FIRST ROADS AND COASTAL SHIPPING PROJECT
PRINCIPAL ACTImVTIES OF NORAD IN THE COASTAL SHIPPING SUB-SECTOR
1.          Coastal transport has been one of the main beneficiaries
over the past decade of bilateral cooperation between Mozambique and
Norway. Similarly NORAD has been the single biggest supporter of the
coastal shipping sector in Mozambique. The program level for both 1991
and 1992 is in excess of US$ 10 million annually, but this is expected
to be lower in 1993.
2.          NORAD has been, and is continuing to, assist the MTCIDNM in
a variety of fields, ranging from infrastructure and equipment
improvement to technical assistance in port management, personnel
training, and sound business management. As can be seen from below this
support has focussed on the marine sector as a whole, including 'support
organizations, and not very much on the cabotage transport that is the
main focus of the ROCS project. In that sense the historic NORAD
contribution (and its continuation) complements the ROCS project.
3.          The focus of NORAD cooperation has been increasingly
directed towards achieving sound economic and technical shipping and
port operations within the state institutions in charge of policy making
and management, with an eye towards future privatization of some of
these operations. Other key objectives are: (i) improvement of maritime
safety, with the establishment of a Maritime Safety Authority planned
for 1992; (ii) the more efficient channeling of emergency humanitarian
aid to needy people, especially the more vulnerable groups composed of
women and children; and (iii) support for environmental projects.
4.          Investment costs have been and will be kept at a low level
with the aim of maintaining a more flexible program which can be readily
modified to fit changing conditions when peace is achieved. Norway has
agreed to consider the possibility of supporting commercial cooperation
in the shipping field, including the establishment of joint ventures.
Current candidates for joint ventures are the shipyard, the transport of
dry cargo and the transport of petroleum products.
5.          A review of the bilateral cooperation program was carried
out in May 1991, and a number of recommendations resulted which have
been considered in future planning for the sub-sector. External audits
of NAVIQUE, INAHINA and EKARNA are scheduled to be introduced in 1992.
6.          Principal areas of cooperation are summarized below:
-     Institutional suDport to MTC/DHH, particularly to improve
maritime planning, to supply equipment for the local
shipping fleet, shipyards and ports, and to continue
assisting with training efforts.



- 128 -
Annex 3-7
Page 2 of 2
Construction of the Escola Nautica was completed and
expatriate and local instructors assigned. Some 100
students have already been trained, with the concept of
tuition fees being paid by users of the school having been
introduced so that the school will eventually become self
supporting.
A National Port Training Institute was established in 1988,
and is expected to be fully operational by 1993. ILO is the
executing agency, providing advisors to the port
administrative agency, CFM. A national manpower development
plan for the ports industry has been developed, and accepted
by Mozambican authorities.
The government institute, INAHINA, has been strengthened
through technical assistance in the hydrographic and
cartographic fields, including the training of personnel and
the acquisition of equipment. Two hydrographic teams were
trained and major parts of the Maputo entrance and fairway
vere surveyed and charted. This effort will be continued.
Assistance to NAVIQUE is continuing, with emphasis on
improved administrative practices, improved cargo handling
and ship maintenance, and personnel training. Steps will be
taken to help transform NAVIQUE into a commercially viable
public company through establishment of a joint venture, and
the present management contract will be extended through
1992. Creation of a tanker joint venture also is planned.
The state owned company, EMARNA, is being provided technical
assistance to improve its operation and financial position.
Principal technical objectives are to increase efficiency,
quality and general productivity of the shipyard.
Assistance was provided in the establishment of a coastal
shipping terminal at the Maputo port, with the passenger
terminal being completed in 1991. Rehabilitation of the
South Pier also was carried out with NORAD assistance.
Extensive rehabilitation/improvement works have been carried
out at the port of Pemba, and are expected to continue
through 1993.
Technical assistance in the engineering field was provided
to CFM, with close cooperation from local counterparts.
Main activities have been the coordination of project
preparation, including tender documents; the procurement of
materials and equipment; works supervision; financial
management of works projects; operational assistance in the
Pemba port; and personnel training.



A      4 - I
Page 1 of 4
FIRST ROADS AND COASTAL SHIPPING PROJECT
ROAS - STUDIES MN  TECHNICAL ASSISTANC
1.     Studies and Technical Assistance will be provided in the following areas:
Tn-E T|R   STATS                                                                NEXT STEPS
Techical Asstance                                                                                           _
mmi CGslt1at to 36P: To moist th  National Direcor ia mnagement of tho DW   road program; to                Proposals      Award
coordinato the activi1ies of all oteor ONEP consultants; to moist nd train DNEP personnel in planning    oealvated         contrat
and mnitoring futre highwy program; and to prform special   too euch as for road signing, axle-
load control and procior of    lsions.
Feeds Sed Pres e Technical Asistanos: TA to assist to the im;ae nteion of the labour _oe  feeder   Underay                 UND_ managd
room progra.                                                                                                              __
5u _   _ 1" e of Pnwlmclel              1vs   as To train and guide the DNEP  ngineers at provincial        Agreed in      Agree
eve  In d t col ctlon Tor progrm propera  on and In supervision of progrm  xecution.                        concept        detailed TOR
Auit of %MI To ftnance a financial auit of tho provincial enterprises now rponsiblo for road and                           Draft TOR
bIdigo rd billHtion and maintenan ca a first step towards stablishing their eligibility to compete
for IDA contra s an utonomous commercial entities.                                                       _
Less  Coastructien Indasu                                                                                   _ _ ___ __ _
Shedg go   Lecal Roe Cometructoi  ists: Evaluate the capebi ltios of local civil works                      Propos ls      Evaluato
conrawors and tho constraints on expansion of tho Industry to handle most road improvement and              Invited        proposals
maintenne; ldetify candidates for LRC and develop a progrm for bringing thm to the deslred level of                        and *olet
c o_tey.j                                                                                                                  conwltent
S4 n ni d Loieal  eod Coentracheuo8 O t Training of potential LRC in f inancial planning, business                         Await study
nogg n t worm pennning and organizefaong and porsonnel managen nt.                                                        results
Pelicy "dise
Resi Fi_   Stdgi To Identify exlting funding sourcs nd llitationso nd to recommend fesible m*ons   7O  agrod    Contract
of finanlnproected road improvement and maintenance nd                                                                    consultant
Eul-   -e Eva lutleo SM!d,: To assoes the genral condition, operating effectiveness, and need for           TOR agreed    Contract
ropairs or replacement of tho plant and equipmnt fleot assigned to road works by GO.                                       consult nt
StadY of Procur mn Preocdurest Evaluation of the procursmnt practic  of UN and recommendations for    TOR                  Finallz
more agilo and uniform procedure  throughout government,                                                    tentativly   funds A
agreed        consult nt



AUR 4 - 1
Page  2 of 4
OUTLINE TOR                                                   StATUS       NEXT STEPS
Treising sod Mmpw tvelopm __e
mnower Dol_Emt and Teobmical Asesato.e: To staff the department Initially whiTl training                 Propoualo      Evaluate
counterports to gradual1y plan and manage teW roadb training progrm. For the first *     Iveral ears,     Invited       proposls
training TA speciallts will:  (1) establish and supervie the DNEP Training Department; (1I) mxist in                   and award
stettng up and supervising the Road Technlcal Training Center (RTTC); (111) assist In establishing and                  contract
supervising the Road and Mechanical Training Production Unite (RTPU and MTPU); and (1v) coordinate and
supervise training eativitie  expected to be carried out by national and external educational and
technicallvocatlonal Institutes and training c trs. 
Evalmaise of  lTlTC Assessment of the adequcy of existing fc ilitioe at the propoe .ite for the Road    Proposal        Contrt
Technical Training Center In manica, and recommendations for any desirable Improvements,                  recived       consultant
Treeltlg  qmo        Steles
Guidelines for shifting the balance of the trucking industry from the gbilc to the Drivate sector         TOR agreed;   Review
Including assessing th  need for funding to  ffectuatoe privatization of te par,Astal fleets and of      consultants   outcome of
reprstel procedures ond financial Intermediaries                                                      appointed      Initial
study
Guidelin  for the liberallaIon of reciultions and other restrictlons on private sector road transport                   (started
activiti  to cove       n   for support soevice  to dlop cost-bed tariffs and minim  regulatory                         *erly March) 
guidelines. Revision of existing minimu ondard for In urnon, s clrlty and saftey In the roo
transport Industry, and a coimtf celv  Implemention plan, will e part of the guidelines.
Idntificalton of type of te, SLM and/or assisonce ned  by emerging private sotor operators and           Draft TOR      Agree TOR
Identificatieo of training *nor asistnce ne           by CON agencies to ?ulf ill the rod     and r_     comp           M olwc
oriented COM role In road transport activities: Identification of action required te improve road safeti                consultant
Assessmt of the potential for rebabilltation of existing vehicle resource; In perticular a
of the mchanical cnition of parastatal f lees, Including economic criteria for rehabi I ltation,
rquirement for mchnical c        oe   and vehicle replcemewnt need. This would be complemented by an
sm eet of mechanical skills at the workshop floor level, and  ould be complemented by:  (I)
proposals for dereglation of Workshop liconsing related to installation or ne  capecity;  (il) review
of the adeay of regulations relat  to distribution of lported spare ports and components, and (111)
facilIltation of forei1n *xchnge allocation for workshop equipment, *pre parts and components.
alesim         ie_
Efmerlt Oi    !     To carry out fleld and loboratory tests, Including environmentalan;                  Ono drat       Finsliz
ivTluiii alternative pevemen dsigno; and prpare constructlon plans and contract documents for the        contract       contracting
elght trunk roed to be rebhbi lIst   nitial ly under ROCS-2.                                             agreed         arrangmnts



ANE  4 - 1
Page 3 of 4
TEOHICAL ASSISTANCE         Total           Total
AMD STDI3ES            Cot    Donor    U-M  I 19921 1998           19"4  1 1995  1 1996   1
ROADS             (3'000)                  1128 41 1 2 8  41 1 2 8 41 1 2 3 41 11298 4 I  COMMENTS
1.0 GENERAL CONSULTANT - DNEP
1.1 Sr Highway Eng. - Team Leader   81,104 IDA          64                             p_-_ -,. - n  si >o
1.2 Highway Planning A Design Eng.      3978 IDA         48 l      - - ----- -                             I - phrs on
1.8 Road Maitetnance lEn.              3866 IDA          13 1          -1--1   -   1I   pn r
1.3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  aMIA            i                                                      phtase two
1.4 Bridge Engineer                    8432 IDA          211         I -       -     I
1.5 Traffic Engineer                   8866 IDM A8_
1.6 Cost Act. /Financial Analyst        376 IDA          4   _-. _
1.7 Systems Analys                     8782 IDA              I
1.8 Highway Con"truction Enginoer      8246 IDA          12 I         I _  _        _
1.9 Short-ter experts (4-6)            8848.IDA          15          1    -          _         1           1
2.0 FER ROADS PROGRAM
2.1 Tm Leeder                           8744 UtOP    60 -                 --             -
2.2 Accountant Audltor                 8744 SIDA          0 j-           -                  - -
2.8 Mehaciocl Advisor                  3744 tDOP                                                  _
2.4 Adeinistretlvw / Procurement       8744 tWNP         -o 
2.5 Economlst/System Analyst           U444 WtN          J0 I1                                             I
2.6 Regional Constnrect. Advisors (8) 32,016 WtIP       162
2.7 District  rigade Leaodr  (22)    38,482 MUISCEL.   792             
2.3 Provincial Roads Engineers (10)  31,560 UNRFUDED   860                 -
2.9 Provinclal Equip Engineer  (10)  31,660 UNFUNDED   860 I         I     -I      -I-
8.0 DW  TA                                                                                       I         I
8.1 Co-ordinator                       3782 DA                       I-I
8.2 Materials Enginer (2)               3492 IDA         24      j       -I-I
4.0 Hghway EnC  n  rI (10)           S@,400 ID           1s
4.0 HhwaEnine  (                     3        I
4.1 Auditing of ECHEPS                 SI200 IDA
5.0 ILcalontRctIO   Study              34  I 
5.1 Local ContrcTorStCd    *240 IDD ITR
5.2 Assistance to Local  ontrctors  21,06  IDA         1i8                                  -              1
6.0 POLICY SlUDES
6.1 Procuremm  Study                   S222 SIDA         121       -T -I                i        I         i
6.2 Equipment Study                      32 DA            4 1      -I         IllI
6.1 Road Financing Study               3152 IDA           3                   1        1
7.0 TRWIN  NEEDS                                                                                 I      ,
7.1 Chief, Training Depertent    31, 284 IDA             n         -i--I.--i-                            i
7.2 Feedr Road Trainlin  Offleer       3587  UW          80o          l--         -
7.8 Trainln  Selist (8)              32,784 IDA         156 |        i-          -  - i
7.4 RC Stff (4)                      #,362 IDA          216 1        1-I---                       -> l
7.5 RIPU/IT1U Staff (2)                ,16 IDA          120 |        j                                    )
7.0                     Study          3100 IDA             I                 I              I
2.0 TRUOCKI  SIMMES                                                  I             I             I         i
9.1 Privatition    Liberalization      330  USAID        15 i
3.1 Training                             350 USAID        8-                           i         I
3.2 Workshop Rehbilitation            8150 USAID         8
Total                           U39,685           8889 



AM.    4 - 1
Page 4 of 4
Technical Ailstnc Smry:
BY MAJO CATEORY:             (6'000)        _       BY DON:          (S'000)
1.0 GENERAL CONMULTANT - ONEP     85,60    270         IDA               626,M66
2.0 FEDER ROAD$ 1ROORAM          611,96   1960          UNDP              65,229
3.0 DEP                           67,704    376         SIDA                62
4.0 NAE/ECHlEP                      60                  USAID             i600
5.0 LOCAL CONSRUCTION INDUSTRY    82 545  - 143         SwISS               6451
6.0 POUCT STUDIES                   i48       24        DANIDA              2287
7.0 TRAINING                     $  698 199             GTZ/Kfw            n164
6.0 TRUCiON STUDIES                 500       25        UNFUNED           66,064
TOTAL                         639,6"3    g          TOTAL            69,635
La)
l
I



- 133 -
Annez 4-2
Page 1 of 7
MOZANIIQ_U
FIRST ROADS AND COASTAL SHIPPING PROJECT
DRAPT TEMS OF REERNCE FOR GENERAL CONSULTING SERVICES
TO THE NATIONAL DIRECTORATE OF ROADS AND BRIDGES (DNEP)
1   DESCRIPTION AND OBJECTIVES OF REQUIRED SERVICES
1.1       The Government of Mozambique's medium-term national road rehabilitation
and deferred-maintenance program, priority sections of which are expected to be
funded under the ROCS-2 project, is intended to bring most of the national
network back to pre-independence standards of serviceability and maintainability
by the end of this decade.   Because the DNEP staff is very limited, the
successful execution of this program so vital to the recovery of the nation's
economy requires the assignment of an international consulting firm to provide
highly experienced specialists for a broad range of technical assistance to DNEP
during at least the initial stage of the project (the services vill be required
Initially for three years, which is the term of the contract for which these
terms of reference (TOR) are written. This firm will act as General Consultant
(GC) to DNEP in all matters relating to its programs for roads and bridges, but
particularly with regard to implementation of the ROCS-2 project.
1.2       In addition to ensuring the timely and satisfactory implementation of
the roads component of the ROCS-2 project, a major objective of the consultancy
is the strengthening of the institutional capacity of DNEP.  These terms of
reference (TOR) describe the nature and scope of the services to be provided by
this General Consultant.
2. SCOPE OF WORK
2.1       General
2.1.1     The General Consultant to DNEP will have the responsibility for
coordinating and supervising, for and on behalf of DNEP, all consultants
providing technical services to the agency, monitoring their activities and
performance. In addition, it will provide advice and assistance directly to DNEP
in highway planning, organization, special studies and improved operational
procedures. Specific tasks to be performed are detailed in Section 2.2.
2.1.2     The services shall be carried out in accordance with generally accepted
standards of professional practice, following recognized engineering and
management principles and practices, with emphasis on effective use of available
resources. The scope of work of the CC includes all activities necessary to
accomplish the stated objectives of these services, while adhering to the
aforementioned principles and practices, whether or not a specific activity is
cited in the TOR.
2.1.3     The Team Leader of the GC will work closely with the National Director
of DNEP, and with the Project Coordinator (PC) for the ROCS project, keeping them
fully informed of the status of activities which the GC is responsible for
coordinating, monitoring or executing. He will advise and assist the Director



- 134 -
Annex 4-2
Page 2 of 7
as required to achieve the objectives of this technical assistance, particularly
regarding improvements in organizational effectiveness.
2.2       Principal Duties and Responsibilities
The General Consultant primarily will be required to carry out the
following tasks
*       Assisting the National Director of DNEP in implementing an
effective functional organization for general management of
highways and bridges included in the national road network;
*       Developing   and   implementing   a   simplified  management
information system (in consultation with the ROCS Project
Coordinator) for collecting and reporting data on projects and
technical assistance which the GC is responsible ror
supervising;
*       Recommending an updated functional classification of the
designated, non-urban, public roads of Mozambique;
*       Evaluating the present road maintenance management system and
assisting the DNEP Maintenance Department in extending that
system--with such modifications as are agreed as being
appropriate--to the entire national road network (to the
extent it is accessible);
3       Organizing and supervising the carrying out, by DNEP/DEP
personnel, of a detailed inventory and condition assessment of
the entire national road network (including drainage and other
structures), to the extent security conditions permit;
*       Performing a techno-economic study, at pre-feasibility level
using the HDM-I1 model (PC version), of the national road
network, and formulate a ten-year master plan for road and
bridge rehabilitation and improvement.
*       Evaluating,  with  the  assistance  of  the  HDM-III  model,
alternative strategies for periodic maintenance of paved and
gravel roads, and formulating a ten-year program of periodic
maintenance for roads improved under the ROCS-2 project, as
well as for other priority, primary and secondary roads.
*       Conducting a study of axle loads of heavy vehicles using the
national road network, and recommending a comprehensive
vehicle  weight  control  program,  including  fines  for
overloading. The possible use of tolls for heavy vehicles in
certain international corridors shall also be investigated;
*       Developing and costing a signing program for the national road
network, based on results of the nationwide road inventory
(taking into account that road rehabilitation projects
financed under ROCS-2 will include new signing);



- 135 -
Annex 4-2
Page 3 of 7
*       Conducting  a  brief  study  to  update  the  consultant's
conclusions and recommendations presented in 1987 regarding
the possible cost effectiveness of purchasing 3 plants to
produce bituminous emulsions, and 10 asphaltic pre-mix plants
to be used in road maintenance (possible feasibility of having
emulsions produced by private companies must be evaluated);
*       Formulating a  long term bridge  replacement program,  to
construct permanent bridges to replace many temporary
structures or where bridges are lacking, again drawing on
results of the nationwide road and bridge inventory;
*       Recommending measures which GOM might take to promote the
formation of small/medium local contracting firms, including
privatization of some existing ECHEPs;
*       Be responsible for monitoring the financial management of the
project, including proper operation of the project special
account which will be established as a revolving fund against
which authorized disbursements for project expenditures for
the roads component will be made.   The GC also will be
responsible for arranging an annual audit, within three months
of annual closing of accounts, by an independent firm of
auditors acceptable to IDA, of the deposits and withdrawals
from  the  roads  special  account--and  of  any  direct
disbursem nts to suppliers of goods and services--and for
ensuring that copies of the annual audit reports are forwarded
to IDA within six months of annual closing of accounts.
*       Providing such other technical assistance, mutually agreed by
DNEP and the GC, as may reasonably be required to fulfill the
objectives of these services, within the agreed contract
terms
2.3       Reports
2.3.1     The Consultant shall present to the National Director of DNEP, and to
the PC, within three months of the date of the Notice to Proceed with the
services required under these TOR, 10 copies of an Inception Report containing
a description of accomplishments to that date, and any modification to its
originally proposed work plan.   The report also shall include a detailed
description and flow diagram of the MTS to be used in monitoring and reporting
on all activities for which the GC is responsible. Two copies of the report must
be forwarded promptly to IDA. All reports to be produced in English and in
Portuguose.
2.3.2     Quarterly progress reports will be presented, in 10 copies, beginning
three months after the presentation of the Inception Report, summarizing the
activities during the reporting period under each major component of the
services, and the degree of compliance of other consultants with the respective
objective performance indicators. Actual versus planned expenditures by major



- 136 -
Annex 4-2
Page 4 of 7
project element also vill be indicated, as vill the principal activities and
costs of the GC itself. Any other information deemed necessary to adequately
inform the Director of DNBP, and the Project Coordinator--such as compliance with
legal covenants and credit agreements--will be included as well. Two copies of
these reports shall be furnished promptly to IDA.
2.3.3     Brief special reports will be presented if deemed necessary to
highlight problems requiring prompt action by DNEP3 such reports will contain the
Consultant's recommendations as to required action.
2.3.4     A Final Report on the consulting services rendered by the Consultant
will be presented upon completion of the services. Said report shall include a
pro-forma statement of the financial aspects of the assignment.
2.3.5     All documents and reports developed by the Consultant and paid for
under the study shall become the property of GOM upon completion of the
Consultant's services. Language of the documents and reports shall be English,
although a Portuguese translation of the Executive Summary of the Inception
Report and all regular progress reports will be provided by the Consultant.
Formats for the various reports will be agreed with DNEP and IDA.
2.4       Contract Period
2.4.1     The contract period for the services specified in these TOR shall be
36 months, unless otherwise agreed in the respective contract (as said contract
may be modified by mutual agreement). Services under the contract shall begin
within 30 days of receipt of the official Notice to Proceed. DNEP has the option
of canceling this contract for the convenience of the Government, as well as to
negotiate an extension if it so chooses.
2.5       Manpower Requirements
2.5.1     Services under the contract would be rendered by a team of resident and
short-term specialists, led by a senior highway engineer/planner with broad
experience in developing countries. Estimated requirements for provision of the
required services are:
*       Senior Highway Engineer/ (Team Leader) for 36 months.  Will be
responsible for coordination and direction of the consulting
team, and will work closely with the National Director of
DNEP, especially in matters of organization, policy, and
highway program management. Must be a graduate engineer with
at least 20 years of broad experience in the highway field,
with at least S years as manager of a technical assistance
team in a developing country (experience in Africa will be
advantageous).
*       Highway Planning and Design Engineer for 30 months. Will be
responsible for working with the DNEP road planning and design
staff, with particular emphasis on road classification and
inventory, and on establishing a continuing national road
planning capability using the HDK-III model or similar
evaluation tool. Also will assist DNEP in supervising the



- 137 -
Annex 4-2
Page 5 of 7
work of other consultants contracted to perform design
studies, and will train DREP counterpart staff in modern road
design techniques. Must be a graduate engineer with at least
15 years experience in highway planning and design, of which
at least 5 years must have been in developing countries, and
must have applied the 3DM-Ill model in highway planning.
*       Road Maintenance Engineer for a period of 18 months. Will be
responsible for assisting the DNEP Chief Maintenance Engineer
in further refinement of the existing road maintenance
management system (MMS) and extending it to the entire
national road network (as security and resources permit).
Must be a graduate engineer with at least 15 years experience
in the highway field, of which at least 5 must have been in
lmplementation of an MOS in developing countries, and must be
familiar with application of computerization to the MMS.
*       Bridge Engineer for 21 months.   Will be responsible for
vorking with his assigned DNRP counterpart to carry out a
detailed inventory, condition assessment and load rating of
all bridges on the national road network (to the extent
security permits); also will guide the development of a
national bridge program and will train his counterpart in
modern bridge design and construction techniques. Must be a
graduate engineer with at least 10 years experience in bridge
design and construction, and must have worked at least three
years in developing countries.
e       Traffic Engineer for 18 months.  Will be responsible for
working with his assigned counterpart in evaluating existing
traffic- investigation procedures and data, in planning and
re-establishing a nationwide program of traffic studies,
including both permanent and spot counting stations, and in
setting up a computerized traffic data base.  Must be a
graduate engineer with specialized studies, and at least 10
years experience, in traffic engineering, of which at least
two years must have been spent in developing countries.
*       Cost Accountant/Financial Analyst for 30 months.  Will have
responsibility for setting up and managing the special
accounts which will be established for any projects funded in
part by the World Bank or IDA, and in approving all
dlsbursements from said accounts; will work with DNEP
counterpart staff to ensure that adequate cost accounting,
reporting and auditing are performed for all DNEP programs,
including payments for contracted works. Must be a Chartered
Accountant (or CPA) with at least 15 years of experience, of
which at least 5 must have been in developing countries in
positions of similar responsibility.
*       Systems  Analyst for 27 months.   Will be responsible for
working with his DNEP counterpart, other DNEP staff, and other
team members to develop and install, to the extent feasible,



- 138 -
Annez 4-2
Page 6 of 7
appropriate computer systems, including recommendation of
hardware and accessories; will collaborate closely with other
team members in such matters as setting up data bases and
running the HDM-III model (PC version). Must be a graduate in
computer science, or in another technical field with
specialization in systems analysis and computerization, with
at least 10 years of experience in his field including at
least two years in developing countries.
*       Construction Engineer/Contracts Administration Specialist for
9 months. Will have responsibility for reviewing the DNEP/DEP
construction management practices and suggesting improvements,
including  a  computerized  project  control  system,   if
appropriate; will also liaise with consulting firms who are
supervising any construction/rehabilitation works for DNEP to
ensure uniformity of construction management practices and to
spot check the quality of completed works.
*       Additional short-term specialists, for an estimated total of
18 man-months, as agreed with DNEP and IDA.
2.5.2     All resident GC staff must have at least a working knowledge of the
Portuguese language or be fluent in Spanish.
2.5.3     The GOM reserves the option to assign independently funded specialists
(such as UN volunteers), if available, as short-term specialists on the GC team,
if the qualifications of such specialists are acceptable to the GC Team Leader.
2.6       Transportation Requirements
2.6.1     The Consultant will be responsible for providing land transportation
for its personnel, and may be authorized to import for its exclusive project use
one vehicle for each resident staff member (those in country at least 12 months
consecutively). The CIF Maputo purchase price of such vehicles, plus customs
duties actually paid, will be reimbursed to the Consultant. An agreed monthly
rate for operation, insurance, maintenance and repair of each vehicle will be
paid the Consultant. Upon completion of these services all vehicles so procured
will become the property of GOM.
3. LOGISTICAL SUPPORT
3.1       GOM shall provide the Consultant, without charge, the following:
*       Suitable  furnished office  space,  including  utilities,  a
photocopier, telephone (for domestic calls), necessary office
equipment and supplies, and secretarial services;
*       Exclusive use during the term of these services of two
microcomputers, IBM PS/2-60 or equal, with ancillary equipment
(printer, UPS, etc.);
*       Assistance in obtaining any required customs clearances, visas
and any other official permits; transport to ROCS project



- 139 -
Annex 4-2
Pago 7 of 7
sftes by scheduled or chartered aLrcraft, as may reasonably be
requiredg and
Such other support facilities as may reasonably be needed for
the expeditLous performance of the required services,
including pertinent files, documents and working papers.
3.2       Should 0011 be unable to furnish required support personnel, office
space, equipmeat and office supplies for the scheduled needs of the GC, such
facilities and services shall be arranged by the Consultant after prior
consultation with DNEP, and any reasonable expenditures agreed to will be
reimbursed to the CC.
3.3       The consulting firm and its expatriate personnel providing services
under the contract for whtch these TOR are wrLtten shall be subject to the local
laws with regard to payment of customs dstLes on personal effects, as well as on
Project items, and to payment of taxes on the income and profits derived from
these services, except as otherwise provided in the respective contract. Should
the contract require payment of such taxes and duties, it also shall include
provision for reimbursement to said firm and its expatriate personnel of any
aounts actually paid. These taxes must be separately identified and detalled
ln the contract.



- 140 -
ANNEX 4 - 3
Page 1 of 8
MOZAMIQlOU
FIRST ROADS AND COASTAL SHIPPING PROJECT (ROCS-1)
ROAD TRAINING COMPONENT
I. Obiectives
1.1   Because of the acute shortage of qualified and experienced road
personnel, the main objective of the training component is to establish
DNEP's training capacity to enable it to start the first phase of a
long-term manpower development effort (15 to 20 years) aimed at
producing skilled, semi-skilled and managerial staff needed to
rehabilitate and maintain the national road network.
II.  Institutional Capaci
2.1   The objective mentioned above will be achieved in part through
revised training policies, more accurate staff planning and training but
mostly through institutional capacity building to be initiated under the
project and aimed at improving DNEP and Local Road Contractors' (LRC)
organizational, managerial, administrative, and legal requirements, as
well as long-term institutional development objectives needed for more
effective plann;ing and implementation -.! road activities. In addition,
the use of LRC to carry out road rehabilitation and maintenance works
is expected to increase thereby creating an atmosphere more conducive to
restore personnel motivation through better career development
opportunities. The shortage of personnel may ease some in late 1990s,
provided that salaries and other benefits become more competitive with
the private sector whose own demand for skilled staff will grow as its
activities expand.
III. Staffing and Training Capacity
3.1 Since independence the road subsector has been faced with serious
shortages of qualified and experienced staff at all managerial and
technical levels. Currently, 80Z to 90S of the established executive
and technical posts are either vacant or filled by staff lacking the
necessary qualifications. DNEP lacks experienced staff to plan and
monitor the work being done by LRC whose technical personnel also need
to be increased and upgraded. However, future recruitment of staff with
no experience in road vo;ks will not enhance road operations unless it
is supported by a comprehensive training program. Officially, DNEP is
responsible at national level for the planning and implementation of
training activities and, since the maid-1980s' has organized some
training courses but not as part of an agreed long-term training plan.
The overall results have been limited due to a variety of problems
includingS (i) weak institutional capacity; (ii) lack of sound training
policies and a long-term national training program; (iii) low level of



- 141 -
ANNEX 4 - 3
Page 2 of 8
education and literacy of most trainees; (iv) lack of funds; (v)
shortages of trainees because of lack of incentives and, most
importantly; (vi) government's weak administrative management system
which does not provide the right kind of motivation through competitive
salaries and career development opportunities.
3.2 With assistance from ILO, UNDP, SIDA and IDA, DNEP is taking steps
to establish its own training capacity to meet the road subsector
training needs at national level. Accordingly, it has issued a sound
training policy detailing action to be taken to deal more effectively
with staff training activities including career development linkages to
training and a system of professional standards and certification.
3.3    With the forthcoming introduction of policy, organizational and
administrative changes in road operations, training becomes a critical
element in transferring to the staff sufficient skills to perform at an
acceptable level. Existing and future road personnel will receive
training varying from one month to four years. Training courses would
be repeated as often as necessary, thus a high percentage of the
workforce would be trained and retrained more than once in the next 15
to 20 years depending on their ability to learn and retain. The
program is expected to involve a net total of about 3,500 personnel -
DNEP 100 and LRC 3,400 in main areas of activities detailed in
Attachment 2 of this Annex. However, since many workers would attend
more than one training course, the cuvmulative total of personnel to be
trained in the long-run would be considerably higher than 3,500,
depending also on transfer of workforce to the private sector, and
turnover (15-20Z).
IV. gleeuts of the Road Training Program
4.1 The training program will involve different categories of
personnel, theoretical training courses, and practical production
activities. The main elements of the program are: (a) training
technical assistance; (b) instructors; (c) the university (UEH),
selected technical institutes, specialized vocational schools, and
training centers; (d) training equipment and materials; (e)
accommucdation (housing); (f) transportation (for trainees and trainers);
(g) training abroad (fellowships); (h) training of counterparts; (i)
training allowances; and (j) project supervision and evaluation.
4.2 Training courses financed under ROCS-l will be available to all
interested persons/entities directly connected with the road subsector
on a recurrent cost recovery basis.
4 3   Support to MMZP and LIC Manoower Develoenet
a.    Trainia Devart nt. As part of the institutional support,
a Training Department will be established within DNEP to be
responsible for the continuous and systematic planning,
programing, implementation, supervision and evaluation of



- 142 -
ANNEX 4 - 3
Page 3 of 8
all DNEP's and LRC training activities. For the first
years, the Department will be staffed almost exclusively by
TA specialists. A senior manpower development specialist
will act as Chief Training Officer and head of the
Department, assisted by four training speciallsts, one of
them (financed by UNDP) dealing exclusively with the PRP.
The Chief Training Officer will report to the Director of
DNEP. The Department's main responsibilities will includet
(i) completing and continuing updating the DNEP and LRC
manpower inventory; (ii) assisting in establishing an
informal Training Steering Committee (TSC) within the
recently adopted training policy; (iii) formulating and
implementing the agreed five-year training program; (iv)
assisting in setting up the Road Technical Training Center
(RTTC), and the Road and Hechanical Training Production
Units; (v) coordinating training activities carried out by
TA specialists assigned to other project components; and
(vi) coordinating and supervising training activities
carried out by university and technical/vocational
institutes/centers. In addition, the Training Department
will ensure DNEP's senior staff and LRC directors
collaboration by making available experienced road and
mechanical supervisors to be trained as future instructors
(thereby replacing expatriate staff) and by releasing
existing and future personnel, in a timely way, to attend
agreed training courses and activities.
(b)   Tralnim Center (RTTC). Because of the considerable amount
of training expected to be carried out by DNEP in the next
15 to 20 years, ROCS-1 will provide funds to rehabilitate an
existing MCA's center to be renamed Road Technical Training
Center (RTTC). The RTTC is located in Chimoio (Manica
province) and will become the principal area where existing
and future DNEP and LRC supervisors, foremen, and
technicians would receive theoretical training and
upgrading. The Center currently includes two dormitories
for some 100 trainees, four classrooms, 2 workshops and
other facilities. A senior road training specialist will
act as Director and will be assisted by one administrative
officer and two road specialists with wide experience in
road rehabilitation and maintenance works, and management of
local road contractors. The RTTC will also be used to
provide training courses for administrative personnel, and
short seminars and workshops for mid- and high-level
managers. The Director of the Center will report to the
Read of the Training Department.
(c) load and Mechanical TrainAng Production Units (RTPU and
MM).  The purpose of these Units is to provide theoretical
(30S) and practical production training (70Z) to various
levels of DNEP and LRC road and mechanical personnel. The
RTPU would be the equivalent of a typical contractor



- 143 -
ANNEX 4 - 3
Page 4 of 8
maintenance unit, except that it will concentrate more on
training than production. Similarly, the MTPU would be the
equivalent of a small mobile workshop. Mechanical personnel
would be trained by repairing light and heavy road
equipment. The RTPU vill be headed by a senior expatriate
road foreman assisted by seven local supervisors/instructors
(roads, equipment operators, truck drivers and one
mechanic). The HTPU will be headed by a senior expatriate
mechanical foreman assisted by three local experienced
mechanics/instructors; and
(d)   Technical Assistance.  The project will provide Training TA
to implement training activities indicated in para (a), (b),
and (c) above totalling 568 man-months as followss
(i)   Training Department
Ezpatriate
1     Head of Training Department with overall road
staff training and institutional management
experience z 72 m/m;
2     Road Training Specialists with wide experience
in maintenance and rehabilitation works, and
management of local road contractors, each s 60
m/m;
1     Feeder Road Training Specialist financed by
UNDP; and
1     Administrative Officer x 36 m/m.
DNEP Counterparts
1     Counterpart to Chief Training Officer
5     Counterpart to Training Specialists
1     Counterpart to Administrative Officer
(ii) Short-Term Study (RTTC)
1     Road Engineer with experience in rehabilitation
and maintenance works; and
1     Technical Vocation Specialist, each z 2 m/m, to
assess strengthening the physical and
pedagogical structure of RTTC.



- 144 -
ANNEX 4 - S
Page 5 of 8
(iii) RTTC
Expatriate
1     Director with overall road
rehabilitation/maintenknce and technical
education experience s 60 m/mi
2     Road Instructors with ezperience in
rehabilitation/maintenance works, and management
of local road contractors, each x 60 m/m; and
1     Administrative Officer z 36 m/m
DNEP Counterparts
1     Counterpart to Director of Center
2     Counterparts to Sr. Road Instructors
1     Counterpart to Administrative Officer
(iv)  Road Training Production Unit (RTPU)
Expatriate
1     Senior Road Foreman with overall road
rehabilitation/maintenance and training
ezperience to head the RTPU x 60 m/m
DNEP Counterparts
2     Counterparts to the head of RTPU
2     Senior Equipment Operators/Instructors
2     Senior Truck Drivers/Instructors
1     Experienced Mechanic
(v) Mechanical Training Production Unit (MTPU)
Expatriate
1     Senior Mechanical Foreman ezperienced in light
and heavy equipment and training, to head the
MTPU z 60 m/m
DNEP Counterparts
1     Counterpart to the head of MTPU
2     Senior Mechanics (LIH equipment)
Because of the existing situation in Mozambique, some flexibility must
be included in the training technical assistance services to adjust to
the amount of training activities which will be actually carried out



- 145 -
ANNEX 4 - 3
Page 6 of 8
during the perlod 1993-1998. Terms of Reference for Training TA
consultants are available in the Project file.
4.4   Trainin Nethodology
a.    All actions related to the preparation (Phase I) and
implementation (Phase II) of the five-year training program will be
planned and supervised by the Training Department in close collaboration
with the RTTC and the RIHTPUs. The type of training and the content of
courses will be defined through analysis of the particular functions and
occupatLonal job categories wLthin DNEP and LRC as indlcated in the plan
of action to be prepared by the Training Department. They will, include:
(i)  Seminar Workshops and other management courses for (i) LRC
mid- and high-level managers to improve the operational and
administrative quality of their activLtLes; and (ii) DNEP
senlor staff to help them carry out their increased
supervisory's responsibilities.
'ii)  Training and Upgrading Courses for exLsting instructors or
experLenced road and mechanical supervisors with potential
of becoming Lnstructors. They will require pedagogical as
well as technical training.
CiLL) Courses for Administrative Personnel such as procurement
officers, storekeepers, administrative assistants, clerical
staff and secretarial help.
Uiv) Training of Skilled and Semi-skilled Road Personnel such as
technicians, foremen, supervisors, equipment operators,
drlvers to be carried out mostly in the field (70Z) by
adopting a system of training through production (RTPU).
Initially one RTPU will be set up to conduct training while
carrying out rehabLlitation and maintenance activLties on
specific asphalt, gravel, and feeder roads sections wlthin
DNEP's annual maintenance progrm. Personnel assigned to
the RTPU would be trained, therefore, under actual working
conditions. In addition, most personnel would also receive
theoretLcal (audio-visual) training (302) at the RTTC.
(v)   Training of Mechanical Personnel to be carried out mostly by
the Mechanical Training Production Unit (MTPU). In addition
to some general educational and theoretical courses, the
trainlng of mechanics would focus on the repair of broken
equipment under supervision of ezperienced mechanical
instructors, thus enhancing LRC equipment maintenance
capabLlity and raLsing their level of equipment
availability.
(vl) Training of Feeder Roads Workers to be carrLed on on-the-job
by experienced supervisors during the labor intensive
brigades normal work activLties.



- 146 -
ANNEX 4 - 3
Page 7 of 8
(vii) Training Abroad (Fellowships). Short- and medium-term
fellowships will be granted, after positive experience with
project and training TA staff, to counterparts such as
managers, senior staff, personnel to be assigned to the
Training Department, RTTC, and R/MTPUs. Fellowships would
be properly planned and supervised with participants
agreeing tot (i) visit countries whose language they are
fluent in; (Wi) serve DNEP and LRC for a period of five
years; and (iii) write reports applicable to their work
prior to their return home.
V. Training ZouApment and Materials
5.1   As no training equipment is currently available, the project
provides funds for this element of the program as followst
(a) Training equipment and materials for RTTC includings (i)
audio-visual training aids and facilitie to prepare
coursest (ii) courses obtained from ILO and IRF, or from
Portugal, Brazil, etc.; (iii) computer hardware and
software; (iv) photocopy machines; and (v) others.
(b)   Equipmentimachines and materials required by the Training
Department.
(c) Heavy road rehabilitation/maintenance equipment, as well as
fuel, materials, cement, etc., for the RTPU; and 1 mobile
workshop, hand tools, workshop equipment, and spare parts
for the HTPU.
VI. Training Allowance
6.1   A training allowance will be provided under the project since
usually local staff of the Training Department, instructors and trainees
are not sufficiently motivated to participate in extensive training
courses (loss of income from outside work activities and additional
living expenses while attending courses outside their home base). In
addition to this allowance, instructors' regular salaries should be in
line with those of high level technicians.
VII. Prolect Evaluation
7.1   The project provides financing for an independent evaluation of
the training program to be conducted at the end of the second year (mid-
1994) and near the end of the program (mid-1997), including
recommendations for further training activities (ROCS-2).



- 147 -
ANNEX 4 - 3
Page 8 of 8
VIII. Supnort to the University of Eduardo Mondlane (MEN). Technical
Education and Vocational Training
8.1 Fifteen years after independence, notwithstanding some substantial
progress, especially in the development of a higher education system,
basic human resources development remains as the country's single
greatest need. A number of studies are currently underway aimed at
diagnosing the education sector's problems, and recommending appropriate
steps to improve it. The Bank has assisted UEM in the past through the
First and Second Education projects which have provided funds for the
Faculty of Engineering to enable it to switch to more practical training
through the equipping of basic laboratories in applied thermodynamics,
electrical engineering, and applied electronics. Materials for the
mechanical workshop, and computer hardware and software were also
included. ROCS-1 provides funds for the Department of Civil Engineering
(DCE) to finance (i) the salary and travel of four professors recruited
from Chile; (ii) the construction of four houses for the new professors;
(iii) two computers with software; and (iv) technical books. It is
expected that during the period 1993-4/1998 a total of 20 DNEP new staff
will enroll at the University to obtain a five-year civil engineering
degree.
8.2 Technical and vocational education will be strengthened and
expanded with funds provided under the project (SIDA and IDA , including
the reestablishment of the three-year diploma course for road and bridge
technicians at the Industrial Institutes of Maputo and Beira.
8.3 ENTREPOSTO, a well known automotive private company in Mozambique
which conducts various training courses, will assist DNEP with training
of LRC mechanical instructors and senior mechanics. The project will
provide funds to finance agreed training courses.
8.4 Centro de Formacao Industrial (CFI), established in 1987 with
financial and technical assistance provided by SIDA, UNIDO, and other
entities, conducts a variety of training courses and seminars in
business management and related administrative services. Funds are
included in the project to enable DNEP and LRC administrative personnel
to attend these courses/seminars expected to be conducted by CFI at the
RTTC.
IX. Cost Estlmtes
9.1 The total cost of the training program is estimated at about
US$28.3 million equivalent as detailed in attachments to this Annex.



- 148 -
..a~ **   . -  *. *  ..  .....  a ...  f~   f t
2NMt~~~~~~ U  I.'1
WI1      :1~l



- 149 -                     ANNEX 4-3
Attachment 2
Page 1 of 1
ROADS AND COASTAL SHIPPING PROJECT (ROCS-1)
ESTIMATD DNEPIDEP AND LRC PERSOMNML TO BSE TRAINED 1993/4-1998
Estimated   Personnel to be Trained
Personnel   I        II    III   IV    V
Description                       199311994   93194   95    96    97    98   Total
A. DNEP Headquarter
1.  Director's Office                 1                      1                   1
2.  Projects and Studies              9         2      1     2     2      2      9
3. Maintenance Department            22         2      5     5     5      5     22
4.  Feeder Roads Department           4         4                                4
5.  Inspectorate Department          18         2      4     4     4      4     18
6.  Investments Department            6         1      2     1     1      1      6
7.  Administration Department        11         2      3     2     2      2     11
8.  Training Department              10         1      4     5                  10
9.  NAE                               3                3                         3
10. Civil Eng. Fellowships           20       , 4      4     4     4      4     20
Sub-total          104        18    26    24    18    18    104
B. DEP/CPCA (10)
1.  Department Head                  10         2      2     2     2      2     10
2.  Supervisor                       70        10    15    15    15    15       70
3.  Road Technician                  70        10    15    15    15    15       70
Sub-total          150        22    32    32    32    32    150
C. Local Road Contractors (LRC) 1/
1.  Director & Deputy                20         4      4     4     4      4     20
2.  Senior Staff                     76         8    17    17    17    17       76
3.  Mechanical Eng. Tech.            10         2      2     2     2      2     10
4.  Road Foreman/Tech.            1040        200   210   210   210   210   1040
5.  Heavy Equip. Operators          170        34    34    34    34    34    170
6.  Light Equip. Operators          220        44    44    44    44    44    220
7.  Heavy Vehicle Drivers           250        50    50    50    50    50    250
8.  Light Vehicle Drivers           423        79    86    86    86    86    423
9. Mechanic                         400        80    80    80    80    80    400
10. Workshop Services Personnel   480          96    96    96    96    96    480
11. Finance                          25         2      5     6     6      6     25
12. Administration                  132        16    29    29    29    29    132
Sub-total         3246       615   657   658   658   658 32461/
TOTAL        3500        655   715   714   708   708 35002/
1/ Sme 360 feeder roads workers are included In C. LRC, line 3 to 10 above.
2/ It is estimated that 1750 DNIP/D1P and LRC personnel will attend one 60-day basic
course and a second upgrading course during the period 1993/4 - 1998 thus increasing
the cumulative number of personnel trained to about 3500. The remaining 1750
personnel will be trained starting in 1999.



44
lTTIr 
iOZhNBIQUE
ROADS AND COASTAL SHIPPING PROJECT (ROCS-1)
SM 4ARY COST ESTIMTE OF FIVE-YEAR TRAINING PROGRAM
TflFsiw*    Co "    Tor niFl NO=                       F.MrlMt                 Toolg iTnnw 
_Smipbhs      AmsdmbI.     lu1mt    Cw         T.~ Dt Pajr,i iS&m1d   CostTlamm                 T-peft  Al I  i_sm,W.    TOW            T.lI
W. gals.                                                                                             IDSC.wm.  autm ZA    sawe
Tmlahe __                                      4.TUS.OS                  a.a.47W
Taso oaw bm%    rgn      e w                 4,.WD*0W                  ".0                                                 ,Mt
* u T     *       ^tI..S@1|re                                               ,1,                                                         _
* bA. .ImIIm ClWo .
n fSS :t~Sw
~~~~~a RV  4,t  
I I_ Jedoe IW.1
_evadl Sisau                                                                                                                 a.. 
buIs   W)                                               '1 S                        (                       '                     .
-|_* ~ ~   ~    ~     ~    ~ ~       a                                              055),.._                                 .a
LLg.mI        (a.m.      P551                  (mus                     (a,a.                   ci..                       cs.aq*Z  a.m.sj
_~~~m.                 ase                  .na                      as...                                              a.usa       .
._*m
two,... A.hn                                                                                                 .                  .
llomM i _OM,||b,
uva.       s*s.LMM        -      gm       a.m.m  5m.m1        m.m   4S.m0      a.mma            -      MAW   =.M    10.em...  S64.aw.
T* be fimeud 1w aigp.
Tot1 "Mon *  _i_
TOI be W=ili kme~ldbL IN*.
lobe      "- meibm A.z



- 151 -
ANNEX 4-3
Attachment 4
Page 1 of 4
NDZAIQII
ROADS AND COASTAL SHIPPING PROJUCT (ROCS-1)
DETAID ESTIMATED COST OF THE FIV-YEAR TRAING PROGRAM
(199311998)
Cost Estimates
(Approximte)
In US 3'000 Equivlent 
Description                                                                         IDA
Others
r. TraLnlnn oenatment
T1)  fFi  fi9ic rniturs. coPY machinos,
computer hardware/ofo tar.,
translation costa                                   s0
(II)    TrIinn TA Staff.  a training
laploiti   *ndion, admini strati ve
3rticer, each at US820,000 x a total
o  223 */r                                      4,560
(111)   TrInina Abroad  F llowehimla.
ahort-term fello ships for a
counterparts, at US816,000
each                                                96
(IV)    Tranesprtion.  5 vehicles
X f. T  staff ench at US316,000                     90
TOTAL                                    4,796
2.    Road Technical Trainina Center lRTTC)
(I)     AccoAodatlon.  RehbllItetion of
training center for technicians,
torrnem, supervisors and ads.pers.
2 dormitories, 4 classrooms,
4 ofices, etc. 
(I1)    Furniture, copy *achines,
computer hrdware/software,
tralning aids a courses, publ.                     180
(III)   4 houses (2 at  aS260,000 and
2 at US# 60,000) for T.TA staff
(4 houses for counterparts                        260
to be financed under ROCS-2)
(Iv)    Tr1incEna ulamnt.  Engine
db..nst.rt1on * ctions, road
equipment (used), workshop                        36
tools.
(v)     Tr Inlne TA Staff.
a speciaistulinsatructore
at eus20,000 x 60 n/s each
I *dwIn. officer, at
U1#516600 x 86 */r                               4,270
(VI)    Trainina Abroad (F llowshiss)
sorte-term fellowships for a
counterprtes, at US516,000
each                                                30
(VIi)   Trsnsoort tlon. 4 vehicloe  x
T. -TA srtaf at *U316,000;
2 mInibusses at 1US324,000
each                                               108
TOTAL                             6, W                 5,1 b



- 152 -
ANNEX 4-3
Attachment 4
Page 2 of 4
8.    Road and Msehanical Training
ProdM   lop Units 0sa g MD
(1)     ASC011c1oe d _ tlon.  Mobile ca_e
Oesots, *id o1Lr fee I ties                       200
RTPU
TM        riniEuinlnt.  ed
Inten ne  Equlp It emI
almliT W2vTbiITij Roller
1 (Sakal) 5041 Vibratina Roll-r
6 (Toyota) DA115-8 Hevy Duty
Rear Dump Trucke
2 (Toyota) DA1I5-8 Water Tank
Trucke
4 (Toyota) LN1OSR-IRMRS H1-LUX
4 WD Pick Up
1 (Toyota) DA111S- Repalrehop
Truck
1 (Toyota) DA11O-J Lubrication
Service Truck
1 (cmto OJ   DE654 Ouldoaur
I    m      401R-1 Motor @re4ere
1   oatn  WAI66-I Whel Loader
I    marn) 1) FK  Form Tractors
with DT4000A Tr II-ra
2 (Yamne.) YKC-4 DR Water Pump
- (1509 price of USS950C,0OO
pl-ue 205 Inrea 40 for 1902/1508
price  * US l1.066)                           1,100
* Spaer  Parts (153)                              165
- Fuel, bitumen cment, et.                       8
(III)   Trkjnint  Eaul ont(M T!P   Mobilo
a orksop, hand tools, spore parts                0O
(IV)    Trrtntno Staff.  1 Senlor (Field)
RWod For nin/Instructor,
at US220,000 x 60 */c and                       1,200
I Senior Mechanical
FOr.man/Inaet"vruct  at                         1 200
USUO 000 x 60 */c
(v)     Train1nq broad (Fe Ilow hIP
RTPU and MTPU)
Shortten fel laowhips for 4
foreman/instructor counter-
parts (2 Road and 2 mechanical
each at US418,000                                  64
(VI)    Tr nonorit70n.  2 vehcleo
x TTUiii*ff, each at
US815,000 and 2 mii-bu _e,
each a US624,000                                   76
TOTAL                             4,627               2,742
4.    Fedsr Roads Proanre- Training to be
1ii)1 ce rTl lrailing              100,000
(ii)    Training Equlpment          270,000
(7l)    Technicao  'st              296,000
(IV)    Trainna Abraad               75,000
Oroi.r, Training            26 000
TOTAL                           70{



- 153 -
ANNEX 4-3
Attachment 4
Page 3 of 4
S.    Fello  him  ln-country and Abroad
International Conforenes and
Seminars.
(1)     20 long-term (6 years)
in-country fllowship. at the
UEM/OCE, for now DONEP staff;                     820
(I I)    short-torm tf llowhips abroad
for 10 middlo/high level DNE0
staff                                             170
(111)   Priodical visits by
w ovincial directors to DOW
uarters                                      800
(IV)    WE  high-level management
participation In International
confrencs , seminars, etc.                         70
TOTAL                                            660
6.    Trninn Allowance. Allowance for
trainoir, io iUinstructor. and
counterpart staff of Training Division
mhen on travol stotus).
it)     3,500 traines a (a  average
course f) 0 day    U1.00 X day                    210
(Ii)    10 counterpart Instructors (RTTC
A RNTPU/MTPU) at USS2.00 X day x 0
monthe                                             so
(1ii)   O training officers a (an
average travel of) 24 days x
year x 5 years (120 days), at
US00 x day                                          4
TOTAL                                            2S0
7.    Industrlal Institutes of Maputo and (I Ira)
(1)     Acco modation. FPdagbOOCaI
area o,T;uwi2S additional
admi nistrati ve services,
250 m2; expansion of dormltory,
000 m2; 10 house for
profesors, 60 m*2 at an
avera g  cot of USS400 x m2              1,795(1,600)
(,t)    TranMan Ecuia  nt. Computers,
lIboratory equlp_nt,
classroom  furniture, etc.                 370 1(400)
(Iii)   Trtinin setaff.  2 roed
oniflres t  #,OOO x
month a 4  */m plus 2 trip                  7Q  (800)
(Iv)    Trana:rtation.  2 vehicle  for
TA *toff, * ch at US15V,OOO                  80 1(80)
(v)     Trainina Abroad  It lowshi"s).
Short-tom fellow hipa for S
professors at USS10,000/parson               S4 (6)
TOTAL              ,063 (8,060)                     2,001
S.   Untv r tiY
(1     Acco od tton.   C houses for
professorn each at USS70,000                      850
(ii)    Furnt6ur  for e  C house                            10
2  optre and
softwa,. (USS20,000) and                        so 1
technical books (US810,000)                      *0
(IV)    Technical Assiston.  Four
profs orn fo   CE (hydraultc,
ways of comuntcateo,
bridge, reinforced



- 154 -
ANNEX 4-3
Attachment 4
Page 4 of 4
conecr.t, and technology
ot construction) at
U1186,000 x  o K 5 yers x 4
& 16 RT airfare at 8U,000                      1,S92
(v)     2 Fellowships In Chile x 24
onthe at 817,000 each                            sS
TOTAL                           1,818               1,788
9.    ENTREPOSTO
T1   4T local mehanical
Instructors .111 attend a
10-mo. coure at US18OOO0
x trainee (US812,000)
plus US8700 x so. for
room nd board (1us44 *00)                         57
(I1)    10 local mechanics wil
attend 8-sonth courmo at
US1640 x traine  (US18,400)
plu US8700 x so. for roe
and boaurd (U1821,000)                            27
TOTAL                                                 84
10.   RTTC.  Study to rehabilitate CenOtr In
E1-oilo.   2 specialists x 2 months,
each at US815,000 plus direct *xpenm                       0o0
TOTAL                                                100
11.   Centro do Formaco Industrial
DNEP/IiC staff wi II
attend short-trm sem Inr/                                  *8
workehop  and adinletrative
courses
TOTAL                                                   a8
12.   SuDervision and Evaluation of the
5-yenr training program (2 mislons,
8 waeks each (1984-1996)                                   26
TOTAL                                                    26
18.   Already Made Course. Purchase of
*xleting course, audio-visual or
others (In Portuguese or te be
translated frem other langunage)                           47
TOTAL                                                    47
14.   Training of 8,500 personnel at an
average recurrent cost of US80  x trainee               8,000
TOTAL                                                 8,000
TOTAL                            28,249              20,082
1.    To be financed by BADEA or others.
2.    To be financed by UND1 .
8.    All reerence to specific brands of equlpmnt Implies 'or equlvalent'
4.    Renovation of Induetwlal Institute of Beira to be financed by SIDA.



Annex 4-4
Page 1 of 1
MOZAMBIQUE
FIRST ROADS AND COASTAL SHIPPING PROJECT
PRIMARY AND SECONDARY ROAD REHUBILITATION
nMM  o0ADS TO B ROWIUTATED                                 0I09           19    94 1   1996    1996       STUDY  DESIGN
tWDER R0CS II                  DONW         KM                                                  COST    COST
1 Marracunw   - Manklcs                    IDA         49 F DOM         PPPP  PPPP                            106      a0n
2 Vandual - Changer                         IDA/AfMD   273 FF   00 0   PPP PPPPPP                             S8       900
8 Q4v 1im_n - Nwumcurra                     IDA       689 F 00M0               RRRRRRRR MMR                   147      6O0                     W
4 Pe_a- monmtpu.s                           IDA/AMDB   207 F  DOOD D         RRRR_RR RR                       442       6o0                    Un
5 MoMmbe - Sable                           SIDA/EEC    80 F    00D DD          CCCCCCCCCCCCC                  20       600
a Nbmpula - Nacla                          SIDA/EEC   197 F    Do DDD       PPPPPPPW PPP8                    J27      600
7 Mmp.it - R. Garcia                       RSA/IDA    140           00000D00     CCCC CCCCCCCC CCCCCCC        269    1,800
I Chimbuto - Chonagon  (EN1)               BADEA       71    FFFFF ID0DO D               CCCCC CCCCCCCCC      187      700
1,086                                                  2,219   6,600
F - Fasibility Study      By DonorsIDA            1,160    8,240
D - Dtal.led D  19r                SIDA             462
P - Patchin7 A Overlay             EEC                     1,440
R - Rehabt l1ttlon                 NS               242
C - Conctruction/Poving            BADEA            123      680
CO              22       6s0
AfD8                     610
2,219   6,600



- 156 -
Annex 4-5
Page 1 of 1
IST  ROADS AND COASTAL SNIPPIPN    PROJECT
SUOGISTED CRIT I  FOR SELCTION OF FEEDER ROAD SUBPROJZCTS
MAX. POINTS PER   ALTRNTIVES A RESPECTIVE
CRITERIA               CRITERION (V.P.)    KEONTINO OF V.P.
I. CHARACTIEISTICS OF AREA
SERVED BY SUPROJECT                40
1)  Natural Resoure                  (20)           *) will cash crops or surplus food
crops likely be produced? (yos.80Xg
noU2 %
b) is water for household use
evIolable wIthin reasonable dIst nce?
( e sloX; non05)
c s s  dquate shelter available or
can It b  redily provided?  yosnlOX;
no05
il)  Population                      (10)           a) *vo. of lose than 200/ku a 20X
b) eve. of 200-600/km  U0S
3) *ve. of sore than 50O/km *10X
d) loe than 500/km but laog
concentation of *dlolocadoc
requiring relide services also a 10OX
Itt) Comunity Service                (10)           a) are schools and/or public health
facilities avallable? (yesuSl;
Maio%)
b) Is there som form of public
transport (say be Informal)?
(yesu2ol; no.01)
II. CHARACTERISTICS OF
EXISTING ROAD              40
I)  Link to Important Town,
R tlhead, Port, )r
Trunk Reod Servino
Priority Corridor         (20)           ye  * 10s; no a lX
II) Degree of TransitbilIlty  (20)           a) at least fair condition yer-round and no
miseing structures * 20X
b) no bridges miseing but surface
poor to bad and lpWassable In rainy
s*uson a SOX
c) rquires complet  roadbed
rehabilitation and some drainage
structures - 1OOX
III. COST OF REQUIRED
REHUDILITATIONo           20            a) Iesa than USIS,O00/km *100X
b) S0,000-12,000/k. =OX
c) mer than 812,000/km 50X
*(weighting my need to be adjusted for secondary roads or those In rough terrain).
NOTE:  Prerequsteo  conditions for #4onalderation as  "bproJecte are that the candidate
read to within a designated priority distriat and that security conditions are
such that work can by carriedout with reaeonable safety. When noral conditions
are restored, traffic my also be Introduced as a criterion. Expected Increase In
average fart-fmi ly annual Inooe should be used whenever available date permit
quastifIecatlon.



- 157 -
Annez 4-6
Page 1 of 3
MOZAHIQlU
FIRST ROADS AND COASTAL SEIPPING PROJECT
Road Transport Operations - Proposed Action Prograr
1.      The ROCS project'vill include studies/policy initiatives in
support of improvements in road transport operations. The proposed
studies should document the rationale for the proposed policy
initiatives, make proposals for improved use of resources and
dissemination of maintenance capacity, and propose financial instruments
for implementation of the studies recommendations.
2.      The proposed studies should be Crouped into a program, 'the
road transport privatization and rehabilitation program", and should be
followed up by the project coordinator until completion. Once
completed, implementation and follow-up of the studies' recommendations
could be entrusted to an "ad-hoc' committee. Proposals for this
committee are made in this Action Program.
3.      The proposed studies are designed to develop:
(a)   guidelines for shifting the balance of the trucking
industry from the public to the private sector. The
proposed guidelines will assess the need for funding to
effectuate privatization of the parastatal fleets and of
appropriate procedures and financiLl intermediaries -
based on recognized commercial and banking practices - to
move such funds. In the above context, the guidelines
will examine the potential role of cooperative
associations in facilitating funding and vehicle
transfers and in providing economies of scale for spare
parts procurement;
(b)   guidelines for the liberalization of regulations and
other restrictions on private sector road transport
activities. These will substantiate the need for support
services to develop cost-based tariffs and regulatory
guidelines suitable to encourage transport activities to
mnimum. Revision of existing minimum standard for
insurance, security and safety in the road transport
industry, and proposals for cost-effective means to
advocate these standards, will be part of the guidelines.
(c)   identification of types of training and/or assistance
needed by emnorging private sector operators and
identification if training and/or assistance needed by
GOM agencies to 'ulfill the reduced and re-oriented GOM
role in road transport activities; and
(d)  assessment of the potential for rehabilitation of
existing vehicle resources; in particular assessment of
the mechanical condition of parastatal fleets, including



- 158 -
Annex 4-6
Page 2 of 3
economic criteria for rehabilitation, requirements for
mechanical components and vehicle replacement needs.
This would be complemented by an assessment of mechanical
skills at the workshop floor level, and would be
complemented bys (i) proposals for deregulation of
workshop licensing related to installation of new
capacity; (ii) review of the adequacy of regulations
related to distribution of imported spare parts and
components, and (iii) facilitation of foreign exchange
allocation for workshop equipment, spare parts and
components.
Format of the Proposed Program
4.      The proposed program will have the format of pre-investment
studies containing actions and proposals suitable for imediate
implementation, either through the USAID private sector development
program or, alternatively, through the proposed Roads Project of IDA,
and should link the Coastal Shipping Project with subsequent IDA
investment operations.
5.      The studies proposed under the program will be divided into two
separate partst
(a)  an initial study effort aimed at providing primary
information on the prospects and most suitable channels
of privatization (including financial intermediary
channels) on the one hand, and on the most critical areas
of trucking regulation in need of liberalization, on the
other. The initial study effort would be financed by an
USAID Program Development Support facility which could be
available in early 1992. The initial study would be
completed at the latest by June 1992; and
(b)   the main study effort which could start as soon as
procurem nt of contractual arrangements of the study
consultants is completed by USAID. The estimated timing
for the start of the main study is in fourth quarter of
1992.
6.      Both efforts will be supervised jointly by GOH and USAID, with
support from IDA.
7.      The road transport privatization and rehabilitation program
should be anitored and coordinated by a local committee which would
liaise with the ROCS project coordinator office, with the 'ad-hoc
institutions and with the Bank. This commlttee could be integrated for
all practical purposes as a sub-sectoral group of the Transport and
Trade Facilitation Committee.



- 159 -
Annez 4-'
Page 3 of 3
Cost Estimates                         |
US$
Trucking Studies                                   (thousands)
1. Privatization and Liberalization                    300
2. Training                                             50
3. Rehabilitation and vorkshop capacity                150
TOTAL                                                  S00



ANNEX 4 - 7
Page I of 3
IH)ZANBIQU3
ROADS AND COASTAL SHIPPING PROJECT
PORTS AND COASTAL SHIPPING - STUDIES AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1.     Studies and Technical Assistance will be provided in the following areass
OUTLInE TOR                                                   STATU        NEXT STEPS
Porks WAsdhimie Industries Cemmercial kuslator, Fram ork
ShMI   ndust": To assist DON  by (1) reniing the comm_recl regulatory frmwork for ohipping                 TOR         Agre Short
covering shippIingconcesionsn  new entry and tariff setting; (il) advising UNM In negotiating tho          complete    list and
privatization of Navique and any potential ne entries; ( 1) conducting (and transforring skills            and agreed   Isu LOX
required for), the longer term commercial supervision of tho shiping Industry; and (lv) long term          with C01
planning for the structure of the shipping Industry.  Maritim  safety and certification wil not by
covered under this TA since It Is covred by ongoing NRM  funded aslstano.
Small Porte  To aist ONI by (I) revining the commrcial regulatory frameork for m_l  porte to ellow
concmions   cost based tariffs (11) finalsting the contractual deils of  and assisting the
Government In negotiating. the concossions for small port administration; (It;) conducting the long term
supervision of and planning for the small ports; and (IV) planning, evaluation and recowmmeations for                                         o
the fture of the coastal shipping terminals In the regional porte
Or9pniz tion S    : To review tho propoed DNII organization In the light of Ite revisod mission to make                 Draft TOR
recomond_tlons ior the detailed struture and functions of DNM. Also to clarify roles of various NTC                    whe  regulat.
unite with respect to the largo ports and overall meritim  planning.                                                   TA n pla
Reform of Merltlm  Law: To review existing mritim  law and to mko recommndations on the change            Firat        Review and
required In order to  stablsh a competitive and officlent coastal shipping Industry in Mozambique,         Phas        draft next
focussIng on privatization of port and shipping operations. Phase one as bakground to rgulatory            underway    phase TOR
reform. Phase two to establish the new regulatory environment.____________
Asleskase Studlee                                                                                            _ _
Asd           to Njvj" i  Continuatlon of NORAD's ongoing assistance to Navtque, shifting tho empaosis     Ongoing     No acton
Iiiirdi the ioiwrcializatlon of Navique  operationo and assisting  n the privatization of Navique.         Assistance  r  quired
Feer Services Formlation of a strateg  for the ml I feeder shipping sector to include estlmtos of    TaR               Agreo SL and
demand, a*coss to fninano, and mnog_mnt arrangemnts. Assistance with the restructuring and possible    agreed           some LOI
commercialization of Trn_earitim.
ShD Rpilr Setrt: To identify a rehabilitation plan for existing ml coastal shipping flet and to   TOR agreed  Agree SL and
*_tIhm  Viability of, and mak  recommend"l.ons for developing a sm    ship bulding and repeir                           Iset  LOX
industry In Mozmbique. This will not. look at the larg  shlpyards.
Inahinn PricinLStudy: To assist Inobina to develop a more rational pricing strategy to recover costs                   AgreeTOR with
for th  inhtllation and operation of navigational aides.                                                                   INA



ANNEX 4 - 7
kWag 2 of 3
OUTLDlE TOR                                                  STATUS   I  NEXT STEPS
Proiect Component Adeinistrator: General Consultant to  sist In the implementation of coestal shipping    Draft TOR   Resolve
component. To suporvise m*oiter and coordinate the 1mplwmenwttion of the various elements, to compile    agreed      finncing
roorte for the donors. 
rnage  t ^ ssctano :Provlsion of asslsance to DOW In  nagent practice  and finncial m*nag mn t           Dstt TOR   Resolve
to esul l  opierat;ing procedures for DM9 and to hl p the organizati  to function sore amoothly.        agreed       financing
Assistance for the liemsatstlm of the Credit Urs
Lean A    Cation P reration: Preparatlon of Initial loan packages for the five *u I ports that have      TOR agred  Resolve
already be s tudied to spd up the disbursement process                                                                Finncing
Studie  Fund: Establishment of a fund for feasibillty studies of other smell ports In Mozambique that                 Agre
*old then    l *I g1ible for forther financins through the credit line.                                               mchnlam
Financial Sector Assistancej Provision of one expeft to assist each commercial bank In the preparatlon   TOR agred  Agre  with
of loan applicatlono.                                                                                     (1I)        beanks# Iawse
Lai~~~~~~~~~~-
Frmmrtlte of Direct 1wsI  CI   e-A I
iMIs.irtno j:lais To perform detailed soll Investigations, hydrographic urveys and detailed              TOR agreed  Agree SL,
examinailon of exiting structuree to determine the exact form of infrtructure required In the ports                   isueo LOX
of Mocimbo do Praia. Mocuse and ChindWo to finalize deta led dsigns and costt for such structure.
Environental Implementat on: Study of doetiled requirement for pollution control devise  to be           TOR agred  Resolve
instlled in Pembe NMacla ad Quliene, Including menagent arrangements. Preparatlon of procur mnt   subject to  relationship
plan  and supervision of implemntation. To propos action plon to minimize environmental Impacts from   co-            with other
future proJects and to allow Mozabimue to becom a momber country of MARPOL 7n/76.                        ordination  activities
TIlecoemunicstiens: Preparatlon of the deti led rquirements and Implemetation arrangento for                          Wm to
telecommunications for coal shipping In Mozambique. To prpare contract documents for linstllation of                  discuss with
telecommunication  yte  to cover propose  ports within this project. To dwvlop a telecommunications                   France
staeg  for coastal shipping In Mozmbique.
TrIin9  o=rdlI or: To reiew the existlng tralnng proposals for  1l I ports and the ongoing              TMR agreed  Agree SL and
aining atlitiesl orl *  units reporting to Del     to prepreadotal led training program to _mt the                    Issue LOI
esnaging  eeds of the coastal shipping sctor. To periodicelly monitor implementation of this program.



AIIU 4 - 7
Page 3 of 3
TEOUICAL ASSISTAMCE        Total           Total
AND SJUDIES           Cot   Donor   1-9 I                                  9m 1 199   18949I 105  I 1991
COWALSH4IPPDi          (8'oo)                  1 132 9 41 1 238 41 112*34 4  1 2 3 4      1 2   4   COmIATS
1.0 CaM. EOUiATORY RMFOI A  SUPERV.
1.1 Port Msnagst Specialist           87   DA          42      _
12 Shipping Idiustry Specialist        78  IDA         42     -                              I         I
1.3 Ecenoit / Flnancial Analyst       8M  MA           42   -I------                                   I
1.' Short Term Experts                31 IDA           13 l-          - -       -
1.5  11 Orpnizational Stdy            34 IDA         2 12 --I    -                  I I
1.6 Rtform of Co_n. Mbritim  Law      837 IDA          i
2.0 IDUST TA AM  S1UDIES
2.1 Assistance to Navique           81,332 NU"         72 _                                              Ongoing S I aterl
2.2 Feeder Servicm Study              3222 IDA         12
2.3 Shiprds Stdy                      322 IDA          12 
2.4 Inahina Pricing Study               59 IDA
3.0 FEASIBILM  STUDIES
3.1  uIt ime Port Study                22 KfW          12 
8.2 Fvnd for   FII It  5tud1"        UN0 IDA          24 .l- 
3.3 Initial FaIbiity Study            3240 IDA-PeP                                                      AlrW    opee
4.0 CREIT LS       STANCE                                                           I                  I
4.1 Prepratlon of Loan Package         35 NO                -l -l   l   l l
4.2 TA to CommrcialSanks              8C4ID             6          I -B           -l I       jl2ator a nk
5.0 -M MANACEMET ASSISTANCE                               I        I                                            forI  I   bn
5.2 Nrjw Adeinistrativ  Sytms38 FRANCE    149  
5.1 Proct Adinistratoive              88  FRANCE       I t--                          --               I
.S lE      Finncial Systems           3    FRANC     -241         _     __ I__               I
5.4 Equl_ pow  &  utldi n             1005 FM  SP 
0.0 PROJECT EOINEEtDI SEVICES
6.1 Envi rowAtal Package/Marpel            NOR  _ _
6.2 Tolecunicastio  Package            3  FRANE         8 I   -   I         I
.8 CiviIWorks Dotallod D g9n          8172 IDA          8  _ _        -
7.0 IRAMNN  C-IDIN II                                                           I            j         i
7.1 Tralning Adylor                   8781 IDA         8                                --
9.0 COSTIMS M  MME FACITATION                                             I         i                      u     C
9.1 Trad Facilitation                  460 IDA             _  _-     _           _           l         I
9.2 Customs                            370 IDA            I                                            Inel    Cw-tom-_ P
Totl                           81,024            482 m
Y MAJOR CATEGOR:              (8ooo)    -              BY DONORt        (8'000)           Equipmet (Frannce) (S'000)
1.0 CM. EWATORY RFU  AND SW  81,261            174         IDA               85 272           compute"        12     39
2.0 IDUSTR  TA AN STUDDIS           3,836       99         IDA-PPF             1651           H/Vhicles       S    8120
8.0 FEASIILM  S3IDIES                 32        a         NORAD              81,465           Xerox           6     8120
4.0 CrEIT LiNE ASSISTANCE              719      39        FRANCE              1,925
5.0 N  MANAGE1T ASISTANCE           82 m        84        SPAIN                8500           Total                  380
6.0 PROJECT EINEERINO SERVICES         29       14        KfW                  8222           Milms l .              825
7.0 IMDIN  CO-ORDINATION              3738      s6                                            Building Reb       (8'000)
8.0 CSTOMS AD TRADE FACILITATION      830        0
A/DNM  (Sp& In)       8500
TOTAL                          811,024    482         TOTAL             811,024



- 163 -
Annex 4-8
Page 1 of 3
MOZAMBIQUE
FIRST ROADS AND COASTAL SHIPPING PROJECT
COASTAL SHIPPING TRAINING COMPONENT
I. Ob1ectives
1.1        Because of the shortage of qualified and experienced port
personnel, the main objective of the training component is to improve the
skills of selected coastal ports and shipping companies' personnel to enable
them to carry out their activities more efficiently and thus improving
maritime operations.
II. Institutional Capacity
2.1        The objective mentioned above will be achieved in part through
revised training policies, technical assistance and well structured training
activities, but most4y through institutional capacity-building. Steps are
being taken by GOH/MTC to adopt and promulgate a firm policy commitment to
promote and maintain full competitiveness in the coastal shipping transport
sub-sector, and to transfer ownership and responsibility for the small ports
from CFM.EE to DNKjGAPROMAR with appropriate provisions to grant long-term
contracts to experienced concessionaires. It is expected that policy reforms
and substantial privatization of the sub-sector would restore personnel
motivation through competitive salaries and career development opportunities.
III. Staffing and Training Capacity
3.1        Currently, the estimated full-time workforce of the five ports
being assisted under the project - Angoche, Macuse, Mocimboa de Praia and
Pebane - totals 227 (an average of 45 per port) broken down as follows: 117
skilled and semi-skilled personnel, 40 clerks, 10 port managers and deputy
managers and 60 seamen/captains (tug crews). A total of 800 casual labor is
employed by the ports as needed. As most of the skilled and semiskilled
personnel never received formal training, their qualifications and experience
are inadequate. This problem is further compounded by-the country's low
levels of education and literacy and low salary scales. DNH/GAPROHAR are not
adequately staffed and lack the necessary organizational structure to manage
the coastal shipping subsector which also requires more qualified and
experienced personnel. However, recruitment of personnel without previous
experience in port activities will not improve coastal shipping operations
unless they are properly trained ( except in those cases where concessionaires
provide their own management and supervisory personnel).
3.2        Officially, the Training Department of MTC is responsible for the
planning and implementation of training activities but, so far, overall
results have not been satisfactory due to (i) weak institutional capacity;
(ii) lack of fundes and (iii) shortages of trainees because of lack of
incentives and other constraints. Whether the coastal shipping companies and
small ports are managed by DNH/GAPROMAR or contracted to main concessionaires,
training of personnel at all levels is required in either case. With



- 164 -
Annex 4-8
Page 2 of 3
assistance from donors and IDA, DNK/GAPROMAR are taking steps to assist with
the subsector's training needs. Accordingly, training guidelines have been
issued detailing action to be taken to ensure staff development activities
including career development linkages to training and a system of professional
standards and certification.
3.3        With the forthcoming introduction of policy and organizational
changes in maritime operations, training becomes a critical element in
transferring to the staff technical skills to perform at a satisfactory level.
Ezisting and future personnel will receive training varying from two to six
months. Training courses will be repeated as necessary, thus most of the
workforce will be trained more than once depending on their ability to learn
and retain. The actual number of personnel to be trained will depend on
agreements reached by DNM/GAPROMAR on number and types of concessions
contracted to the private sector. It is estimated that over 200 personnel
ranging from managers and chief tallymen to crane/forklift operators and
mechanics will require training. However, since most personnel will attend
more than one training course, the cumulative total of personnel to be trained
would be considerably higher than 200 depending on the transfer of workforce
to other sectors and turnover (15-20X).
IV. The Trainint Progr
4.1        The main elements of the three-year training program are: (i)
training technical assistance; (ii) local port schools; (iii) in-country
regional ports; (iv) training abroad (fellowships); (v) training equipment and
materials; (vi) training allowance; and (vii) project supervision and
evaluation. DNH/GAPROMAR and ports' managers will attend in-country seminars
and workshops some of which are expected to be conducted by project technical
assistance and will also participate in short-term training courses abroad
(fellowships) at small ports whose activities correspond approximately to
those in Mozambique. Training of lower-level port personnel would be
conducted in-country at existing port schools and regional ports. Training or
upgrading of forklift drivers as well as other mobile equipment would include
familiarization with equipment in the mechanical workshops and practical
experience in driving and operating it in a purpose-built training area in
which driving hazards and obstacles encountered in the work area can be safely
simulated. Such training creates confidence in the trainee, especially when
learning to drive the more complex and expensive equipment, thereby reducing
the likelihood of accidents or damages in the work areas. Because of the low
level of education and literacy of most personnel, in addition to relevant
technical subjects, many trainees should also take more general subjects such
as Portuguese, English and arithmetic in order to strengthen their educational
backgrounds.
4.2         Training courses financed under ROCS-1 will be available to all
interested entities directly connected with the small ports and shipping
operations on a recurrent cost recovery basis. Numbers, categories and levels
of personnel expected to be trained under the project are detailed in
Attachments one and two of this Annex.



- 165 -
Annex 4-8
Page 3 of 3
V. Technical Assistance
5.1        One TA port training adviser will assist DNH/GAPROMAR and port
concessionaires with the preparation and implementation of the training
program. The adviser will be retained for a total of 36 months. After an
initial period of 21 months to organize and commence the program, the adviser
will visit Mozambique at agreed intervals to ensure that the program continues
to be properly implemented according to an agreed time schedule. A
counterpart will be assigned to the adviser from the very beginning to
familiarize himself with the program and monitor its implementation while the
adviser is away. Both the advisers and the counterpart will be located within
DN/IGAPROMAR Terms of Reference for the TA training adviser are available in
the Project File.
VI. TraininR Facilities
6.1        As training of skilled and semiskilled personnel will be conducted
at existing port schools and some of the regional ports, no additional
physical facilities will be provided under the training component.
VII. Trainins Zauitment and Haterials
7.1        The project provides funds for renting one tug boat to train seamen
and captains at the Nautlcal School (ENM) and for technical pualications and
books for the RPM and ZNM. Other training equipment is already available at
existing training facilities.
VII. Training Allowance
8 1        A daily training allowance will be provided under the project to
the counterpart of the training adviser (when on travel status) and trainees
attending regularly-scheduled training courses.
IX. Proiect Evaluation
9.1        The project provides financing for an independent evaluation of the
training program to be conducted at the end of the second year (late 1994) and
the end of the program (late 1996), including recommendations for further
training activities.
X. Cost Estimates
10.1       The total cost of the training program is estimated at about US$1.9
million equivalent as detailed in Attachments 3 and 4 to this Annez.



- 166 -
Annex 4-S
Attacbment 1
MD2AMBIQ
ROADS AND COASTAL SHIPPING PROJECT (ROCS-1)
ZSTIMATRD DMIIGAPRoMR AND COASTAL SHIPPING PERSONNEL TO NE TRAINED
(1993-4 11996)
Description                          Technical             Personnel
Personnel          to be Trained
(Estimated)         (Estimated)
A. DNHIGAPROMAR
1.  Senior Staff
Sub-total                        12                    12
B.  Small Ports 1/
1.  Port Manager                          5                     5
2. Deputy Port Manager                    4                     4
3.  Supervisors                          19                    19
4.  Chief Tally Clerk                     5                     5
5.  Tallyman                             36                    36
6.  Equipment Operator                   21                    21
7. Mechanic                              18                    18
8.  Gang Foreman 21                      20                    20
9. Motorman                               4
10. Seaman                               50                    50
10. Captain                              10                    10
11. Security Guard                       25
12. Casual Labor 3/                     850
Sub-total                     1,077                  188
Totals                        1,089                  200 4/
1/ Angoche, Chinde, Macuse, Mocimboa da PraLa, Pebane.
2/ Mocimboa da Praia.
31 Casual labor is only used occasionally on a hourly basis.
41 It is estimated that some 200 port personnel will each attend 3-week
courses z 3 times during the period 1993-4/1996, thus increasing the
cumulative total ol personnel to be trained to 600.



AMEL2
U~~                                                            ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1 -                                                a
S!           P          Ama 1dst    Sqsyvar   Sqwhvi          r*     1 27'b          Gm,       Nq*OIp.   h          i   Sv*.      Itvmir      T?.O
FW*                Mgu         (CFIQ       (IA4J        TO                    Pik       Fe"%*J         Ed      3mom          Gi   I
s~~~~~                                                                 s       imr                I           cI 0C
CHOW              1                                    4           1          5                      6           7           4                      28         70
MACUSE            1            1                       4           1          a                      4           2          60          17          96        250
(CEDE                                                                I
MOONDAK           1            1                       4           1          a          'a0         7           3                                 45         150
DA PlAZI
___AN             I            I                       3           1          7                                  2                                  1s         B
3
SUW-TOAL          5           4            2           17          5          36         20          21          IS         74          25         227        S50
DNMNA            12                                                                                                                                12
OMR         I           I             I                                  I                                                         I          I
70TAL3            17           4           2           175                    36         20          21          18         74          25         239        350



MOZAMBIWE                                                      _Amas 4-9
FIRST ROADS M  COSTAL SHIPPINO PROJECT
THRE-YEA TRINING PROM (19011"}
SuWMARY COST ESTIMATE
Training    Training
Equlpment   Technical                                                      Prorm
Accomodation         and      Assistane                                                       Suprvision
FurnTfiur       Matertals  Instructors    F l lo  hlj             Transport-  Training         and        TOTALS
Description                   OTfr;;          T -hWeEi-l     Cal     la-Country  Abrod           otion     Allowance    Evaluotion
Equipmnt          Bo003    Seminrs-
Courses
ETC
1. Tra*i9n Adviser                    bO                          720                                  1S                                   735
1. DA/Upm                              20                           20                     2*8                                               *20
1. COI8U  ShlIDDrM  *A
matl IrortssoS goo                                                                                                                         no
4. Port Sceol of Maputo                                so           4                                                                          9Os
S. Nautical School of Maputo                          200           20                                                                        220
6. Be re Port,
(Tralaing Center)                                               40                                                                         4
7. Training Alloanc                                                                                                  4                         46
8. Prosram Evaluation                                                                                                              (2)       (20)
TOTALS                          70             260         526           -          e6e         1            40             (26)      1.678
or 1.9
Contingency (206)                                                                                                                     400
2.300
Notes
hi This fIgure Is a1lriadyinclued d s the road training program.



- 169 -
Annex 4-8
Attachment 4
Page 1 of 2
NDwMUIQU3
FIRST ROADS AND COASTAL SHIPPING PROJECT
DETALELD ESTINATZD COST OF TIE THREE-YEAR TRAINING PROGRAM
(1993-1996)
Cost Estimates
(Approximate)
In US$ Equivalent
Description
(US$1.00-MT 1,000)   IDA         Other
A. D3IGAPRONAR
1.   1 TrainIng Adviser at US$20,000
x m/m z a total of 36 m/m                 $720
2.   Office Furniture, xerox machine(s),
computer(s), translation costs, etc.        50
3.   Transportation. 1 vehicle at US$            15
TOTAL                                               785
4.   TraininR Abroad (Fellowships)
i) Short-term fellowships for
10 DNMHGAPROMAR selected
staff, each at US$20,000               200
ii) Short-term fellowships for
counterpart to training
adviser, at US$16,000                   16
5.  DNM/jAPROMAR high-level management
par'icipation in international
conferences, seminars, etc.                 70
6*  In-country Seminars for mid- and
high-level staff                            20
7.   Office Equipment. 2 IBM (PS2)
55 sx 60 MB at US$10,000                    20
TOTAL                                               326
. Sma11 Ports and Shipins Companies
1*  In-country seminars and workshops
for selected staff (CIF)                    30
2.  Training Abroad (Fellowships) -
Short-term fellowships for 5 port
managers and 5 deputies, each at
US$20,000.                                 200
Short-term fellowships for 5 senior
staff of shipping companies, each
at US$20,000                               100
TOTAL                                               330
S.   Port School of Maputo
i) Short-term courses for 80
equipment operators, foremen
chiefs and gang foremen,
tallymen, mechanics for an
average course of 3 weeks, at
US$200 z trainee (including
room and board) x 3 sessions
(3 years)                               48
ii) Techolcal books and publications        50



- 170 -
Annex 4-8
Attacbment 4
Page 2 of 2
TOTAL                                                 98
4.   Nautical School of Haputo
i) Tut Crews. Training of 50
seamen and 10 captains, including
renting a tug boat for one year         150
ii) Tuition fee                              20
iii) Technical books and publications        50
TOTAL                                                220
5.   Beira Port
Training Center
i) Training of 80 low-level
personnel, at US$200 x trainee x
3 weeks s 3 sessions (3 years)           48
TOTAL                                                 48
C. Training Allowance
1.   Allowance for trainees and one
counterpart staff (when on travel
status).
i) 160 trainees x (an average course
of) 90 days s US$1.00 x day x 3
sessions (3 years)                       43
ii) 1 training officer x (an average
travel of) 24 days z year x 3 years
(72 days), at US$3.00 x day               3
TOTAL                                                 46
D. Supervision and Evaluation of the
training program (2 missions, 3 weeks
each (1994-1996).                       (26) I/
(26) 1/
TOTAL                                             1,865
Rounded                                           1,900
3. Contingency (201)                             400
TOTALS                                               400
2,300
Notes
2/ This figure is already included in the road training program.



- 171 -
AMNN      - 9
Page 1 of 1
MDZAHBIQUS
nl*I-T ROADS AND CO&ST&L SHIPPIRG PROJtCT
PORTS - INFRASTRUCTURE BREA ILITATION
1.     The following tables summarize the investments found to be viable
in the small ports.
SUMMAh ( '000)
Anoce                                       605
Ch nde                                     3806
Mscuso                                   62 255
Mocimbo. da Prate                        31.650
Totel Five Porte                          6,0w8
Radio EqWipmnt                              *60
Lighting for quay and Warehouse             320
Tractor                                     380
Spar. Parts and Toole                        so
Stovedor Equipment (so. slings)             $15
Derricke  (mounted on wreck)                S0o
2 Berms and Tun tPort)                     3400
ToteI                                      360
CHINDE_                 _-86
is dlo Equpmnt                              no
Lighting for quay and Warehous              820
Tractor + 2 Tra Ilor                        370
Spare Portes and Tools                      60
Stevedor Equipment                          U1
Barge  (2 Port)                            8120
&&ue Rehabilttotlon                        3500
Raaro EqupmRent                             350
Lighting for Quay and Warehouse             *20
Stevedor Equlpmst                           U15
Barg  and Tug  Or Fort and Collection      SW40
Convy yor beit                             U30
qua,' Rehabilitation             3400 to I.l 0S
rotal -3    2,-255
N   . ~    ~     ~ ~ ~ 55
Radi Equipment                              350
Lighting for Quay end Warehouse              20
Trator   2 Traller                         370
pere Pert. and Tools                        IS0
Stevedo. Equipment                          *15
Bares for Port *nd CollOction              3430
Wrehouso Rohabilltation                     *20
Total                                      36
MOCRKIB  DPA MIAZA
Rdi Equipment _nt
Llghtlng and Oenortor                       U5
Tracto"r   2 Trailers                       370
Spare Parts and Tools                      3100
Stevedor Equiet                             gi5
2 Bares a.nd Tug ( rt)                     8400
Leloabr/Crae "                             U
iRe" cr (ub Jo .,.................6.. 3 610
otel                                -    1,630



- 172 -                       Annex 4-10
Page 1 of 6
MOZAMBIOUD
FIRST ROADS AND COASTAL SHIPPING PROJECT
THE FINANCIAL SECTOR
1.01      General.  Mozambique's financial sector currently consists of
three banks, an agricultural credit fund, an investment and financial
studies association, and one insurance company. The present financial
system came into being after Mozambique gained its independence in 1975,
with the restructuring of the banking system in 1978. Of the three banks,
the Banco de Mocambique (BH) is predominant, accounting for some 95Z of
financial-system assets. It has operated both as the Central Bank and as
the leading commercial bank, although lending has been confined primarily
to parastatal borrowers. A second fully state-owned bank is Banco Popular
de Desenvolvimento (BPD). The third bank - Banco Standard Totta de
Mocambique (BSTM) - is a small, largely foreign-owned private bank which
lends to the private sector. The agricultural credit fund - Caiza de
Credito Agrario e de Desenvolvimento Rural (CCADR) - was established by
GoverAment in 1988, is administered by BPD and initiated lending operations
in mid-1988. The Sociedade de Investimentos e Estudos Financieros (SOCIEF)
handles GOM bond issues.
1.02      Over the period 1980-86 the banking system acted as a passive
conduit for financing the production plans of the centralized economy.
Physical controls over production, allocation and prices were installed and
resources were concentrated in large, capital-intensive agricultural and
industrial investments in the public sector. A rapid expansion of domestic
credit occurre'd so that while GDP fell in real terms by 16t over this
period, domestic credit expanded by 240t, and serious arrears were built up
amounting to over 50t of lending by 1986. Interest rates on lending and
borrowing were not used for rationing of credit and were negative in real
terms. Bank deposits were largely non interest-bearing demand deposits.
The situation was not conducive to mobilization of real savings and the
non-availability of foreign exchange for import of investment goods
constrained investment, so that liquid reserves were accumulated. Lending
was concentrated in the commercial department of the BM, partly financed by
deposits from the other banks; this was done particularly at the expense of
the private sector. The dual role of BM was not conducive to the
development of its regulatory and policy making responsibilities.
ComuercLal banks were able to maintain financial stability because of the
high levels of liquidity; book earnings were also positive because of high
yield margins over the average cost of deposited funds (and also possibly
because of accrued interest). However, lack of proper auditing resulted in
unreliable balance-sheet information, which, in turn, led to unsatisfactory
economic data and inappropriate banking policy decisions.
1.03      The Strategy for Financial Sector Reform. The Government, since
1987, has adopted a series of relatively radical measures for the banking
sector under its Economic Rehabilitation Program (ERP), with the objective
of restoring capability for efficient mobilization of savings and
allocation of investment. The pace of change implies a high level of
commitment. The measures taken have been included in agreements between
the Government, IDA, and the IMF. The task that the Government has
embarked on since 1987 is complex and lengthy, requiring that the financial



- 173 -
Annex 4-10
Page 2 of 6
sector undergo a transition from a system whose main purpose was the
administrative allocation of public funds according to the requirements of
the central plan, to one in which private savings can be effectively
mobilized and channelled to economic investment outlets via a market
determined price (interest rate) system, and which can be monitored and
regulated through monetary instruments by the central bank. Under the ERP,
the main instrument of monetary control has been the establishment of
credit ceilings which, until recently, have not been strictly applied.
This situation, combined with the persistence of high inflation, led the
GOM in 1991 to move to a system based on net domestic assets rather than
domestically sourced credit. In order to rehabilitate the financial
sector, the reform process has had to address the following basic areas:
(a) inappropriate interest and exchange rates; (b) the need for
institutional restructuring; (c) tightening of monetary and fiscal
policies; (d) restraint of wages and a shift towards market-determined
prices; and (e) establishment of financial-performance guidelines. The
combined effect of reforms in all these areas is expected to be to raise
domestic savings and ration credit via the price system to more profitable
outlets, allow proper execution of the functions of the central bank, and
permit the commercial banking system to become a catalyst for sustained
growth of the economy.
1.04      The ERP, reflected in the Government's Policy Framework Paper,
initially addressed (a) and (b) above. Under the program agreed with the
IHF, nominal interest rates have been increased in successive steps toward
positive real levels as the rate of price inflation declines. By the end
of 1991, the official exchange rate was reasonably close to secondary and
parallel-market rates. A System of Non-administrative Allocation of
Foreign Exchange (SNAAD) was introduced and is to be expanded (at the
secondary market rate) in 1992. There have been important reforms in
pricing and marketing, and domestic trade has been liberalized. Fiscal
imbalances have been addressed by widening the coverage of the budget,
reforming tax policy, and eliminating monetary financing of the budget;
expenditures have simultaneously been contained. Monetsry policy has aimed
at containing money supply growth by restraining credit expansion, while
interest rates have been progressively simplified and made positive in real
terms. This dramatic economic change has been accompanied by political
liberalization (including the privatization of state enterprises), the
promulgation of a new constitution in 1990, and planning for multi-party
elections in 1992. In the institutional area, the complex task of
separating the Bank of Mozambique (BH) into its central and commercial
functions has been initiated, under the 1991 reform of the general banking
act and the central banking act. This separation is needed to restore the
central bank's regulatory and monetary control functions, and its role as
financier of the central government (accounting separation began the second
half of 1991, but separated balance sheets are not yet available). In
addition, some initial progress has been made on diversification of
instruments of government finance and establishment of prudential
regulatory controls.
1.05      The rehabilitation of the financial system is now focussed on
interest rate reform and on institution building and reorganization. The
financial restructuring area is relatively less advanced, and the



- 174 -
Annex 4-10
Page 3 of 6
reintroduction of an effective regulatory system for the commercial banks
will to some extent require inter alia the prior achievement of progress in
restructuring and the final clearance of lending arrears, which, up to now,
has been confined to those of BM (para 1.09). The regulatory powers of the
BM have not been utilized because reserve requirements have not been
effective due to excess rediscount facility 1/. In addition,
regulations concerning financial performance and prudent lending have not
been effective because of the financing of enterprise deficits during the
period of central planning. The pace at which improvements can be made in
these areas depends to a large extent on the progress of institutional
reform in terms both of organization (of the BM), and in terms of eapacity
(skilled manpower) of all the banks. In particular, manpower constraints
in the commercial banks in the area of accounting, financial management and
credit analysis will take time to resolve, as well as skill shortages in
central banking functions. The February 1990 Small and Medium Enterprise
Development Project provides technical assistance and conditionality
designed to strengthen term lending capabilities of commercial banks.
1.06      Structure of Interest Rates.   Rates in effect from 1981 to 1986
were very low in nominal terms, ranging from 0 to 6Z for deposits, and 3 to
10X for lending, and negative in real terms. The structure of interest
rates has been revised six times under the ERP, with real rates becoming
less negative and segmented. The change in September 1991 reduced the
number of sectoral lending livels from three to two and further raised
nominal rates. Credit provicled from resources of the CCADR bears
preferential interest rates ranging from 3Z to 6Z p.a.
1.07      Under the terms of Mozambique's agreement with the IMF, interest
rates should continue to be reviewed and revised progressively. Annual
reviews of lending interest rates and their structure would also take place
with IDA. A high priority for GOM should be a rapid movement towards the
elimination of interest-rate segmentation and distortions within the
present rate soructure, on both lending and deposit schedules (e.g. the
current high premia of 29-33Z on time deposits over demand deposits is not
warranted). Banks should be allowed to determine lending rates based upon
a commercial assessment of anticipated risk and return. Although the scope
for domestic savings mobilization over the near term is severely limited,
such mobilization should become a more important macro-economic goal over
the medium term.
1.08      Banking System Arrears.  Despite the indications of positive
progress, the banking system still faces a serious arrears problem which
has arisen from several sources. A portion of the arrears dates back to
independence, when many Portuguese firm owners left the country; a number
of these firms were subsequently intervened by the Government. The bulk of
the arrears of the private bank, BSTM, date from this period. The largest
share of arrears, however, has stemmed from lending, largely to state
enterprises and intervened firms, by the banks (mainly DM and BPD) at the
Government's request. Much of this lending was to cover operating deficits
(up to 1986 inclusive) considered to be due to price controls and the
1/ These powers are codified under the Organic Law, decree 2/75.



- 175 -
Annex 4-10
Page 4 of 6
difficult economic environment facing the enterprises. Since 1987, the
Government has covered such deficits through direct .iscal subsidy and has
reduced their level substantially. However, some government subsidies
remain, in the form of subsidized negative real interest rates on some
types of borrowing, direct government assumption of operating losses of
some parastatal enterprises, and continued government guarantees on
borrowing through the banking system. Such activities should either be
gradually eliminated or passed directly to the GOM budget.
1.09      The consolidation of the bad loans of public enterprises and
their transfer from the banking sector to the Government has been under
negotiation since 1986. Government has recognized MT 40.6 billion of BM's
portfolio as bad loans of the public enterprises, as of the end of 1987.
Of these, about MT 10.0 billion have been rescheduled and a portion of the
balance has already been reimbursed to BM by the Government. The two other
banks are conducting similar negotiations with Government; this will be
especially significant for BPD which has accumulated large arrears from the
state farm sector and it is estimated that Government would assume
responsibility for about MT 20.0 billion of BPD's portfolio.
1.10      The IDA Credit for the Small and Medium Enterprise Development
Project contains agreements on the actions to be taken by the Government
leading to: (a) the separation of BM's central and commercial Bank
functions (substantially completed by April 1992); (b) the settlement of
lending arrears of the commercial banks including BM; (c) the
rehabilitation of the banking system and extension of competition within
the banking sector; and (d) the strengthening of the accounting
capabilities of the PFIs. As indicated above, measures are being taken to
implement the agreed actions.
Banco de Mocambigue (BM).
1.11      Organization.  EM is by far the largest of the three banks, and
the one with the broadest mandate. It was created in 1975 to take over the
central banking role previously played by Portugal's Banco Nacional
Ultramarino, and, in 1978, absorbed the Mozambican operations of four
Portguguese-owned banks. BM has 10 provincial head offices (filiais), 17
district branches (agencias) and 13 deposit offices (delegacoes). BM's
Board of Directors is entirely internally constituted, comprising the
Governor and the eight department General Managers (Administradores).
1.12      Policies and Functions.  Under new legislation, BM is expected
to exercise control over monetary policy through indirect macro-economic
management rather than through direct forms of micro-economic control. The
bank's most important policy instrument has been the interest-rate policy,
with BM and the Ministry of Finance setting a complex structure of lending
and deposit rates. The government has begun to move towards a more
deregulated system of monetary policy control; however, until there is
sufficient competition in the banking system, BM will need to set minimum
lending rates to ensure that they remain positive in real terms.
1.13      The Bank of Mozambique needs to establish a strong
administrative structure to negotiate and manage its large external debt.



- 176 -
Annex 4-10
Page 5 of 6
Alternatives such as debt conversions should be pursued by BM, and the bank
should also improve its statistical base on this debt. The foreign
exchange and trade-permit system should be streamlined, with all banks
being permitted to effect foreign exchange transactions. However, foreign-
exchange management should be centralized with BM and a strong control unit
developed with the aid of external technical assistance. Another important
function which should be developed is the ability to properly supervise and
regulate banking and financial institutions. BM must develop this
capability quickly, with the aid of external technical assistance and a
contingent of good calibre local staff.
The Commercial BankinR Sector.
1.14      The Banco Popular de Desenvolvimento.  BPD was formed in 1977,
integrating the old Banco de Fomento Nacional, Instituto de Credito de
Mocambiqua, and Montepio de Mocambique.  It has traditionally had two main
roles: the financing of agriculture and, by extension, the rural sector,
and domestic savings mobilization. However, it is also empowered under its
charter to invest in equity, new ventures, and take up commercial paper.
This latter role has not been fulfilled, but recently a share capital
participation department was set up for that purpose. BPD also holds
equity in a few enterprises, notably textiles, inherited from nationalized
banks. It is 10O state-owned and has by far the largest branch network in
the country, with 10 provincial offices (filial), 28 district branches
(agencia), and 120 deposit offices (delegacao) and savings collection posts
(posto de captacao de poupanca). BPD has a total staff of about 3,000 with
420 employed in its head office in Maputo. Since 1987 BPD management has
considerably strengthened its staff training activities, focussing in
particular on training of credit analysts, and is gradually introducing
computerization in head office departments and some of the larger branches.
1.15      BPD's balance sheet has shown considerable excess liquidity in
recent years, largely because its savings mobilization role was combined
with the lack of sufficient short-term lending opportunities. As of
December 31, 1988, liquid assets were about 36Z of total assets and BPD's
total loan portfolio was equivalent to 55Z of demand and term deposits, or
38Z when loans to Government and the CCADR are excluded. The outstanding
balance of loans (including arrears) at that time amounted to MT 41.4
billion, primarily composed of loans to agricultural state enterprises.
However, lending by BPD to the private sector started to gain momentum in
1988 and an analysis of current BPD lending activities shows a significant
change in the composition of the portfolio resulting from increasing
lending to the private sector for investments as well as for working
capital (the *healthy* portfolio has increased from 13Z to 33?).
1.16      As already mentioned in para 1.08, BPD faces severe arrears
problems. Available data show that at the end of December 1988, arrears
amounted to MT 26.6 million or 652 of BPD's total loan portfolio as of that
date, and state enterprises accounted for about 92Z of arrears. BPD is
negotiating with Government to resolve the problem of bad loans and to
determine the amount to be reimbursed by the Government. Recent data also
indicate that recovery on current lending is improving. BPD is in the



- 177 -
Annex 4-10
Page 6 of 6
process of introducing better loan recovery monitoring and follow-up
procedures which would assist it in its loan collection efforts.
1.17      Caixa de Credito Aprario e de Desenvolvimento Rural (CCADR).  rhe
CCADR, in operation since Hay 1988 and administered by BPD, was created by
Government to provide credit at preferential terms and at subsidized
interest raues (currently 102 p.a.) to stimulate investments in the rural
sector. Its activities are financed from budgetary allocations by
Government and the local counterpart funds of some donor-financed projects.
Although state enterprises are eligible to borrow from the CCADR, the
credit norms for its operations emphasize lending to veterans, repatriated
migrant workers, cooperatives and family producers, producers of cereals
and those affected by natural calamities. By September 1990, the CCADR had
accumulated a loan portfolio of HT 32.0 billion, consisting mainly (90X) of
medium and long-term loans for in'7estments. However, all new lending has
been suspended because available funds have been exhausted.
1.18      Necessary Reforms.  The commercial banking sector in Hozambique
is in urgent need of rehabilitation and restructuring; the rehabilitation
is strongly linked to the restructuring and divestment of inefficient and
loss-producing state enterprises. Banking legislation should ensure that:
5i) banks have an adequate capital base; (ii) an appropriate licensing
procedure is in effect to reasonably limit ownership in any one bank; (iii)
lending concentrations are restricted to avoid over-exposure to a single
group or area of the economy; (iv) adequate supervision by the eentral bank
is carried out; (v) proper accounting, auditing and reporting are
conducted; tvi) entry of foreign banks is permitted; and (vii) a Bankers'
Training Institute is established and properly staffed and funted.
1.19      improvements must be made in the expeditious transfer of funds
and the clearance of cheques. It is especially important to take measures
to restore confidence in the use of the cheque system, including the
initiation of criminal procedures against those who abuse the system.
Clearing systems between banks and their branches must be radically
improved, possibly through a two-level system, at the provincial level and
thereafter in Haputo. Given the existing low levels of capital in the
state-owned banks, GOH should consider divesting itself completely of BPD
(at the end of 1991, a German team was working on possible restructuring
and reorientation of BPD), and either phasing out the commercial wing of BH
or selling a minority interest to the private sector. Conditions should
also be created to permit the issuance of money market instruments in more
standardized and easily understandable forms, as well as the issuance of
bank certificates of deposit.
1.20      The development of adequate banking skills at all levels is
crucial. The magnitude of required training is enormous and pervasive
throughout all levels of expertise and in all financial institutions.
Computerization should also be adopted as rapidly as personnel skills can
accomodate it.
1.21      Additional details relative to the financial sector of
Mozambique may be found in the April 1992 Financial Sector Study (Report
No. 10269-MOZ).



- 178 -
Annex 4-11
Page 1 of 2
MOZAMBIQUE
FIRST ROADS AND COASTAL SHIPPING PROJECT
IDMPLEMNTATION ARRANGEMENTS FOR THE CREDIT LINE
A. Participation Agreement
1.        Participation Agreements between BH/Central and the
Participating Financial Institutions (PFI) would, inter alia, specify that
the PFIs shoulds
(i)    designate qualified staff to manage the  sub-loans
financed by the proposed project;
(ii)   perform satisfactory sub-project appraisals and submit
appraisal reports and required related documentation to
DM/Central;
(iii)  ensure that sub-loan funds are used by sub-project
beneficiaries for the purposes intended and that
procurement procedures, acceptable to IDA, are followed;
(iv)   supervise sub-projects according to established
procedures, maintain adequate records and provide periodic
reports on the status of sub-projects and sub-loans;
(v)    bear the lending risk and adhere to terms of lending and
repayment of loans;
(vi)   provide BM/Central, GAPROMAR and IDA with such information
as they may reasonably requestg and
(vii)  provide, from their own resources, short-term credits to
cover incremental working capital requirements of project
beneficiaries.
B. Sub-proiect Selection and Eliaibility Criteria
2.        In order to receive financing from the line of credit, analysis
of the followlng aspects would have to prove satisfactorily:
(i)    the credit-worthiness of the prospective sub-borrower;
(iL)  the technical, financial, environmental and economic
viability of the proposed investments;
(1ii)  the financial rate of return (FRR) of proposed investment
sub-projects would be not lower than 12 percent;



- 179 -
Annex 4-11
Page 2 of 2
C. Repayment of Funds Borrowed from the Line of Credit
3.        PFIs will be required to repay to BM/Central the funds on-lent
from the line of credit in accordance with the repayment schedules
established for the individual sub-loans made by PFIs, even if PFIs have
not collected the amounts in question on schedule. PFIs would pay to
BM/Central, semi-annually or annually, interest on the funds/borrowed from
the line of credit equivalent to 70 percent of the amount of interest
accrued on sub-loans financed from the ltne of credit. The spread for
PFIs, equivalent to 30S of in,;erest on sub-loans reflects the relatively
high administrative costs and the need to ensure adequate coverage of the
lending risks borne by PFIs.
4.        DM/Central would reimburse to the Government the amounts of
principal and interest as and when collected from PFus, less a fee of 0.5?
p.a. of the amount of outstanding principal, to cover the administrative
costs of BM/Central. The amount of interest paid to the Government would
cover the commitment and service charges on the IDA credit and make
provision for coverage of the foreign exchange risk.



- 180 -
Annex 4-12
Page 1 of 10
MOZAMBIQUE
FIRST ROADS AND COASTAL SHIPPING PROJECT
RzGULATORY AND SUPERVISION - DRAFT TRMS OF REPRINCE
Introduction:
1.    The Government of Mozambique (GO), recognizing the important role
that the coastal shipping sector plays in the distribution of agricultural
produce in Mozambique. is embarking on a program (the ROCS project) to
increase efficiency in, and attract private sector investments to, the
shipping and small ports industries.
2.    The small ports and coastal shipping recovery strategy involves: (i)
reforming the regulatory environment; (ii) encouraging the private sector
operators; (iii) long term training and operational assistance; and (iv)
phased investment in shipping and ports. More specifically, the recovery
strategy includes:
(a)   Deregulating the industry to allow commercial operation and new
private sector entry, while maintaining supervision
responsibilities. GOM has agreed to adopt and promulgate a
firm policy cnauitment to promote and maintain full
competitiveness in the coastal shipping transport sub-sector.
In addition an action plan for implementation of cost-based
tariff policies for the coastal shipping sub-sector has been
prepared.
(b)   Restructuring of largely state-owned shipping enterprises into
viable commercial entities. Re-equipment of the coastal
shipping fleet.
(c)   Rehabilitation of the small-port infrastructure and equipment
to allow shorter port-side waiting times for ships.
(d)   Re-orientation of the Ministry of Commuications and Transport
into a planning and supervisory organization.
Overall Obiectivest
3.    To support this effort GOM, with financing from IDA, will contract
the services of a consulting firm to assist with all aspects of regulatory
reform and supervision of physical works at selected small ports and for
the coastal shipping industry in Mosambique. The overall objectives of this
assignment are:
Shipping Industry: To assist DNM by: (i) revising the regulatory
framework for shipping, covering shipping concessions, competition
and new entry, tariff setting and safety; (ii) advising GOM in
negotiating the privatization of Navique and any potential new
entries; and (iii) establishing improved practices for the longer
term supervision of and planning for the coastal shipping industry,
and transferring management skills to local counterpart staff.



- 181 -
Annex 4-12
Page 2 of 10
Small Ports: To assist DNH byt (i) revising the regulatory framework
for small ports to allow concessions and cost based tariffs; (ii)
finalizing the contractual details of, and assisting tne Government
in negotiating, the concessions for small port administration; and
(iii) establishing appropriate practices for the long term
supervision of and planning for the small ports.
Organizations To work with DNH and HTC to develop both short and long
term organization structures that will enable the Government of
Hozambique to manage the coastal shipping sector in years to come.
4.    the work assignment will cover four distinct areast
(a)   The initial changes to the regulatory framework
(b)   Ongoing supervision of the industry, including the transfer of
skills to Hozambican counterparts
(c)   Review of ongoing shipping and ports performance
(d)   Planning for the future of the coastal shipping industry
Scope of Work:
5.     The detailed scope of the work to be performed is as follows:
A.    SHIPPING
Task Ones  To review, and advise GOH on desirable revisions to, the
regulatory framework for the coastal shipping industry covering shipping
concessions. new entry, and tariff setting.
1.1   Review of current leRislation:
6.   Under separate funding a consultaut has been engaged to pull together
and review all relevant legislation concerning the coastal shipping sector
and has identified the main issues and obstacles relating to the operation
of an efficient and competitive coastal shipping industry. This analysis
will form the basis for the regulatory reform assignment and will be
reviewed by the Consultant at the start of the assignment.
1.2   Define New Shipping Environment:
7.    It is generally agreed that a alevel playing field  (equal
conditions) is required for a healthy shipping industry. All the potential
players in the coastal shipping markets are concerned that the same rights
and obligations be assigned to all participants, or that they be
compensated accordingly. The Consultant will be responsible for advising
GQM on the structure of such a regulatory framework. The new framework
shoald be able to deal with the following:
(a)   There is concern that if market entry and participation is
entirely free, new entrants will be attracted only to the lucrative
core toutes. The lower-demand, less profitable routes will then
either be faced with a dramatic reduction in service levels, or those
that are forced to operate such routes will be at a comnercial
disadvantage. The revised regulatory framework will need to establish
conditions for entry intc the market and conditions and compensation
arrangements for those required to serve less profitable routes.



- 182 
Annex 4-12
Page 3 of 10
(b)   It still is not clear whether the Mozambican market can support
the existence of more than one coastal shipping organization. Many
believe, for example, that the proposal by French shipping interests
together with the proposed re-equipment of NAVIQUE would result in
excess capacity and that unrestricted competition would result in a
shake-out in the market and eventually in a monopoly. The regulatory
framework will need to develop an appropriate way of dealing with
this challenge. Just as shipping regulations would have to ensure
that all operators have a 'level playing field", the Consultant will
be responsible for 'dvising the governuent on ways of protecting the
rights of Mozambican shippers from the problems that might arise due
to the development of a monopoly.
(c)   The framework should clearly address the question of
concessional finance for the participants in the coastal shipping
sector. Should concessional donor funding be allowed and, if so, how
should it be controlled, if at all? One solution to be considered is
an arrangement under which all donor funding to the shipping sector
be channeled through the central bank and onward to the shipping
entities at commercial rates. The concessional element of the funding
could then be retained by the Government to support the development
of the coastal shipping industry and to finance subsidies for
particular routes (if required).
(d)   The new regulatory framework should address the structure and
level of freight rates. The Government has agreed in principle to
allow cost-based freight rates with 'automatic adjustments' to be
introduced into the coastal shipping sector. An initial level and
structure of rates should be proposed. Options should be set out and
recommendations made regarding the denomination of rates (Dollars or
Mfeticais), any differential between products, and mechanisms for rate
adjustment.
8.    Output of this part of the work will be a policy statement to be
adopted by GOM and accepted by the major shipping companies. Based on the
legislative review and the revised competitive framework, the Consultant
will redraft the legislation required to allow the new policy to be
implemented.
9.    The Consultant will not responsible for legislation and policy
regarding maritime safety, since this is currently being implemented under
NORAD assistance to DNM. However the Consultant will be expected to liaise
with those working in the field of maritime safety and will need to ensure
that recosended initiatives are compatible with each other.
10.   The Consultant will have responsibility for discussing the proposed
new regulatory framework with shipping entities active in Mozambique, as
well as with those discussing with GOM their possible participation.
Task Two: To advise GMI by reviewing progress towards, and assisting in
negotiations for. the privatization of Navique or its joint venture with
any potential new entries In the coastal shipping field in Mozambique.



- 183 -
Annex 4-12
Page 4 of 10
2.1   Review Progress towards and Possible Negotiation of a Joint Venture
for Naviaues
11. A formal restructuring plan for NAVIQUE is being prepared by GOM,
which is expected to lay out clearly monitorable targets and deadlines, and
to cover both 'external restructuring', such as changes in the ownership
structure and holding of shares, and 'internal restructuring', such as
staff and fleet rationalization. The Consultant will review the progress
made by Navique towards more commercial operation and ownership and will
review the suitability of its proposed restructuring plan. The Consultant
will also advise and assist GOM with implementation of actions which the
government decides to take to privatize Navique. The Consultant will not be
involved in the day-to-day management or restructuring of Navique itself.
which is covered by NORAD assistance, but will focus on advising the
government on the merits and possible disadvantages of any proposed
restructuring of Navique.
12.   It is clear that without staff rationalization and financial
restructuring it will be very difficult to interest a private sector
organization in acquiring NAVIQUE. IDA and NORAD have expressed
willingness to try to find ways of using cr %dits or grants to assist in the
commercial restructuring of NAVIQUE (under the ROCS II project) in these
two areas. The Consultant will advise GOM on options for dealing with
these and other issues leading up the possible privatization of Navique. In
all likelihood Navique will need to be trimmed down, with 'good' assets
moving to the 'neww Navique and unwanted assets, excessive liabilities and
redundant staff to be dealt with by MTC. The Consultant would be expected
to advise GOM on its options for dealing with such an eventuality. This
will require : 5i) legal advice; (ii) agreement on the most advantageous
restructuring path for NAVIQUE; and (iii) a detailed understanding of
NAVIQUE's asset and liability structure. The specialist services of an
investment banking firm might be required to help structure such a deal.
13.  When the time comes to negotiate a joint venture or the full
privatization of Navique the Consultant will be expected to assist the
government in negotiating favorable arrangements.
2.2   Negotiate New Entry:
14.   There are a number of companies that have expressed an interest in
comaencing coastal shipping operations in Mozambique. The Consultant will
act as advisor to the Government of Mozambique in negotiating the entry of
such companies, in line with requirements of the new regulatory framework.
Task Threes To establish and implement longer tern supervision practices
for the shipping industry
15.   The Consultant will be responsible for defining and then implementing
suitable long-term supervision practices for the coastal shipping industry
in Mozambique. This task will include, but will not be limited to:
-     Establishing mechanisms for the review of passenger fares and freight
rates in line with the regulatory framework as implemented.
-     Advising GOM on specific fare/rate increase applications
-     Policing the concessions that are awarded to ensure compliance with
the terms of the concession.



- 184 -
Annex 4-12
Page 5 of 10
-     Advising GOM on the merits of specific future new entry applications
-     Periodically reviewing the shipping sector regulations to ensure that
they are compatible with the long-term interests of Mozambique.
16.   The Consultant will also be responsible for training designated
counterparts in supervisory activities and transferring responsibility for
industry supervision to designated counterparts (according to a plan to be
defined by DNM and the counterparts) such that by the end of the
assignment, DNM will be capable of supervising the shipping sector.
Task Fours To establish, oversee and review planning activities of DMN in
the shipping sector
17.   The Consultant will be responsible for establishing within DNM a
planning cycle for its regulatory activities in the coastal shipping
sector. This will include, but not be limited to:
-     Supervising the consultants looking into the provision of feeder
services in Mozambique (TOR attached).
-     Maintaining adequate coastal shipping traffic statistics
-     Monitoring the supply and demand of shipping capacity in Mozambique
to be able to judge the effectiveness of market mechanisms.
-     Establishing a regular planning cycle relative to coastal shipping in
Mozambique, that is compatible with GOM's supervisory and non-
participatory role.
Task Five&  To soiJcor DNM planning and supervision activities in the
shipping sector for 18 months after the end of the long-term mission
18. The Consultant will intermittently review implementation progress of
adopted planning and supervisory practices for a period of eighteen months
after the end of the first 36-month assignment. This will include two
return visits to Mozambique, each visit for a period of about three months,
with a six-month hiatus between visits.
D.    PORTS
19.   The strategy for recovery of the small ports calls for: (i) changing
the regulations to allow private sector operators to manage the small ports
in a commercial mnanner: (ii) awarding concessions for the management of
the ports; (iii) facilitating the rehabilitation and re-equipment or
development of the ports; and (iv) supporting the capacity development of
the small ports to allow the operators to manage the facilities and the
government to properly regulate the industry.
20.   In order to implement this strategy it will be necessary to change
regulations to allow the adoption of cost related tariffs for small-port
operations and to issue contracts for management and maintenance
(concessions) of the small ports, on a commercial basis, to independent
operators.
Task Siz: To advise OoK on required revisions to the regulatory framework
for small ports to allow use of concessions and cost based tariffs and to
Implawt such revisions as are adopted by GM3



- 185 -
Annex 4-12
Page 6 of 10
6.1 Review of Current Regulatory Structures
21. The small ports are currently owned and, in some cases, operated by
CPM. This is not an effective arrangement in the long term. MTC is
comiitted to granting concessions for the operation of tertiary ports to
independent operators, and CRH is willing to relinquish operational
responsibility to current or potential users. Clearly the regulatory
structure will need to be revised to allow this to happen.
22. A review of the current regulatory structure of the small ports is
already underway. This will look at the legal ownership of the small
ports, the basis for granting concessions and the basis for establishing
port handling fees. The Consultant will be expected to review this
analysis as a first step towards the restructuring of the regulatory
framework for the small ports.
6.2   Define the New Regulatory Structures
23.   The Consultant will be expected to advise GOH on the structure of
appropriate concession agreements for the management of the small ports and
on the ultimate ownership of the ports themselves.
24.   Alternatives are for the ownership to rest with HTC/GAPROMAR, later
with the local governments, or ultimately with the concessionaire. The
final ownership issue needs to be agreed upon before the concessions are
awarded. It has been tentatively agreed that ownership and responsibility
for the small (tertiary) ports will be formally transferred from CRH to
DNH/GAPROMAR with appropriate provisions to grant long-term concessions to
main users or experienced operators.
25. The Consultant will advise DNH/GAPROMAR on the development of an
action plan for implementation of cost-based tariff policies for the
coastal shipping sub-sector. The Consultant will also advise on an
appropriate structure for port handling fees, including questions of
adjustment mechanisms and the possibility of charging some fees in hard
currency. Possibilities for allowing differential fees for different
products will also need to be explored.
6.3 Drafting Concession Documents:
26. The Consultant will be required to draft concession documents,
consistent with the revised regulatory framework, setting out the rights
and obligations of potential concession holders. These documents should
cover at least the following pointst
-     responsibilities for maintenance
-     arrangements for, and structure and method of calculation of, the
concession fees.
-     arrangements for and structure of fees that may be charged to port
users, including regulations with respect to fee adjustments and
discrimination between products.
-     enforcement arrangements
-     decision making responsibilities with respect to capital investments



- 186 -
Annex 4-12
Page 7 of 10
Task Sevens To finalize the contractual details of, and assist the
Goaernmnt In establishing and negotiating, the concessions for small-port
administratian
7.1   Negotiation of Concession Agreements
27.   While negotiating the concession contracts will be a challenge, it is
believed that suitable concessionaires can be identified and suitable
agretments structured on a port-by-port basis. The Consultant will be
responsible for advising GOM in this regard. Potential concessionaires may
include users, shipping companies or joint ventures between various
interested parties. Municipalities and provincial governments are also
potential operators. Concessions may be awarded for the operation of
multiple ports within a region (e.g. Moma and Angoche) to the same
concessionaire to allow benefits to be obtained from economies of scale.
The Consu'tant will be expected to advise GOM on the best method for
awarding the concessions.  To ensure trnsparency, open advertising for
bids for the award of concessions would be preferable.
28.   The structure of the concession fee will need to be negotiated with
interested parties such thats (i) the ports themselves vill be financially
viable; (ti) MTC will recover its investment costs plus interest; and (iii)
overall fees should be acceptable to shippers taking into account the
improved service that they will receive.
Task lisht: To establish and implement practices for the long-term
supervision of operation of the small ports
29.   Once awarded, the concessions will be monitored to ensure that
maintenance responsibilities are adhered to and that operating procedures
and pricing structures are not implemented to the detriment of
competitors - whoever they might be. These issues will be addressed in the
structuring of the concession agreements, but GOM will need to acquire the
skills to negotiate effective initial contracts and to subsequently
supervise them. The Consultant will be required to establish such
supervision practices as are appropriate, including the establishment of
representatives of the Maritime Authority in the small ports if required.
30.   The Consultant will also be expected to advise on the merits of
requests for fee increases.
31. In light of the longer term need to build capacity in supervision of
small-port contracts, the Consultant will be expected to train Mozambican
natiorals in supervision skills and to gradually transfer responsibility
for supervision to its Mozambican counterparts.
Task Nines To establish, oversee and review planning activities with
relation to the small ports
32.   Although responsibility for the management of the small ports will
rest with the concessionaires, and investment decisions will be made
primarily by then, DNM will retain a planning role for the maritime sector.
The Consultant will be responsible for establishing suitable planning
practices for the small ports and institutionalizing a simple planning
cycle within DNM.



- 187 -
Annex 4-12
Page 8 of 10
33.   The planning process should include but not be limited too
-     Identification of port rehabilitation works in small but
critical local ports.
-     Improvement of efficiency in domestic terminals and public wharves in
main ports such as Maputo, Beira, Macala, Pemba and Quelimane.
-     Overseeing the work of the shipyards consultants
-     Collection of statistics
-     Evaluation of the transportation system and the identification of
bottlenecks.
Task Ten:  To review lplemntation of planning and supervision activities
for small ports for 18 months after the end of the long-tern mission
34.   The Consultant will intermittently review implementation progress of
the planning and supervisory practices for a period of eighteen months
after the end of the first 36-month assignment. This will involve two
return visits to Maputo, each lasting about three months with about nine
months between visits.
Ci    ORGANIZATIONAL REVIEW
T&A  RlEleent    To review and mke recomndations with respect to the
revised DM organization structure
35.   Under the initial ROCS project the DNM will be strengthened and with
the ongoing reform initiatives, the role of DNK will change to become more
of a policy, regulatory and planning unit, with fewer responsibilities for
day-to-day maritime operations. This implies a change in DNM's structure
and functions. The new structure and job functions have been tentatively
agreed (see attached), but require further clarification. The Consultant
will work closely with the Director of DNH to expand the mission statement
for DNM and to clarify its functions. This will be used to formulate an
appropriate organizational structure, along with staffing requirements and
job definitions to allow DNff to comply with its mandate. The role of the
technical assistance to DNH and the transfer of the Consultant's
responsibilities to Mozambican nationals will be clearly set out in this
organizational proposal.
Task Twelve:    To review and make recomndations vith respect to the
revised MTC organization structure
36. Responsibility for the planning and management of transportatlon in
Mozambique is distributed among different organizations. For maritime
transport, although coastal shipping and the small ports fall under DNM,
the large ports and the port-rail corridors fall under CFM and DNCF. In
the longer term these separate responsibilities will need to be reconciled.
Purthermore, with the moves towards greater private-sector involvement in
the sub-sector, and more widespread use of concessions, the roles and
responsibilities of each organization will need to be clarified. The
Consultant will be expected to review the management of surface
transportatlon in Mozambique and make general recommendations tz MTC as to
how the sector should be managed.



- 188 -
Annex 4-12
Page 9 of 10
Modus Operandi
37. It is envisaged that this assignment will require the services of one
ports management expert, one shipping expert and one economistlfinancial
analyst for a total of about 42 man-months each. This will comprise an
initial assignment of approximately 36 months from about September 1992 to
about September 1995. Thereafter, two additional short-term assignments
(about three months each) are envisaged for each expert over the following
eighteen months. AddLtional short-term legal and other experts may be
required. These should be set out in the Consultant's proposal.
38.   Expected timing of tasks is shown in the attached annex.
Reporting
39.   Within four weeks of receiving the official notice to proceed with
these services, the Consultant will prepare a draft inception report
covering work completed to date, and presenting detailed work plans and a
timetable for the rest of the assignment, highlighting any areas where
action is required on the part of government in order for the services to
be carried out expeditiously. Ten copies of this report shall be produced
and two copies each sent to DNM, BdM, MTC, IDA and MORAD for comments.
Comments from these parties will be received within one month and included
in a finalized inception report, which will define the work plan for the
rest of the assignment.
40.   The Consultant will also prepare quarterly progress reports that
measure actual progress against the original and (if necessary) revised
work plans. Special attention vill be paid in these reports not only to
the completion of the specific tasks outlined in these TOR, but also to the
transfer of skills and responsibility to the counterparts assigned to these
functions.
41.   Drafts of working papers and outputs (e.g., policy statements,
concession documents) should be produced for comment according to a
timetable to be proposed by the Consultant in its proposal, and confirmed
in the draft inception report and agreed with the government.
42.   All reports shculd be prepared in WP5.1 and Lotus 123 as appropriate
(on 3.250 diskettes), in both English and Portuguese.
Logistics
43.   DNM will provide the Consultant with the following, without cost, for
use in connection with the required services:
-     Three offices in Maputo, each suitably equipped with air
conditioning; IBM compatible PC's (minimum, 386 with 40MB hard
disk and IMB RAM) equipped with VP5.1 and Lotus 123 V2.2;
telephones; office supplies.
-     C-Comn usage as needed oft one fax machine; one telex machine;
one laser printer and two dot-matrix printers; one photo copier
(including paper).
-     Three project vehicles (saloon cars, about 1600cc with air
conditioning).



- 189 -
Annez 4-12
Page 10 of 10
44.  The Consultant will be responsible for providing the following on a
reimbursable basins
_      lHousing
-     STravl to and from Nosambique, and vithin Mozambique (including
operation of project vehicles).
45.   DIM will nomUiate at least two economists/planners to work as
counterparts to tbe Consultant's resident personnel. These professionals
will have been identified by July 1992 and will have taken up their
positions by the expected start of the assignent In November 1992.



- 190 -
Annex 4-13
Page   of 3
MOAMBIQUE
P - QADS AND COASTAL SHIPPING PROJECT
Transit Logtintic. d Customs Facilitation - Proposed Action Program
1.    Facilitation of domestic and international freight transfers through
regional and small ports requires a coherent approach to the various
institutions involved and to the private sector. None of the issues
identified in Annex 3-6 can properly be dealt with separately. The
proposed actions will be combined into an 'interutodal facilitation program
divided into two different parts2 (i) freight transfer logistics; and (ii)
customs. There will be three different stages of implementation/execution.
2.    Freight transfer logistics:  o         the logistic chain to private
sector investment means providing a positively free regulatory environment
where shippers and carriers, or their agents, interact. This means
deregulating the current environment and opening stevedoring, port-
handling, freight-forwarding, customs brokerage, and in general, transport
intermediaries professions to comercial operation. The following program
components have been identified:
(i)   facilitating documents and procedures in the import/export
documentary credit process to international layout key
standards (document facilitation)l
(ii)  revising the existing freight-forwarding regulatory framework
to facilitate private access to the transport intermediaries
professions while encouraging domestic entries and
participation;
(iii) defining modern standards of liability for transport and
technical operators by up-dating and redrafting terms and
conditions of carriage and terminal operators liability
standards to meet international container transport
requirements; and
(iv)  reviewing insurance regulatory provisions to ensure
competitiveness and freedom of choice on import/export
insurance coverages while encouraging local corpanies
participation in the international insurance market.
3.    Close coordination between the execution of the freight-transfer
logistics part of the intermodal facilitation program, and the ongoing
liberalization initiative of stevedoring and port-handling operations, will
be essential.
4.    Customs facilitation and modernizations  the second part of the
intermodal facilitation program should focus on closing the gap between
current UNCTAD-executed projects RAF/86/046 (regional SATCC project) and
MOZ/89/018, both containing assistance to the customs administration at the
regional and domestic levels. In particular, the customs facilitation
program should target the following areass



- 191 -
Annex 4-13
Page 2 of 3
(i)   facilitation of customs documents and procedures for
importlexport trade and for domestic coastal shipping
transfers; and
(ii) supporting the introduction of electronic data processing in
the cv3toms administration by providing complementary
assistance, and preparing the way for potential communications
improvements such as EDI?ACT (electronic data information for
administration, commerce, and transport).
5.    The intermodal facilitation program should be implemented in three
separate str 2a:
*     first, definition of documents, regulations, and procedures to
be facilitated, determination of intervening institutions and
critical path for consequent administrative changes;
*     second, preparation/drafting of new documents, regulations, and
procedures; proposals to carry out proposed administrative
changes through institutioonal/executive channels; and
*     third, implementation and execution of proposals.
6.    Implementation of the proposed intermodal logistics program (third
stage) would follow-up the ROCS-1 project implementation and be financed
under KOCS-2. Execution of the first and second stages of the program
could be completed in one and one-half years, each stage lasting for
approximately six months with about three months between stages and three
months as a contingency period. UNCTAD could be selected by GOH as the
Executing Agency for the intermodal logistics program. UNCTAD of Geneva
has the capabilities to provide expertise on customs facilitation (PALPRO)
electronic data comaunications (ASYCUDA) and freight-forwarding (Shipping
Division) under one roof.
7.    The transport and trade facilitation committees  The coordination of
the proposed intermodal logistic facilitation program at the local level
should be through a committee (the Transport and Trade Facilitation
Committee). The Bank and UNCTAD would have a seat in the quarterly
committee meetings as observers.  The proposed committee would be formed of
representatives of the public sector enterprises and private sector
companies engaged in transport and trade (banks, customs, insurance, public
trans;ort enterprises, freight forwarders, transport operators, etc.). The
committee would be the natural channel of communication between GOM and the
operators. It would channel and expedite documents to be facilitated or
regulations to be approved through GOM administration and should have
authority to do so. SimLilar committees have proved to be of enormous value
to introduce administratLve reform in countries like Ivory Coast
(competitiveness Committee reporting to the Prime Minister) and Ethiopia.
The transport and trade facilitation committee would have a sub-sectoral
group dealing with road transport issues.



- 192 -
Anne 4.-13
Page 3 of 3
SWTOTAL  1     1C                                            o .
tlWltlz Inelv     T fAow  F_n=          (dlw l
1""1t*  noUW t""el                          40
2. ,Coae  JulII%lso2 l&Z   "I f"11X*" pr
(8900 1tsnm waize and ! F.&/Oflz ibe   he)80
SUBMAL~~                      ...



- 193 -
Annex 4-14
Page i of 1
FIRST ROADS AD COASTAL SHIPPING MM JRCT
COST ESTIMATS
COST                 x        X           Costo (6'000)       Principal
Local  Foreign  Local   Foreign  Total    Donor
A. INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT
1 Projoct Co-ordination / A'jdita       20X      3OX    402    1,609   2,011 UNDP
2. Roads TA and StudIe
DNEP Genoral Consultants           20X      6OX   1,110   4,440   65560 IDA
FRP Consultant.                    20       6OX  2,896    9,690   11,986 Miscol.
DEP consultants                    20X      60X  1,541   6,10t   7,704 IDA
MAE/ECMEP Consultants              20X      0OX      40      160      200 IDA
Local Construction Industry        15X      65X    S82   2,1f       A,545 IDA
Accosodation for Consultant.       16X      65X    167       94     1,111 IDA
Policy Studies                     10X      90X      40      410      456 IDA
S. Roads Tralning and Development
DONEP and LRC                      48X      52X  4.180   4.52?   6.657 IDA
Technical Training Unit.           20X      605  2,059   8,248  10,807 IDA
Univ. & Voc. (Inc. UESM-OCE)       42X      soX    960    1,850   2,810 IDA
Feder Roods Training               26X      76X    198       57       766 UNDP
Industrlal Institutes              44X      B6X   2,709   8,484    6,148 SIDA
Supervision                        20X      SOX       5       21       26 IDA
4. Trucking Studles                     10X      90X      so      450      500 USAID
5. Coastal Shipping TA S Studies
Regulatory TA and Studies          20X      sO      652   2,609    8,261 IDA
Monagemet AssIstance to DOM        20X       OX    476    1,918    2,891 FRANCE
industry Studies and TA            15X      35X    275    1,559    1.685 NORAD/IDA
Credit Lino Implementation         20X      6OX    144       575      719 NORAD/IDA
6. Shipping Training and Develop.
DNM/OAPROAR                        19X      615    218       982    1,145 IDA
Port Training                      88x      67X    166       882      496 IDA
Shipping Tralning                  1CX      o65      85      198      226 IDA
7. Custom  A Trade Facliltation         10X      905      a       747      680 IDA
6. Environmntal Division                15X      65X    110       626      786 SIDA
Sub-TotaI Paret pA (as Cost)             265      74t 18,U47   ",569   71,916
5X Physical Contingncies                                917   2,676    8,598
155t Price Contingqsnce                                2.161    0.220   11.086
Sub-Total Part A (Tot. l Cost)                         22.080  04,467   66.547
B. ENGOERIN  SERVICES
1. Initial Road Fosibility Studise      cx      95X    111   2,106    2,219 MIsel.
2. Final Design of Initial Roads        25X      76X   1,700   6,100   6,800 Mlsel.
8. Extra Roads Studies A Designs         6X      95X    210    8,990   4,200 IDA
4. Port Feasibility Studies              CX    9o         48      911      982 IDA
5. Port Engineering Services            15X      86X      48      240      289 IDA
Sub-Total Part 8 (Baoe Coat)             15X      6C   2,112   12,857   14,469
CX Phyolcal Contingencies                               106      616      728
10X Price Contingencels                                  211    1,286    1,447
Sub-Total Part S (Total Cost)                           2,429   14,210  16,639
C. COASTAL SHIPPING REHABILITATIO,
1. Credit Line Inventmont               15X      65      975    6,525   6,500 IDA
2. Navigational Aids                    155      65      172      972    1,144 IDA/SIDA
S. Infrasrrcture                         OX      705    459    1,071    1,580 IDA
4. Tel.co municatilone                    5      955      18      2U8      260 FRANCE
5. Oil Roceetion Facilitie               ex      955      75    1.425   1L500 BADEA
Sub-Total rart C (5aos COot)             155      655  1T,69    9,2811  10,924
10X Phr leal Contingencie                                169      92*    1,009
185 Price Conti necles                                   224    1.219    1 44J
sub-Total Prat C. (otal Cost)                           206 11,878   18,460
P. FEEDER ROAD REHABILITATION
1. Feder Roads rho" One tox. TA)        54U      48X 11.681   9.906  21586 Miscel.
Sub-Total Prt P                          545      44  11,681 0    ,906 u    9,'s  
10 Physlcal Contingencies                             1,168      991   2,14
205 Price Contln a also                                2.826    1.962    4.0
ub-Toa  rart U (Total Cot)                             15,120   12,80  28,000
Total (lBas Coot.)                       286      725 88,768  C65064  118,647
6s Phl ical Contingencies                             2,865   5,210  7?,65
115 Pri ce Conti nosneles                              5.577   12.657  14.284
TotalI Cost                                            41,715  102,981  144,6461



FIRST ROADS AND COASTAL SHIPPING MROflCT
AM=S 4-15
COST AND FINACING TABLE                                                                          Page I   i
CtlS              TOTAL
MA   IUAD FRPN   iNP  SMA D04A MM   S _40  AM                M   waF OWlf        15C   MM S       A SAN 
A.  TrU *SP
1 Projec Ceordinatin / Aldit.    2,011  1.611                     200                 200
2. Ro. TA end Studies
ONE  Qkareral Conaul tnmt      8,110  SO, 831
R o Cnsultanlts                118 '                       4.692   Slt   291                                      I6  8,647   457
up coneultents                 7,704 ,934                                                                                                             770
W             ltant              200   is8                                                                                                            2g1
I   Condruction i4d uty        2,54   2,290                                                                                                           254
Accoodti  fo        u   to    1.111  1,000                                                                                                            111
Policy Studies                   486    211                         200                                                                                48
3. Road Trining  nd Omvlopunt
f     and LRc                  86 57  7.157                                                                                                         1.600
Tachnicl Trainin Un;ifi       10 J07  7 916                                           2,891
thiv. A Voc. finc. UtN-0C)     2,810  2,280                                              sO
Feeder Rdo- raining              7U                          7U
Lnqatrial Inaitutee           6.U    2.6SS                       8.0J0                400
S.aa.rviaion                      26      2t
4. Trcin       i StSdieo 6o                                                           S
5. Coaftel Shipping TA A 61.iis
Rngultoary TA mn studies       8,211  0,291
Nomemnt Assistance to Om       2,391      25        1,m
In      St" I so*ed TA        1).:J   an 1,SS2
Crrl L;  Imleentation          719    64    6S
S Shipn  Trmining and Devlop.        1
0i/APN0lt                      1,145  1.127                                                                                                            18
Poet Truining                    496    429                                                                                                            59
Shipping Treining                221    216                                                                                                            12
7. C om_A Trade FmcilItation          an     Sao
S.   ionWerntml DiVimion              736                                786
Sub-Total Part A (One Cost)         71.91 44,S29 1.897  1,86S  8,854 4.351   291   700 2,621                            1U  6.047   487            1OO   8,
85 Pimld  Contingacm  8, a,9S   2.216    70    9J   2il   218    1S    S5   141                                        S 6   Q     28            2S      17
lso Pric Continuci                 11,066  6.0    214   286   866   6           45   107   43S                          2t   9i      70            77     51
Sub-Total Pert A IT iotl CoaS t     86.57   1348  1,661 2,248  6,609 8.2#8  SS0   842 8.896                             200 7,27   8               6e0   4,011
it. ENaER    SERVICES
1. Initiml Moad Feasibility Studies  2,219 21,1                         462                 1ZI                                            242             212
2. Finml Oeign of Initial No.dn    S6,60   8,240                                            GM    810 1.440                                                6D
. Eat  Poed Studis A Deeia          4,200  4,20D
4. Port Fam;ibi Ity Studi a           962    740                                                                       222
6. Pert ibinering Servier             5119   269
Sub-Total Pert B a(sme cet)         14,469  9,t19                         482                783   810 1.440            222                 242             g92
5l Plhyical Contingancine            729    481                         24                  as    41    72             11                  12              4S
US Prier Continanc ee               1,480    998                         48                  7S    61   144             22                  24              90
Sub-Total Pert   1Total Coat        16172  11,094                        664                 68   982 1,6               256                 279           1.OJ7
C. COASTAL SHIPINI REWlLIT 1
1. Credit Line nvestmenta          S6,8O  5.800                                                                                                           700
2. Nvigational Aide                 1,144    640                        804
8. Infrstrur 1r0  150
4. Telao_onicitiln                    260                  2t0
S. Oil Racption Fcilitie.          1,800                                                  1,800
Sub-Total Part C (Ile Coat)         10,924  7.970           250          S4                 1.,JO                                                           700
106 Physical Cantingaciae           1,092    797            25           SO                 1io                                                            70
115 Price Conti;ncire               1,44   1,066            88           67                 196                                                             92
Sub-Toabl Pert C (Totl Coat)        18.460  9.820           J06          621               1,88                                                             682
D. F iMO RIUD ILlDDTATlN
1. Feoder Maed Phee One (Co. TA)  21,8CS                         823 8,462   600                         769 1,928   61t   948   962                    11,6
Sub-Totl Pert 0                     211531                             J,SW8.402   S0W                    769 1,929   618   946   962                    1l.,86
ltl Physical Contingani             2 ,14                         82   846    1O                          77   192    62    9S    96                     1.184
206 Price ContinunceaC              4,So0                         1i6   892   100                         154   J63   123   189   192                    2 306
Sub-Toal Prt 0 Ttal Coat)           23,000                       1,070 4,800   6t0                       1,0OD 2,00   e0o 1,280 1.250                   1a:000
Totbl (go" Coat.)                  11Sa.7  61.918  1,397 2,116 8.481 8.79        91   700 5,074   810 2.209 1,929  1,004 6,99s  1,419   242   600  18,476
6S Phi icel Cntingniei             7,56a  3494    70   116   88   6s    6S    83    39    41   149   192    81   897   119    12    25   1.436
a PX   Continancles,               18i27  8,850   214   319  1,066  1,475   145   107   706    a1   296   885   171 1.117   282    24    77   J002
Totl Ce                            144679  74:262 1.661 2,864 7,879 10,911  1.000   842 6,109   932 2,686  2,800  1.255 6.87  1.600   279   602  2D0911



- 195 -
ANNX 4 - 16
Page 1 of 2
MOZAMBIQE
RkUS AND CUASTAL SHIPPING PROJECT
NEDItW TERN ACTION PLAN
1.    The following tables indicate the principal short- to medium-term
actions required to implement the project.
ROADS
Date   Area     Description
92.08  Training Complete RTTC study for Chimoio
92.08  TA       Contract General Consultant
92.08  Feeder   Mobilize Brigades for 15 Feeder Road Districts
92.08 Manage   Assign Project Advisor
92.09  Study    Complete Evaluation of ECMEP Equipment
92.09  Study    Complete Road Financing Study
92.10  TA       Contract Training Specialists
92.12  Design   Complete Final Design & Tender Docs (Phase I - 2 roads)
92.12  Study    Complete Chibuto-Chongoena Feasibility Study
92.12  Study    Complete Local Construction Industry Study
92.12  TA       Contract DEP consultants
93.01  Policy   Initiate Project HIS I Open Special A/C
93.04  Policy   Initiate Collection for Road Maintenance Fund
93.07  TA       Start Local Contruction Indust 7 Program
93.10  Design   Complete Final Design & Tender Docs (Phase II - 6 roads)
93.11  Policy   Implement New Procurement Guidelines
TRUCKING
Date   Area     Pescription
92.06 Trucking Finish Initial Study - Phase Two
92.06 Trucking Report on Implementation and Follow-up
92.08 Trucking Start Hain Trucking Study
92.10 Trucking End First Phase of Main Studys Report to Bank
92.12 Trucking Start Second Phase of Main Study
92.12 Trucking Implementation Review
93.03 Trucking Final Report to Bank and USAID
93.05 Trucking Agree Implementation of ROCS-I1 Components & Training



- 196 -
ANNEZ 4 - 16
Page 2 of 2
COASTAL SHIPPING
Date   Area     Description
92.06 CS-TA-RG Final TOR and LOI for Regulatory TA
92.06 CS-TA-TR Final TOR and LOI for Training TA
92.08 CS-TA-LG Final TOR and LOI for Legal Review II
92.08 CS-ST-OR Final TOR and LOI for Organization Study
92.10 CS-TA-RG Contract Regulatory TA
92.10  CS-DES   SL, TOR and LOI for Civil Works Desigu
92.10  CS-CRED  Subsidiary Legal Documents (BH-PPI's)
92.11 CS-TA-TR Contract Training TA
92.12 CS-ST-FS Contract Feeder Services and Shipyards Studies
92.12 CS-ST-PS Draft Report for Feeder Services and Shipyards
93.02  CS-DES   Contract for Civil Works Design
93.02 CS-ST-OR Draft Report for Organization Study
93.02 CS-ST-SY Final Report for Feeder Services and Shipyards
93.05  CS-POL   Concession Guidelines Finalized
93.05 CS-TR-PR Detailed Shipping Training Plan
93.06  CS-POL   Small Ports Transferred from CGM
93.06 CS-ST-OR Final Report for ST Organization Study
93.06  CS-POL   Implementation of Cost Based Tariffs
93.08  CS-DES   Civil Works Detailed Designs Completed
93.08 CS-ST-QU Quelimane Feasibility Study Completed
93.10 CS-TRAIN Coastal Shipping Training Guidelines
93.10  CS-POL   Plan for Marpol membership
93.12  CS-POL   Implementation of Competitive Shipping Policy
93.12  CS-POL   Plan for Restructuring Navique and Transmaritima
95.09  CS-POL   Completion of Coastal Shipping Reform
TRADE FACILITATION
Date   Area     Description
92.03  TRADE    UNCTAD Mission to Mozambique re ASYCUDA
92.04  TRADZ    UNCTAD Trade Facilitation Project Document Submitted
92.05  TRADE    UNCTAD Missions ID Components and Action Plans
92.06  TRADE    Formation of Trade Facilitation Committee
92.09  TRADE    Start Phase I of Facilitation Program
92.11  TRADE    First Meeting of Facilitation Committee
92.11  TRADE    UNCTAD Mission I Project Launch
93.06  TRADE    UNCTAD Mission: Discuss lst Phase; Plan 2nd
93.08  TRADE    Start Phase II of Facilitation Program
93.10  TRADE    UNCTAD Nission: Transit Liberal.; Supervise Phase II
94.01  TRADE    End Phase II of Facilitation Program
94.04  TRADE    UNCTAD Missions Implementation of Program
94.09  TRADE    End Phase III of Facilitation Program
94.10  TRADE    Facilitation Program Seminars
94.10  TRADE    UNCTAD Mission: Seminar Preparation
94.11  TRADE    Final Facilitation Program Report



- 197 -
ANNEX 4 - 17
Page 1 of 4
802ANIQTJC
FIRS! ROADS AND COASTAL SUPPING PROJECT
MONI?P0r3 OPF TECNICAL ASSISTANCE
1.    ROC8 Includes a significant amount of technical assistance (TA)
aimed at Improving the institutional capacity of DNH/DNEP. Actually
achieving institutional strengthening through TA is a difficult task.
Bank ezperience in this area suggests that one of the most important
element of successful TA is an appropriate and effective monitoring
system.   Without this true institution building will not take place.
2.   Attached are oom  sample forms that might form the basis for such
a monitoring system. Each TA consultant will complete the forms on a
quarterly basis, will discuss this with both counterparts and
supervisors and all three will then sign off on the completed form.
This discussion in and of itself should bring significant results.
3.   Using Lotus and Word Perfect software the results of all reviews
may be compiled into a simple TA report within DNHIDNEP, for the
Director's review. A summary of TA performance could also then be
included in the quarterly report to donors.
4.    Exact details of what this entails would need to be worked out
within DNM1/DNP and with the donors, and finalized at the project launch
workshop scheduled for around November 1992. Likewise the reporting
system will give useful input into the ROCS mid-tern review scheduled
for October 1995.



- 198 -
ANNEX 4 - 17
Page 2 of 4
Technical Assistance MIS Systems                               Supervisor    sNamitete
Unit                     Financial Control                     Counterparts s........
Contract Period          June '91 - June '93
PERCENTAGE COWLETE
TS   SURWTI         Weight            9144  2-41 92-  9214   9144   a-Q1  98-Q2   98-Q8    98-Q4
1 Monthly Reporting      2X PIPanned  a   201   40X   601   90X  10O1   100X    1OOX    100%    100%
Actual   s     X   85X   40X   501
2 Document Prosco        IO PIS lnned  s    s 1 so J4X    70    o lOOX   lOOX     100   % lOOX    lOX   OOX
Actual   I   101   201   41X  5OX
I Fllng Systm            161 Planned  i    OX    5X   16X   U0    50X   75X           90X    lOOX    1OOX
Actual   t     X   10X   10X    OX
4 Standard Form           5XlPlanned       a0    51   151   s0o   751  100X    100X    1001    100X
Actual   s   101X  20X   20    26X
5 Work* Systm            10 Plenned  s   20X   401   S01    OX   70X   6OX    100X    1001    1001
Actual   s    S1   85X   40X   5OX
6 ServIces System        1XlPlanned  s   15X   OX   801   40X   50X   6OX            70X      801    100X
Actual   s   10X   20X   80    40X
7 Internal Accounts       6X Planned        a 01    51   15X   801   60    75X        90X    100X    100X
Actual   I    6X   10X   10X   26X
8 External Accounts      101 PI anned       a 01    S1   15X   S0X   75X  100X    100X    100X    100X
Actual   s   10X   20X   201   85X
Taok Pertomnnc        1001 Planned  a   121   25X   J9X   56X   7CX   a61           94X      97X    100X
Acual   s    7X   24X   SOX   421    OX    OX            OX       OX       OX
Perform  a   60X   96X   76X   72X    OX    OX           OX      O        OX
PERCENTAGE COMPLETED
TRAININO            Weight            91-44  92-Q1  92-2  92-   92-44  9841 98-2   984-8    93-Q4
1 Office Skills          15X Planned       205   40X   6OX   SOX  100X  1OOX    100X    100X    100X
Actual  a    6X   85X   401   50X
2 Accounting Skills      151 Plene d  s   151   80   401   S0X   6OX   70X           601      90X    100X
Ps7tual   s   10X   20X   8OX   401
S Monitoring Skills       0X Planned        a 01    5X   151   80    6OX   75X        90X    1001    lOOX
Actual       Ss   10X   10X   10X
4 Reporting Skill.       lX Planned  s    OX    5X   151   5OX   751  100X    100X    100X    100X
Actual   s   10X   201   201  21X
6 Trf. Correpondence    15X Planned  s   20X   405   56X   70X   *6X  1001    100X    100X    100X
Actual   s    5    851   40S   501
6 Trt.  ly Rportng        6X Planned  s    OX    OX    6X   101   20X   25X           401      5OX    100X
Actual  I   101   20X   8OX   40X
7 Trt. Accounts           6X Planned  :    OX    5X   151   811X   61    75X          90X    1OOX    1001
Actual   s    56   10X   10X   10X
8 Trt. Clearane          l1X Planned  s    OX    5X   151   501   751  1001    100X    1OOX    100X
Actual   I   101   20X   20X  21X
Training Pertoane    1001 Planned         O X    195   81X   61X   721   SX         92X      96X    1001
Actual       7X   22X   26X   821    OX    OX           OX       OX       ON
Performt   on   1161   o11  u6            OX    OX        oX      ox       oX
WeightIPerfomnce 91-Q4 92-41  92-1   92-1  92-44  9-1   9U-2    98-Q8    98-Q4
SOMITeek         6OX   96X   701   72X    OX    OX           OX       OX       OX
401lTraining     606  1161   62X   08X    OX    01           OX       OX       OX
lO rO Veall       71X  108X   791   O6X    OX    OX          O       O        01



- 199 -                    AM=  4 - 17
Page 3 of 4
Technical Assistarne MIS Systems                       Supervisor   sNamitete
Unit                  Financial Control                Counterparts s........
Contract Pericod      June '91 - June '93
Highlights Prom Period Under   Key Issues for Next Period   General Comments
Review      _



- 200 -
AM=U 4 - 17
Pap 4 of 4
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE - COOAP MIS
~~_ _          _      '
* 0_ m
TECHNICAL AaISOTANCE - COCAP MI1
. . n. Zam



- 201 -
ANNEX 4 - 1&
Page 1 of 4
MOLAMBIQUC
ROADS AND COASTAL SHIPPING PROJECT
PROJECT SUPERVISION PLAN
1.    It is envisaged that considerable multi-disciplinary resources
will be required to supervise this project in the light of the very weak
implementation capacity in Hozambique and the uncertainties that will
have to be faced by the project. To overcome these difficultiest (i)
specific supervision responsibilities will be written into the terms of
reference for the general consultants to both the roads and shipping
sub-sectors; (ii) arrangements will be made to involve other donors in
the supervision process as far as possible; and (iii) IDA will commit
significant resources to supervision.
2.    IDA Supervision Input:  Bank staff or consultant input into the
supervision of the project will amount to about 45 staff weeks for the
first year; about 30-35 staff weeks per annum for the next two years;
about 25 staff weeks thereafter, and will take the following forms
(a)   Portfolio Management Operationst The review of procurement
documents, progress reports and financial statements at
headquarters and correspondence and internal reporting
related to such activities are estimated to require about
15 staff weeks in the first year of the project, about 12
staff weeks in the second year, and about 10 staff weeks per
annum thereafter.
(b)   Field Supervision: It is planned to undertake field
supervision missions approximately three times per annum for
the first three years of the project and on a semi-annual
basis thereafter. The activity plan for the first three
years is shown below. The supervision of the project will
cover the following broad aspects:
(i)   Regulatory Climate:  Much of the project is aimed at
improving the regulatory environment. Reviewing the
work of the various TA consultants and ensuring that
the different recommended regulatory reforms are e
satisfactory and consistent with each other will
absorb significant resources.
(ii) Proiect Implementation: Because of the nature of the
project (software) frequent supervision missions will
be required for the entire five-year period.
(iii) Donor Co-ordination: About two meetings per annum
will be required with donors to ensure that all donors
are working harmoniously towards the same common goal



- 202 -
ANNEX 4 - 18
Pan 2 of 4
3.    Other Donors' Supervision In2uts
A mechanism vill be developed to allow donors to coordinate their
supervision activities. Significant use will need to be mad of
trust funds. Attempts will be made to get donors to fund
consultants for supervision from other sources.
4.    Borrower's Supervision Inputs
(a)   DNEP and GAPROHAR will provide IDA with quarterly
progresu reports in the format agreed upon and written
into the terms of referetice of their TA consultants.
(b)   All procurement documents submitted to the Bank will be
based on the adopted standard documents as soon as this is
possible. All procurement evaluations submitted to IDA for
review vill be accompanied by a cover note setting out all
the information required for review and other internal IDA
reporting requirements (eg. Form 384) in the summary form
agreed between GOM and IDA.
(c)   DNEP and GAPROMAR vill provide IDA with annual audit reports
of the project special accounts, in the format and according
to the time schedule specified in the credit agreement.
(d)   Three weeks prior to each mission, IDA will submit data
requirements for review during the mission to GAPROMAR and
DNEP, which will be prepared for presentation at a briefing
meeting at the start of the mission. Each mission will
include a coordination meeting with the directors of DNEP,
GAPROMAR and Banco da Mozambique and officials from the
relevant ministries. Otherwise, supervision briefings and
wrap-up meetings will be restricted to either the roads or
the coastal-shipping sub-sector.
(e)   In the third quarter of 1995, DNEP and GAPROMAR will prepare
for review by the Government and IDA a detailed analysis of
progress in implementing all aspects of the project (the
mid-term review).



- 203 -
ANX  4 - 18
Paze 3 of 4
Tentative Bank Supervision Requirements (Field Missions)
Approx.  Main Activities                                  Skills Required   S/U
Date
Jun/Aug  Trucking studies review; UNCTAD                  H'vay Eng'ng       9
1992      identification of trade facilitation; credit   Fin/Econ
line arrangements; donors meeting               Trade/Trucking      |
Nov       Project Launch; Training program details;       I'way Eng'ng       12
1992      DNEP organization changes; credit line          Fin/Econ
mechanisms; trucking reform and investments    Ports/Shipping
review; Trade Facilitation Committee            Training
,_______                 _Trucking/Trade
Mar       Action program for shipyards and feeder         Fin/Econ           9
1993      services; shipping tariff policy;               Ports/Shipping
recommended program for LRCI; progress in       H'vay Eng'ng
DNEP institutional reform and roadworis         Training
tendering; donors meeting; training progress
Jun       Trucking reform implementation review; trade   Fin/Econ            6
1993      facilitation phase I review, phase II           Trucking/Trade
planning; transfer of small ports from CFM;
guidelines for small port concessions;
shipping tariff implementation; shipping
regulatory reform and training progress
Oct       1st Annual Review: (training programs;          H'way Eng'ng       12
1993      credit line; road design and construction;      Fin/Econ
regulatory reform; institutional development   Ports/Shipping
and TA effectiveness; capital and recurrent    Training
budget review); Liberalization of trade         Trucking/Trade
facilitation; road funding; Marpol plan;        Equipment
Navique and Transmaritima restructuring;
equipment management; divestiture of own-
account trucking
Mar       Donors meeting; trade facilitation               Fin/Econ          6
1994      implementation review; road design and          H'way Eng'ng
investment planning                             Trade/trucking
Jun       Training progress                               Training           4
1994                                                      Shipping/ports
Oct       2nd Annual Review (per Oct '93); Trade           (per Oct '93)     10
1994      facilitation seminars;
Mar       Preparation for mid-term review; donors          Fin/Econ          6
1995     meeting; implementation review; procurement   H'way Eng'ng
process review                                  Procurement
Jun       Preparation for mid-term review; training        Shipping/Ports    4
1995      progress; shipping regulations                  Training



- 204 -
AM= 4 - 18
PimS 4 of 4
Approz.  Mala Activities                                  Skills Required   S/W
Date   |________|(prOt'9) |1_
Oct      Kid-term Review                                  (per Oct '93)     12



- 205 -
ANNEX 4 - 19
Page 1 of 1
N4|6NBIQXt
FIRST ROADS hND COASTAL SEIPPING PROJECT
REPORTING MZ iUTU5RNS
1.    Overall reporting requirements were agreed at negotiations.  These
include both monthly and quarterly reporting formats and will be refined
once the general consultants take up their positions.
2.    The quarterly reports will be enhanced versions of the monthly
reports and will be circulated to all donors. These reports will
include all the basic information included in the monthly reports. In
addition the following will be included:
(a) The Technical Assistance Aeports (see annex 4-17).
(b) Quarterly Activities
(c) Program Progress and Delays
(d) Procurement/ Disbursement
(e) Design
(f) Contracts
(g) Quality Control
(h)   Expenditures and Financial Status
(i) Cash Flow (including diagram)
(j)   Comments and Recommendations.
3.     Samples of the monthly reporting formats are shown on pages one
and two of the attachment. These will be circulate to the management
team in each implementing unit and discussed and a monthly meeting,
where minutes will be taken and required action noted. Each monthly
meeting will start with a review of the minutes of the previous meeting.
4.   The format for the quarterly physical progress report is shown on
pages three and four of the attachment.



Auez 4-19
Attacm_t
Page 1 of 4
Sample Monthly Reportina Format
I. New, Delayed or Critical Task*iIusues - ROCS, Page 1
Progress Report go. 4 Per 1 January 1993
No.             Component                   Took or taue               Rocco vnded Actio.        Original Rvised                c_me*
_ _____________________       _____________________                 Impie eno tor         Deadline    D edline
1.
2
II. Tecbnical Assistance (T.A.) - ROCS, Page 2
_ ____________________                   Progress Report No. 4, Per 1 January 1993
Ne.    a. Component                  Contract No      man          Original   Revised Completion       Last Report   CoientO
b. Donor                     Total Aan         Months       Cample-    date
c. Consultant                months            Completed   tion date                            Iplomentor
Start date       to data                  Lost           This
_ _________________________   ________________   ________period                        p eriod   ____________   __period_perio
1      a. TA to MM!                                                                                    12.92          Draft contract still to be
b. IDA                       24 L M.                                                                           cleared with A.G. Chambers-
C. TTA/Lta                                     0                                               Mr.
2_     _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ___ ____ __   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ ___ ____   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ ___ ____ ___ ___ ____ ___ __a



Annez 4-19
Attachet
Page 2 of 4
Sample Monthly Reportina Format
III. Civil Works Contracts - ROCS, Page 3
Progress Report No 4, Per 1 January 1993
No.   at Road Section             Contract No.       Longth      Lcrgth    Original    tevised Coepl.      Last             Comtn.
b: Donor                    Constr. cost     Completed   Completed   Couple-         Dte           Report
c: Contractor               USD               to date     Current     tior
d: Consultant               Total length                  period      date      Last      This   Imple_n
Contract date                                     Porlod    Period       tor
1      a: Section 1                10068169/90                                                           12.92      MML report on failure
b: AfOS                    1,533,061       29.2km B.   2.3km B.                                             of binder caure
c: CKC                      99.960 km        26.90k      1.4kb                                               expected mid March 98.
d: Coneuiata                01.05.1m90       B.C.        B.C.       22.06.92                      Ur.        MinimI werk progrs
IV. Other Project Ca ponents - ROCS, Page 4
No.  *. C      tContr et Ite                            Kl lo_tre    Original   Rwlmd Completionl       Lt  Report   Comon
b. Dongor"               Constructon costs USD    / mnCompl_-    date
c. Comlt nt or otlwr    or                         Months       tion date                          Wpl_tot
Total MaEn Mob           Coopletid               Ln t           This
Star date                to date                  period        period
I    a. Bridle dwigl 1   I   0002/91/9n                                                                 12.92         Concptl dwitp roport
-. IDA                   147.- N.M.                                                                             r c -vd 12.92. C     _
c. AruCopoet             Con.91    N                            7.91 olrOin."                     MeCle   lar t    omaw presrtta or
2  .DnrCntuto   os,W                                 /MnCul-                  dt



Anex 4-19
Attecmt
Page 3 of 4
Quarterly Protress Report Foimt
ROADS AND COASTAL SHPPING PROIECT
I'HUJtt;10 ..........................
199......
_TRIMESME
QUILOMETRAGEM                               II 
OBRAS DE ARTE                                     I
PlANO    I  I  I  I      I  I  I        I  I1IJI
RtAL                       
PLANO
lTEMWLNAGLNS
fREAL   --T-- -1
PL.ANJO                                                               I     I
SUB- BASE
REAL
PLANO    I                               I  I  I i
BASE_                               ________
REAL  -T-- 
REAL4(    IlIIIlI       I                     I111   I ilI I  I  I   I  I   Il Ii
| ASFALTAGEM                    ___
L                 ~~~~~REAL                               II--             



Annez 4-19.
Attcnt
Page 4 of 4
Quarterly Lroess Report Fomat
ROADS AND COASTAL SHIPPING
ESTRADA ..........................
ANO .............
TRADAUBLOS                     OTAL      QUAN-   ACUMU-  FEI-  IR             TOTAL      QUA-    ACUKU-    P
D1 s AuPLAN   ATEIOR    TIDADE    tADo   cN-  Wi-  PIANo   ANTIO    TIDADE         LADO     CEN-
COD.    DESC tICAO    jUN.  _    ACUMUIADO   MEIUAL   ACTUAL  TAOEN TARtO        ACUMULADO   UMSAL    ACTUAL   TAOEN
____________   _ ___________--
_  __                 _  __ _ _  ~~~~~~~~~~~~____   _0
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                       _ _ _ _ _ _ ____ _ _ _



- 210 -
Annex 4-20
Page 1 of 4
FST ROADS AND COASTAL SHIPPING PROJECT
TSCNIICAL ASSISTANCE - TRANSPFR OF EXPETISE GUIDELINES
Introduction
1.        The  primary  reason  for  employing  technical  assistance  (TA)
personnel is to compensate for gaps or shortages in expertise to achieve
project objectives.  To ensure project sustainability, institutional and
local personnel performance improvement and, therefore, effectiveness of TA,
it is essential that the expertise brought in by the TA is systematically
transferred and imparted to the local associate personnel during the day-to-
day operations of project implementation involving the TA. This, in turn,
requires a well-defined, executed and monitored/evaluated TA component with
all involved (i.e. TA personnel, local associate personnel, supervisors and
sponsors/donors) having the same understanding and appreciation of the role
and responsibilities of all the main players, particularly the TA and local
associate personnel. Therefore, the TA components need to be well-designed
to ensure that the Terms of Reference adequately cover the aforementioned
elements necessary to ensure effectiveness of TA. To assist in such design
of TA components in the Roads and Coastal Shipping Project (ROCS), the
following guidelines are presented.
Obiectives.
2.        (a)      Global Obiectives of TA.  TA is generally employed to
provide the local associate and institution personnel with
new or improved systems and methodologies to enable
Improved and efficient performance during and after the
time of TA. Thus the general role of TA personnel is to:
(i)     develop efficient and effective management and
information/reporting systems for execution of
responsibilities of the institution or department
at which the TA is employed;
(ii)    impart to the local associates new or improved
methodologies;
(iii)   put   into   operation   the   new   or   improved
methodologies    and    management    and
information/reporting systems and obtain desired
results. This should be done in such a va.y that
the local associates are fully involved and are,
before the end of the TA engagement, able to
continue the application of the systems and
methodologies.
(b)     Terms of Reference.  Terms of Reference specific to the
area of requirement of TA must be prepared and agreed by
the contracting parties before the engagement of the TA
personnel. In addition to clearly defining the specific



- 211 -
Annex 4-20
Page 2 of 4
responsibilities of the concerned institutions/departments
as well as TA and local personnel, the Terms of Reference
must fulfill the global objectives of TA as described in
paragraph 2 (a) above.
Implementation of TA Programme.
3.        Transfer of expertise from TA personnel to local associates is best
achieved through a team work or participatory approach in which the TA
personnel work closely with and through the local associate personnel to
implement or accomplish the different specific tasks.   It is therefore
important to ensure that the TA personnel and local associates. are able to
actually work together. In order to make sure that this is so, the following
implementation guidelines are provided to be used for TA programmes.
(a)    Local associates.  Each TA expert should be assigned to
work with and through one or more local associates. The
associates assigned to work with the TA expert should have
basic knowledge and capacity to understand and absorb the
expertise made available by the TA personnel. These local
associates must be assigned and made aware of their roles
prior to the arrival of the TA erpert.   The designated
local associates should be available at all times during
the TA programme.   However,  in cases where personnel
reassignment is necessary (for example, important transfers
or necessary study leaves), it is necessary to ensure that
the local associate personnel situation is maintained at a
level that is required to enable achievement of the
projected results as defined in the terms of reference.
(b)     The TA experts.  Prior to engagement, the TA experts must
be given the terms of reference and show clear
understanding and interpretation of the terms of reference,
particularly regarding roles and responsibilities, working
relationships,  reporting and accountability.   In this
regard, the TA experts should have the same understanding
and interpretation of the terms of reference as the
employers.
(c)     Phasing out of TA personnel.  It is imperative that all
parties agree to a program of gradual phasing out of TA
responsibility. Too often, TA contracts are geared to a
time frame such as two or three years, without any
substantive provision for target dates for full assumption
of job responsibilities by local staff.
(d)     Operational guidelines.  In order to facilitate continuous
assessment of the performance of the TA program, the
following operational actions need to be takent
Mi)     I=mediately upon arrival to the project, each TA
expert should prepare:



- 212 -
Annex 4-20
Page 3 of 4
-   a list of specific tasks that are required to
carry out the job assignment as generally
defined by the terms of reference;
-   a detailed work plan or action program (with
monthly or weekly activities) to implement
tasks, and specifying dates of completion of
the tasks and the outputs thereof; and
- a description of the roles of the local
associates vis-a-vis those of the TA expert in
carrying out the specified tasks.   The TA
expert should also indicate how he/she intends
to work with the local associates to implement
the work plan.
(ii)    The list of tasks and the associated plan of
action should be reviewed and approved by the
Supervisor of the particular TA program.   This
supervisor will normally be the Head of the
department or institution receiving the TA, and
will supervise both the TA expert and the local
associates.
(iii)   The list of tasks and the plan of action may be
modified from time to time in accordance with
changes  in  the   demands   and   the  working
environment, but they should always provide
opportunities for attaining realistic progress in
the transfer of expertise.
Evaluation
4.        As noted above, a program of transfer of expertise by the TA expert
must be clearly defined. This transfer of expertise shall be given equal
consideration along with technical and professional factors in evaluating the
performance of each TA expert.   In order to facilitate the necessary
evaluation, the following actions will need to be taken.
(a)    periodic progress  reports  (monthly/quarterly)  will  be
prepared by TA experts to indicate:
Mi)     status of implementation of the specific tasks;
(ii)    results or outputs in accordance with the work
plan;
(iii)   role  of  personnel   (TA  experts   and  local
associates) in carrying out specific tasks;
(iv)    ability of the local associates to perform job
tasks efficiently and without supervision of the
TA expert.;



- 213 -
Annex 4-20
Page 4 of 4
(v)     specific expertise imparted and the level at which
it was understood by the local associate;
(vi)    specific problems or experiences relevant to the
implementation of the work plan.
(b)     The supervisor will review the reports, verify contents and
take necessary actions, including measures to improve or
consolidate the working relationships between the TA expert
and local associates.
(c)     The supervisor will transmit to higher management the TA
expert's report and his comments regarding progress of
implementation of the TA program.
(d)     Higher management will issue a brief annual evaluation of
each TA expert's performance which will be sent to the
respective funding agency and the parent company/agency of
the expert.



Annex 4 - 21
Page 1 of I
NOZAMEIQUE
FIRST ROADS AND COASTAL SHIPPING PROJECT
GENERAL TRANSPORT - STUDIES AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1.     Studies and Technical Assistance will be provided in the following areast
OUTLINE TOP                                                |   STATUS   I  NEXT STEPS
ProjecW  Cordinatimo:
Environmental Advisor: Provlsion of an advisor devolop MTC'e capability to assess, correct and sitigt       TOR          Discuso with
negativ  Impacts on the environent from transport sector projects In Mozambique; provision of advisor       drafted      C   A SIDA
to the Environmental Coilssion to develop the capacity and guidelines end train countorparts to support
environmntal ly sound development and maintenance of the transport sector.                                  _ _
Trnsegrt Coordinator. An experienced senior transport projoct mnager (seconded from IDA) to advise COm   TO  agr ed  Finalize
on, and assist in th implmentation of, transport sector projects especially with respect to the             with COM    Funding
inetgratio  of different components. donor co-ordination and the preparation of future  projoect,          and donors I
Launch and Review: Experienced Internotional consultants to act as facilitator for the ROCS project                      TOR to be
launch workshop schedulod for Novmber 1992 and for the mid te  review schoduled for November 1994.                       drafted by
Major objectivo  s to build commitment to the project among the diverse stke holders.                      _             April 80
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE        Total           Total
AND STUDIES            Cost    Donor    N-N    iOOfj  1998  1                                  C91961TS
COMMON COWPONENTS       (M'I10)12M* 41 11298 41 1 2 S 41 1 2 3 41 1 2 S 4                         COMMENTS
1.0I                                                                                   I                  I
1.1 Launch and Review         Y246 IDA                  12           II                        I         I ROCS Project
1.2 Environmentl Support        S       37U SIDA        40                         - - - I - I-            Transport Sector
1.3 Project Advlsor                  31,150 UNDP/USAID J  I          I - I - I -l                          Transport Sector
Total                            32,1 U2             o 



- 215 -
ANNEX 4-22
Page 1 of 1
NOZAMBIQUR
FIRST ROADS AND COASTAL SHIPPING PROJECT
CIVIL VORKS PROCURENT
1.    The following civil vorks contracts will be financed by IDA:
US Dollars
(i)   Rehabilitation - quay at port of Chinde             500,000
(ii)  Rehabilitation - quay at port of Macuse             400,000
(iii) Rehabilitation - quay at port of
Mocimboa da Praia                                   610,000
(iv)  Rehabilitation - warehouse at
port of Pebane                                       20,000
(v)   Rehabilitation - Road Technical Training
Center (RTTC) in Chimoio, Manica Province           630,000
(vi)  Facilities for Road and Mechanical Training
Production Units (RTPU and MTPU)                    200,000
(vii) Facilities at Industrial Institute Maputo         1,700,000
(viii)  Contruction of houses for DNEP consultants    1,000,000
(ix)  Construction of houses at University (Maputo)       350,000
4,410,000
2.    The exact scope of works for the quay reconstructions will be
defined as a result of detailed structural investigations and design to
be financed by IDA under the project. The detailed scope of works for
the RTTC will be defined in a detailed design study also to be funded by
IDA under the project.
3.    While the marine contracts (i, ii and iii above) might be put into
one package, the training facilities (v and vi) into another, and the
houses in Maputo (viii, ix) into a third package it is most probable
that each of the items will be let under a different contract since the
decisioa makers on scope, optimal investment timing, and project
locations in each case are likely to be different.



- 216 -
ADnex 5-1
Page 1 of 2
MODtBIQUE
FIRST ROADS AND COASTAL SHIPPING PROJECT
SUMSMARY OF ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF ROAD INVESTMENTS
1.     This annez provides a summary of the economic analysis for the
roads components. It is divided into two sections. The first provides
a eul-ary of the results of the feasibility studies of the major trunk
roads for which feasibility and detailed design are covered in this
project and actual rehabilitation will be covered in ROCS-IT. The
second section provides a brief analysis of a specific feeder road
rehabilitation, to elaborate on the generic analysis included in chapter
five.
Trunk Road Rehabilitation
2.     Of the eight trunk road sections to be rehabilitated in ROCS-II,
the feasibility studies have been coovpleted for seven. The results of
the economic analysis are shown below.
3.     The table shows the estimated financial costs of the chosen
option and the NPV and ERR in the base case and in two alternativess one
with 20Z higher construction costs and one with 20? lower initial
traffic levels.
Summary of Economic Analysis for Trunk Roads
Total         Results of Economic Analysis
TRUNK ROADS TO BE REHABILITATED  Costs    Base Case   Costs + 20?   Traffic  - 20?
UNDER ROCS II            Sm   NPV Sm   IRR  NPV $m   IRR  NPV Sm   IRR
1 Marracuene - Manhica               7.7    4.6   17.8?
2 Vanduzi - Changara                 3.8    1.9   22.9Z   0.5   14.8Z   0.0   ll.9Z
3 Quelimane - Namacurra             36.6   19.6   18.9Z  14.3   15.7Z  12.9   16.2Z
4 Pemba - Montepuez                 27.6   17.3   22.7Z  11.8   18.4?   8.2   17.4?
5 Moamba - Sabie                     9.7    5.1   22.0?   3.4   17.7?   3.0   18.2?
6 Nampula - Nacala                  16.8    7.1   18.4?   0.0   12.0Z  -1.7   10.3?
7 Maputo - R. Garcia                24.3   10.1   17.5?
8 Chimbuto - Chongoene (EN1)        Study has not yet been completed
Total                              126.5   65.7
Notess
1. NPV is calculated at 12?
2. Base Traffic assumes that traffic recovers to 1975 levels within three to
five years of completion of rehabilitation



- 217 -
Annex 5-1
Page 2 of 2
Feeder Road Rehabilitation
4.     A key characteristic of the feeder road program is the maintaining of
sufficient flexibility to allow the program to be adapted to changes in the
security situation and changes in the pattern of agricultural rehabilitation. The
emphasis, therefore, has been not on the rigorous economic analysis of specific
stretches of road but rather on the formulation of selection criteria to ensure
that viable, high priority roads will be rehabilitated.
5.     It has already been indicated in chapter five that the economics of feeder
road rehabilitation is in general favorable. Economic benefits in terms of
savings in transportation costs, for a 'typical" 100-km stretch of road, have been
estimated in the FRP program document as shown belows
Product       Export         Savings per   Annual
Volume         Ton           Savings
Cashew             200t          $14.4          $2880
Copra              400t          $ 2.3          $ 920
Cotton             lOOt          $14.4          $1440
6.      In addition, a 25-km stretch has been selected for more detailed
analysis. As the table below shows, considering as benefits only the voc savings
due to the improved road's smoothness as a result of the rehabilitation (with
adequate future maintenance), the expected ERR is very high (almost 1751).
Maxixe-Homoine Road
Example of Economic Analysis
BENEFITS           W/out     With          COSTS
QI ('Roughnessw)       160      120         Road length (km)         25
VOC - LV ($1lOOOkm)   $505    $413          Rehabilitation    $235,500
VOC - NV ($/lOOOkm)   $658    $574          Maintenance (/km)      $250
Traffic Growth Rate        10l
Traffic / Day   Benefits $000 pa    Costs   Net Benefits
LV   |V           LV   |V            $000       $000
1990                                      ($235.5)   ($235.5)
1991     166     114    $243.9  $159.1    ($12.5)    $390.5
1992     183     125    $268.2  $174.4    ($12.5)    $430.1
1993     201     138    $295.1  $192.6    ($12.5)    $475.2
1994     221     152    $324.6  $210.8    ($12.5)    $522.9
1995     243     167    $357.1  $233.2    ($12.5)    $577.8
IR   -  1741          NPV   121 - $1.3m



- 218 -
ANINE 5-2
Page 1 of 1
MtAMBIQllS
111$T ROADS AND COASTAL SHIPPING PROJECT
SllURY OF ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF SMALL PORT IESTSM S
SUMUMARY                                (0'000)       ERRNPOVINV(C)
Angoh                                      3606
Chinde                                     880
Maeus                                    32,256
Poban.                                     6686
Mocimbou de Praia                        $16;80
Total Five Porte                         il',80
ANOOCHE
Radio Equipmont                             agO       v. high        v. high
Lighting tor Quay and Warehouse             820       v. high          5.7
Tractor                                     880
Stevedor Equiptmt (sq. slings)              815
Derricks (mounted on wreck)                 to0         55X            1.9
2 Barges and Tug (Port)                    3400         24X            0.5
Total 605
CHINDE
Radio Equi pmnt                              50       v. high        v. high
Lighttng for quay and Warehouse             320       v. high          18.6
Tractor + 2 Trailero                        870
Sper. Parts and Toole                       830
Stevedor Equipment                          $15
B9rg' (2 Port)                             8120          18X            0.0
Quay Rehabilitation (up to..               35 _00        12X            0.0
Total                                      v80w
MACUSE
Radio Equipment _5                                    v. high        v. high
Lighting for Quay and Warehouse             820       v. high          64.0
Stevedor Equipment                          S16       v. high        v. high
Eargo  and Tug tor Port and Collection      640         45X             1.5
Conveyor belt                              380          87X             2.4
?QuaY Rehabilitation            * 400 to 31.500         14X             0.0
Total                                    *2,255
PEBANE
Radio Equipment                             B50       v. high        v. high
Lighting for Quay and Warehouse             320       v. high          11.6
Tractor * 2 Trailers                        370
Spar. Porte and Tools                       8go
Stevedor Equipment                          315
Barge  for Port and Collection             3480       v. high            8.8
Warehous Rehabilitation                     820         28X              0.5
TOt I                                   - 8-
M ICBOA DA PRAIA
Radio Equipment                                       v. high        v. high
Llghting and Generator                     g85        v. high           4.8
Tractor + 2 Trailer.                        370
Spar. Parts and Tools                      3100
Stevedor Equipment                          31
2 Bes and Tug (Port)                       *400        62X              2.8
Log lo der/Crne                            *850        12%              0.0
au.. Ren..r tUD. to                   )   3610         18X              0.0
Tot I                                    slow



- 219 -
ANNEX 5-3
Page 1 of 4
MOZAMBIQUE
FIRST ROADS AND COASTAL SHIPPING PROJECT
SUMMARY OF ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS
A.   ROAD RENABILITATION
1.    The rehabilitation of Mozambican roads which have had little
traffic for many years may involve direct and indirect negative
environmental impacts similar to those of a new road. The direct
impacts that could result from construction-related activities would be
negligible provided that corrective measures are implemented as
recommended in the roads environmental studies. The indirect impacts,
more pertinent to the Project, result from increasing access to areas
which are semi-depopulated, have restricted land use, or which may have
gone through long periods of natural regeneration. They are related not
so much to the road rehabilitation as to the overall process of
development in the area. The extent of the potential indirect impacts
is difficult to ascertain considering the level of information
available. However, they could lead to degradation of important
resources, and have therefore been carefully addressed by the Project.
2.    Indirect Impacts:  Road rehabilitation would provide the
conditions for an increase in traffic and easier access throughout the
regions in question. This, in turn, would create incentive toward
expansion of, particularly, agriculture and timber related activities,
and allow the efficient and uninterrupted transportation of varied
goods, migration, etc. Increasing agriculture could lead to replacement
of existing wooded areas and wetlands, in turn possibly leading to soil
degradation, and loss of current and potential raw materials, and
economically and nutritionally valuable species. Improving transport
efficiency could facilitate transport of vulnerable goods whose
exploitation is presently checked only by the current lack of transport
facilities and security (e.g., timber and fuelwood, and wildlife
products).   Facilitating the transport of vulnerable goods could allow
unsustainable exploitation of timber resources, in turn resulting in
irreversible loss of important economic and ecological resources. While
these goods and activities can be sustainably developed and exploited,
Mozambique is still in the process of developing the basic framework
necessary to do so (including legislative and regulatory, institutional,
technical and human, and financial resources). Hence, unless
appropriate alternatives are provided to existing and incoming
population, and other measures taken to avoid or control the changes in
land use that follow access, depletion of nearby wood resources and
replacement of important pockets of natural vegetation by domestic crops
would follow rehabilitation of the roads.
3.    Conclusions and Recommendations:  The Project in itself would not
be able to prevent or solve the above problem, which is a function of
policies in the forestry and agricultural sectors. However, ROCS-1 and



- 220 -
ANNEX 5-3
Page 2 of 4
subsequent transport projects could contribute to alleviating some of
the above indirect impacts by: (i) helping develop the capacity of the
Mozambican National Environmental Commission (CNA) to participate in and
opportunely provide inputs to the proposed project, and other related
development projects; and (ii) increasing the environmental awareness of
the populations served by the roads. Measures to begin coping with the
indirect negative effects of road rehabilitation civil works to be
carried out under subsequent projects have, therefore, been made an
integral part of ROCS-1.
4.    The Project would provide support and training to CNA to allow it
to begin establishing the capacity necessary to monitor and control
exploitation and transport of wood and wildlife products in the areas
served by the roads. This training would be provided as part of the
programs, policies and procedures CNA is developing to promote
sustainable development of the country's resources, ard coordinated with
training for port environmental agents, to be provided by the coastal
shipping component of the project. This proposal was tentatively
discussed with the Director of the CNA and his team during the
appraisal, and met with their support. Specific measures to facilitate
implementation of the above monitoring were reviewed, and discussions
initiated with other potential donors, particularly the European
Economic Community (EEC), and the United Nations Environmental Program
(UNEP); contacts with the Forestry Department were to be initiated by
CNA. Safety awareness programs proposed for the roads would be combined
with environmental education to provide basic information on soil
conservation, the economic and ecological values of wetlands and forest
resources, and their sustainable development. In addition, road design
in ROCS-1, and rehabilitation civil works in subsequent projects, would
utilize environmentally safe methods and techniques regarding road
construction and related activities.
B. COASTAL SHIPPING
5.    On-going port activities in the small ports under consideration
for rehabilitation and/or improvement under ROCS-1 have, to date,
resulted in direct negative environmental impacts such as water
pollution, and mangrove and estuary ecosystems disturbance, as wc-ll as
the indirect effects of improving coastal shipping of fragile resources,
particularly timber. Port improvements would lead to increased traffic
and related port use, potentially expanding the type and degree of
existing impacts, and adding construction-related negative impacts.
Negative direct impacts from the investments proposed should be
negligible. The negative indirect impacts due to increased economic
activity in the ports, which are difficult to estimate considering the
level of information available, could play a major role in the economic
and environmental well-being of Mozambique. Even though these are not
directly related to the small ports component of the project, ROCS-1 and
subsequent transport improvement projects will include measures to limit
their impact.



- 221 -
ANNEX 5-3
Paae 3 of 4
6.    Indirect Impacts:  Improving the overall efficiency of coastal
shipping would lead to increased capacity at the ports, which in turn
would allow increased product output and increased use of ports by both
small and larger ships. Therefore, the Project would provide the
conditions necessary for an increase in traffic which, in turn, would
facilitate recovery or expansion of, particularly, agriculture and
timber-related activities. Although these activities can be sustainably
developed, Mozambique lacks the framework necessary to counteract their
inherent negative impacts, and is still in the process of developing the
legal, institutional and technical framework and resources essential to
guarantee such development. Hore specifically, Mozambique lacks
appropriate legislation and regulations regarding sustainable
development of forest and agricultural resources, estuary protection,
and pollution standards. In addition, Mozambique has insufficient
financial and human resources to enforce existing forestry regulations,
and lacks enforcement of port regulations concerning water pollution and
mangrove protection. Under these conditions, increased economic
activity as facilitated by the rehabilitation and/or improvement of the
small ports, or of coastal shipping operations, could result in the
increase of indirect negative environmental impacts.
Conclusions and Recommendations:
7.    Although ROCS-1 and subsequent proposed projects involve generally
low levels of improvement, and should not pose any major direct
environmental problem, they could lay the base for further port
development, and hence augment indirect impacts. To control indirect
impacts, and anticipating future development, ROCS-1 would implement the
initial measures necessary to avoid intrinsic negative environmental
impacts. By paying close attention to direct and indirect issues, the
Project wouldt (i) prevent resource degradation and economic losses
within the forestry and fisheries sectors; (ii) halt or prevent
physical degradation of the ports, beaches and port infrastructure;
(iii) prevent economic losses for small privately owned fishing
operations; and (iv) prevent nutrition losses for the poor.
8.    The Project addresses both direct and indirect impacts and
Mozambique's environmental, legal, and institutional framework by: (i)
providing port infrastructure and equipment which do not interfere with
major environmental functions; (ii) including training and technical
assistance to support development of the capacity of CNA to provide
adequate support to the small ports component of the project; (iii)
providing primary equipment and other measures to halt on-going
environmental degradation; and (iv) requiring environmental evaluation
and concrete measures to avoid negative impacts of port improvement for
projects approved through the credit line.
9.    Providing for the above measures through the small-ports Project
component would guarantee that ROCS-1 explicitly finances most
associated environmental costs. At the same time, it would strengthen
the capacity of CNMA to participate and opportunely provide inputs to
related development projects. This proposal was tentatively discussed



- 222 -
ANNEX 5-3
Page 4 of 4
with the Director of the CNA and his team during project appraisal, and
met with their support. Specific measures to facilitate implementation
of the above monitoring were reviewed, and discussions initiated with
other potential donors, particularly EEC, and UNEP. Contacts with the
forestry and fisheries agencies remain to be initiated. Concrete
measures proposed within the small-ports Project component in order to
meet the above requirements include providing: (i) initial assistance
to establish environmental monitoring capacity at the ports, in
particular training for port environmental monitoring agents; (ii) oil
receptor facilities in three strategically located ports; (iii) minimum
toilet facilities for port workers and passengers where required; and
(iv) assistance to develop CNA's capacity to review proposals presented
to the credit line.
C. LEGISLATION AND REGULATIONS
10.   Ports.  Existing port legislation and regulations regarding
environmental conservation and protection should be reviewed together
with port legislation studies, and complemented and redrafted to include
protection of estuary, near shore, and other coastal fisheries
(particular attention should be paid to conservation of their respective
habitats, especially spawning, breeding, and rearing areas); enforcement
should be reinstated for existing related legislation, and promptly
implemented for new legislation. All small port investments through
ROCS-1 and subsequent projects should comply with the International
Marine Pollution Convention - MARPOL 73/78 (MARPOL 73/78 Convention).
Its is advisable that this convention be adopted by GOM prior to a major
increase in traffic.
11.   Forestry.  It is strongly advised that legislation and regulations
regarding timber (including fuelwood) exploitation be reviewed by both
the Ministry of Agriculture and CNA to reflect sustainability in the
development and exploitation of forest and timber resources at the
local, as well as the national level. Enforcemcnt of existing
legislation and regulations should be strengthened, particularly the
issuing and control of permits for timber concessions.
D. TRAINING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
12.   Training and TA will be provided to strengthen CNA's, MTC's and
MCA's capabilities to support environmentally sound rehabilitation and
development of the country's roads and ports. CNA's training and TA is
scheduled to start up-front to ensure that the necessary support, plus
project-related environmental monitoring agents, are readily available
once other investments and civil works start. In view of the strategic
position of CNA and its overall responsibility to ensure environmentally
sound development of the country, it is crucial that it be staffed with
highly qualified manpower to provide environmental leadership to all
other Mozambican institutions.



TANZANIA
N,WEhA             C, 
' <SE  e  AW0                              .o1a) /wbc(ROCS PROEC
ZAMBI A                                                                             O    PAVc_  ROADS
E-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
HARARE                                  ELlhbkNi!~~~~~~~~~PRS F EIOALIPOTAC
CI       )                      tA -NMu,  e,,..MrdL3~,.ME, ,dC                 IPOA S RND   CO DASTA       I PPION,
HL          h83Ned73888OIG,A,2                             2ROCS   PRO EC
_-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .                                       1TTC     ango PAYE     I 8>;oAlcD  
--l >        }5.   >                     Eo3ot JS             =.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LOrTR      ( I )
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AIP~C .rL TO~b                        BrPRFRE
7 f-d ofr ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MOZAY ISMCBIU
HLU0104  i '"  /~~~~~~~~~~PYF (ROAS PO]
Z   . I ..                                                             UW ABW      Y_ EDP.-    H elLAo O  FPM   OC
r  f punsobcrcx  \  \~~~~~~ PRIHOARPl CSRTCS
A~~~~ F RC I C AOImuo_                                                    AL 
\ > ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A ttTIlONALCAPAL
An   FUT R                   i    nI.- 1                                       RaNECP
lp ~  ~      ~     1 N Elci                                                   LID 22w          So
nY.    : - NE7AIOLSU40ARILFrC EERS 
10                                         31 fS 1 ws  bdWlsbx vu1
*0~ ~~~~~~~~~I
_   JU5ARANF ,J   |                                    RaLOMr ERS                        _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'



