Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20682
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(23740)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDRs 54.1 MILLION (US$74.3 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
FORA
FIRST ROADS AND COASTAL SHIPPING PROJECT
June 29, 2000
Transport 1
Eastern and Southern Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 1999)
Currency Unit = Mozambique Metical
= US$
US$ I = 13,300 MT
FISCAL YEAR
January I  to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB          African Development Bank
ANE           National Administration of Roads
BADEA         Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa
CCCE          Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (France)
CFM           Portos e Caminhos de Ferro de Mocambique
DANIDA        Danish International Development Agency
DEP           Provincial Department of Roads and Bridges, DNEP
DfID          Department for International Development (UK)
DNA           National Directorate of Customs
DNEP          National Directorate of Roads and Bridges
DNM           National Directorate of Maritime Affairs
ECMEP         Provincial State Enterprise for Construction and Maintenance of Roads
and Bridges
ESRP          Economic and Social Rehabilitation Program
EU            European Union
FINNIDA       Finnish Intemational Development Agency
FRP           Feeder Roads Program
GAPROMAR  Bureau of Maritime Projects, MTC
GOM           Government of Mozambique
IDA           Intemational Development Association
lIB           Industrial Institute of Beira
IIM           Industrial Institute of Maputo
INAV          National Institute for Traffic Regulations
KIfW          Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (Germany)
MTC           Ministry of Transport and Communications
MPF           Ministry of Planning and Finance
NAVIQUE       State Navigation and Shipping Enterprise
NORAD         Norwegian Agency for Development
RBMMP         Roads and Bridges Management and Maintenance Program
PDP           Priority Districts Program
RF            Road Fund
ROCS1         First Roads and Coastal Shipping Project
ROCS2         Second Roads and Coastal Shipping Project
SAFMAR        Maritime Administration and Inspection Service
SDC           Swiss Development Cooperation
SIDA          Swedish Intemational Development Agency
TA            Technical Assistance
UNCDF         United Nations Capital Development Fund
UNDP          United Nations Development Program
USAID         United States Agency for Intemational Development
UTRA          Technical Unit for the Restructuring of Costums
WFP           World Food Program
Vice President:    Mr. Callisto Madavo
Country Manager/Director:    Mr. Michael Sarris
Sector Manager/Director:    Mr. Yusupha Crookes
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Mr. Abdelmoula Ghzala



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MOZAMBIQUE
FIRST ROADS AND COASTAL SHIPPING PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                      I
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                      1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry            1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                               6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                               14
6. Sustainability                                                                   16
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                    17
8. Lessons Learned                                                                  19
9. Partner Comments                                                                 21
10. Additional Information                                                          21
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                22
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                25
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                27
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                28
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                30
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                   31
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                               32
Annex Borrower's contribution to the ICR                                            33
Map: IBRD No. 23129
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project D:. P001790                                      Project Name: FIRST ROADS AND COASTAL
SHIPPING
Team Leader: Abdelmoula M. Ghzala                        TL Unit: AFTT1
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: June 29, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: FIRST ROADS AND COASTAL SHIPPING              L/C/TF Number: 23740
Country/Department: MOZAM:BIQUE                                        Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: TH - Highways; TP - Ports & Waterways
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD: 05/08/90                                Effective:                    09/17/92
Appraisal: 08/27/91                                  MTR: 10/01/95             09/11/96
Approval:  06/02/92                               Closing: 12/31/97            12/31/99
Borrower/lmplementingAgency:  GOVT OF MOZAMBIQUE/DNEP/GAPROMAR/IJTRA
Other Partners: AfDB, BADEA, DfID, EU, CCCE, KfW, NORAD. SDC, SIDA, UNCDF, UNDP,
and WFP
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:     Callisto E. Madavo                        Edward V.K. Jaycox
Country Manager:     Michael N. Sarris                        Stephen Denning
Sector Manager:      Yusupha B. Crookes                       Isaac K. Sam
Team Leader at ICR:   Abdelmoula M. Ghzala                    Carlos Alvarez
ICR Primary Author:   Ajay Kumar; Gualberto Lima
Campos
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry: S                     S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The First Roads and Coastal Shipping Project (ROCS 1) was identified as the first of two ROCS projects
aimed at improving transport infrastructure and services through selective investments in rehabilitation and
maintenance of key road and port facilities, and in increasing the capacity and efficiency of the trucking



and coastal shipping industries. ROCS 1 was to focus on laying the groundwork for future initiatives in the
sector through the provision of extensive technical assistance and training to strengthen institutional
capacity and the reformation of crucial GOM policies to improve efficiency in the transport sector, while
the Second Roads and Coastal Shipping Project (ROCS2) was to include the implementation of road
rehabilitation and maintenance of civil works.
The original objectives of the ROCS1 as stated in the StafflAppraisal Report (SAR) were to:
(i) provide sufficient qualified human resources (skilled, semi-skilled and managerial) to the roads and
coastal shipping sub-sectors by financing the first phase of a long-term manpower development and
training program for transport personnel, in order for the sector to meet the peace-time needs of the
Mozambican economy;
(ii) strengthen Government of Mozambique (GOM) institutions, state enterprises and newly forned
local private companies involved in the roads and coastal shipping sub-sectors, encompassing the
National Directorate of Roads and Bridges (DNEP), local road contractors (including the Provincial
State Enterprises for Construction and Maintenance of Roads and Bridges (ECMPs), the National
Directorate of Maritime Affairs (DNM), the Bureau of Maritime Projects (GAPROMAR), and new
small-port operators, by providing technical assistance and training at all management levels to allow
them to cost-effectively manage transport infrastructure and services;
(iii) encourage and assist in implementing policy reforms necessary for effective management of
national resources and increased involvement of the private sector in road rehabilitation and
maintenance, small-port management, and the provision of adequate trucking and cabotage transport
services; and
(iv) support the Priority Districts Program (PDP) by removing transport-related obstacles that are
hampering employment generation, alleviation of poverty, self sufficiency in food production,
expansion of exports, and improvement in business mobility.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Although the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) was amended three times (April 1993, August 1994
and March 1999), the original objectives were not changed.
However, following the signing of a peace agreement in October 1992, soon after project effectiveness, the
overall transport condition substantially changed in the country with the opening of the road network to
traffic. The urgency to improve the efficiency of the coastal shipping sub-sector diminished because: (i)
one of the main coastal shipping traffic, food aid, was substantially reduced; and (ii) many products started
to be transported by road. As a result, coastal shipping transport reached its lowest volume in 1995.
Confronted with this new enviromnent, GOM and the Bank agreed to adjust the project to changing
circumstances by canceling some activities included in the Small Ports and Coastal Shipping Component
and transferring the available funds to the existing or new activities in the Roads Component.
3.3 Original Components:
The project was estimated to cost a total of US$144.7 million and planned for co-financing by Arab Bank
for Economic Development in Africa (BADEA): US$6.1 million (4.2 percent); the European Union (EU):
US$2.7 million (1.9 percent); the Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE): US$2.6 million
- 2 -



(1.8 percent); the Norwegian Agency for Development (NORAD): US$1.7 million (1.2 percent); the
Swedish International Development Agency (SIDA): US$10.9 million (7.5 percent); the Swiss
Development Cooperation (SDC): US$1.8 million (1.2 percent); the United Nations Development Program
(UNDP): US$7.9 million (5.5 percent); the United Nations Capital Development Fund (UNCDF): US$2.5
million (1.7 percent); and other financiers including the Africa Development Bank (AfDB), the Danish
International Development Agency (DANIDA), the Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW), the South
African Government, the Spanish Government and the United States Agency for International Development
(USAID): US$13.3 million (9.2 percent). The contributions of the International Development Agency
(IDA) and of the Government of Mozambique (GOM), estimated respectively at US$74.3 million and
US$20.9 million, represented respectively 51.3 percent and 14.5 percent of initial Project costs.
Originally, ROCS 1 comprised of a Roads Component and a Small Ports and Coastal Shipping
Component.
The Roads Component was managed by DNEP and included the following activities:
(i) Institutional Support: technical assistance and training aimed at strengthening the planning and
supervisory capabilities of DNEP, including its Provincial Departments of Roads and Bridges (DEPs), and
enhancing the capacity of the parastatal ECMEPs, and studies in support of road transport;
(ii) Manpower Development and Training: a five-year program for the training, retraining and
upgrading of road personnel at all levels, and formulation and implementation of a program to develop
local road contractors;
(iii) Planning and Engineering Services: planning and engineering services including economic
and feasibility studies for the rehabilitation or upgrading of 900 km of paved trunk roads and 140 km of
earth/gravel roads to be executed under ROCS2, and the procurement and installation of about 850 m of
temporary Bailey-type metallic bridges;
(iv) Feeder Roads Program (FRP): rehabilitation and/or upgrading to engineered gravel standards
predominantly by labor-intensive methods of about 2,600 km of feeder roads;
The Small Ports and Coastal Shipping Component was managed by GAPROMAR and included the
following activities:
(i) Institutional Support and Policy Reform: technical assistance and studies to strengthening the
planning and managing capability of DNM and GAPROMAR, review the coastal shipping regulatory
framework, and assist in other priority areas;
(ii) Manpower Development and Training: development of a comprehensive program for the
training and upgrading of coastal shipping and small port personnel at all levels, including a selected staff
of GAPROMAR;
(iii) Credit Line: credit line to finance investments in small ports accessible to small-port operators
managing concession agreements;
(iv) Port Infrastructure and Shipping Investments: rehabilitation or upgrading of both marine and
land infrastructure and installation of elementary navigational aids in various small ports, and rehabilitation
of the coastal shipping industry;
-3 -



(v) Customs and Trade Facilitation: development of a comprehensive program to strengthen and
attract private sector participation in freight-forwarding, cargo handling, shipping agencies and transport
internediaries, and technical assistance and support to the National Directorate of Customs (DNA) to
review customs documents and procedures for domestic coastal-shipping transfers and international traffic.
Component costs were initially estimated as follows:
Project Cost Initial Estimates
(US$ million)
ComDonent                   Total Cost   IIDACredit
Roads                                            93.00         43.10
Institutional Support (TA and Studies)         30.10         36.00
Manpower Development and Training              28.20          3.10
Planning and Engineering Services              13.20          4.00
Feeder Roads                                   21.50
Small Ports and Coastal Shipping                 25.80         14.70
Institutional Support (TA and Studies)         10.90          6.00
Manpower Development and Training               1.90          0.60
Credit Line Investments                         6.50          5.80
Port and Shipping Investments                   5.70          1.50
Customs and Trade Facilitation                  0.80          0.80
Contingencies                                    25.90         16.50
Tntal                         144.701       74.3
3.4 Revised Components:
As mentioned above, during Project implementation the DCA was amended three times to adjust Project
activities on both Roads, and Small Ports and Coastal Shipping components to the changing environment.
The revisions included:
(i) implementation of civil works for rehabilitation or new construction of the DNEP offices, the
Industrial Institute of Maputo (IIM), the Industrial Institute of Beira (IIB) and the Road Training Center in
Chimoio;
(ii) implementation of an emergency roads program in the provinces of Cabo Delgado, Niassa and
Nampula;
(iii) provision of consultant services for technical studies in the roads and coastal shipping sectors;
(iv) strengthening institutional capacity of the Ministry of Transport and Communications (MTC);
(v) implementation of an emergency urban street repair program in the cities of Maputo,
Quelimane and Nampula;
(vi) cancellation of the credit line; and
vii) cancellation of the port and shipping investnents.
- 4 -



In addition, in 1994, following the establishment of a Custom Restructuring Technical Unit (UTRA) in the
Ministry of Planning and Finance (MPF), the Customs and Trade Facilitation activity, which was under
the Small Ports and Coastal Shipping Component, emerged as a separate Component managed directly by
UTRA.
The British Government, through the Department for International Development (DflD), as well as the
World Food Program (WFP) joined the donor financial pool during Project implementation pledging to the
financing of FRP.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
In support of GONTs Economic and Social Rehabilitation Program (ESRP), the Roads and Coastal
Shipping Program (ROCS) was initiated with the long term objective to remove transportation bottlenecks
through rehabilitation of the transport infrastructure. The central underpinning of the Program was the
Govemment's transport sector strategy, which was based on the Bank's Transport Sector Review, 1989
(Report No. 8656-MOZ). Considering the situation facing the country in 1992, it was necessary to have a
program which would permit rapid resettlement of the population and agricultural activities. Weak
implementation capacity, limited financial resources, lack of security in certain areas and uncertainty of
how the economy would develop at the commencement of the project dictated project design with a
concentration on addressing the most urgent needs of roads and coastal shipping improvements.
Given the postwar situation of Mozambique in 1992, project size and design were overall suitable to
support maintaining the country's integrity.
Project Design. Initially, ROCS was designed to address both institutional reform issues and physical
investments. During preparation, ROCS was divided into two separate projects: (i) ROCSI addressed the
severe lack of institutional capacity in the transport sector by launching the first phase of a long range
institutional development program with a focus on building capacity to manage the transport system
effectively over the next decade and into the 21st century; and (ii) ROCS2, focused on the physical
implementation of the road rehabilitation and maintenance program. This was an appropriate approach as
it allowed gradual build up of the imnplementation capacity. The project also included review of the
Government's Roads Policy as well as institutional structures of the various organizations responsible for
the management and control of the road network. Basic objective of ROCS1 was to focus on laying the
groundwork for future initiatives in the sector through the provision of extensive technical assistance to
strengthen institutional capacity and reform crucial GOM policies to improve efficiency in the transport
sector and provide reasonable assurance that rehabilitation investments will be properly maintained. The
preparation under ROCS1 has led to appraisal and commencement of ROCS2, which includes a US$750
million civil works program.
Project Size. In order to improve allocation of limited resources and to ensure that no critical bottlenecks
are left unresolved, ROCSl was designed with an integrated sub-sectoral programmatic approach, focusing
on: (i) capital investments primarily for rehabilitation of local feeder roads serving priority agriculture
production areas and badly deteriorated sections of the main roads leading to key coastal areas; (ii) policy
reformns directed to attaining greater efficiency in the transport sector through increased private
participation and improvement of transport pricing and asset utilization to ensure commercial viability of
transport enterprises. A simpler approach, focusing on limited institution building would not have been
sustainable given the special challenges presented by the roads sector in the early 90s. The adopted
integrated approach addressing multi-faceted issues facing the sector, even though complex and requiring
. 5 .



substantial technical support was appropriate and acceptable to the Government.
Technical Assistance. The severe lack of institutional capacity at the commencement of this Project
necessitated the use of intensive Technical Assistance (TA) to provide and develop capacity to the various
institutions responsible for maintenance and management of the road network. The Project also included
the first phase of a 15 year long range institutional development program to build capacity and facilitate
recovery of the road sector. One of the principal means of both providing and developing institutional
capacity was by the assignment of TA to the various institutions responsible for the maintenance and
management of the road network. The high TA components was justified in light of the lack of institutional
capacity to implement the project and the speed of rehabilitation required. A reduced technical assistance
would have implied not developing a comprehensive reform agenda which, in turn, would have reduced the
rate of recovery.
The quality of the Project at entry is assessed as Satisfactory.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
As a result of the somewhat parallel preparation/implementation of the two ROCS projects, it is often not
easy to isolate specific achievements of ROCS1, especially in the areas of policy support and institutional
building. In addition, the thinking and experience in the areas of institutional requirements for a sustainable
road sector and road financing for maintenance and rehabilitation has evolved over the years. This makes it
important to measure the performance of ROCS 1 against the agreed targets at the time of appraisal, while
at the same time focus on identifying future interventions with the objective of strengthening the country's
capacity to manage and administer the road sector more efficiently.
The First Roads and Coastal Shipping Project (ROCS 1) was adequately carried out and the outcome of the
Project is assessed as Satisfactory since the overall Project objectives were achieved. Although no
monitoring indicators are available to measure quantitatively the impact of the Project, it is amply
recognized that the Project contributed substantially to improving the efficiency of the transport sector by
addressing the severe lack of institutional capacity in two main transport sector institutions (the National
Administration of Roads (ANE) and MTC) and reforming crucial GOM transport policies. Both
institutions are working efficiently and staff is today more confident, professionally accountable and
enthusiastic. In addition, through the rehabilitation of basic transport infrastructure in selected priority
districts included in FRP, the Project contributed to removing transportation bottlenecks in agricultural
production and distribution. In doing so, the Project helped to alleviate poverty and hunger by: (i) allowing
war refugees to resettle, (ii) increasing employment, (iii) increasing food supply, (iv) reducing the cost of
food and (v) improving rural incomes.
Achievement of the four Project objectives is detailed below:
(i)    Developing human resource capacity.
This objective was Satisfactory achieved. The non-availability of adequate and trained human resources
was one of the most critical issues facing the transport sector at the commencement of this Project.
Overall, programs for training of roads and coastal shipping and small port personnel and development of
local contractors were adequately carried out and contributed to substantial improvement of local technical
capacity. Key achievements include:
-6 -



*  at the time of project preparation, human resources in DNEP were extremely scarce (a total of 3
qualified engineers and 15 technicians of various levels). During the course of project implementation,
114 engineers and other technical specialists have been trained at the University Eduardo Mondlane
(UEM) in Mozambique and universities abroad;
* over the project life, international technical specialists were being substituted by national specialists: at
the beginning of project, DNEP was supported by 40 international technical specialists and three
national qualified engineers; at the end of project, the support changed to five and 57 specialists,
respectively;
*   particularly successful was the development of the Roads Technical Training Center (CTE) in Chimoio
which at Project completion had already trained more than 9,600 people from DNEP, DEPs, ECMEPs
and local contractors;
*   development of human resources at MTC was quite successful as 18 staff members got a BA in
transport economics from a South African University (eight more to complete by July 2000), a
specialty not available in the Ministry at the beginning of Project implementation.
*   implementation of programming, monitoring and managerial procedures in DNEP and DEPs increased
the ability to manage the road network in an efficient manner and contributed to the gradual
development of local contractors.
(ii)   Strengthening institutional capacity
This objective was Satisfactory achieved. (see section 4.5)
(iii)  Implementing policy reforms
The achievement of this objective was also Satisfactory, with good progress in restructuring and
liberalization of the road transport and coastal shipping sectors and devolution of public assets to the
private sector. Major achievements include:
Small Ports and Coastal Shipping
*  preparation of a transport policy by MTC which was approved by the Counsel of Ministers in April
1996. According to this policy, GOM wishes to call on the contribution of the private capital for the
building and/or rehabilitation of infrastructure, for the management, through contract or leasing
agreement of ports, railway services and airports and for the establishment of air and shipping
transport companies. MTC is considerably reformed and now plays a role of facilitator, having the
responsibility of defining policies and creating enabling environments for the private sector and
monitoring transport activities in the country;
*  restructuring of coastal shipping companies owned by GOM and adoption of a policy allowing full
private-sector access to the coastal shipping feeder market;
*  privatization of transport infrastructure management in ports, railways and airports.
* restructuring of the National Directorate of Civil Aviation (DNAC) and creation of the National
Institute of Civil Aviation (INAC), commissioning for air traffic rights and proposal for leased
management of secondary airports;
*   preparation of institutional arrangements for long-term leasing/concessioning with the objective of
eventual privatization of the management of secondary and tertiary ports;
* establishment of minibus cooperatives to operate along specific corridors in Maputo city.
Roads
*  approval by GOM of a Roads Policy, which sets the stage for creating a new environment for effective
- 7 -



management and maintenance of the country's road network;
* DNEP's capacity to manage and maintain the road network has increased significantly. Between 1994
and 2000, percentage of roads in poor condition has decreased from 81% to 46% and those in fair to
good conditions has increased from 19% to 54% (this information does not reflect the impact on the
road network offloods caused by cyclone Eline in February 2000);
*   development and implementation of an improved Road Maintenance Management System (RMMS),
including: (i) calibration and validation of HDM-3; (ii) survey of all roads and bridges at provincial
level; (iii) review of road links for consistency; (iv) set up a special unit in DNEP with capacity for
road programming based on Mapinfo;
*   divestiture of own-account trucking fleet by state-owned enterprises;
*   adoption of policy measures to encourage the development of private sector maintenance and repair
workshop capacity, resulting in maintenance works being carried out on a commercial basis with
greater emphasis on supervisory and managerial responsibilities of DEP construction supervisors;
* use of labor-based technology for rehabilitation of low-volume roads is now defined as a key part of the
Roads Policy. Labor-based technology has proved to be a practical, sustainable and economic
approach for rehabilitation and maintenance of low traffic volume roads;
*   provision of job opportunities for women formed an important part of the social component of the
feeder roads program.
Customs
3   restructuring of customs operations followed by adequate staff training and implementation of new
procedures resulted in improved collection performance. Import duty rates of collection increased from
six percent in 1996 to eleven percent in 1999.
(iv)   Supporting PDPs
This objective was Substantially achieved. The Project supported PDPs, through the rehabilitation of an
extensive network of feeder roads all over the country, which contributed to reducing transport bottlenecks.
It is difficult to assess the specific impact of FRP as the Program was imnplemented at a time when
Mozambique was consolidating economic reforms and overall benefiting from the implementation of the
peace agreements. Nevertheless, the nature of the works supported by FRP, as well as the timing for its
implementation, have reinforced the combined effects of the economic reforms and the peace process and
have undoubtedly contributed to sustain economic growth and improve poverty indicators. By overcoming
the isolation of rural areas, the Feeder Roads Program (FRP) had a beneficial impact on the rural poor,
since it facilitated small farmer access to markets and reduced the cost of providing basic needs to
consumers. FRP also coritributed to the expansion of exporting crops and improved small business
mobility. In 1997 and 1998 Mozambique agriculture output increased by 7.6% and 7.0% respectively.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Roads Component
Technical Assistance Programs. One of the principal means of providing and developing institutional
capacity was by providing technical assistance to the various institutions responsible for maintenance of the
road network. A number of TA programs were implemented to support: (i) DNEP at headquarters and the
provinces (DEPs); (ii) FRP maintenance; (iii) establishing a self sustaining training facility; and (iv)
developing capacity of local road contractors.
All TA programs accounted for a total of about 1,700 staff-months. Final cost of TA activities (including
- 8 -



studies) was US$52.3 million. Overall, the TA programs were adequately designed and implemented. A
Technology Transfer Program (TTP) was implemented to monitor the transfer of skills from foreign
consultants. Consultants and their counterparts were requested to jointly develop work plans, describing the
work tasks and the related group of skills necessary to perform the tasks, rate current skill levels and
propose skill improvement methods. All TA experts had to provide quarterly reports and report on
knowledge and responsibility transfer. A total of 356 reports were submitted and about 100 identified
counterparts benefited from technological transfer.
Studies: A number of studies were carried out under the Project, resulting in: (i) road policy paper
prepared by MOPH, grounded in the concept of commercialization management of roads; (ii) restructuring
of DNEP; (iii) restructuring of ECMEPs to be operated along commercial lines; (iv) arrangements to set up
privately owned plant equipment and rental companies; (v) CETA Privatization Study; (vi) developing
Environmental Guidelines for Road Works; (vii) studies on Social and Economic Impact of the
Implementation of Roads Civil Works; (viii) studies on AIDS Prevention on Road Works. The Project also
resulted in preparation of final design and tender documents for high-priority sub-components, to be
implemented in follow-up project, and included: (i) feasibility studies for a total of 2040 km of roads; (ii)
engineering detailed design for 2,392 km of roads; (iii) bridge inspection studies (Tete, Xai-Xai, Save); and
(iv) design standards and standard specification for roads and bridges in Mozambique.
Manpower Development and Training. A Human Resources Development and Training Program was
designed and carried out in DNEP. Under this program, DNEP: (i) created a Training Division with the
objective to formulate, implement and coordinate all training activities in the road sector, (ii) rehabilitated
and developed CTE in the central town of Chimoio to train, retrain and upgrade foremen, supervisors and
technicians, and (iii) set up Road and Mechanical Training Production Units for mobile practical training
activities. One of the most cost effective capacity building and retaining program was the establishment of
a scholarship program at UEM, which combined work with studies in the areas of transport economics and
planning. To accomplish the training duties, DNEP contracted a ten TA staff team accounting for 360
staff/months. The Training Program was carried out through: (i) short courses and workshops at CTE; (ii)
specific workshops on management and various technical subjects at DNEP headquarters; (iii) transfer of
know-how to designated counterparts; (iv) large scale training-by-doing on the job. In addition, the Project
granted 114 scholarships for academic studies abroad and at the local University in different technical
fields. Also, over 110 participants attended English language courses. The Training Program applied to all
personnel categories from top management to support staff and covered DNEP, DEPs, ECMEPs as well as
the local contractors. Overall, the Training Program was adequately carried out and contributed to
substantial improvement of technical skills of roads staff. In particular, many counterparts feel today more
confident and enthusiastic, and have been appointed to high positions in the road sector administration.
Initial estimates for personnel to be trained were largely exceeded since as many as about 11,500 road
workers were trained, of which 9,600 were at the CTE, instead of 3,500 foreseen in the SAR.
Development of DEP Laboratories. The rehabilitation and development of ten soil laboratories, one in
each Mozambique Province, was carried out under the TA to DEPs. All ten laboratories have been
adequately equipped and effective training provided to all staff. However, at Project completion the
laboratories were operating at different levels of efficiency. To standardize procedures and specifications a
Laboratory Operations Manual (LOM) was developed. This manual includes all the procedures for the day
to day running of the laboratory, requisition, testing and report forms, materials classification, standards
and specifications as well as testing standards. A Materials Management System (MMS) was also
prepared and implemented at the same time as LOM.
Computers and Management System. Under Project financing, DNEP procured over 100 computers and
-9-



related software and equipment. Computerization has greatly contributed to enhance the capacity of DNEP
and provincial DEPs to handle information and project administration. A Roads Management System
(RMS) comprising of a wide range of modules was also installed. RMS is today the main tool used by
ANE in monitoring the road network and planning the operations. The system manages different data
banks such as the network data bank, the surveyed road conditions data bank, the traffic data bank, the
bridges data bank and the planning data bank.
Bailley Type Bridges. The Project fnance the acquisition and installation of over 100 metallic Bailey-type
bridges representing a total of 2,806 m of bridge installed. These temporary bridges allowed a rapid
reinstatement of river crossings throughout the country on the aftermath of the peace accords.
Emergency Road Works in Cabo Delgado Province. Given the calamitous situation in which most of the
road network was at the beginning of the Project, it was designed a Program of emergency reopening of
roads aiming at facilitating a rapid resettlement of the population and resuming the agricultural activities.
This Program did not require feasibility studies and detailed design, and was financed under both ROCS I
and ROCS2 Projects. A total of 280 km of roads in Cabo Delgado Province were repaired under ROCS I
financing. The works included repair of potholes, resurfacing on surfaced roads and regravelling, and
construction of site drains on unsurfaced roads. These works covered also the instalation of Bailey-type
bridges. The emergency program allowed the immediate reopening of many roads across Mozambique at
the time when the peace process had started to be implemented and civil-war refugees begun to resettle in
remote areas.
Emergency Urban Street Repair Program. This Program was identified and carried out during the last
year of Project implementation. The pavement of the vast majority of streets in the main urban centers
were in poor condition and if these works would have not been implemented at that time, there would have
been economic loses due to increased vehicle operation costs as well as the costs of rehabilitation would
have gone up due to further deterioration. Emergency urban street repair and rehabilitation works were
undertaken on 160 km in Maputo, 25 km in Nampula and 20 km in Quelimane. The works included
patching of potholes and edge works, resealing road, regravelling of gravel roads, repair drainage
structures, spot improvements, walkway cleaning and clearing of drains.
The Feeder Road Program. During Project implementation the FRP rehabilitated more than 3,500 km and
maintained more than 2,000 km of roads, which exceeds largely initial SAR estimates of 2,400 km. The
FRP used primarily labor-based technologies to rehabilitate and maintain earth and gravel roads. These
technologies proved to be a practical, sustainable and economical method for the rehabilitation and
maintenance of low volume roads in areas of high population density. In addition to the physical outputs,
the program has various other positive impacts:
*  creation of substantial numbers of unskilled jobs for the rural population (more than 6,000 in 1997,
over 7,800 in 1998 and over 7,000 in 1999), 15 percent of which were occupied by women;
*  adoption by Mozambican companies of feeder-road-maintenance techniques appropriate to local
conditions; companies now operate with minimal technical support;
*  adoption by GOM of labor-based technology for the rehabilitation of roads with low traffic volumes as
a key element of road policy.
A mid-term evaluation of the program carried out in 1998 concluded that overall FRP performance was
satisfactory. Roads were being rehabilitated and maintained, local capacity to manage and execute the
program was being developed and FRP was bringing significant positive benefits to rural areas. However,
the report raised doubts about the sustainability of FRP beyond 2000 if further reforms were not introduced
- 10-



in the management and financing of the operation including restructuring the ECMEPs, increasing the
involvement of local contractors and reforming DNEP and the FRP management unit.
FRP was entirely financed by various donors other than IDA, including DflD, KfW, SIDA, UNDP,
UNCDF and SDC, and GOM. WFP also contributed to the Program under a food-for-work program
estimated at US$1.1 million. Final FRP costs reached US$68.3 million, which more than tripled initial
estimates of US$21.5 million as donors increased their contributions for the rehabilitation and maintenance
of a greater amount of road km.
Civil Works. The Project financed the rehabilitation and expansion of DNEP offices, the construction of
eight residential flats in Maputo and four houses in Chimoio to alleviate housing needs of expatriate
personnel, the rehabilitation of CTE and the rehabilitation of classrooms in IIM for the use of DNEP. All
offices, houses and classrooms were also adequately equipped.
Small Ports and Coastal Shipping.
Technical Assistance Programs. A number of TA programs were implemented to support:
*   Strengthening of the planing and management capabilities of DNM/GAPROMAR
*  Restructuring of NA VIQUE
-   Developing and implementing a training program for MTC
3  Restructuring of air transport
3 Implementing cooperatives for minibuses
3   Setting-up a new Ports and Shipping Directorate
TA short term programs were also undertaken for preparing or up-dating bidding documents, and up-dating
economic and financial feasibility studies regarding the rehabilitation of tertiary ports.
Studies. A number of studies were carried out to examine issues related to privatization, concessioning
arrangements, legislative reforms and safety regulations in the areas of: trucking, road transport industry,
civil aviation, tertiary ports, transport infrastructure and services and ports and shipping.
Manpower Development and Training. The project financed a comprehensive program for the training
and upgrading of selected staff of MTC Directorates and Institutes including: (i) the National Directorate
of Ports and Shipping (DNMP); (ii) the National Directorate for Civil Aviation (DNAC); the Road
Transport Safety Institute (INAV); and the Economic Directorate. The Training Program was carried out
through: (i) seminars and Workshops on project management and transport related subjects; (ii) study tours
abroad; (iii) transfer of know-how to designated counterparts; (iv) large scale training-by-doing on the job.
In addition the Project granted 26 scholarships for academic studies in transport economics at the Rand
Afrikaans University in South Africa and a six-month fellowship for a training in civil aviation in the
United Kingdom. Also, the project supported a comprehensive training in English language for a large part
of MTC staff in Mozambique and South Africa. Overall, the Training Program was adequately carried out
and contributed to substantial improvement of technical skills of MTC staff. A total of about 200
participants benefited from the training program which is in line with initial estimates.
Customs and Trade Facilitation
This component was implemented by the Technical Unit for the Restructuring of Customs (UTRA) of the
Ministry of Planing and Finance (MPF) and jointly supervised by teams of ROCS 1 and of two economic
adjustment operations (Third Economic Recovery Credit and Economic Management Reform Operation).
- 11 -



ROCS 1 financed TA to assist UTRA in the restructuring process, training for customs staff, equipment for
UTRA as well as the services of a specialized private company that was hired to manage customs for a
period of three years.
UTRA had a central role in monitoring and steering the customs reform process in Mozambique since
1996. Its activities focused on three main areas: (i) conducting the process of hiring and monitoring the
performance of the specialized customs management company; (ii) hiring and monitoring performance of a
pre-shipment inspection company; and (iii) drafting the legislation necessary to modernize customs policies
and procedures. In addition, it implemented the new customs code (import tariff).
The customs reform focused on the rationalization of the import tariff which reduced trade-weighted import
duties from 18 to 11 percent and the number of rate categories from seven to five. Despite the decline in
statutory rates, the tax base increased and the collection rates improved from less than six percent in 1996
to around eleven percent in 1999 according to information provided by the authorities. In addition, a new
simplified importers registration system was adopted, as the previous cumbersome import documentation
was replaced with a Single Administrative Document (Documento Unico). As a result, the elapsed time
for processing of import documentation was reduced from the previous three to four weeks to a maximum
of 48 hours, lowering transaction costs and increasing the transparency of the import process.
These improvements in the tax and import regime supported by improvements in customs administration
yielded an increase in the efficiency and transparency of a key government office. However, despite the
remarkable progress, corruption is still a worrying feature that will continue to require special GOM
attention and that will entail actions beyond customs, such as the police, the legal and the judicial systems.
In addition, while UTRA's work has been critical in improving the efficiency, transparency, and operations
of customs operations in Mozambique, it still suffers from capacity and organizational weaknesses.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The SAR presented economic analysis for the coastal shipping investments and the feeder roads program.
The economic re-evaluation is conducted only for the feeder roads program as the investments in coastal
shipping were dropped during implementation (see section 3.4). The economic re-evaluation for the project
was undertaken following the same methodology as used in the SAR. All assumptions and key parameters
adopted at appraisal were applied in the economic re-evaluation. Detailed economic analysis in the SAR
for the Maxixe-Homoine road estimated an ERR of 174%. Economic re-evaluation on the same section of
the road produces an ERR of 47%. This is considerably lower than at appraisal for two reasons: (i) the
costs of rehabilitation and maintenance were understated in the SAR; (ii) traffic volumes were overstated in
the SAR. The ex-post ERR for the project, however, is well above 12%.
4.4 Financial rate ofreturn:
Not applicable
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Given the magnitude of problems facing the roads and coastal shipping sectors at the time of project
preparation, the Project has come a long way in building local capacity, strengthening institutional
framework and most importantly, raising awareness on the need to develop mechanisms to provide
dedicated and adequate funding for road maintenance.  The Project resulted in reviewing institutional
structures of the various organizations responsible for the management of the sector and reaching
agreements on the most appropriate structure to be put in place. The Project had a significant impact in
- 12 -



terms of institutional development particularly on the following institutions: ANE (former DNEP including
DEPs), MTC and UTRA (MPF).
One of the Project agreements was to "implement an appropriate organization for DNEP and for the
provincial supervisory and executing entities (DEP/ECMEP) with adequate staffing." Following an
institutional study of DNEP, the Project has made considerable progress in reforming the institutional
structure. An autonomous Road Authority has been created (ANE) with the responsibility for maintenance
and management of the road system. The Board of ANE has been appointed with the responsibility for
national roads, regional roads, road fund and administration. The new structure represents a major step
forward in the reform process, well beyond what was agreed to as part of the Project Agreements in 1992.
New guidelines and monitoring procedures have been introduced particularly in the areas of procurement,
contract management, data collection, contract supervision and maintenance control. ANE is today
increasingly being supported by national instead of international specialists. However, the reform process is
far from complete. A number of outstanding issues, specifically related to internal regulations governing the
Road Fund to improve transparency and accountability and roles and functions of the Board, continue to be
discussed as part of the on-going ROCS2 under implementation and preparation of the third roads project,
Roads and Bridges Management and Maintenance Program (RBMMP).
A study was commissioned to examine the most appropriate institutional structure for the management and
operation of the Government owned and controlled Provincial State Enterprise for Construction and
Maintenance of Roads and Bridges (ECMEP). GOM implemented study recommendations as ten
provincial-based organizations were consolidated into three regional companies (SARLs), under public
ownership but each having an independent management board (rather than falling under the Ministry of
Public Works and Housing) with clear mandates to operate with commercial objectives.
The plant pool study examined the most economic method of providing the local construction and
maintenance industry with operational and well maintained earthmoving equipment.  The study
recommended forming privately owned plant equipment and rental companies (PERCs). Such equipment
rental companies are in the process of being set up in each of the three regions though there has been a long
delay and the arrangements are not fully satisfactory.
GOM has embarked on the creation of a viable, competitive local road construction industry which has
been identified as an essential component towards continuing and sustainable development and maintenance
of road infrastructure. To facilitate this, a Contractor Development Teams (CDT) project was conceived,
as part of the ROCS project, with the objective to develop institutional capacity in the country by means of
a practical program of civil Works, involving maintenance of priority roads.
The restructuring and liberalization of the road transport sector has mostly been achieved with the
privatization of transport companies and the setting up of joint ventures with the private sector, approval of
new regulations, signing of road protocols with SATC neighboring countries and creation of a trade point
to be managed by the Road Transport Committee created under the project. Urban transport was also
restructured through assistance to establish cooperatives and regulating routes in Maputo.
MTC is gradually implementing the new transport policy adopted in 1996, focusing inter alia on the
privatization of management of transport services, liberalization and greater involvement of the private
sector. To this effect, the Ministry has been restructured with the objective of a leaner more professional
staffing and responsibilities focusing on policy making, sector monitoring, regulatory procedures and
regulations enforcement. In addition, studies are on going to establish institutional arrangements and
procedures for long-term leasing/concessioning and regulations to better monitor the sector. As part of the
- 13-



comprehensive restructuring program, the internal structure of MTC has been modified, with the setting up
of new National Directorates, such as the new Directorate for Shipping and Ports, the Directorate for Land
Transport (covering rail and road transport) and the Economics Directorate. The restructuring of coastal
shipping and maritime transport is also well advanced with new regulations, management contracts for
NAVIQUE and TRANSINSULAR, the creation of the National Maritime Administration (SAFMAR) and
liberalization of stevedoring activities. Major reforms are also being finalized regarding ports and railways
with the restructuring and concessioning of CFM and contracts for the management of secondary ports of
Pebane, Macuse and Mocimboa da Praia, with a decision to extend the process to other ports. Customs
restructuring is progressing well with significant results in collection performance, staff training and
implementation of new procedures.
In 1994, the Portos e Caminhos de Ferro de Mocambique (CFM) was transformed into an independent,
financially autonomous company. More recently, all responsibilities related to maritime safety and ships
inspection were transferred from the National Directorate for Maritime Affairs (DNM) to SAFMAR, an
independent public agency. The responsibility for road safety, issuing of driving licenses and the
registration of vehicles were transferred from the National Directorate for Road Transport (DNTR) to the
National Institute for Traffic Regulation (INAV), an independent agency that should also soon become
financially autonomous. Recently, the Council of Ministers approved the transformation of ADM, agency
responsible for the management of primary and secondary airports of the country, into an independent,
financially autonomous agency. MTC has up-dated all air safety regulations and has started the process to
create an independent institute responsible for air transport safety. MTC has started restructuring its
Provincial Directorates and is in the process of setting up corridor authorities for the development of the
corridors of Maputo, Beira and Nacala.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Although at different Project stages the Bank has attempted to coordinate the fourteen Project donors, this
was a very difficult task to implement. Some donors tended to consider their financed components as
individual projects and were not focused on the broad objectives of the Project. As an example,
transformation of ECMEPs as commercial contractors was substantially delayed because copious funds
and equipment were made available by different donors to carry out feeder road works on force account
basis. Also, road sector institutional reforms were constantly deferred, in part because of the delays in
developing a common strategy among the Bank, various donors and GOM.
5.2 Factors generally subjeci to government control:
No acceptable level of agreement has been reached with regard to sufficient overall funding levels in the
long-term and transparent mechanisms to channel funds to the Road Fund. Funding remains a most serious
implementation issue as the agreement with MPF to maintenance funding levels up to year 2000 is still not
fully complied with, despite the Bank's increase of its funding share of periodic maintenance, which only
provides a short term relief. A significant increase in Govemments funding for maintenance is critical as
most roads rehabilitated or reopened early during the road program will need routine and later on periodic
maintenance. Delays in approval mechanism from MPF with regards to counterpart funding on roads and
expenditure levels for all procurement processes would impact sustainability of project investments. This
is an issue involving a number of Ministries and has an adverse impact on: (i) development of small
contractors (delayed approval of contracts and payments); (ii) decentralization of RF and the direct transfer
of road user charges into the RF. A delayed transfer into the RF means delayed payment for small
- 14 -



contractors who are being promoted under the LRCI and this weakens their ability to survive. Overall
progress was jeopardized by delays in taking a final decision regarding the extent and funding of the ROCS
program and its impact on DNEP's ability to carry out routine maintenance, development of local
contractors, the general implementation of road program due to central lack and unreliable flow of
counterpart funds and sustainability of future maintenance.
Although decrees establishing the new Roads Authority, ANE, have been passed since April, 1999, policy
reforms regarding the organizational restructuring of the road sector are still not finalized (internal
regulations). There is a concern with the approved decree establishing ANE, concentrating powers within
MOPH, and creating a parastatal with potential conflict of interest (custody of RF and execution in the
same entity ANE) and lack of transparency and accountability.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
MTC implemented ROCS 1 project through GAPROMAR. At the beginning of the project, GAPROMAR
acted as an independent body and the various National Directorates of the MTC were not always fully
informed of the project activities. Once this was recognized, GAPROMAR offices were moved to the
MTC headquarters, regular memorandum were published and it maintained close dialogue with all parties
concerned with the project.
Accounting and Auditing.
The management of Special Accounts was Satisfactory. Separate audit reports were prepared for each
Project component and quarterly financial statements were produced. GAPROMAR produced a Monthly
Activities Report and operated a Contracts Register on a manual basis. Considering the lack of financial
capacity in the agency at the beginning of Project implementation, audited accounts reveal satisfactory
management of resources. However, the Project did not have a Financial Management Procedures Manual
and a conventional cash flow management system, and a Cash Flow Statement (CFS) should have been
prepared as an integral part of the Project's Financial Statements in compliance with International
Accounting Standard Number 7.
One of the important issues in ensuring adequacy and stability in road maintenance financing is the
transparency in the management of the Road Fund. Although auditing of Road Fund accounts was not
envisaged as part of Project agreements, this remains an important issue to be addressed, especially as part
of future preparation activities.
Independent review of the Project
In June 1998, following some adverse local press reviews and criticism within some government circles
concerning the ROCS Projects, GOM and the Bank agreed to carry out an independent, joint review of the
performance of both projects with the objective to: (i) assess the relevance and effectiveness of the ROCS
projects in meeting its objectives; (ii) identify key changes to the scope of the projects and approaches to
the resolution of critical technical and financial issues; and (iii) draw lessons from the projects for the
design, implementation and processing of future projects. After a careful review of facts and information
collected, the review team concluded that: (i) with exception to the size of ROCS2, the choices in designing
the projects were appropriate; (ii) supervision missions were well documented and both projects have been
carefully supervised by the Bank; (iii) all parties have shown flexibility and responsiveness during
implementation in adapting the projects to changing and unaticipated developments; and (iv) coordination
among donors and financing agencies could be improved.
- 15 -



5 4 Costs andfinancing:
The Project was implemented within the financial package as agreed in DCA.
As shown in Annex 2, the final Project cost was US$188.5 million which represented 130 percent of the
initial estimate. The increase in Project cost was mainly due to FRP activity since two new donors joined
the financing pool during Project implementation and existing donors increased their contributions.
IDA-Credit disbursements accounted for a total of US$72.5 million, representing 98 percent of the total
credit amount. IDA contribution represented 38.5 percent of Project financing. Other donors' Project
financing was as follows: AfDB: US$6.2 million (3.3 percent); BADEA: US$2.5 million (1.3 percent);
DfID: US$9.5 million (5.0 percent); EU: US$3.9 million (2.1 percent); KfW: US$24.3 million (12.9
percent); CCCE: US$4.0 million (2.1 percent); NORAD: US$2.6 million (1.4 percent); SIDA: US$18.5
million (9.8 percent); SDC: US$0.8 million (0.4 percent); UNDP: US$7.6 million (4.0 percent); UNCDF:
US$7.5 million (4.0 percent); ); and WFP: US$1.1 million (0.6 percent). GOM contribution was US$27.5
million accounting for 14.6 percent of the Project cost.
The life of the Project was initially set at six years. The credit closing date was extended twice, first from
June 30, 1998 to June 30, 1999, which was further extended a second time to December 31, 1999. This
was to allow the Borrower to carry out remaining activities including the road sector institutional reforms
and customs restructuring as well as new activities introduced through the third Project Amendment such
as the Emergency Urban Streets Repairs in the cities of Maputo, Quelimane and Nampula.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability is likely. This is because of the specific focus of the project on: (i) capacity building; (ii)
strengthening institutional framework; and (iii) implementing policy reforms. The improvement in ANE
(formerly DNEP) capacity has been across the board - both at the head office in Maputo as well as
throughout the provinces and has been achieved by training of about 12,000 individuals and equipping of
their respective departments.  ANE is today increasingly being supported by national instead of
international specialists. About 200 staff members of MTC have also been adequately trained including
providing a degree in transport economics to 18 persons. MTC is considerably reformed and now plays a
role of facilitator, having the responsibility of defining policies and creating enabling environments for the
private sector and monitoring transport activities.
The Government has made good progress in restructuring and liberalization of the road transport and
coastal shipping sectors and devolution of public assets to the private sector. The Government has adopted
a Roads Policy which creates a new environment for effective management and maintenance of the
Mozambican road network. Increasing use is made of labor-based technology, which has proved to be a
practical, sustainable and economic approach for rehabilitation and maintenance of low traffic volume
roads. Monitoring and implementation procedures have been developed, especially related to: procurement
guidelines, contract management, laboratory strengthening, civil work guidelines and data management.
The private sector has emerged as a provider of transport services, consulting, construction of civil works
and maintenance. The new sector organization framework has gained acceptance and the new management
concepts are being adopted. The Project laid the ground work for ROCS2, currently under implementation
- 16 -



and a third roads project, RBMMP, is currently being prepared, to carry forward the institutional and
policy reforms initiated under ROCS1 and ROCS2.
One of the unresolved issues relates to agreement on specific actions to set the management and financing
of roads on a sustainable long-term basis. Discussions as part of ROCS1 have resulted in setting up an
autonomous road authority (ANE). ANE is also currently managing the Road Fund. This sets the stage
for further discussions as part of preparation of RBMMP to ensure that the Road Fund can be properly
managed in a transparent manner. Policy reforms regarding the organizational restructuring of the road
sector are still not finalized. There is a concern with the approved decree establishing the new road
authority system concentrating powers within MOPH and creating a parastatal with potential conflict of
interest and lack of transparency and accountability. The discussions with the government so far are on the
right track and indicative of GOM commitment to address this important issue and to carry out the further
institutional reforms (separation of custody and management of Road Fund from works execution and
management) during the execution of the first phase of the future roads operation (RBMMP).
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
ROCS1 and ROCS2 were prepared aiming at improving transport infrastructure and services through
selective investment in rehabilitation and maintenance of key road and port facilities, and in increasing the
capacity and efficiency of the trucking and coastal shipping industries. The improvements in the road and
transport service sectors were expected to contribute to economic growth and reduce poverty. Since then,
and with the assurance of lasting peace, monitoring poverty impacts of transport investments and
strengthening institutional capacity at the national and regional levels has become increasingly important to
the Government's and Bankls commitment to link future development support to poverty reduction
strategies. A three year socio-economic impact assessment has been launched to examine the poverty and
environmental impact of road investments.
In particular, ANE has pioneered several initiatives to support the Government's Plan for poverty reduction
and defmne relevant actions for the roads sector, including establishing a Poverty, Gender and AIDS
Prevention Unit, to provide policy guidance for the identification of strategic road investments to reduce
poverty, enhance the participation of women at all levels of the transport sector and support Government's
plan to combat HIV/AIDS. Although management of the road network has improved considerably over the
past decade, the institutional and policy reform process is yet to be completed. During an October, 1999
seminar organized by ANE and the Ministry of Public Works, the Government announced plans to
implement second and third generation institutional reforms over the next two years to: (i) improve the rate
of adoption and implementation of agreed policy and institutional restructuring reforms; (ii) reach
agreement on sustainable and adequate maintenance funding mechanisms in line with the maintenance
capacity; (iii) expand rehabilitation of the road network in densely populated and economically productive
areas of the north and center; (iv) strengthen capacity in implementation of road safety programs; and (v)
increase FHV/AIDS awareness among road workers and residents.
The institutional reforn of the roads sector continues under the on-going ROCS2 and fulfillment of specific
objectives and measurable targets in the strengthening of financial management, organizational structure
and institutional reforms will be conditions of negotiating the third roads project, RBMMLP, currently under
preparation.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
- 17 -



The Bank's performance during identification, preparation and appraisal was Satisfactory, with
considerable effort invested to design the Project in a difficult political and institutional environment.
About 280 staff-weeks were spent in preparing the Project which is way above the Bank's average. The
Bank conducted a review of the transport sector in 1989 which forms the underpinning for the Project. The
Project was well designed and all aspects were given due attention.
7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's supervision performance was overall Satisfactory. During supervision, the Bank maintained a
close monitoring of the Project and helped DNEP, GAPROMAR and UTRA in identifyiing technical
problems as well as in implementing appropriate solutions, including procurement matters and transport
and road policy issues. The Bank provided on-ground support by deploying a project assistant during
initial period of Project implementation. Bank supervision was careful and well documented with detailed
Aide Memoirs. In addition, the Bank has shown flexibility and responsiveness in adapting the project
design to changing and unanticipated developments as reflected in the three amendments to DCA. However,
there was a lack of appropriate documentation of Project Status Reports (PSR/590s) during the initial four
years of Project implementation. Moreover, no monitoring indicators were followed during Project
implementation.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The overall Bank performance was Satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance was Satisfactory as regards Project identification, preparation and appraisal.
The different Ministries and agencies participated fully in discussions concerning Project component
identification and displayed flexibility in Project design.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Overall, Govemment s implementation performance was Satisfactory. The sector policy environment has
been considerably reformed since the commencement of ROCS 1. The achievements are particularly
significant when viewed in the background of a relative absence of institutional framework and inadequate
capacity because of the history of long civil wars in the country at the beginning of ROCS 1.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The project was implemented by three agencies: (i) the roads component was managed by DNEP; (ii) small
ports and coastal shipping component was managed by GAPROMAR; and (iii) customs and trade
facilitation was managed by UTRA. Performance of each of the three implementing agencies is discussed
separately.
DNEP
The performance of DNEP during Project implementation was Satisfactory. Significant progress has been
made in the implementation of the roads components by DNEP, as brought out in paragraph 4.5. Legal
status of ECMEPs has been restructured, plant equipment rental companies have been created and an
-18 -



autonomous Road Authority has been set up with the responsibility for maintenance and management of the
road system. New guidelines and monitoring procedures have been introduced particularly in the areas of:
procurement of civil works, contract management, data collection, contract supervision and maintenance
control. Human resource capacity has been strengthened considerably and laboratories have been equipped.
However, some delays have been experienced in implementing necessary policy reforms and restructuring
and development of local contractors has been slow as a result of delays in payments and limited access to
equipment.
GAPROMAR
The performance of GAPROMAR during Project implementation was Satisfactory. MTC has completed
its restructuring focusing on policy making, sector monitoring and regulations. This transformation is in
line with the Government's transport policy objectives of privatizing the management of transport services,
liberalizing operations and involving the private sector more significantly. As a result, MTC has been
transformed from a public administered system with operational responsibility into a monitoring and
regulatory body. MTC is also completing the legislation and policy guidelines necessary for implementation
of the transport policy through new institutional arrangements, revised new regulations for all sub-sectors
and procedures for long-term leasing/concessioning. The restructuring of coastal shipping and maritime
transport is also well advanced with new regulations and liberalization of activities. CFM has been
transformed into an independent, financially autonomous company. The responsibility for road safety has
been transferred to an independent agency.
UTRA
The performance of UTRA during Project implementation was Satisfactory. UTRA has had a central role
in monitoring and steering the customs reform process in Mozambique. Its activities focused on: (i)
conducting the process of hiring and monitoring the performance of the specialized customs management
company, which was hired to manage Mozambique customs over the past 3 years; (ii) hiring and
monitoring performance of a pre-shipment inspection company; and (iii) drafting the legislation necessary
to modernize customs policies and procedures. In addition, it implemented the new customs code (import
tariff), which lowered import barriers, and contributed to the elimination of import licensing. However,
while UTRA's work has been critical in improving the efficiency, transparency, and operations of customs
operations in Mozambique, it still suffers from capacity and organizational weaknesses.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall Borrower performance is assessed as Satisfactory
8. Lessons Learned
The following lessons can be learned from the ROCSI Project:
l.    Reforming institutional structure and management approaches is a slow process requiring a
sustained dialogue beyond one project cycle.  ROCS1 has set the basic framework for sustainable
operations of the transport sector in Mozambique. However, there is a need for continuous monitoring and
policy advice to support
the reform program. Given the nascent institutional base and weak capacity at the beginning of project
- 19 -



preparation, it will take more than one project cycle to put the transport sector back on a sustainable
footing. The important lesson here is the need to maintain a dialogue and provide technical support
extending over more than just one project cycle.
2.    Project ownership is crucial for achievement of Project objectives. Ownership is an important
element that contributes to effective Project implementation and to the achievement of its objectives. With
the Project under effective control of GOM its implementation was efficiently monitored despite a
multi-implementing agency, multi-donor and multi-purpose environment. In particular, the dynamic and
competent management of DNEP was critical for the success of the Roads component. DNEP developed
an exemplary system of TA monitoring and evaluation towards ensuring hand over of TA posts to local
staff. Consultants and their counterparts were requested to jointly develop work plans, describing the work
tasks and the related group of skills necessary to perform the tasks, rate current skill levels and propose
skill improvement methods. All TA experts had to provide quarterly reports and report on knowledge and
responsibility transfer.
3.    There is a need for comprehensiveness in addressing road policy reforms. It is important to
pay adequate attention to all aspects of road policy reform to ensure sustainable improvements in the sector
and transparency in financial arrangements. Regarding the road sector policy reform process, ROCS 1
focused primarily on institutional strengthening and staff training with particular attention given to building
public sector management capacity, planning and programming of works and capacity building of local
companies. The reform process has culminated with the creation of an autonomous road authority, the
ANE, to replace the DNEP. However, reforms regarding important aspects related to providing a stable
and adequate financing for road maintenance and associated management arrangements lagged during
Project implementation. At Project completion, no acceptable agreement has been reached with regard to
sufficient overall funding levels in the long-term and transparent mechanisms to channel funds to the RF.
Discussions are still underway on the most suitable institutional arrangements. It is equally important to
ensure that a political commitment exists to safeguard the use of money and a check-and-balance
governance system to restrict government's discretionary power and arbitrary behavior. The requirement is
to pay particular attention to the design of the RF in order to maximize the probability that they will not be
abused, rather than simply be content with legislating a RF into existence. Raiding may still be possible
through legal or bureaucratic holes in the system. The structural safeguards necessary to provide
protection to the road funds require a strong political will, adequate user representation and transparent
dissemination of the RF activities.
4.    Strengthen human resource capacity adapted to local needs and environment. A training
program should be based on what is locally acceptable and on transfer of know-how to ensure
sustainability. Developing sophisticated programs which are not locally accepted are not likely to reap
much benefits. Success of CTE, the main roads training school, can be attributed to adequate adaptation to
local needs and environment.
5.    Need for flexibility and  continuity  during  implementation   For successful project
implementation, it is important to maintain flexibility in project design and continuity in implementation
teams, both in the Bank and the Government. This is particularly important when implementing a large and
complex project, with an ambitious reform agenda in a country with a long history of unstable political
environment, inexperience working with the Bank and weak institutional framnework. The success of this
project hinged on three critical elements: (i) flexibility during implementation to change project design to
suit the changing environment. DCA was amended three times during implementation to adjust Project
activities to accommodate the changing sector requirements; (ii) building good understanding between the
Bank and the Government helped resolve a number of difficult issues in an amicable manner; and (iii)
- 20 -



continuity in the project team both in the Bank and the implementing agencies has helped maintain a
healthy dialogue and good understanding. Considering the long preparation time of such projects and the
complexity of agreements to be reached and strategies to be developed, it is of vital importance that key
members of the project team, both from the Bank and the government, maintain continuity over the project
preparation period. While continuity is important for most Bank projects, it is especially important for
projects in a new and uncertain environment, which are complex with long gestation period and require
coordination with multiple donor agencies. A strong and continuing support from the resident mission
greatly helps in project preparation and supervision.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
-21 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
Elaboration of a comprehensive policy for   MTC has completed its restructuring  Completed
MTC restructuring                    focusing on policy making, regulatory
procedures and regulations enforcement in
line with the Government 1996 Transport
Policy.
Complete liberalizabon of the trucking sector The restructuring and liberalkzation of the    Completed
and restructuring/downsizing land transport  road transport sector has mostly been
department at national and provindal levels  achieved.
Restructure coastal shipping and maritime
transport                            The restructuring of coastal shipping and    Completed
maritime transport is well advanced with new
regulations approved, management contracts
for NAVIQUE and TRANSINSULAR,
creabon of SAFMAR and liberalization of
stevedoring activities.
Introduce reforms in ports and railways
Major reforrms are being finalized regarding   Discussions on going under the follow-up
ports and railways with the restructuring and Bank-financed projects
concessioning of CFM and contracts for the
management of several secondary ports.
Air transport policy in place, including  The restructuring of DNAC and the creabton  The last step will be to concession/lease the
restructuring of LAM, private sector  of an autonomous self-financing aircraft  management of airports and establish a
involvement in airports management and    safety institute (INAC) with a new set of  Commission for air traffic rights.
action plan for a sustainable DNAC   regulations is almost complete.
Definition of an urban transport policy  Urban transport restructuring through  Competed
cooperatives and new regulations for tariffs
and routes is almost completed.
Customs restructuring                Customs restructuring had significant impact Completed
in collection performance. Collection rates
improved from less than 6 percent in 1996 to
around 11 percent in 1999. Rationalization
of the import tariff has reduced
weighted-import dubes from 18 to 11 percent
and the number of rate categories from
seven to five .
Amend Road Fund regulations          No acceptable agreement has been reached An acceptable agreement regarding funding
with regard to sufficient overall funding levels and complebon of key restructuring reforms
in the long-term and revised bmely and  are key conditions for continuing IDA support
transparent mechanisms to channel funds to to the road sector.
the RF.
Create DNEP as an independent road   An autonomous road authority (ANE) has   Completed
authority                            been created to replace the DNEP by decree
of the Council of Ministers (April, 1999)
Set up a sustainable and self financing  Chimoio training center has been set up and To ensure sustainability of the Chimoio
Chimoio Training center              has already trained more than 9600 people.  training center it is necessary to develop a
marketing strategy.
Legalize ECMEPs as commercial        ECMEPs have been transformed as       Completed
contractors                          commercial firms and maintenance works is
being contracted out on a commercial basis
- 22 -



Output Indicators:
Provide training to 3,500 road sector staff                               About 12,000 persons trained
members
Provide training to 200 MTC staff members                                 About 200 persons trained
Emergency repair of 280 km of roads                                       About 280 km repaired
Rehabilitate and/or maintain 2,400 km of
feeder roads
Rehabilitate 205 km of urban streets                                      About 205 km of urban streets repaired
Create 40 small local contractors                                         About 50 small local contractors developed
-23 -



End of project
- 24 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Comparative Project Costs: Appraisal Estimate, Revised Estimate and Actual
ACTUAL
Appraisal          Other                   Percentage
Project Component          Estimate   IDA   Donors  GOM    Total   of A  raisal
Roads                                   93.0   58.3    81.9   25.2   165.3          178%
Institutional Support                  58.3   41.0      1.0    8.6    49.8          85%
Planning and Engineering Services      13.2    2.4    12.6    2.9    17.9           135%
Feeder Roads                           21.5            68.3    9.7    78.0         363%
Emergency Roads Program                        8.5             2.0    10.5
Urban Street Emergency Repair                  6.5             2.0      8.5
Small Ports and Coastal Shipping        24.9    9.7      6.6    1.6    17.9          72%
TA and Studies                        10.8    9.0      4.0    1.4    14.4         134%
Training and Development               1.9    0.7      2.6    0.1      3.4        181%
Credit Line Investments                6.5
Port and Shipping Investments          5.7
Customs and Trade Facilitation           0.8    4.5             0.8      5.3        656%
Contingencies                           26.0
Total                   144.7   72.5    88.5   27.5   188.5          130%
- 25 -



Proiect Costs bv Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate)
(in USS million eauivalent)
Procur mentLMetbodtl
Expenditure Categorv            ICB          NCB        Other/2       N.B.F.       Total Cost
1. Works                             14.9         2.5                       82.0          99.4
(14.9)       (2.5)                                   (17.4)
2. Equipment and Spare Parts          2.0                      0.7          15.5           18.2
(2.0)                    (0.7)                       (2.7)
3. Consultant Services               47.4         0.6          1.1          17.0           66.1
(47.4)       (0.6)       (1.1)                       (49.1)
4. Training                                                    2.3           1.5            3.8
(2.3)                       (2.3)
5. Credit Line                                                                             0.0
0.0
6. PPF Refinancing                                             1.0                          1.0
(1.0)                       (1.0)
Total                   64.3         3.1          5.1         116.0          188.5
(64.3)       (3.1)       (5.1)                       (72.5)
/I Figures in parenthesis are the amounts financed by the Bank Credit.
/2 Includes civil works and goods procured through national shopping, consuting services,
services of contracts staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services,
and incremental operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending projectfunds
to local government units.
-26 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Benefits ($/lOOOkm)
W/out   With         Net Ben.
VOC LV        505         413           92
VOC HV        658         574           84
Road Length km                          33
Costs
Maint cost per km                      607
Rehabilitation cost per km           10718
Economic Analysis
Road ER 418 Homoine - Pembe (Inhambane Province)
Traffic Volume/day    Benefits $000/year     Total Costs  Net Benefits
LV      HV        LV      HV       Total      $000        $000
1997    89.0    52.0                                   353.7       (353.7)
1998    97.9     57.2     95.1     50.7   145.85        20.0        125.8
1999   107.7    62.9    104.6      55.8   160.44         20.0       140.4
2000   118.5     69.2    115.1     61.4   176.48         20.0       156.4
2001   130.3     76.1    126.6     67.5   194.13         20.0       174.1
2002   143.3     83.7    139.3     74.3   213.54         20.0       193.5
2003   157.7    92.1    153.2      81.7  234.89          20.0       214.9
2004    173.4    101.3    168.5    89.9  258.38          20.0       238.4
2005   190.8    111.5    185.3     98.9   284.22         20.0       264.2
2006   209.9    122.6   203.9    108.8   312.64          20.0       292.6
2007   230.8    134.9   224.3    119.6  343.91           20.0       323.9
2008   253.9    148.4    246.7    131.6   378.30         20.0       358.3
2009   279.3    163.2    271.4    144.8  416.13          20.0       396.1
2010   307.3    179.5    298.5    159.2  457.74          20.0       437.7
2011   338.0    197.5    328.4    175.2   503.52         20.0       483.5
2012   371.8    217.2    361.2    192.7   553.87         20.0       533.8
2013   409.0    238.9    397.3    211.9   609.25         20.0       589.2
2014   449.8    262.8    437.0    233.1   670.18         20.0       650.1
2015   494.8    289.1    480.7    256.5   737.20         20.0       717.2
2016   544.3    318.0    528.8    282.1   810.92         20.0       790.9
NPV          1,816.3
ERR             47%
-27 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle              No. of Persons and Specialty               Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    Implementation     Development
Month/Year    Count       Specialty                         Progress         Objective
Identification/Preparation
April 1990                    1   Transport Planner
July 1990                     I   Transport Planner
I   Highway Engineer
I   Port Engineer
December 1990                 1   Highway Engineer
I   Training Specialist
April/May 1991                1   Highway Engineer
I   Training Specialist
Appraisal/Negotiation
September/                    I   Transport Engineer
October 1991                  1   Financial Analyst
I   Procurement Specialist
I   Highway Engineer
I   Training Specialist
1   Trans. Operations Special.
I   Equipment Specialist
I   Shipping Operations Expert
I   Environmental Expert
I   Port Management Special.
I   Legal Officer
I   Agricultural Specialist
February 1992                 1   Transport Engineer
Supervision
October 1992                   1  Transport Engineer                   HS                 HS
I  Financial Analyst
I  Highway Engineer
I  Port Engineer
June/July 1993                 1  Financial Analyst                     S                  S
I  Operations Officer
I  Civil Engineer
I  Procurement Specialist
I  Highway Engineer
I  Environmental Specialist
I  Legal Officer
I  Port Specialist
September 1993                 1  Financial Analyst                     S                  S
I  Operations Officer
I  Civil Engineer
I  Procurement Specialist
I  Road Policy Reform Specialist
March 1994                     1  Financial Analyst                     S                  S
I  Operations Officer
Port Engineer
-28 -



May/June 1994                  1  Financial Analyst                      S                 S
I  Operations Officer
1  Environmental Specialist
I  Road Policy Reform Specialist
September/ October 1994        1  Financial Analyst                      S                 S
I  Operations Officer
April 1995                     1  Financial Analyst                      S                  S
I  Operations Officer
I  Program Assistant
2  Consultants
September/                     1  Financial Analyst                      S                  S
October 1995                   1  Consultant
March 1996                     1  Financial Analyst                      S                  S
Operations Officer
September/                     1  Financial Analyst                      S                  S
October 1996                   1  Operations Officer
July 1997                      1  Financial Analyst                      S                  S
I  Operations Officer
I  Project Assistant
October 1997                   1  Operations Officer                     S                  S
1  Project Assistant
July 1998                      1  Operations Officer                     S
1  Project Assistant
I  Highway Engineer
September 1998                 1  Operations Officer                     S
I  Project Assistant
I  Highway Engineer
July 1999                      2   Operations Officer                    S                  S
I  Project Assistant
2   Highway Engineer
I  Transport Economist
ICR
December 1999                  2    Highway Engineer                     S                  S
1   Financial Analyst
2    Consultant
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks               US$ (000)
Identification/Preparation               154.8                        312.5
Appraisal/Negotiation                    123.2                        246.0
Supervision                              184.4                        427.0
ICR                                        8.0                         20.0
Total                                    470.4                       1005.5
-29 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Z Macro policies                        O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Z Sector Policies                       O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Z Physical                              * H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Z Financial                             O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
Z Institutional Development             0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
Z Environmental                         O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
X Poverty Reduction               O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Gender                           OH OSUOM ON ONA
Z Other (Please specify)          O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
AIDS awarness
Z Private sector development            0 H  0 SU O M  0 N  0 NA
M Public sector management              0 H  0 SU O M  0 N  0 NA
D Other (Please specify)
- 30 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                   Rating
0 Lending                                             OHS OS OLu OHU
O Supervision                                         OHS OS   OLu  OHU
O Overall                                             OHS OS O u O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                               Rating
O Preparation                                         OHS OS   O U   O HU
El Government implementation performance              O HS OS   O  U  0 HU
LI Implementation agency performance                  OHS OS   OU  O HU
F Overall                                             OHS OS 0 U O HU
-31 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Mozambique First Roads and Coastal Shipping Project, Staff Appraisal Report, May 6, 1992, The
World Bank
Memorandum and Recommendation of the President of the International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development to the Executive Directors on an Proposed Credit of SDR54.1 Million to the
Republic of Mozambique for a First Roads and Coastal Shipping Project, May 6, 1992, The
World Bank
Credit Number 2374 MOZ, Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of Mozambique
and the International Development Association, June 19, 1992, The World Bank
Mozambique First Roads and Coastal Shipping Project, First Amendment to the Development
Credit Agreement, April 22, 1993, The World Bank
Mozambique First Roads and Coastal Shipping Project, Second Amendment to the Development
Credit Agreement, November 22, 1995, The World Bank
Mozambique First Roads and Coastal Shipping Project, Third Amendment to the Development
Credit Agreement, March 1, 1999, The World Bank
Mozambique First Roads and Coastal Shipping Project, Supervision Reports including
Impementation Summaries (Forms 590) or Project Status Reports (PSR) from 1993 to 1999, The
World Bank
Review of the Performance of the Roads and Coastal Shipping Projects, June 12, 1998, The World
Bank
Roads and Coastal Shipping Projects (ROCS 1 and ROCS2) Annual Review, Report - 1998, Roads
Component, October 5, 1998, National Directorate of Roads and Bridges, Ministry of Public
Works and Housing, Maputo, Mozambique
Feeder Roads Programme Annual Report - 1998, May 1999, National Directorate of Roads and
Bridges, Ministry of Public Works and Housing, Maputo, Mozambique
ROCS I Component Managed by the MTC, Annual Report - 1998, GAPROMAR, Ministry of
Transport and Communications, Maputo, Mozambique
-32 -



BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION
- 33-






A
Ab*4T SACA O NAOO~t DE ESTRADAS
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FIRST ROAD AND COASTAL
SHIPPING PROJECT
ROCS-I
ROAD COMPONENT ONLY
MARCH, 2000






ADHIINISTRCAO NACIONAL DE ESTRADAS                                  ICR ROCSI PROJECr
ABBREVIATION GLOSSARY:
ASDI                                         Swedish International Development Agency
ADB                                                         African Development Bank
BADEA                                   Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa
BM                                                              Banco de Mo,ambique
CFD                                                  Caisse Fran,aise de Developement
DNEP                                          National Directorate of Roads and Bridges
DEP                                  Provincial Department of Roads and Bridges, DNEP
ECMEP                Enterprise for the Construction and Maintenance of Roads and Bridges
FMEP                                                          Road Maintenance Fund
GOM                                                       Government of Mozambique
HDM III                                                        Highway Design Model
IDA                                              International Development Association
KFAED                                     Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development
KFW                                           Kreditanstal fur Wiederaufbau (Germany)
LRCI                                                  Local Road Construction Industry
MOPH                                             Ministry of Public Works and Housing
MTC                                         Ministry of Transport and Communications
ODA                                        Overseas Development Administration (U.K.)
ROCS                                               Roads and Coastal Shipping Projects
UEM                                                      University Eduardo Mondlane
UNDP                                           United Nations Development Prograrnme
USAID                               United States Agency for International Development
Pace-l



ADMINISTRACAO NACIONAL DE ESTRADAS                                ICR ROCS-1 PROJECT
JNDEX
Contents                                                              Page
1.  Executive Sumrmary ............... 03
2.    Studies and Projects ............... 03
3. Works ...............                               j                       04
4.  Planning ..................... 04
3     Tcchnical Assistance ............... 04
6.    Institutional Reforms ............... 05
7.    Development of the Local Road Construction Industry ......    ............. 06
8.    Professional Development .........................................   06
9.    Laboratories .........................................                   07
10.   Social and Economic Impact ......................................... 07
11. Funding .07
Page-2



ADM21STRACAO NACIONAL DE ESTRADAS                               ICR ROC5-I PROJECT
1.0   Executive Summary
The ROCS-1 Development Credit Agreement was signed in June 1992, this was amended
several times during the course of the project to suit the requirements of the Project
Implementing Units.,The project ended on the 31SL December of 1999.
In summary, the Staff Appraisal Report define the primary project objectives as the
development ofkstitutional capacity and the implementation of policy reforms. With the
general project objectives being further defined as (i) providing sufficient qualified human
resources in order to meet the peace-time needs of the economy, (ii) strengthening of
GOM institutions to allow them to cost effectively manage transport infrastructure, (iii)
encouraging and assisting in implementing policy reforms necessary for efficient
management of national rources and (iv) support to GOM's Priority Districts
Programme by removing transport related obstacles.
The Roads component of the project has, by and large, succeeded in achieving the above
objectives as demonstrated by (i) ANE' s ability to implement some USD 500 M worth of
projects under the ROCS-2 project with constantly diminishing numbers of technical
assistants, (ii) the large volume of training undertaken as well as the establishment of the
Roads Training Center and development at various technical institutions in Mo9ambique.
(iii) the creation of an autonomous Road Authority and the establishment of company
structures for the ECMEPS and PERCS and (iv) the reduction of roads in a poor or worse
condition from 81% of the network to only 46% and an increment of those in fair
condition from 19% to 54%.
The social and economic impact of the project whilst not monitored under the project is
clear as demonstrated by the improvement in the Moambican vehicle fleet, foreign
investment in agricultural projects made possible by the improved road network,
stabilisation of the currency and the dramatic growth of the economy.
Throughout the project the flexible and accommodating approach of the Bank made the
implementation of this complicated project a possibility and finally a success.
2.0    Works Projects
The Department of Studies and Projects. responsible for project identification, design and
tendering, completed a total of thirteen Feasibility studies on 2040 kilometers of road
throughout the country. Of these Feasibility studies all, except one, have been or are in
the process of being implemented. In addition to these projects a further, approximately,
230 kilometers of road were opened and rehabilitated and 1603 km of roads subjected to
detailed designs in 10 separate projects. In addition to these a further 5 Technical
assistance contracts.



ADMIN[STRACAO NACIONAL DE ESTRADAS                                 ICR ROCS-I PROJECT
3.0    Tertiary Roads
Under the project a total of 140 tertiary road rehabilitation contracts were entered intG.
These were mainly under the umbrella of the Feeder Road Program ( FRP ) which used
labour-based technologies to rehabilitate and maintain earth and gravel roads. The FRP
grew from a senes of pilot projects beginning in the early eighties to a country-wide
programme by 1992. The most positive features of the programme are substantial job
creation ( over 7000 during 1999), the provision of job opportunities for women, the
creation of technical capability and the reduction of machine base maintenance
requirements.
The Labour-based technology proved to be a practical, sustainable and economical
method for the rehabilitationtand maintenance of low volume roads which forms a key
part of the Mo9ambican Govtmment's Road Policy in areas of high population density.
4.0    Planning
In 1995, there was an increase of 60% in the recorded 1994 traffic volumes. The
approximate distribution of vehicles by category is small vehi cles 46%, trmcks 3 7%, buses
8% and tractors 9%.
A Road Management System was designed and introduced in September 1996. As a result
a comprehensive roads data base now exists, providing an invaluable planning and
management tool.
The current national roads programme was designed taking into account the road policy
which defines all weather roads, roads transitable at least 10 months per year, the
percentage of the network which must be in good and reasonable condition, Design
standards and feasible maintenance levels for differing road categories and, defined IRR's
for investment projects,
5.0    Technical Assistance
The weakness of GOM implementation capacity in 1992, the limited financial resources,
the lack of security in certain areas and the uncertainty of how the economy would
develop at the inception of the ROCS project, in 1991, meant that the first phase of the
project, ROCS-1, concentrated on the country's most urgent needs for road and coastal
shipping transport improvements. In addition, as the first of a series of development
projects the ROCS-1 project also addressed the severe lack of institutional capacity in the
transport sector by including the first phase of a long range institutional development
program to build capacity and facilitate the recovery of the roads sector. One of the
principal means of both pro-viding and developing institutional capacity was by the
assignment of technical assistants to the various institutions responsible for the
maintenance and management of the road network. This has been a large programme
which has benefitted from approximately 1600 man months of input under the General
C:xtG-_lD-ftn1-kr d.
Pn oP X



AD'MINISTRAC,O NACIONAL DE ESTRADAS                              ICR ROCS.I PROJECT
Consultant, TA to DEPs, TA to Feeder Roads Programme, TA to training, TA to Road
Fund and TA to Local Road Construction Industry contracts. In addition, various other
institutional studies were undertaken utilising short term TAs.
What is, however, clear is that ANE and its personnel have benefitted greatly from the
presence of TA during the period since 1993 as demonstrated by the continued (efficient)
day to day functioning of the ANE organisation following a dramatic reduction in TA.
In addition ANb4 has succeeded in implementing some USD 710 M worth of projects in
the roads sector of which about USD 120 M fall under ROCS-1. This has resulted in a
reduction of the percentage of roads considered to be in poor or worse condition from 81
% to only 46% and an increment of those in fair to good condition from 19% to 54%.
6.0   Institutional Reforms
The ROCS-1 Project was conceived in 1991, as a long term project, to remove
transportation bottlenecks through the rehabilitation of the transport infrastructure, in
support of the Government of Mozambique's Economic Rehabilitation (ERP) and
Economic and Social Rehabilitation (ESRP) Programmes
In addition to the physical reconstruction work required on the road network it was also
realised that there was a need to review the Governments Roads Policy as well as
institutional structures of the various organisations responsible for the management and
control of the road network. The following Policy and Institutional changes resulted from
these reviews.
Policy Changes:    The formulation and adoption of a revised Road Policy in July
1998.
Institiutional Changes: The result of this review was that an autonomous Road Authority
be formed with full responsibility for the financing, management and control of the road
network. This was effected by the establishment of the Road Board or "Administracao
Nacional de Estradas (ANE)" in late 1999.
A second study commissioned to investigate the most appropriate institutional structure
for the management and operation of the Government owned and controlled ECMEPS
resulted in the recommendation that the ten provincially based organisations be
consolidated into three regional companies (SARLs). This was also implemented during
1999. These companies, although still public, have clear mandates to operate with
commercial objectives.
A similar study to that undertaken for the ECMEPS was undertaken to determine the
most economical method of providing the local construction and maintenance industry
with operational and well maintained earthmoving equipment. The recommendation of this
study was that privately owned plant equipment and rental companies should be formed.
Three regional autonomous companies have been set up but are as yet no functional.



ADMINISTRACAO NACIONAL DE ESTRADAS                               ICR ROCS-I PROJECr
Fundamental to the functioning of any Road Authority is the availability of funds. The
legislation currently enacted to establish ANE, makes provision for this by directly
incorporating the Road Fund and its incomes in the Road Authority as well as its
management and maintenance obligations.
7'0   Local Road Construction Industry
-The Govermnent of Mozambique (GOM) embarked on the creation of a viable,
competitive local road construction industry which was identified as an essential
component of the continuing and sustainable development and maintenance of
Mozambique's infrastructure. To support the development of Local Industry, ANE
launched two separate prograns, the first for the Local Consultants and the second for
Local Contractors.
Forthedevelopmentof local consultants, ANE prepared contracts forengineering, design
and supervision of certain roads which were directly awarded to locally registered
consultants. Eleven contracts covering a total of 917km were awarded.
A work plan for the Local Contractor Developmenit Project aimed at achieving 10
percent of Mozambique's routine road maintenance needs being satisfied by local
contractors, and that all provinces being provided with suitably qualified and competent
local contractors.
In support of this initiative II contracts wvere awarded to Local Contractors in 1996,
covering some 1,637 km of roads . This was increased by a further 120 contracts during
the period between 1997 and 2000, covering some 4667 km of roads.
8.0   Professional Development
At the inception of the ROCS-1 project ANE only had 3 qualified engineers and 15
technicians of various levels. Following the professional development programme under
the ROCS-1 and subsequent ROCS-2 project ANE now boasts some 57 qualified
engineers, 59 engineers in training and 16 technicians.
This increase was made possible by a Human Resources Development and Training
Program which was designed and implemented by ANE in 1993. Under this program a
Training Division Nvas created with the responsibility for the formulation, implementation
and coordination of all the training activities within the road sector. To achieve this, ANE
contracted technical assistance services under the ROCS-1 Project. The main objective
of the services was the establishment within ANE of the necessary professional
development capacity to produce qualified road and bridge engineers, technicians,
inspectors, labour- and administrative personnel needed to carry out rehabilitation,
maintenance and-mana,ement if the road network.



AD.INIssRACAO NACIONAL DE ESTRADAS                               ICR ROCS-I PROJECT
To achieve this objective Roads Training Technical Assistance Services (RTTAS) were
procured with the responsibility for:
Setting up a sustainable training capacity in DNEP by the establishment of an
operational Training Division;
Setting up the Roads Technical Training Center and the Road and Mechanical
Training Broduction Units for mobile practical training activities;
Rehabilitation of the Roads Technical Training Center's facilities to increase its
capacity to 100 participants.
9.0   Laboratories
The development of the DNEP's laboratories, which were being operated by the
ECMEP's, was carried out under the TA to DEP's project as part of the overall ROCS
programme. All ten laboratories are now functioning and providing a useful service to the
construction industrv.
A Manual including all the procedures for the day to day running of the laboratories was
produced. The Manual was presented to DNEP in February, 1995 and introduced at
provincial level through short courses.
10.0  Social and Economic Impact
The effect of the development of ANE and the projects undertaken in the reinstatement
of the national road network has had a profound socio-economic effect by permitting the
large majority of the Mozambican population access to commercial opportunities. This
together with the substantial foreign and local investment bodes well for the next phase
of the ROCS project and the future of Mozambique.
11.0  Funding
The project was financed from a number of sources and included grants, loans and own
funds. Of a total expenditure of approximately USD 180M the Government of
Mocambique contributed approximately twelve percent or USD 25M.
The sources and the uses of the project funds are detailed in the table over the page.
(.$t;,,,.1-D~~~~~~~~~/t l,! 7'P~p-



ADl)1INIStI AC,LO NACIONAL DE FSTTRADAS                                                 ICR ROCS-I PROJECT
ROCS-1 FINANCIERS
(in 1000 USD)
Financier               -  PROJECT - x -. -          Provisoin   AvaitabI   Disburjed
. , . . : .. " :-,--:..*......             ..,;. :. ...:;;, .-- -5S
Beira Corridor (Engineering)                         1,171     1.101
ADF       Beira Corridor (Engineering)                          4,874     3.700
Pemba - Monte. & Vand - Changara (Eng)               3,513      1,368
Sub-Total                                32,000      9,558      6,168
ASDI      Technical Assistance (General Consultant)               770         0
Tertiary Roads                                      28.813    17,545
Sub-Total                                24,000     29,583    17,545
Chib.Chissano-Xai-Xai                                  215       210
BADEA       Technical Ass stance                                   145        131
Equipment  -                                         3.300      2.184
Sub-Total                                18,000      3,660      2,525
BoanelSabie Mn ineering)                               469       411
EDF       Nampula/Nacara (Engineering)                            .536      553
Baillet Bridges and Armco Culverts                    2,9791   3,026
Sub-Total                                84,000       3,984     3,990
GOM        Internal Financing                                  25.178    25.178
Sub-Total                                46,000     25,178t   25,178
IDA       ROCS-I&II                              !             56.0001  54,394
Sub-Total                                 56,000 1  560001   54394
Japio      Eouioment                              I             10_335 _  111818
Sub-Total                             |  52,000     10335    11,818
Emeroency Rehabilitation                            20,705   21,057
KFW       Tertiary Road Rehabilitation                          3,155      3.270
_Sub-Total   =                            35,000     23,860    24,326
KFAED       MaoutoiNarraacha                                 |    1,5001    1,500
Sub-Total                                  1,500      1,500     1,500
Opec       Xai-Xai Bridce                                        3,500     3.400
Sub-Total                                10,000       3,500     3,400
Zambezia Province Rehabiiitation                      29741    2.060
UNCOF        Namoula Province Rehabilitation                       5 452     5.427
Sub-Total                                  6,000      8,4261    7,487
Caixa Francesa Sub-Total                                   1,000          0         0
Zambezia Tertiary road rehabilitation                14,000     9.563
ODA       Sub-Total                                 14,000     14,000      9,563
Niassa Tertiary road rehabilitation                    886        814
SOC       Sub-Total                                  1,000        886       814
1 1043      1,106
WFP        Sub-Total                                  6 000      1,a43     1 106
Tertiary Roads                                       10_130 7_576
PNUO       Sub-Total                                 10,000     10S130     7576
-'Total..   . -.  --                     --- ' -  396,500  201642.177,391
Paze-8



ROCS 1
(MTC components)
COMfPLETION REPORT
The ROCS I project had, originally two executing agencies, Gpromar on behalf of the
Ministry of Transport and Communications (MTC) and DNEP on behalf of the Ministry
of Public works and Construction (Initially the Ministry of Construction and Water at the
time of the signing of the project). This report covers that part of the project managed by
Gapromar
Objectives and components ofthe project
The project objectives were as follows:
(i)   Develop the institutional capacity in the MTC to effectively plan and supervise
the improvement of small coastal ports serving the priority districts
(ii)  Implement policy reforms in the trucking and coastal shipping sub-sector,
required to effectively support the "Economic Second Rehabilitation Program"
and the agricultural development contemplated in the GOM's Pubic Development
program (PDP)
In particular ROCS 1 would begin IDA's long term assistance to GOM in developing the
institutional and managerial capacity and the policy and regulatory fiamework required to
successfully implement and sustain transport improvement through this and forthcoming
projects.
The projects' components were as follows:
(i)   Technical assistance to DNM/Gapromar and other coastal shipping organizations
intended to provide guidance and assistance during implementation of this and
two proposed subsequent ROCS project, including:
-     over all project management
-     policy and regulatory reforms
-     facilitation of greater private sector involvement (awarding port
management contracts, preparing state enterprise for divestiture
etc.) and
-     development and preparation of subsequent phases of long term
coastal shipping transport sub-sectors improvement program
(ii)   The first five years of a comprehensive training program for coastal shipping
personnel
(iii)  Studies and implementation of recommendations for policy reforms in
procurements and trucking



(iv)  Initial assistance for inter-modal facilitation, and customs efficiency improvement
(v)   Small ports investments in infrastrcture and in cargo handling equipment and
tugs - the latter to be funded through a line of credit, in five of the fifteen tertiary
ports and in one of the five regional ports and
(vi)  Investments in small port navigational aids and communications
Following the signing of a peace agreement soon after the signing of this project, the over
all transport condition changed drastically in Mozambique with the opening of the road
network to traffic. The urgency to improve the efficiency of the coastal shipping sub-
sector diminished partly becaus4one of the main coastal shipping traffic, food aid, was
substantially reduced, partly be4'use due to various factors the agricultural production
tools were largely destroyed andrpartly because many products started to be transported
by road. As a result coastal shipping started to decrease to reach its lowest volume in1995
of about 75,000 tons.
Confronted with this new environment, the GOM and the World Bank agreed, on August
4, 1994, to modify the objectives of the project. A new activity (part F) "Institutional
strengthening of the MTC and strengthening of the Trucking industrv' was added to the
project. The objective was to strengthen the institutional capacity of the MTC for long
termn planning and monitoring project and for the supervision and control of the
liberalization and privatization of the transport sector.
Later, when the Custom Restructuring Unit (UTRA) was established, the GOM and the
World Bank agreed that the component of the project related to the restructuring of
custom would not be any more managed by Gapromar but will be managed directly by
the MPF.
Key results
Following the amendment of the credit agreement in August, 1994, Gapromar focused
the activities of the project on t restructuring and strengthening of the transport sector.
With the assistance of the project, the MTC prepared a new transport policy that was
approved by the Counsel of Ministers in April 1996.
According to this policy, the Government of Mozambique (GOM) wishes to call on the
contribution of the private capital for the building and/or rehabilitation of infitructures,
for the management, through contract or leasing agreement of ports, railways services
and airports and for the establishing of air and shipping transport companies.
The GOM through et MTC is now playing the role of facilitator, having the
responsibility of defining policies and creating enabling environments for the private



sector. The MTC is also responsible for issuing the necessary licenses and to monitor and
control all the transport activities in the country.
The MTC has started to implement this new policy. New regulations liberalizing the road
and air transport sectors as well as the stevedoring industry have been approved by the
F2ouncil of Ministers. New regulation regulating coastal shipping is being finalized.
The privatization of state own companies such as Navique, Transmaritima, Camoc, TTA
etc,. are either finalized or at an advanced stage of negotiation. The MTC has also
embarked in the pnvatization of the management of transport infrastructures such as
ports, railways and airports.
To comply with its new responsibilities, the MTC has started a comprehensive
restructuring. In 1994,the CFEvthe Rails and Ports company) was transformed into an
independent, financially auton4ous company. More recently, all the responsibilities
related to maritime safety and ships inspection were transferred from the National
Directorate for Maritime Affairs (DNM) to SAFMAR, an independent public agency.
The responsibilities for road safety, the issuing of driving licenses and the registration of
vehicles were transferred from the National Directorate for Road Transport (DNTR) to
INAV, an independent agency that should also become soon financially autonomous.
Recently the Council of Ministers approved the transformation of "airports of
Mozambique, ADM, azency responsible for the management of the primary and
secondary airports of the country into an independent, financially autonomous agency.
The MTC has up-dated all the air safety regulations and has started the process to create
an independent institute responsible for air transport safety. The MTC has started the
restructuring of its Provincial Directorates and is in the process of setting up corridor
authorities for the development of the corridors of Maputo, Beira and Nacala.
Working on close coordination with the Transport Department of the city of Maputo, the
MTC has assisted the Minibuses operators to establish cooperatives to operate along
specific corridors.
Long term concessions' contracts were signed for three tertiary ports. However a bidding
to rehabilitate four of these ports had to be cancelled and the funds allocated to their
rehabilitation transferred to other categories of the project The rehabilitation of these
ports will now be financed by the Railway and Ports Restructuring Project (RPRP)
Due to the lack of interest from the potential users, the line of credit for the purchase of
ports equipment and small ships had to be cancelled. This is largely due to the
restructuring of the banking sector in Mozambique and to the fact that credit in foreign
currencies could be found at better conditions that the ones offer by the line of credit.
The internal structure of the MTC has also been modified with the setting-up of new
National Directorates such as the new Directorate for Shipping and Ports, the Directorate
for Land Transport (covering rails and road transport) and the Economic Directorate.



A large number of the staff of the MTC has followed training program financed by the
project. In particular eighteen staff of the MTC got a BA in tansport economics
The objective of these changes is to establish a new environment for the transport sector.
All transport services should be provided by the private sector, which should also operate
a, large part of the tansport infrastructures through long term concession agreements. The
MTC will be respoiisi6le for the design and the implementation of the tansport policies
as well as the monitoring of the sector.
Evaluation of the borrower performance
The MTC implemented the ROCS I project through Gapromnar At the beginning of the
project, Gapromar acted as an i*iependent body and the various National Directorates of
the MTC were not always fully wiformed of et activities of the project. Once this was
recognized, Gapromar offices were moved to the MTC headquarters, Gapromar strted to
publish regular memorandum or news letters and to maintain close dialogues with all the
parties concerned by the project.
The Ministry of Plan and Finance that should approve all contracts with consultants or
training institutions, financed with the proceeds of the project was often slow in giving
these approvals. This hampers the smooth implementation of the project. Some activities
had to be substantially delays and other had to be cancelled
Evaluation of the World Bank performance
Generally speaking the various task managers of the ROCS 1 project had assisted
Gapromar in satisfactorily implementing the project. However the availability of the
World bank staff to monitor the project seems to have been reduced after the last
restructuring of the World Bank and, during certain period, in particular during the
absence oft eht ask managers from Washington, the response of the World Bank to
Gapromar request, including non-objections, were slowed to reach the MTC.



REPUBLICA CE MO9AMBIQUE
MINIST tRIO DO PLANO E FINAN$AS
UTRA-UNIDADE T1tCNICA DE REESTRUTURAgAO
DAS ALFANDEGAS
Exmo. Senhor
Gualberto Lima Campos
CONSULTOR
Transport 1
Eastern and Southern Africa
WASHINGTON, DC 20433 U.S.A
Maputo, 16 de Dembro de 1999
MEMORAiNDO No. 9 8 UTRA/GOA/1999
1. Introduqao
No ambito do programa de reformas do Govemo, foi criada junto do Gabinete de S.Exa o
Ministro do Plano e Financas, a UTRA - Unidade Tecnica de Restruturac,o das Alfandegas.
A UTRA, cujo funcionamento foi financiado atrav6s dos fundos providos pelo Projecto
ROCS - 1, (Cr. 2374 - MOZ) do Banco Mundial ate 31 de Dezembro de 1999, e o organismo
govemnamental responsavel pelo delineamento, acompanhamento e controlo do programa de
reforma das Alfandegas e pelo monitoramento e supervisao dos servicos contratados pelo
Governo de Mo,ambique no ambito do referido programa.
A gestao operativa desenvolveu-se ao longo dos tres ulttimos anos. Em paralelo, seguiu a
utilizacao e o aperfeicoamnento do sistema de PSI e a reforma dos .demais componentes do
sistema aduaneiro. E chegado o momento, agora, de se fazer consolidar o resultado da
reforma realizada e criar os mecanismos que assegurem a sua sustentabilidade, mesmo depois
da retirada a assistencia tecnica externa directa.
A  reforma das Alfandegas ate agora empreendida compreende os planos t6cnico,
organizacional, legal, procedimental, tecnol6gico e de recursos humanos. Abarca, tambem,
todas as reparticoes aduaneiras do pais. Para que essas transformaq6es se consolidem, o
programa deve, tarnbem, dar continuidade ao trabalho de reabilitac,ao das estruturas fisicas
das Alfandegas e o seu reequipamento material, sem o que as demais componentes da
reforma nao terao o ambiente fisico onde se desenvolver.
L N. EY4



3. Custos da UTRA, por grupos de actividade.
RUBRICA                      ACTIVIDADES                       FUNDOS
3.a. UTRA: STAFF E
CONSULTORIA
3.a 1. Pessoal local          Direc9ao, Coordenagao e       USD  460,300
Planificagao. Suporte ao
Programa de Gestlo e Reforma.
3-.a.2 Equipas de Apoio       Prover, Acompanhar, Controlar,
Constituir, Realizar, Tomar
providencias, Planear e
Promover os processos de
transi9do da Gestao das
Alfandegas da actual DNA para
a_Anpresa gestora.
3.a.3 Consultoria Ext/Int de  Dfecqaz-o, Coordena9ao e      SDR= 240,620 equivale
Longo Prazo                  PAnificacao. Suporte ao        USD 347,587.96
3.a.4 Consultoria Ext/Int. de  Programa de Gestao e Reforma.  Cambio USD de
Longo Prazo                                                  1,44455141003
3.a.5 Inforrnatidzao          Articular, Elaborar, Discutir,    USD 50,000
(ASYCUDAMIMS)                 Aprovar, Definir, Programar,
Realizar e Executar com a
empresa de Gestao e com
demais entidades envolvidas na
implantagao do sistema
informntico das alfandegas
CROWN AGENTS                                                 1.000.000,00(Um milhAo de
Libras esterlinas)
3.a.6 Viagens e Passagens     Esclarecer, intema e          USD 18,625.11
externamente, Definir,
Desenhar, Executar, Prover,
constituir comissoes, Realizar,
Tomar, etc o novo sistema de
gestao das Alfandegas e o papel
da UTRA e da empresa gestora.
3.b EQUIPAMENTOS                                            USD 380593,31
VEICULOS,SERVI(;OS, ETC                                            _
3.B. 1 Custo Operacional da  Implantar, Conseguir, Levantar,  USD 64,939,97
UTRA (Material, combustivel,   Gerir, Fazer a colecta de pregos
etc)                          fisicos e organizacionalmente a
3.b.2 Mobiliario e equiparnento  estrutura administrativo da
de escrit6rio da UTRA         UTRA
3.b.3 Veiculos e pecas de
reposicao p/veiculos
4. Resulados
Realiza,ao do programa de actividade pre-aprovado. Ver anexo.



ANEXO A
Relat6rio Anual das Actividades da UTRA em 19981
I.     Actividades programadas e ji concluidas:2
Podem  ser consideradas concluidas as seguintes actividades do programa de trabalho
aprovado para a UTRA:
Quadro-Resumo das Actividades jai Concluidas do Programa de Trabalho daUTRA
Act.                      Especificacao                          Termino            Observaq6es
nr.                       da actividade                          Previsto
02  Constituir a UTRA e aprovar o seu orgamento                  Set/95
03  Defnir a estrategia para a transiqao da gestao operativa     Dez/96
04  Deflnir e planear as actividades da UTRA                     Ago/96
05  Definir e aprovar a estrutura administrativa da UTRA         Set/96      Alterada em Julho 1997
06  Impiantaqao fisica e organizacional da' UTRA                 Dez/96      Forrnalizada
07  Ver possibilidade de ter mais tecnicofacionais de curto      Set/96
prazo, para a la. etapa do programna
08  Analisar o documento do BIRD relativ6 ao prograrna para       Jul/96
ver se e possivel obter mais tecnicos
09  Reunir c/BIRD para discutir o financiamento dos gastos com   Out//96
reformas, instalacoes, mobiliirio e etc.
10  Finalizar o plano de acgao para o programa de reformna e as  Nov/96
negociac6es para o seu fmanciamento
11  Definir a contratac,o de peritos de curto, midio, longo prazos  Jan/98  Definido em Outubro/98
12  Estabelecer um cronograma de reuni6es da UTRA                Jun/96     Reajustado em 1997
13  Defmir a forma de relacionamento da UTRA com a DNA,          Out/96     Reajustado em 1997
PSI, Empresa de gestao e demais Alfandegas
14  Articular com a empresa de gestao e outas entidades o piano  Nov/96
de ac,ao para a reabilita,ao da infra-estrutura
15  Elaborar cronograma de desembolso p/execu,co do programa     Fev/97     0 plano foi concluido em
de reabilita,ao fisica e reequipamento das Alfandegas                   Maio de 1998
17  Concluir a selec,co da empresa de gestao                     Jul/96
IS  Elaborar  muta de conrato de gestao das Alfandegas           Jul/96
19lDiscutir, fializar e assin  o contrato de gest_o              Ago/96
20  Esclarecer o novo sisterna de gestio das Alfandegas, o papel  Jan/97
da UTIRA e da empresa de gestao
21  Promover a transi,co da gestao das Alfandegas p/a CA         Mai/97
23  Concluir a revisao do projecto da nova pauta aduaneira       Set/96
25  Resolver as pendencias da transicao da SGS para ITS          Ago/96
26  Solucionar as pendencias de PSI decorrentes da mudanga da    Nov/96     A tarefa terminou com o
SGS para a Inchcape                                                     parecer s/factura da SGS
28  Redefinir a Policia Fiscal e vincula-la ao Gabinete do       Fev/97      Alterado. 0 novo "staff'
Ministro, com delegaSao de competencia p/a UTRA.                        ira cumprir as fung6es da
PF.
29  Redefmir a estrutura e o funcionamento do Tribunal Aduanei-              Concluida a parte nao per-
ro, equipa-lo e vincula-lo ao Gabinete do Ministro          Abr/97      rnanente da actividade
Quadro-Resumo das Actividades ji Concluidas do Programa de Trabalho da UTRA
(Cont.)
Em confomnnidade com o programa de trabalho aprovado para a implementaqao da reforma das Alfandegas.
Conforme codificaSao e especificacao adoptadas na proposta de programa de trabalho anexa ao relat6rio de
Junho.



Act.                       Especifica ,co                        Termino            Observa;6es
nr.                       da actividade                          Previsto
30  Minutar, buscar aprovagao e implementar diplomas legais p/   Jun/97
ajustar os institutos aduaneiros aos objectivos do programa de          Concluidas em sua maior
reforma das Alfandegas, nomeadamente:                                   parte emn NovembrmJ98.
- Sistematizar a concessao e o controlo de isen,co de direitos;         A-penas   a  actividade
- Sistematizar a concesslo e/ou a renova,co da explora,ao de            relacio-nadacom      os
terminais intemacionais de mercadorias e bens;                          acordos   internacionais,
- Exarninar os aspectos aduaneiros de acordos e protocolos              que       e       conti-
. intemacionais de cooperagao e de integraSao econ6mica;                 nua,permanece sendo exe-
,  - Em conjunto com o MICTUR, rever o sistema BRI.                        cutada.
33  Visitar as estancias aduaneiras do pais e levantar o estado das  Mai/97  Concluido em  Junho/98,
infra-estruturas e preparar o plano de reabilita,co                     mas esta ser revisto.
36  Fazer a pre-selec,ao do pessoal das Alfandegas passivel de   Nov/96      Alterado o plano. Feita a
ser aproveitado no ambito do programa de reforma                    _avaliao (Mai/Ago/97)
37  Definir a politica a ser desenvolvida cgm relac,o ao pessoal  Set/96
excedentario das Alfandegas
38  Definir os criterios de seleccao do pes*al existente         Jan/97      Concluida em Maio/97.
39  Articular c/empresa de gestio os critribs de selec,co do     Fev/97      Feito.    0  Gov.Ingles
pessoal das Alfandegas a ser aproveitado                                ofere-ceu ajuda, tambem.
40  Elaborar c/a C.Agents programa de formna,o p/as alfandegas.  Nov/98      Feito.   Reajustes seriao
Fazer ajustes peri6dicos em fiunco dos avancos do projecto              feitos opormunamente.
41  Seleccionar o pessoal do quadro actual que permaneceri nas   Nov/98      Definido. A execuc,o sera
Alfandegas, no ambito do programna de reforma                           faseada conf. o projecto.
,42  Definir criterios e seleccionar o pessoal p/os cart6rios do  Nov/98     Feito. P/fiscalizaqlo vai o
contencioso fiscal e p/fiscaliza,co aduaneira                           novo pessoal recrutado
43  Propor solu,co temporiria para a questao salarial            Mar/97      Debatida em Setl97
44  Elaborar solucao temporaria para a questao salarial do pessoal    Mai/97  Sendo implementada
das Alfandegas                                                          desde Janeiro/98.
45  Implantar a forma transit6ria de remunera,co do pessoal das  Mai/97      Esta a ser implementada
Alfandegas ate aprovacao do modelo definitivo                           desde Janeiro/98
48  Definir o fardarnento e a identificagao do pessoal           Jul/97      Feito e c/fornecedor certo.
49  Articular o custeio da informatizaqao das alfandegas         Set/97      Pedido formalizado p/BM
50  Articular a defmi9ao, a forrna de custeio e a implantaSio do  Fev/97     Concluido em Fev/98
sisterna informatico das alfindegas
51  Elaborar, discutir e aprovar o plano de acqao e respectivo   Fev/97      Concluido em Fev/98
cronograma para a informanzacao das Alfandegas
52  Discutir e aprovar o projecto de informatizario              Mai/97      Concluido em Mar/98
53  Definir as necessidades de consultoria e contratar os        Mai/98      Concluido em Mai/97
consultores para o projecto de informatizac,ao
Cumprimentos
Ester Fatima Magaia
Coordenadora de Gestao Operativa



MAP SECTION






*3400 AZ.                                  ~~TANZANIA                                    -
1                                      WTANZ A MN I A               
N-~~~~~~~~~~~
'3       ~C,
=  /         .tEaN              \ 1)               l                 )      :      r.....
/   e s    h                      (       B~~~'8  /         \'      
r  /    S   mngo       T                          uahetMpOo 
N.-~~~~~~8
{~~~~~       ~~~ 'f  Mh=m=lbbu                                          04884
4  gaHARARE           w               _     >    M=rromou  t                  'C'' 0
MOZAMBIQU E
,ROADS AND COASTAL SHIPPING
(ROCS) PROJECT
t    z  /    I ,  /                      ~~~~~~~~~~RB4ABUTATIO OF PAsVED> E5~.
suh.,,, 'oR lTJPhom  RDwtd,N TO PAVED
Z BA W_    REuTATION OfO UN#FE ROAM
MAWWTE4ACE ONLY TO BE PERFORteoR
PR4OE\W DISTRICTS
-PAOVED ROAD#:
UNPAVED RIZADS
2r
PORT OF REGIONAL IMPORTANCE
LOCALPORTS
A F R I C A  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~*                         PROVINCtE CAPITA4LS
NATIONAL CAPITALS
r                                           P~~~~~~~~~~~~~ROVINCE BOUNDARIES
n                                                                            tWE~~~~~~~~OI  080008 0OERE- IWTRATIONAL ROUNDARES 
80           SWAZI~LAN D                                                                                                    C  _ _ _ _ _ _ _
M0               1_                                                                                 20_II
MBABANE'~0                                                                                                             C., i  OME'VE
10                                            08                  *                 0 -                                   45'
t   Somb=mune   70~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'



