Page  1
November 22, 1995
His Excellency
Adriano Afonso Maleiane
Governor
Banco de Mocambique
Avenida 25 de Setembro 1695
P.O.Box 423
Maputo, Mozambique
Re: Credit No. 2374 MOZ (Roads and Coastal Shipping Project)
    Amendment to Development Credit Agreement
Dear Sir:
      We refer to the Development Credit Agreement, (the
Agreement), dated June 19, 1992, between Republic of Mozambique
(the Borrower) and International Development Association (the
Association). Further to discussions held between
representatives of the Borrower and the Association, we are
pleased to inform you that the Association agrees to amend the
Agreement as follows:
Article II:
      Section 2.02 (b) of the Agreement shall be amended to read
as follows:
      "(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars, four special deposit accounts in
commercial bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment: (i) Special Account A shall be opened
for the purposes of Parts A and D (c) of the Project (MCA
Account); (ii) Special Account B shall be opened for the
purposes of Parts B, B.1, B.2, B.3, B.4 (a) and B.4 (c) of the
Project (MTC Account); (iii) Special Account C shall be opened
for the purposes of Part C of the Project (BM Account); and
(iv) Special Account D shall be opened for the purposes of Part
B.4 (b) of the Project (MOF Account). Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special Accounts shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5, 6, 7 and 9 to
this Agreement."
Schedule 1:
1.    The table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Agreement
shall be amended to read as follows:
                              "Amount of the
                              Credit Allocated        % of
                                (Expressed in      Expenditures
       Category                SDR Equivalent)    to be financed
(1)    Goods and Services
       under Part A of
       the Project
       (a) Consultants           19,865,000       100%
           services
       (b) Training               2,240,000     100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
                                                60% of local
                                                expenditures
Page  2
       (c) Civil works under      2,910,000     90%
           Parts A.1, A.2, A.3
           and A.4 of the
           Project
       (d) Goods, works and       5,100,000     90%
           services under Part
           A.7 of the Project
       (e) Data communication,    1,100,000     100%
           computer equipment
           and software for DNEP
       (f) Vehicles under Part A.1  250,000     100%
           of the Project
(2)    Goods and services under
       Parts B.1, B.2, B.3,
       B.4 (a) B.4 (c) and
       F of the Project:
       (a) Consultants services   4,550,000     100%
       (b) Training               1,470,000     100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
                                                60% of local
                                                expenditures
       (c) Equipment, vehicles    1,690,000     100%
           and spare parts
       (d) Civil works under      2,590,000     90%
           Parts B.3 (a) and
           B.4 (b) of the
           Project
(3)    Goods and services
       under Part B.4 (b)
       of the Project
       (a) Consultants services   2,100,000     100%
       (b) Equipment and            350,000     100%
           spare parts
(4)    Goods and services         4,220,000     90%
       under the line
       of credit
(5)    Consultants services         895,000     100%
       under Part D of the
       Project and audits
(6)    Consultants services         400,000     100%
       under Part E of the
       Project
(7)    Refunding of Project         665,463     Amount due
       Preparation Advance                      pursuant to
                                                Section 2.02 (c)
                                                of the Agreement
(8)    Unallocated                3,704,437
           TOTAL                 54,100,000"
2.    Schedule 4:
      Part A.1 (c) shall be amended to read as follows:
      "'GAPROMAR' shall be responsible for the implementation of
Page  3
Parts B.1, B.2, B.3, B.4 (a) and B.4 (c) of the Project."
      Part A.1 (d) shall be amended to read as follows:
      "The Ministry of Plan and Finance of the Borrower shall be
responsible for the implementation of Part B.4 (d) of the
Project."
3.    Schedule 6:
      Paragraph 1 (a) shall be amended to read as follows:
      "the term 'eligible categories' means Category (2) set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement."
      Paragraph 1 (b) shall be amended to read as follows:
      "The term 'eligible expenditures' means expenditures in
respect of reasonable cost of goods and services required for
Parts B.1, B.2, B.3, B.4 (a) and B.4 (c) of the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from
time to time to the eligible categories in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement."
4.    Schedule 9:
      A new Schedule 9 shall be added to the Agreement to read
as follows:
                          "SCHEDULE 9
                Special Account D (MOF Account)
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)  the term "eligible Category" means Category 3 set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
      (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for Part B. 4 (b) of the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time
to the eligible Category in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $200,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited into the Special Account D pursuant to paragraph
3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account D shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory
to it that the Special Account D has been duly opened,
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account D shall be made as
follows:
      (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests
for deposit into the Special Account D of an amount or amounts
which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account D such
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)  (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account D, the
Page  4
                 Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
                 for deposits into the Special Account D at such
                 intervals as the Association shall specify.
           (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                 the Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
                 documents and other evidence required pursuant to
                 paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                 payments in respect of which replenishment is
                 requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                 Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                 withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
                 the Special Account D such amount as the Borrower
                 shall have requested and as shall have been shown by
                 said documents and other evidence to have been paid
                 out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from
the Credit Account under the respective eligible Category, and
in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account D, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association
shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account D:
      (a)  if, at any time, the Association shall have
determined that all further withdrawals should be made by the
Borrower directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
      (b)  if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Association, within the period of time specified in Section
4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for
the Special Account D;
      (c)  if, at any time, the Association shall have notified
the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions; or
      (d)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Category for Part B.4 (b) of the
Project, minus the total amount of all outstanding special
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to Part B.4 (b) of
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of
the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Category for Part B.4 (b) of the Project shall follow such
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special
Account D as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)  If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account D: (i) was made for
an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to
Page  5
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the
evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account D (or, if the Association
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to
the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account D shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)  If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account D will not
be required to cover further payments for eligible
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association,
refund to the Association all or any portion of the funds on
deposit in the Special Account D.
      (d)  Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the
Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions."
      Please indicate your agreement with the foregoing by
countersigning, dating and returning to us the enclosed copy of
this letter. This Amendment shall become effective as of the
date of countersignature.
Sincerely,
Katherine Marshall
Director
Southern Africa Department
Africa Region
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
By:    Adriano Maleiane,
       Authorized Representative
Date:  November 27, 1995
