Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ReportNo. 10723
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1362-ZA AND SF2-ZA)
JUNE 19, 1992
Infrastructure Operations Division
Southern Africa Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otberwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      =  Kwacha (K)
K1.00              =  100 mgwee
US$1.00            =  K 1.20
ZK 1.00           =  US$0.833 (1983)
ZK 1.00           =  US$0.023 (November 1990)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                    =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)               =  0.62 miles (mi)
1 square kilometer (km )       =  0.386 square miles (sq mi)
1 liter (1)                    =  0.26 US gallons (US gal)
1 cubic meter per
second (m /sec)              =  260 US gallons per second
1 Imperial gallon (gal)        =  1.2 US gallons (US gal)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BD                 =  Building Department of the Ministry of Works
of Works and Supply
DC                 -  District Council
CEC                =  Commission of the European Communities
DWA                =  Department of Water Affairs
EEC                =  European Economic Community
GDP                =  Gross Domestic Product
GRZ or Government =  Government of the Republic of Zambia
GTZ                =  Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Technische
Zusammenarbert GmbH
IDA                =  International Development Association
IDWSSD             =  International Drinking Water Supply and
Sanitation Decade
LDC                =  Local District Councila
MAWD               =  Ministry of Agriculture and Water Development
MOF                =  Ministry of Finance
MOH                =  Ministry of Health
NAC                =  National Action Committee
NCDP               =  National Commission for Development Planning
NORAD              =  Norwegian Agency for International
Development
PCW                -  Provincial Commissioner of Works
PLGA               =  Provincial and Local Government
Administration, office of the Prime
Minister
PMO                =  Provincial Medical Officer
PWE                =  Provincial Water Engineer
TNDP               =  Third National Development Plan
WHO                =  World Health Organization
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
1/    IDA, The Association and Bank signify the The World Bank in this report.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluatwn
June 19, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on the Republic of Zambia Rural Water
SuPply Project (Credit 1362-ZA & SF2-ZA)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on the Republic of Zambia Rural Water Supply Project
(Credit 1362-ZA & SF2-ZA)" prepared by the Africa Regional office with Part
II contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this project has been made by
the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
r This docament has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance|
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization. 



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1362-ZA & SF2-ZA)
TABLE OF CONTESN
Page No.
PREFACE . ..   ..   ...  ...   ... .   . . .  . i.
EVALUATION SUMLARY  . . . . . . . . . . . . . e. .                        * *    ii
PART Is   PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BiANK'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . . . . . .         1
A. Project Identity                . . .. .   .I.
B. Background                  ..1
C.  Project Objectives and Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . .    2
D.  Project Design and Organization . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    5
E. Project Implementation                      .        ..7
F. Project Results ... . . . .    8
0.  Project Sustainability  .                  . . . . . . . . . . .    9
H. Association Performanc                      ..10
I.  Borrower Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   10
J.  Project Relationship  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   11
K. Consulting Services               ..12
L.  Project Documentation and Data  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   12
PART II:  PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTrVE . . . . .   13
BANK'S PERFORMANCE ....... . . .........   13
A.  During Project Implementation   ......   .           .  .  .  .      13
B.  Summary of Bank's Role  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   14
BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE    . . . . . . .. . . .15
C. Overall Project Summary                  ...15
D. Civil Works Contracts                .. .16
B.  Work on Force Account  . . . . . . .  . ..                 .16
F. General Procure ent...                                                16
G.  Tariffs, Revenues and Operating Costs . . . . . . . . . . . .   17
H.  Health Component  . . .  . . . . .  .. . . . . . . . . . . .         17
1.  Project Expenditure--Finance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   17
J.  Institutional Perfofoanee . . .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   18
PART ISIt  STATISTICAL INFORMATION  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ..  .    19
A.  Related Bank Loans and/or Credits . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   19
B.  Project Timetable ....... . .                  .  .  .19
C.  Credit Disbursements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   20
D.  Project Implementation  . ......   . . . . . .          .    . . . .   .   21
S.  Project Costs and Financing .d.l.c.q. .      .  .  .  .  .    .......   .   22
F. Project Results . . . . . .                                     ...   . 24
G.  Status of Covenants . . . . . . .    .  .     .    .    . . . . . . . . . .   25
H.  Use of Bank Resources . . .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ... .  27
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance|
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World P.ank authorization. 



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1362-ZA & SF2-ZA)
PREFACE
This is a report on the completion of a project to expand the water
services in six largely rural districts in northern Zambia. A total credit of
SDR 14.8 million, comprising SDR 9.2 milllon for Cr. 1562-ZA and SDR 5.6
million for 8F2-ZA, was approved in March 1983 for this project. The borrower
was the Government of the Republic of Zambia (GRZ). The project was
implemented by the Department of Water Affairs (DWA) in the Ministry of
Agriculture and Water Development (MAWD) with assistance from a project
coordinator financed by the projec,t. Project completion was delayed by some
15 months from April 1986 to June 1987 following the granting of a 12-month
closing extension from the original closing date of April, 1986. However, in
May 1987, disbursements to Zambia were suspended by the Association until
March 13, 1991 when disbursements were resumed. At the time of the
suspension, committed but undisbursed funds totalled SDR 0.93 million. In
addition, there was an uncommitted credit balance of SDR 3.0 million which was
sufficient to finance the construction of three additional piped water systems
in Kaputa, Nchelenge and Mbereshi and for which the Association had given ;.ts
approval. Claims by the principal contractor for unpaid works prior to May
1987 totalling the equivalent of SDR 1.98 nillion including interest charges
were disbursed only in May 1991 after the lifting of the suspension. The
closing date for the project is September 30, 1991.
Parts I and III of the report were drafted by the Association and the
Borrower prepared Part II. The draft report has been reviewed by the DWA on
behalf of GRZ and their comments are reflected in this version of the PCR.



- il -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1362-ZA & SF2-ZA)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.0   Objective.
One of the objectives of the water and sanitation sector in Zambia is to
provide safe water to all Zambian. A 1973/74 WHO/IBRD study identified
serious imbalances in coverage and levels of water and sanitation service
between urban and rural areas with the rural areas being much more poorly
served. The principal objectives of the project were, therefore, to assist in
correcting the imbalances bys
1)    Providing piped water to an additional 29,000 people in 4 main
towns gad point system water supply to an additional 110,000
people in six rural districts in northern Zambia by the
construction of approximately 400 wells and 42 boreholes.
2)    Strengthening the key sector institution, the Department of Water
Affairs (DWA), to a stage where it would become the efficiently
managed and viable arm of GRZ for development and implementation
of sector policies. This involved addressing sector development
constraints such as - manpower shortages, inadequate operation and
maintenance, and inadequate cost recovery from consumers.
290 Implementation Experience
Despite initial delays in tender award due to a lack of adherence by DW-
to the Association's tendering requlrements and delays in project start-up
attributed to the principal contractorls lack of previous Zambian exposure,
physical implementation of the project, which lasted 15 months longer than
envisaged, must be considered as relatively successful.
The success of the physical implementation of the project would have
been enhanced if the surplus funds available on the project due largely to
exchange rate movements between the U.S. dollar and the Zambian kwacha could
have been utilized for the construction of three additional piped water
systems in Mbereshi, Nchelenge and Kaputa for which IDA had given its approval
and desigrs had been approved, before disbursements to Zambia were suspended.
implementation of improved financial systems and improved revenue
performance was hampered by the actions of the GRZ. The necessary and agreed
number of counterpart accountants was not provided, and the GRZ delayed
implementation of requested tariff increases.
The health education component was not implemented as no local funds
were made available for it by MOH.



- iii -
3.0   Results
The project essentially achieved its physical objectives of four piped
supply systems and 400 wells. It achieved only 30 boreholes out of 42, due to
diversion of the drilling rig intended for this project to other projects in
other parts of the country. A total of approximately 210,000 people are
estimated to have benefitted.
The project did not achieve its objectives of instituting improved
revenue accounting systems and full recovery of operating and maintenance
costs.
There was an unused balance of approximately SDR 1.89 million out of the
original credit of SDR 14.8 million due to significant devaluation of the
Zambian kwacha, and the appreciation of the SDR relative to the US dollar, and
the health component of the project not being implemented.
Although the health education component was not implemented it is
nevertheless reported that there has been a significant drop in the incidence
of water-borne diseases in the project districts apparently due to the
provision of better water service.
The project accomplished its objective of training 10 Zambian graduate
engineers.
4.0  S&atainability
This project ir not likely to be sustainable because it is part of a
system whose revenues do not even cover operation and maintenance expenses and
GRZ resources are not sufficiezt to adequately make up the deficiency. A
1987/88 study indicated that an expenditure of approximately 17 million
Kwachas/year was required to provide adequate operations and maintenance for
the systems under DWA and the District Councils rompared with an annual
revenues of 3 million Kwachas in 1988.
In addition, there are not sufficient technically qualified personnel to
maintain the systems in good order. Although engineers and technicians are
being trained, the pubiic sector is continuously losing its better staff to
higher paying positions in the private sector.
5.0   Findings and Lessons Learned
The IDA performed well in the identification and appraisal phase of the
project. The problems likely to be encountered - particularly DWA's
organizational weaknesses, the need to determine least cost solutions for the
individual piped water systems, and the need to strengthen revenue accounting
and collection - were identified at the time of appraisal.
The GRZ permitted the consultants, contractors and project coordinator
to get on with the physical project. DWA performed very well in the drilling
of wells by force account. The GRZ also deposited its share of local funding
on a timely basis. However, the GRZ was in default with respect to many key
covenants related to tariff levels and approvals, management staffing and
accounting systems and controls.



- iv -
The lessons learnQd are:
(a)   project equipment and veh!cles should as much as possible be used
first and foremost for the project;
(b)   pyrovision of accountant counterpart staff and counterpart funds
whould have been made project conditionalities, rather than
covenants;
(c)   the right of IDA to approve appointments to top management
positions in DWA should have been included in the covenants;
(d)   familiarity with IDA's procurement procedures by GRZ could have
eliminated Initial project implementation delays;
(e)   for ease of coordination and administration, supervision should be
entrusted to a single agency; and
(f)   a progressive tariff structure could benefit DWA.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1362-ZA & SF2-ZA)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.   Proiect Identity
- Project Name : Rural Water Supply Project
- Credit Number:  1362-ZA and 8F2-ZA
- RVP Unit     s Africa Region, Southern Africa Department
- Country      : Zambia
- Sector       : Water Supply and Sanitation
3. Backgrunnud
1.    Sector Development Objectives and Policy Context.  One of limbia's
objectives in the waeer and sanitation sector since the achievean'f.t of
independence in 1964 has been the provision of safe water to all its people.
in pursuit of this objective, the WHO/IBRD Cooperative Program was requested
in 1973-74 to carry out a water supply and sanitation sector study which would
also propose a long-term development program for the sector.
2.    The study concluded thats  urban areas were better served with water
than rural areas; sewerage and sanitation were generally less extensive and
served much smaller segments of the population than water supply; and rural
sanitation was totally inadequate. Its recommendations were to correct these
imbalances so that by 1990, about 90 percent of the urban and 40 percent of
the rural population would have access to a pumped water supply; and 60
percert of the urban and 20 percent of the rural population would have access
to waterborne sewerage. In addition, about 50 percent of the rural population
would have access to safe water from wells and boreholes and have access to
pit latrines.
3.    Although the proposed program was accepted by the GRZ, very shortly
thereafter in 1974, there was a drastic decline in copper prices and
consequently in GRZ revenues which severely limited the implementation of the
sectoral objectives.
4.    At the time of appraisal, the legislative framework for the water sector
in Zambia was considered to be adequate, not requiring any legislative
changes. However, the legal relationships among the different institutions
involved in the project were in need of clarification.



-2-
5.    The developmental and findacial policy framework was essentially
unchanged through the coustruction period of the project and, along with tte
organizational relationshlps in the sectors, proved to constitute a
aignificant constraint as antictpated at the time of appraisal.
6.    In the GRZ's 1978-83 National Development Plan, high priority was given
to the development of services in rural administrative centers. Most of these
were in the 42 poorer rural districts wnich generally lacked an adequate
revenue base. The policy extant was that operation and maintenance costs of
service facilities should be financed by the district councils. In 45 other
districts, DWA operated and maintained from its budget 62 piped water systems
on behalf of the councils. In both situations, the tariffs charged had no
relationship to the costs of a particular undertaking. Indeed, the policy
objective was that payment for water should not be related to the cost of the
system, but rather to the income of the consumer, despite other policy
statements extolling the principles and virtues of cost recovery.
7.    The GRZ's policy of relating tariffs only to the income of the consumer
rather than to the opsrating and maintenance costs of individual systems,
exarerbated by poor revenue accounting and collection practices, resulted in
the rural systems being dependent upon GRZ for up to 70 percent of operating
costs. However, as G9Z finances became constrained by the depressed price of
copper, the required funds were not forthcoming. Thus DWA was not able to
carry out GRZ's objectives within the sector, to plan and implement required
sector development programs and to adequately operate water sector facilities.
The situation was identified at appraisal and persisted through the project
period.
8.    At the time of appraisal, IDA's strategy in Zambia had been to support
GRZ's effort to: (i) diversify the economy and increase the role of
agriculture; (ii) narrow the gap between rural and urban incomes; and
(iii) develop a wide range of managerial and technical skills in order to
reduce dependence on expatriate manpower and improve the operating efficiency
of DWA, especially in the rural areas where the problems were greater. The
project was IDA's first in Zambia's water supply sector.
C.    Project Objectives and Description
9.    ProJect Objectives.  The principal objectives of the project were to:
(a)   Expar3 the water services available in six largely rural districts
in t!-e northern part of Zambia. This included piped water systems
in the main towns of four of the districts, and point systems
involving approximately 400 wells and 42 boreholes spread evenly
over the six districts. As a result, an additional 29,000 people
would receive piped water, and an additional 110,000 would be
served by point systems by the year 1988 increasing the serviced
population from about 45 percent in 1980 to 62 percent in 1988;
and
(b) Strengthen the key sector institution, DWA, to a stage where it
would become the efficiently managed and viable arm of GRZ for
development and implementation of sector policies.



-3-
10.   The project was also designed to address the other major constraints on
ector development--manpower shortages, inadequate operation and maintenance,
and i.aadequate cost recovery from consumers.
11.   Project Components.  The project consisted of the following components:
(a)   Construction of Four Piped Systems:  The proposed project included
improvement of existing or development of new water sources,
provision of treatment and pumping facilities and reservoirs and
expansion of distribution systems, including installation of
public standpipes, plot connections and water meters in four
northern Zambia district administrative centers (Isoka, Mpulungu,
Kawambwa, and Samfya).  It aleo included upgrading of existing
facilities in Kasama and Samfyc improvement of access roads,
fencing, housing for operators, water Lti,ters, standby equipment,
spare parts and about 10 km of small diameter pipes for sufficient
extension of distribution networks up to two years after
completion of the proposed works;
(b)   Construction of Point Systems:  The project included
rehabilitation of existing wells and boreholes in villages in the
project area and additional construction of about 70 wells and 7
boreholes in priority villages in each of six districts in
northern Zambia namely, the districts of Isoka, Kaputa, Kawambwa,
Mbala, Ndola Rural, and Samfya. District workshops were also to
be provided with spare parts, mainly for handpumps, sufficient to
maintain the installations for about two years after completion of
the proposed works. DWA w.1s also to be provided with a drilling
rig, vehicles and equipment to carry out these works by force
account;
(c)   Upgrading of Operation and Maintenance:  DWA's existing provincial
workshop/store buildings in Kasama and the district workshop in
Samfya were to be rehabilitated and the provincial workshops in
Mansa and the district workshops in Isoka, Kaputa, Kawambwa,
Mbala, and Ndola Rural to be replaced by completely new buildings.
The workshops were to be provided with equipment, tools and spare
parts for operation and ma. .'tenance of water supply systems under
DWA's control required for about two years after completion of the
project. Operation and maintenance capacity was also to be
strengthened by provision of six lorries (7 to 8 tons), six four-
-'heel drive vehicles and three pickups. Additional staff housing
_ncluded six medium grade and four high grade houses at DWA's two
provincial (Mansa and Kasama) and six district offices and 10 high
grade houses in Lusaka to be used by DWA's headquarters
professional staff;
(d)   Technical Assistance and Consulting Services and Training:  DWA
was required to appoint and retain suitable consultants and
experts on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA to provide:



-4-
(i) engineering consulting servicoes which would comprise
supervLsLon of construction of the four plped systems, and
preparation of detailed design for additlonal four-pLped
schemes and approximately 450 wells and boreholes in
villages to be included in the next follow-up projectg
(LL) tralnlng for professional level candidates by provisJon of
ten overseas scholarships;
(ili) technlcal assLstance whlch would comprlse:
a.    one engLneer to assiet DWA ln coordinating the project
actiLvtLes;
b.    one accounting specialLst (cost and management
accountant) to assist DWA in improving management
Lnformation systems;
c.    two maLntenance (water) engineers for DWA's provincial
offices in Mansa and Kasama for improving maintenance
of the water supply systems and for training purposes;
and
d.    four pickups, spare parts and operating cost for the
project duration.
(e)   Health Components  Health centers ln the six districto were to be
provided with wells (or boreholes) and proper pit latrines.
Provincial health offlces were also to be provided wLth equlpment
for simple chemical and bacteriologLcal laboratory analyses for
drinking water (to be inetalled ln provincial hoepitals and to be
used by health inspectors), staff houses and vehicles. The major
elements of this component were as described below:



-5-
(i)   wells and pit latriness
Repair of defective
wells, pumps (hand-                          New pit
pump, diesel-pump       New hand pumps       latrines
District          systems)                 required             required
Mbala                  3                         3                 24
:.soka                5                         4                  21
Kawambwa               3                         5                  9
Kaputa                -                         4                   6
Samfya                 2                       11                  13
Ndola Rural           11                                           11
Total                  24                      27                  84
(Li)  housing:  The MOH requested 5 new houses in the health
centers of Mpulungu, Sumbu, Mbereshi, Kawimbe and Masaiti;
and
(iii) tiansport:  For supervisory duties in district headquarters
the project was to provide six pickups, one four-wheel drive
station wagon and spare parts for two years.
D.    Proect Desian and OrEanization
12.   The Sectoral Context.  There is an adequate legal framework governing
Zambia's water resources. However, the organization of the sector has evolved
on an "ad hoc" basis, with District Councils, the DWA, the Ministry of Health
and the Buildings Department as well as parastatal institutions having
overlapping responsibilities. This is clearly inconsistent with the local
Adm.nistration Act No. 15/1981 which gives responsibility for water supplies
to the Provincial Councils (FZ) and to the Local District Councils (LDC).
13.   A further pattern has also developed in which various aid donors have
undertaken the supply of water systems on a regional basis with sponsorship
from local institutions in clear conflict with the local Administration Act.
14.  The only apparent common purpose among this multiplicity of actors in
the sector has been the objective of providing water supplies to as many urban
and rural communities as posslble.
15.   There is no national Master Plan for the water sector, no well-conceived
financial or economic policies for the sector, and no organizational framework
throagh which coherent policy can be achieved.



-6-
16. While these limitations were recognized at the time of project
identification, it would appear that IDA also acted as a "regional" donor
while seeking long-term organizational improvements in DWA itself. In 1986-
87, with IDA's involvement, a major reorganization study for the Zambia Water
Supply Sector was initiated.
17. The absence of a Water Master Plan and an economic policy framework
indicates that there is no means of determining whether this project was the
most appropriate to be undertaken at the time for the country as a whole in
the context of limited resources.
18. Additionally, whereas systems financed by donor grants can be operated
without regard to capital repayment, it is highly questionable whether systems
which recover only 40 percent of operation and maintenance costs can be
expected to be sustainable.
19. The DWA Organizational Context. In the project identification and
preparation process, many weaknesses were recognized in the organization of
DWA--for example, the filling of the Director's position by expatriates
historically; the need for a technically qualified project coordinator and
additional water engineers, and ti-e need for a cost and management accountar.t
and additional accountants. However, there was no requirement specified ixA
the Credit Agreement for IDA to approve the individual appointed as directc_
of DWA prior to such appointment.
20. Framework for Project Conceptualization. As referred to above, there
was no planning framework and no readily available data with which to
rationally determine whether this project represented at the time the most
effective contribution within the water sector to improving the welfare of the
population as a whole given the scarcity of resources.
21. In this connection, a sound tariff policy and revenue accounting system
were vital. At the time of negotiations, in 1982-83, with revenues from
consumers meeting only 10 percent of operation and maintenance costs, a tariff
study was undertaken by consultants. If implementation of the tariff study
recommendations had been made a condition of effectiveness of the credit, the
subsequent need in June 1985 to threaten suspension of disbursements in order
to secure the belated introduction of revised tariffs could have been avoided.
22. Technical Design. At the technical design level, the project was more
soundly conceived, with IDA's appraisal mission contributing to this result.
Deficiencies in the feasibility studies and the preparation work were
diecussed during appraisal--particularly the need to ensure that the proposed
designs represented the least cost solution--and further work was required of
the consultants.
23. The resulting design included the use of gravity feed at Kawambwa and
Isoka thus reducing the need for pumps, electric motors, etc. and minimizing
field maintenance and skill level requiroments.
24. Standard building designs were utilized for the district workshops,
resulting in significant cost savings.



-7-
25.   The hand pumps for the rural well program were selected after a field
trial. The India Mark II hand pumps have proved to be very reliable.
26.   The use of slow-sand filters at Samfya was appropriate, although the
filters had problems of premature clogging after only 8 to 10 days of
operation. A number of studies was conducted to identify the cause of the
problem and its solution. The report of the studies had not been released
when project activities were suspended in May 1987.
E.    Project Implementation
27.   Physical Project.  Relative to the original physical project objectives,
this project is considered to be relatively successful. Initial delays in
tender award for the piped water systems resulted from lack of adherence by
the DWA to IDA's requirements for review of tender documents. Delays in
project start-up by the principal contractor, together with the contractor's
lack of prior Zambian exposure resulted in a delay of approximately 15 months
in completion of the four piped-water supply systems. The original completion
date was April 17, 1986; an extension of time to April 15, 1987 was granted;
the four systems were essentially completed in June 1987.
28.   With respect to the boreholes, only 30 out of 42 boreholes were
completed. This was due to the drilling rig intended for this project's
boreholes being devoted to projects in other parts of the country; 396 out of
400 wells were completed.
29.   The success of the physical aspect of the project would have been
enhanced if the policies of the GRZ had not led to the suspension of
disbursements by IDA in May 1987 and to the cessation of project activities.
As a result of the significant devaluation of the Zambian kwacha, and the
appreciation of the SDR relative to the US dollar and the health component not
being implemented, there was a surplus of funds sufficient to finance the
construction of an additional three piped water systems in the towns of
Mbereshi, Nchelenge, and Kaputa, for which IDA had given approval and
preliminary designs had been prepared prior to May, 1987.
30.   Health Education.  This component, which was under the MOH was not
implemented as the MOH did not make provision for its counterpart funds in its
budgets.
31.   Finaticial Management.  One of the project's objectives was to implement
improved revenue collection and accounting. This was to be accomplished
through engaging ar. expatriate cost and management accountant who could in
turn train and deploy 11 accountants to be provided by the GRZ. Although GRZ
covenanted to employ these accountants, they were never provided; the cost and
management accountant was provided through NORAD (1985-87) and later through
GTZ (1987-88). However, no counterpart was provided. The first management
accountant from Norway had no water sector experience, and the most senior
Zambian accountant was transferried out of DWA just before he arrived. Such
improvement as did occur in billing and collections from 1986 onwards was
largely the result of the second management accountant working with existing
staff in the various districts. Some improvement in record keeping and
billing procedures was introduced; but, without the necessary counterpart
staff, it was not possible to introduce an appropriate customer ledger system.



32.   With hindoight, it is apparent that the GRZ covenanted to provide
accounting staff personnel which it was eLther incapable of providing or never
entinded to provide.
33.   Proiect and Operations Management.  The need for a full-time project
coordlnator was identified at the time of project preparatirn.  An expatriate
was provlded under IDA financing. ThLs undoubtedly contributed to the
project's physlcal achievement.
34.   Provision was made in the project to train 10 Zambian water engineers so
as to offset the shortage of qualified ZambLan engineers. Candidates were
selected and academic courses were successfully completed wLthin budget at the
S.J. College of Engineering, Mysore, India. However, lt is not clear whether
the graduates did receive satisfactory practical graduate training. Also, the
acute shortage of qualified personnel led to their rapidly being placed in
adminlstrative positions thereby negating much of their usefulness as
engineers.
35.   The need for strengthening of management and technical capability in the
DWA and the adverse impact of this situation on project implementation with
respect to relations with IDA, contractor and consultant, as well as financial
viability of the sector have been referred to in para. 19.
F.   Project Results
36.   In summary, it can be stated thats
(a)   The project essentially achieved its physical objectives of
increasing water production capacity in rural areas of Zambia. A
total of approximately 210,000 people are estimated to have
benefitted. As a result of devaluation of the Zambian kwacha and
appreciation of the SDR, relatlve to the US dollar and the health
component being belng implemented, it accomplished this result
with an unused balance of SDR 1.89 million out of the original
credit of SDR 14.8 million;
(b)   No appraisal economic or financial rate of return was computed
because the project'. revenues were forecast only to meet
operational and maintenance costs. ThL target was not met for
reasons outlined below;
(c)   The project did not achieve the objective of an improvement in
revenue accounting systems because the GRZ did not fulfill its
covenant to provide 11 accountants;
(d)   The project did not meet it. objective of full recovery of DWA's
operating and maintenance costs by 1985. Although there was a
significant increase in tariff levels and collections, revenues
were still only at a level of about 40 percent of operation and
malntenance costs in 1988;
ie)   Revenue accounting systems still need further strengthening (not
possible without the required accounting personnel). In 1988, it
was reported that at least 90 percent of government departments



-9-
were not paying their water b.lls--however, the system did not
provide information on which departments and locations were
delinquents
(f)   In addition, there is no incentive for individual districts to
improve their revenue collection because all revenues are credited
to GRZ, and costs are met by central budget allocation;
(g)   The project did not meet its objectives in health education
because the MOH did not provide local funding in its budgets.
However, it is reported that there has been a significant drop in
the actual incidence of waterborne diseases in the project
districts apparently as a result oZ improved water service.
(h)   The project accomplished its objective of training 10 Zambian
graduate engineers. However, it is too early to determine whether
DWA is actually benefitting at the technical level as a result;
and
(i)   Although not an objective of the project, the project enabled  IDA
to assist in an institutional study for reorganization of the
water sector in 1987-88 which was funded by GTZ. The study
recommended structuring the sector into two organizations, namely:
(i)   Zambia Water Resources Board, a statutory body responsible
for master planning and regulation of water resources, as
well as eetting water quality standards and monitoring
compliance; and
(ii) Zambia Water and Sewerage Company (divided into four
regional subsidiary companies) responsible for providing
water supply and sanitation services.
0.   Proiect Sustainability
37.   Clearly, this pro;ect is not sustainable because it was part of a system
whose revenues do not even meet operation and maintenance expense, while GRZ
resources are not sufficient to adequately meet the deficiency.
38.   The Water Sector study conducted by consultants in 1987-88 suggested
that approximately ZK 17 million per year was required to provide adequate
operation and maintenance for the systems under DWA and the District Councils
versus annual revenues of approximately ZK 3 million in 1988.
39.   In addition to the lack of availability of financial resources, there
are not sufflcient technically qualified personnel to maintain the systems in
good order. In 1983, the President's Report, para 59 stated:
"Water supply systems constructed by DWA under the project would
be hnanded over to the district councils for operation. However,
since there are few trained Zambians available in the districts to
operate the piped systems, these would be operated by DWA on
behalf of the district councils for at least 5 years after project
completion. District personnel would be trained tc take over



- 10 -
these systems after this period. The district councils would
remain responsible for the operation and maintenance of the point
systems".
40.   Although engineers and technicians are being trained, the public sector
is continuously losing its better trained personnel to higher paying positions
in the private sector.
H.    Association Performance
41.   IDA performed well in the identification and appraisal phases of the
project in terms of identifying the likely problems to be encountered,
particularly in terms of DWA's organizational weakness, the need to determine
least cost solutions for the piped water systems, and the need to strengthen
revenue accounting and collection.
42.   However, at the policy level it gravely overestimated the willingness of
the GRZ to honor commitments. Consequently items were included as covenants
which arguably should have been included as conditions of effectiveness--for
example, adoption of revised tariffs and adequate staffing of the financial
function and the hiring of properly qualified senior management at whatever
remuneration was required to attract the right person who should have been
subject to IDA approval.
43.   Once the project commenced, regular IDA supervision missions visited
Zambia and assisted with the design review process, tender award and sector
development.
44.   IDA was obliged to formally advise the GRZ in June 1985 that it would
suspend disbursement on the project if GRZ did not fulfill its covenant to
approve tariff increases.
45.   In May 1987, IDA suspended all disbursements to Zambia.  Arising from
this action, certified invoices to the principal civil works contractor for
work done prior to the suspension, were not honoured until after the lifting
of the suspension in March 1991.
I.    Borrower Performance
46.   As indicated in Part III, Section G "Status of Covenants", the Borrower
is in default with respect to many key covenants.
47.   There appeared to be resistance to efficient resource allocation as
shown in continuing failure to set realistic tariffs or to charge government
departments for water consumption.
48.   The management of DWA resisted award of drilling equipment contract to
be financed from the credit to the lowest evaluated bidder.
49.   The Bank of Zambia converted into kwachas the initial foreign exchange
deposited with it in the Special Account and refused to reconvert to the
currency of deposit. The Special Account was therefore used for local
payments only.



- 11 -
50.   In 1986, the HOF refused to process certified withdrawals in favor of
some contractors until pressure was brought to bear by a supervision mission.
51.   There were instances of diversion of project vehicles to unauthorized
use, as well as reallocation of drilling equipment required for timely
completion of the project to other uses.
52.   GRZ failed to pay its major project contractor the sums due to the
contractor following suspension of disbursement by IDA.
DWA performed very well in the drilling of wells by force account. GRZ
deposited, as agreed, at the start of each quarter, its share of local funding
to the accounts established for this purpose.
53.   The principal lesson for the GRZ is that it requires a reorganization of
the sector as a parastatal under competent, commercially oriented management
with a strong emphasis upon cost recovery.
J.    Proiect Relationshii
54.   Disbursements were suspended on all credits to Zambia in May 1987; prior
to that time several covenants under this credit agreement had either not been
complied with or pending.
55.   The project was accomplished physically just prior to suspension of
disbursements. In the absence of suspension, the three additional piped water
systems could have been completed.
56.   Over the life of the project, IDA cooperated with three other donors
which had been involved in Zambia's water sector--namely, the European
Development Fund (EDF) which financed the initial feasibility study; Norway
(NORAD) which financed the 1982-83 tariff study and the two management
accountants (1983-87); Germany (GTZ) which financed a contract extension fo.
the management accountant as well as the Water Sector Institutional
Reorganization Study. Relationships appeared to have been positive. However,
it appeared that the lack of sector management resulted in each donor
establishing its own sphere of influence and regional agenda.
57.   Suspension of disbursements led to the major civil works contractor
bringing suit against the Bank in the Paris Commercial Court, claiming the
amount owed to it by GRZ should be paid by IDA under the undisbursed portion
of the credit. With the lifting of suspension in March 1991, GRZ submitted a
request to IDA to settle its outstanding accounts with the principal
contractor. The amount, equivalent to US$1.976 million including interest,
was settled in May 1991.
58.   The appointment of a full-time project coordinator (financed by IDA
initially from other funds and later from the Credit) was a very positive step
in terms of the GRZ's relationships with other parties.
59.   In other respects GRZ's relationships with other parties appeared to
have been difficult. On May 8, 1985 IDA stated in a letter to the Minister of
Agriculture and Water Development:



- 12 -
"There is an apparent lack of cooperation and positive attitudes
between DWA, the consultants and the contractor towards solving
the problems and accelerating progress of the physical
implementation of the project.... We understand that the
situation has not improved materially and, as an example, the
contractor has still not received the advanced payment to which he
is entitled".
60.   Evidence of poor management relationships is that the first Norwegian
management accountant reported having only one meeting with his superior in
hle first 10 months on the job and being utilized to only 50 percent of his
capaclty due to lack of direction. (This appears also to reflect the
accountant's lack of experience, as a stronger person would likely have
developed his own program given the magnitude of DWA's accounting and
financial management problems). To neglect the resources provided by donor
agencLes li not likely to encourage their future support.
R.    Con_ultiLnaServices
61.  The consultants to the project performed the feasibility study and
prellminary and detailed design in addition to supervision of construction.
Their overall performance is considered to have been acceptable.
62.   The major contractor for the piped-water systems appeared initially to
be unfamiliar with Zambia. They were slow in mobilizing, and their segment of
the project suffered delays in completion as a result. They encountered
difficulties and lack of support in their early dealings wlth DWA. As a
result of the delays in completion, the payment of some of their certified
invoLces was not effected prior to the suspension of disbursements.
L.    Proiect Documentation and Data
63.   It has been suggested that a number of items included as covenants
should have been included as conditions of credit effectiveness (for example,
implementation of the 1982-83 tariff study recommendations; provision of
accounting personnel) and that the covenants should have included the right of
IDA to approve appointment to top management positions in DWA.
64.   The Staff Appraisal Report provided a reasonable financial evaluation
framework from extremely limited available data. The quality of data in the
Project Completion Report has improved somewhat, as the result of the presence
of the coet and management accountant, but has to still be viewed as tentative
due to inadequate revenues and cost accounting systems in place in the Zambian
Water Sector.



- 13 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1362-ZA & SF2-ZA)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
I.  BANK'  PIRFORMANCI
A.   Durina ProJect Implementation
65.   Civil Works Contract--Four Township Water Supplies.  The World Bank
appraisal mission suggested among other things review of the design of six
township water supplies on the basis of least cost solution. The tender
documents, specifications and cost estimates were prepared accordingly. After
approval of the revised design and tender documents, the four twonships water
supply scheme was selected on the basis of priority and with due regard to
insufficiency of funds to accommodate all six schemes leaving Kaputa and Ndola
for the next stage development.
66.   Due to the suspension of disbursements under the credit in May 1987,
some certified Lnvoices due the principal civil works contractor could not be
honored.
67.   DWA estimated the outstanding certificates totalled ZK 714,542.97 and
DM 1,796,546.40, while the contractor claimed ZK 72,453.77 and DM
3,064,544.18. The contractor did not submit evidence for his claim.
68.   After May 1987 only a few works were carried out from the available
local funds. In these circumstances, it is encouraging to note that the
targets for new wells were more or less achieved and substantial progress made
on rehabilitation but the boreholes program was not completed. This was due
to the fact that the drilling rig purchased under the project was delayed for
more than 18 months in Lusaka for other national emergency works.
69.   Institutional Support and Reorganization of Water Sector.  One of the
objectives of the Third National Development Plan (1976-80) was to establish a
National Water Authority and thereafter regional water authorities. Since the
year 1979 a number of reports has been prepared supporting some sort of strong
central organization dealing with water and sanitation instead of the present
multiplicity of organizations involved in the sector. These organizations are
facing the following problems:
(a)   Organizational constraints;
(b)   Financial constraints;
(c)   Manpower constraints; and
(d)   Lack of coordination.
70.   To streamline activities and reduce duplication, the National Action
Committee (NAC) of the International Drinking Water Supply and Sanitation
Decade (IDWSSD) in 1986 recommended the need for a study for reorganization of
the sector. IDA and GTZ expressed interest in assisting with this study.



- 14 -
71.   The main objective of the study was to recommend an effective and
efficient organization structure for the water and sanitation sector in Zambia
which can:
(e)   Ensure that all part. of the country are supplied with water of
good quality and in sufficient quantity;
(f)   Ensure maximum conservation and utilizacion of all water resources
in the country; and
(g)   Ensure that proper sanitation facilities are provided.
72.   The study was carried out by consultants with assistance from DWA,
Ministry of Decentralization and other organizations. The final report of the
study was available in February 1988 and its recommendation may be implemented
in the near future.
B.    Sumary of Bank's Role
73.   Role of External Aid Agencies.  The project was financed by IDA and
since the start regular visits were made by IDA missions for supervision
purposes.  During the visits, each component of the project was discussed in
detail--bottlenecks, constraints, and measures to be taken to sort out
difficulties in implementation -- and site visits taken as necessary. The
missions were very helpful. They assisted the project coordinator giving him
guidance for the smooth implementation of the project.
74.   Aide m4moires were prepared at the end of each mission summarizing the
progress of the project and actions needed to be taken together with
timetables.
75.   Comments and Recommendations.  The project fulfilled most of its
objectives as evidenced by the results. The project was well planned,
implemented, and supervised. However, the health component was not
implemented as local counterpart funds were not provided for it and the
boreholes program not completed because of the delayed availability of the
drilling rig. Further, implementation of three other water supply schemes,
for Kaputa, Nchelenge, and Mbereshi for which tenders had been received and
approved by the Central Tender Board was not carried out due to the
unavailability of IDA funds after May 1987.
76.   It is unfort siate that this important project was caught in the
crossfire with the result that the people who were waiting for improvements of
water supply services were denied.
77.   It is therefore hoped that in the future, projects which are in advanced
stages of implementation, as the above one was in May 1987, would not be
affected by disputes which arise between the borrower and aid agency and would
continue to completion.



- 15 -
II.  BORROWR' S PERFORMANCE
C.    Overall Project Summary
78.   The project agreement was signed on July 13, 1983 for a total amount of
SDR 14.8 million, CR1362-ZA (SDR 9.2 million) and SF2-ZA (SDR 5.6 million).
The project actually started in early 1984 due to delays by GRZ in making the
initial deposit of ZK 600,000 and the opening of the accounts with Bank of
Zambia. However, more than 90 percent of the planned works were completed as
follows:
- piped water supply at Kawambwa, Samfya, Isoka, and Mpulungu;
- 396 new wells;
- 30 new boreholes;
- 223 rehabilitated boreholes and wells;
- 19 three bedroom houses;
- 1 four bedroom house;
- 1 no. provincial workshop;
- F District workshops;
- 4 officers obtained degrees in civil engineering;
- 6 post-graduate diplomas in water engineering;
- 13 trucks;
- 12 four-by-four pickups;
- spare parts for vehicles and water supply schemes;
- 380 handpumps;
- tools and equipment for 2 provincial and 6 district workshops;
- other miscellaneous items.
79.   The total expenditure on the project reached SDR 10.936 million together
with a GRZ contribution of ZK 7.187 million as of the end of May 1987. There
was about SDR 1.0 million in outstanding payments at the time. Thus the net
undisbursed under the credit was about SDR 3.0 million which would have been
sufficient to implement the piped water supply schemes at Kaputa, Mbereshi,
and Nchelenge.
80.   Civil Works Contract--Four Township Water Supplies.  Four township water
supplies: Kawambwa and Samfya--Luapula Province, Isoka and Mpulunqu--Northern
Province.
81.   The IDA appraisal mission suggested, among other things, review of the
design of six township water supplies on the basis of least cost solution and
thereafter the tender document, specifications and cost estimates were
prepared.
82.   After the approval of the revised design and tender documents, the four
tows-ships water supply scheme was selected due to insufficient funds to
accommodate all the six schemes; leaving Kaputa and Ndola for the next stage.
83.   A prequalification notice for civil works was published and 12 firms
responded to the notice. Out of these 12 firms, 10 were prequalified.
However, only four firms bid and the least priced bid was for ZK 10,787,650.



- 16 _
84.   Further, the change from groundwater to surface water as the supply
source for the schemes and the installation of two observation boreholes in
the Samfya water supply system to monitor groundwater movement in the
formation increased the total cost of the four township water supply scheme by
ZK 1,270,020 to ZK 12,057,670.
85.   The contract agreement was signed on September 17, 1984.  Construction
was for a period of 18 months plus one month mobilization, or a completion
date of April 16, 1986. Construction supervision was by the design
consultant. There were several problems during construction including delayed
start, cash flow and lack of cooperation and coordination between the
contractor and consultant.  Construction was comple.ted at the end of August
1987 about 15 months behind schedule.
D.    Other Civil Works Contracts
86.   The construction of additional clvil works including one provincial
workshop at Mansa and five district workshops at Masaiti Bona, Kawambwa,
Isoka, Mbala, and Kaputa together with about 7 houses was carried out by a
different contractor. This work was finished close to schedule and under
budget. Ten other houses were constructed in Lusaka under the project by
separate contract. These were completed behind program and at a final cost
which was about 60 percent higher than the bid price. Tenders for the
buildings were prepared and executed under the Buildings Department. Lack of
communication and coordination with DWA, the executing agency, contributed to
the delays and the resultant increased costs.
3.    Work on Force Account
87.   Point System Water Supply.  A program was prepared to carry out point
source water supply work by force account. Various forms were designed for
the control of materials such as cement, stones, steel, pipes etc and well
diameter was standardized at 1.2 meters for all tha provinces. A trial mould
for the manufacture of well liners was designed and the manufacture of top
covers for wells started. The program went very well as 396 out of 400 wel i
and 30 of 42 boreholes were constructed, and 223 boreholes and wells out of a
total of 269 were successfully rehabilitated.
88.   It can be seen that the target for new wells was more or less achieved.
The rehabilitation program was not completed part'.y because of the suspension
of IDA funds in mid-1987 and the fact that the drilling rig purchased under
the program was delayed for more than 18 months in Lusaka for other national
emergency works. However, the results achieved were satisfactory. Force
account was also used for the construction of three houses in Hansa and
Kasamba.
F.   General Procurement
89.   IDA guidelines and the special arrangements under the Special Fund were
followed in the procurement of goods and services. There were no major
procurement problems.



- 17 -
S.   Tariffs. Revenues and Operat Ln Cost
90.   DWA has responsibility for operation and malntenance of 47 township
water supply systems in additlon to a oonaiderable number of wells and
boreholes ln the rural areas. The responsLbility for bllling and collectlon
for these schemes was turned over from the DLitrict Counclls to DWA only in
October 1984.
91.   DWA lmplemented a uniform water tariffs policy.  The tariffs were
adjusted regularly, usually once a year effectLve January 1. In 1985 two
adjustments were made on January 1 and July 1. Revenues, however, contlnued
to be only a fraction, less than 40 peroont, of operating costs and the
project objective of full recovery of operatlon and maintenance costs by 1985
was not achleved. In 1985, Cabinet approved legislation empowerlng HAWD to
review and glve final approval annually to tariff adjustment requests by the
DWA wlthout further ratiLfcatlon by the cabinet.
92.   GRZR'  accountlng procedures are prepared on a cash basLs and cannot be
regarded as fully adequate for a complete evaluation of DWA's financlal
performance. Revenues bllled are not ledgered--only actual collectlons are
reported regularly to DWA-Headquarters. Full cost accountlng does not take
place.
B.    Health Component
93.   Provision was made in the project for the improvement of lnfrastructure
at rural health centers in six dLstrLcts. The provlsion included constructlon
of 24 new wells/boreholes and 84 proper pit latrines. Provinclal health
offices were also to be provided wlth water testlng kits/equlpment for simple
chemical and bacterlological analyses for drinking water; the project also
provided staff houses and vehicles.
94.   The above program was prepared in consultation with the MOH.  However,
desplto varlous meetings with the officials, the project could not take off
due to the fallure of the MOH to provide the necessary counterpart funds in
the yearly ministry budget during the project implementation period.
Provisions were made in the budget, however, for the procurement of equipment
for the laboratory.
I.    Proiect Zxpenditure--Finance
95.   Under Credit Agreements signed between GRZ and IDA on July 13, 1983, the
following credits were availablet
(h)   IDA credit CR-1362-ZA          - SDR 9,200,000
(i)   IDA special credit SF2-ZA      - SDR 5,600,000
Total         SDRl4!800,000



- 18 -
96.   As of the end of May 1991 the total project disbursements had reached
SDR 12.912 mLllion from credit funds, that is, SDR 7.821 million from 1362-ZA
and SDR 5.091 million from SF2-ZA including SDR 1.976 million released to the
principal civil works contractor in May 1991, together with ZK 7.187 million
contributed by GRZ.
97.   The remaining undisbursed amount totaled SDR 1.888 million; that is, SDR
0.509 million on Credit SF2-ZA and SDR 1.379 million on Credit 1362-ZA.
98.   Financial Statements/Audit.  Financial statements for the projects were
prepared every 6 months. The financial statements showed accumulated figures
for each credit. The project accounts were fully audited up to December 31,
1987 by the Auditor General of Zambia. There were a number of problems with
the operation and administration of the Special Account which never operated
as intended. The initial deposit into this account was exchanged into Zambian
kwacha by the Bank of Zambia and efforts to change the amount back into US
dollars were unsuccessful. The Special Account was therefore used for local
payments only.
J.    Institutional Performance
99.   Management and Organizational Effectiveness.  There was no change in the
organization of the DWA but administration was strengthened by opening new
district offices manned by tech;ical staff.
100. Staff development and training programs were instituted including a two-
year operators' course financed by the EEC and a one-year maintenance course
run by NORAD. In addition, 10 DWA staff were sent to various overseas
universities to pursue degree courses in engineering.
101   DWA's ability to recruit and retain qualified and capable staff was a
constant problem due to the lower salaries and poorer conditions of service in
the public sector compared with the private sector. High inflation coupled
with foreign exchange difficulties also made working in Zambia less attractive
to expatriates.



- 19 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1362-ZA & SF2-ZA)
PAR' III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
A.    Related Bank Loans and/or Credits
This was the first Bank-group credit to the Zambian water sector.
102.  A project identification mission visited Zambia in December 1987 to
identify further requirements in the sector. However, further activity was
discontinued while IDA's operations in Zambia. remained suspended.
B.    Proiect Timetable
Date                    Date                    Date
It4                           Planned                  Revised                 Actual
Identification (Executive                                                      July 1976
Project Summary)
Preparation                    Jan-Oct 1977-'          November 19802/         Nov-Jan 1981
Appraisal Mission             December 19771/          January 19812/          February 1981
Loan/Credit
Negotiations                                                                 March 1988
Board Approval                 February 1982 '                                 May 12, 1983
Credit Signature                                                               July 13, 1983
Credit Effectiveness          September 1988                                   Nov 4, 1988
Project Completion             Apr 17, 1986            April, 1986             December 1987
Credit Closing                 October, 1988           May 16, 1991            Sept. 80, 1991"
I At tim of Project Identification, July 1976.
2/ At time of updated Project Brief, July 1980.
2 Following the lifting of the suspeinlon In March 1991, the closing dates of the credits were
extended to September B0, 1991 to allow for settlement of outstanding claims.



- 20 -
C.   CredLt DLabursements
Disbursements CUSs'000)
Credit 1362-ZA and SF2-ZA
Actual as percentage
Bank            Appraisal      President's                 of Estimate
Fiscal Year     Estimate       Resort          Actual      (President's Report)
FY 1984            5,100          5,100         1,400              27.5
FY 1385           10,200         11,100         3,400              30.6
FY 1986           12,600         14,600         6,500              44.5
FY 1987           13,960         15,960        11,100              69.5
FY 1988           14,000         16,000        12,462              77.9
FY 1989             --             --          12,518              78.2
FY 1991             --             --          14,000              87.5
The status of Project Financing is as follows:
Credit                Credit
1362-ZA               8F2-ZA                Total
(SDR Millions)
Total Credit               9.200                 5.600               14.800
Disbursed                  7.821                  S.091              12.912
Undisbursed                1.379                 0.509                1.888



- 21 -
D.    Proiect implementation
Indicators
103. No financial rate of return or economic rate of return was computed for
this project, at appraisal.
104. Most of the monitoring indicators proposed in Annex 21, of the Staff
Appraisal Report have not been reported, primarily as the result of the 11
management accountants to be provided by GRZ not being made available to
assist the cost and management accountant, who was provided under NORAD and
GTZ technical assistance.
105. For the 47 town piped-water supply systems reporting to DWA, and which
are subject to a uniform tariff system, a covendnted objective was to ensure
full cost recovery of operation and maintenance costs by the end of 1985 and
thereafter.
106. As a result an effort has been made to record revenues by district, and
to determine the aggregate operation and maintenance costs for the 47 systems.
Performance of these indicators against the Appraisal forecast (Annex 17) is
shown belows
Comparison of Revenues and Recurrent Expenditures
K 000
Per A2pnrcIal Reggrt           Per Pro1ect Completion
X PCR
X PCR   Revenues/
D&J     Surplus                 CAM      Surplus     Revenues Appraisal
Revenuesol   ExpenJ   (Deficit)   RevenuesV  Expendl/  (Deficit)     OhM   Revenues
1902    678.6    1167.4     (408.8)
1068    P40.0    1487.6     (697.6)      277.0                                       33.0
1934   1065.8    1780.9      264.4       226.0                                       11.5
19865  2679.6    2058.0      628.6       698.7                                       22.8
1986   8404.9    2419.5      986.4      1842.9     4712.0    (8869.1)       28.5     39.4
1907   4264.6    28650.2    1484.4      266.5    7086.0   (4469.6)          86.6     69.9
1908   4991.6    8819.9     1671.7      8800.0    6870.0    (6570.0)        87.2     66.1
1J Appraisal Revenueo--represent theoretical revenues assuming correct application of tariffs for
single taps (Appraisal Report, Annex 17).
V Appraisal OhM Expend--represents an estimate basd on revenues (Appraisal Report, Annex 17).
IV PCR Revenues--actual revenues.
V PCR OhM Expend--manually calculated cost for 47 townshipe. There Is no cost accounting system
(sw Draft Project Completion Report, Department of Water Affairs, page 101).



- 22
U.     Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost,u (In MliIons)
Appraisal            Actual             Difference
Loco   Forie  n    Local   Foreign      Local   Foreian
-ZR-   SSDR                             -2--    W
Construction of Piped Water
Supply Systems
- Kawambwa                                   1.17    0.88       0.92      1.76       0.26    (1.08)
- Mpulungu                                   1.29    0.64       0.86      1.40       0.44    (0.76)
- lcoka                                      0.96    0.48       0.71      1.06       0.24    (0.69)
- Samfys                                     1.18    0.70       1.10      1.76       0.03    (1.06)
Construction of Point Water
Systems in six Districts
- Wells (400) and boreholes (42)             1.77    0.93       2.63      -         (0.62)    1.00
- Rehabilitation of systes                   0.84    0.07
Engineering
- Supervision of construction
of 4 piped systems                         0.10    0.45       0.84      0.62      (0.74)   (0.17)
- Final design and tender
document. for follow-up project            0.20    0.62       0.42      1.02      (0.22)   (0.40)
Workshop, and Housing
- Provincial (2) and district (4)
workshops                                  0.53    0.19       0.62      0.08      (0.09)    0.11
- Staff housing (20 units)                   0.67    0.28       2.16      0.08      (1.49)    0.15
Tools and Equipment for 8
Workshops and Spare Parts
for all DWA Systems                        0.10    0.97       -         0.43       0.10     0.64
Vehicles including spare parts
for workshops                              0.05    0.48       0.18      0.78      (0.08)   (0.a2)
Overas Assistance
(including transport)                     0.04    0.41        0.01     0.24        0.03     0.17
Technical Assistance (ncl. transport)
- 1 proJect coordinator (2 yrs),
1 accounting advisor (2 yrs),
2 water (ma intenance)
engineors (4 yro)                          0.45    0.68       0.38      0.45       0.07      0.28
Health Education                             0.19    0.81     -         -            0.19      0.31
Bass Cost Estimte                            9.08    7.80       10.78     9.67      (1.68)   (1.87)
Contingencies2'
- Physical                                   0.91    0.78       -         -          0.91      0.78
- Pr!ce                                      8.26    1.87         .00      .00       8.26      1.37
Total Cost of the Project
- Including Taxes                           18.25    9.96      10.76      9.67       2.49      0.28
- Not of Taxes                              11.26    9.95       10.76     9.67       0.50      0.28
11 January 1988 price level:  ZK 1.00 e US8o.68; US81.00 * SOR 0.9376
21 Physical contingencies have been taken as 10 percent of base cost.  Foreign prico contingencies
have been assumed at 7.6 percent and 7 percent In 1988 and 1984-87 respectively and local price
contingencies at 14 percent and 12 percent.



- 23 -
Project Financing
Planned (Credit 1362-ZA
Source                       and SF2-ZA) (USS '000)           Firal (SDR '000)
IDA                                   10,000                        7,821
IDA Special Fund                       6,000                        5.091
Government of Zambia                   5,640                          700w
(of which taxes)                      (1,640)
TOTAL                            21,640                      13,612
I GRZ contribution of ZK 7.187 million converted at 1987 exchange rate of
US$1.00 = ZK 8.00; and US$1.00 - SDR 0.779 at June 30, 1987.
Comments
1. As a result of the GRZ making a greater contribution in ZK than planned at
appraisal (ZK 7.187 million versus ZK 6.768 million), the saving of ZK
2.49 million in local costs of the project (see Table E) was realized as a
saving in foreign exchange (that is, reduced withdrawals from IDA
credits), in addition to the SDR 0.28 million saving in foreign costs.



- 24 -
P.    Project Results
Direct Benefits
Appraisal         Estimated at
Indicators                                     Estimate          Closing Date
Water Supply at 4 Towns
Population to be served in 1988                  57,000               57,300
Percentage of population served                      100                 100
Total production--m /d                            5,400               5,410
Losses as percentage                                  20                  20
Population served by New Connections
Multiple Tap                                       1,740               2,145
Single Tap                                        3,606                3,205
Stand Pipe                                       23,634               23,635
28,980              28,985
Water Supply to 6 Districts
Wells constructed                                    400                 396
Population served                                95,000              164,230
Boreholes constructed                                 42                  30
Population served                                15,000               15,865
Economic Impact
107. No appraisal financial rate of return, or economic rate of return was
developed for the project as the financial data were insufficient. Insofar as
many, if not most, DWA systems did not and still do not cover operation and
maintenance expense, the return would likely be negative.



G.     Status of Covenants
Brief Description                         Selection                Cor lience
of Covnentns                            Applicable     met      Ponding      Not Mot    Remarks
(Credit 1382-ZA)
Maintain speci7l account at Contral       2.02(B)        XXX                                Deposits into 2 special accounts originally
Bank In USS.                                                                                converted to kwacha.  Two now accounts
opened, situation regularized.
Procuremant as per Schedulo 4.            2.08           XXX
Closing Dato April 30, 1988.              2.04                                    XXX       Credit was closed In January 1989.
Open and maintain Project Advance         S.01(B)        XXX                               Account No. 846 (QBlance of ZK 267,731 as at
Account with dep40it of ZK 50,000 and                                                       November 30, 1987).
quarterly replenishmnt.
Strengthen operations by employment       3.02
of:
(7)  Consulting Engineers                                XXX
(ii)  Cost and managem t Accountant                      XXX                                (to March 19898
(111) Water Supply Maintenance                           XXX                                (to October 1988)
Engineers
(iV)  Project Coordinator                                XXX                               (to January 1989)
Insurance of Project Goods.               3.03(A)                 XXX                      CIF only.  Government provides funds for
replacement if damaged after installation.
Exclusive Project Use of Goods.           3.03(5)                                XXX
Provide plans, contract, documents,       8.04(A)         XX
etc.
(i)   Maintain records                   3.04(B)         XXX
(ii)  Allow staff to review records                      XXX
and visit sites
(ii) Provide project report                             XXX
Prepare Project Completion Report         8.04(C)        XX%                               Draft PCR prepared in November 1988 and
(PCR).                                                                                     provided to Bank in January 1989.
Acquire necessary land.                   3.06                    XXX                       Certificates of occupancy available for
project housing but not for waterworke.
Assign 11 account. to the Dopartment      8.06                                   xxx       CMA (Sec. 8.02(i)) has had 2 counterparts--
none since.
Adoptlon of new revenue collection        8.07                                   xxx       Appile  only to DC. within DWA water area,
and accounting system by DC.                                                                but DWA oporates contral oystem.



Brief Description                        Selection                Compl iance
of Covenants                           Applicable     Met      P nding      Not met    Remarks
Maintain s*part  accounts for each       4.01(A)                                XXX       Only the Project accounts are kept separate:
District Administratih' center for                                                        DWA experiences difficulty In obtaining data
DWA                                                                                       from scheme managers.
(i)  Maintain SOE  eparate accounts      4.01(B)        XXX
(;I)  Retain sit records until one                      XXX
year after Closing Date
(iii) Enable staff to see records                       XXX
(;)  DWA to have its accounts            4.01(C)                                XXX       DWA accounts are audited by Auditor-General.
independently audited.                                                              Project accounts not independently audited.
(ii)  Provide certified audited                         XXX
accounts within six months.
(ili) Provide Supplementary                             XXX
information.
DWA to operate piped system  for 5       4.02(A)        XXX
years after completion
DC. to be responsible for maintwence    4.02(B)         XXX                               Some VLOM.
of villago borehole, and wells.
DIA to assist DCs with training of       4.02(C)        XXX
villagers.
Make tariff structure  quitable          4.0B(A)                                XXX       Some Improvements made, but government
improve collection and accounting                                                         departmente are estimated to pay only 10
percent of water bill.
Meets all operating costs and DWA to     4.08(B)                                XXX       Jn 1988, Revenues met only 40 percent of
maintain accounts for them by end of                                                      operation and maintenance costs.
1985.
Prompt reittance of collections and      4.04           XXX                               Revenues handed over to government
DWA to maintain accouAts for them,                                                        treasury--system provides no incentive to DWA
to improve.
Provide adquate funds to DIA for         4.06(A)                                XXX       Funding Is inadequate.
proper operation and maintenance of
water facilities
Costa of operating and maintaining       4.06(6)        XXX                               DWA only provides training.
wells and boreboles be borne by
users.



- 27 -
H.   Use of Bank Resources
Staff Inputs
(Staff Weeks)
Stage of                        Planned            Revised             Final
Project Cycle                HQ    Field        HQ   Field         HQ    Field        Comments
Through Appraisal                                        -        14.9      -           -
Appraisal through
Board Approval                 -      -          -       -        17.7      -           -
Board Approval
Through Effectiveness          -      -          -       -         2.9      -           -
Supervision                    -      -          -       -        42.4      -           -
TOTAL                                                             77.9
MTSSIONS
Stage of                Month/ Number of  Days in  Specialization   Performance    Types of
Prolect Cycle           Year   Persons    Field    Represented        Ratina Status  Problems
Through Appraisal
Appraisel through
Board Approval
Board Approval          10/88      2          7    Sanitary Eng.         2               U
Through Effoectiveness                             Fin. Analyst
Supervision            08/84       1         5    Sanitary Eng.          2               U
Supervision            09/64
Supervision            08/86       2         9    Sanitary Eng.          8               U
Fin. Analyst
Supervision             10/86     2          8    Sanitary Eng.          2               m
Fin. Analyst
Supervision             06/86      2         8    Sanitary Eng.          2
Fin. Analyst
Supervision             12/88      1         9    Sanitary Eng.          2
Supervision             12/87     8         11    Sanitary Eng.          2
Fin. Analyst
Economist
M a Management.



