Document ofe o
The World Bank                                  FILE
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3531-ZA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 14.8 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
FOR A
RIURAL WTATER SUPPLY PROJECT
April 15, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                              Zambian Kwacha (K)
SDR 1.00                                      K   1.28
US$ 1.00                                      K   1.20
K   1.00                                      US$ 0.83
(As the Zambian Kwacha is officially valued in terms of the SDR, the US
Dollar/Zambian Kwacha exchange rate is subject to change. The US
Dollar/Kwacha Rate expressed above was the rate prevailing in mid-February
1983).
ABBREVIATIONS
BD  =  Building Department of the Ministry of Works and Supply
CEC  =  Commission of the European Communities
DWA  =  Department of Water Affairs
MAWD  =  Ministry of Agriculture & Water Development
MR  =  Ministry of Health
NORAD  =  Norwegian Aid Agency
PWE  =  Provincial Water Engineer
SOE  =  Statements of Expenditure
WHO  =  World Health Organization
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Republic of Zambia.
Amount:              SDR 14.8 million (US$16.0 million equivalent).
Terms:               Standard.
ol      Project
Description:         The project would assist the Government to improve and
expand water supply services in six districts in northern
Zambia and to strengthen the Department of Water Affairs
(DWA) and the district councils as the principal sector
institutions charged with carrying out the country's
water supply programs and policies. The project would
consist of the following components:
(i) improvement and expansion of water supply
facilities in six districts in northern Zambia;
(ii) engineering services to supervise construction of
piped water systems in four administrative centers
and to prepare designs for four additional
schemes;
(iii)  provision and upgrading of two provincial and six
district workshops, provision of tools and
equipment for these workshops, and provision of
spare parts for all water supply systems (except
in the western province) operated by the
Department of Water Affairs;
(iv) provision of vehicles, including spare parts for
six district and three provincial workshops;
(v) provision of housing for DWA staff in the project
areas;
(vi) overseas training for professional level staff of
DWA; and
(vii)  provision of health education, and rehabilitation
of water supply facilities at six district health
centers.
Project Benefits:            The project would strengthen the institutions
providing water services in Zambia, particularly
in rural areas, and would supply piped water to an
additional 29,000 persons and well or borehole
water to an additional 110,000 people in the six
districts.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii-
Special Risks:               The main risk concerns the ability of the
Government to provide the required local
counterpart funds and possible delays in the
introduction of systems and procedures for
improving cost recovery necessary to ensure
adequate operations and maintenance. The project
advance account and other arrangements included in
the project would address these risks.
Estimated Cost:              The estimated cost of the project is as follows:
Local   Foreign   Total
…--   US$ Millions-----
Construction of Water Systems                             5.53      3.72      9.25
Engineering Services                                      0.25      1.14      1.39
Workshops, Housing, Vehicles, Spare Parts                 1.12      1.96      3.08
Training                                                  0.03      0.44      0.47
Health Education                                          0.24      0.33      0.57
Technical Assistance                                      0.38      0.73      1.11
Base Cost                                             7.55     8.32    15.87
Physical Contingency                                      0.76      0.83      1.59
Price Contingency                                         2.72      1.46      4.18
Total Project Cost                                   11.03    10.61    21.64
(of which taxes)                                 (1.64)       --    (1.64)
Project Cost Net of Taxes                             9.39    10.61    20.00
Financing Plan
IDA                                                   2.70     7.30    10.00
IDA Special Fund                                      2.69      3.31     6.00
Government of Zambia                                  5.64      0.00     5.64
(Of which taxes)                                   (1.64)             (1.64)
Total                                              11.03    10.61    21.64
Estimated Disbursements of IDA and IDA Special  ------US$ Millions-----
Fund Credits (IDA Fiscal Year):             84      85     86      87     88
Annual                                   5.10   6.00   3.50   1.36   0.04
Cumulative                               5.10  11.10  14.60  15.96  16.00
Rate of Return:              Not Applicable.
Staff Appraisal Report:    Report No. 4175-ZA, dated March 10, 1983.
Map:                         IBRD No. 16709.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
FOR THE RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the Republic of Zambia (the Borrower) of SDR 14.8 million
(approximately US$16.0 million equivalent) on standard terms to help
finance the Rural Water Supply Project. Of the total credit amount, SDR
9.2 million would be financed from IDA and SDR 5.6 million from the IDA
Special Fund.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A Country Economic Memorandum on Zambia (Report No. 3007-ZA) was
distributed to the Executive Directors on March 17, 1981. This part is
based on the report's findings and on those of more recent economic
missions to Zambia. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
3.        With its mineral resources and plentiful land area suitable for
crops and livestock, Zambia, though landlocked, has the potential for rapid
and sustained development. Economic and social goals since independence in
1964 have been security of transport routes to the sea, reduction of
dependency on copper through agricultural and industrial development, more
equitable distribution of income, and expanded educational and training
opportunities. Progress toward achieving these goals has been below poten-
tial due to structural imbalances in the economy, prolonged turmoil within
the region, and since 1975, a severe economic depression. Increased educa-
tional opportunities and construction of the TAZARA Railway through
Tanzania to Dar es Salaam are the main areas in which substantial progress
has been made.
4.        The economy is heavily dependent on external trade and on govern-
ment activity. Imports and exports range between 40 and 45 percent of
GDP. Government expenditures have amounted to about 40 percent of GDP in
recent years and the Government owns a majority share of mining and most
manufacturing enterprises. Much economic activity is dependent on expa-
triate technical, managerial, and administrative skills. Despite high
rates of savings and investment, real growth has been disappointing,
averaging only about 2.8 percent a year before the onset of a continuing
period of economic depression starting in 1975.



5.        Diversification efforts have lagged; mining still provides over
90 percent of foreign exchange earnings and 30 percent of gross value
added. 1 Agriculture accounts for about 15 percent of current GDP, about
the same as at independence. Manufacturing grew quickly through 1975, but
has since stagnated, due to foreign exchange scarcity and a heavy
dependence on imported inputs. The service sector also grew quickly, to
about 45 percent of GDP, due to Zambia's success in expanding education and
to increased government activity. Income is concentrated in urban areas as
a result of high wages throughout the modern sector and a progressive
deterioration in the rural-urban terms of trade. These factors have caused
major rural-to-urban migration (about 40 percent of the population is
urban) and have contributed to high urban unemployment.
The Current Economic Crisis
6.        Zambia continues to experience an economic and financial crisis
initiated by a 40 percent decline in copper prices in 1975. Unremunerative
producer policies, difficulties in transporting goods to and from the sea
and a decline in copper production exacerbated the situation during the
late 1970s. Real GDP stagnated between 1974 and 1978, and declined by 8
percent in 1979, with mining down 19 percent and agriculture down 10
percent. There was little, if any, growth during the subsequent two years,
although agriculture recovered following two years of poor weather. Real
GNP per capita (US$560 in 1980) is 25 percent below that in 1974.
7.        The balance of payments has been in chronic disequilibrium since
1975, with current account deficits averaging 8 to 10 percent of GDP. In
spite of heavy external borrowing, a build-up in arrears on import payments
and a draw-down on reserves, foreign exchange has been insufficient to
maintain the real value of imports, currently about one-half its level in
1975.   As a result, there persists an economy-wide problem of underutili-
zation of capacity. This has seriously affected production and investment
especially in the crucial mining sector which has accumulated a large back-
log of maintenance and rehabilitation requirements contributing directly to
recent declines in copper production and exports.
8.        The decline in copper prices severely affected Zambia's fiscal
and monetary positions. In the past, mineral taxes provided a large share
of government revenue, but they have been negligible since 1976. This
contributed to large fiscal deficits, which required domestic bank
borrowing averaging 13 percent of GDP in 1975-77 and 5 percent in 1978-80.
At first, the shortfall in mineral revenue was perceived to be temporary
and expenditure grew rapidly, in part carried by the momentum of large
capital projects already underway. Subsequently, successful efforts have
been made to raise non-mineral revenues, but t'nese efforts have been offset
by large increases in expenditure on defense and subsidies, mostly for
maize imports resulting from poor harvests in 1979 and 1980. Deficit
lIn constant prices. In current prices, however, the contribution
of mining has fallen to about 18 percent of GDP in recent years, due to low
copper prices.



financing absorbed 88 percent of net domestic credit creation between 1975
and 1980, and contributed to a sharp rise in domestic prices, averaging 18
percent per annum during 1976-78 and 11 percent per annum in 1979-81.
9.        A three-year Extended Fund Facility (EFF) of SDR 800 million was
approved by the International Monetary Fund in May 1981. Under the EFF,
the Government was committed to eliminate the maize subsidy and reduce the
fertilizer subsidy by the end of 1983; to increase sorely needed recurrent
expenditure for operations and maintenance in the productive sectors; to
implement economic pricing for products subject to price control; to raise
agricultural producer prices towards world price equivalents; to provide a
larger share of domestic credit to the private sector; and to allocate
sufficient foreign exchange to repay most of the external arrears.
Implementation of the EFF has been difficult; drawings were delayed in
1981, agreement was not reached on a program for 1982, and the EFF was
officially cancelled in July 1982. Since then, the Government and the Fund
have been working towards a new Standby arrangement for 1983.
10.       The Government has recently taken a number of steps to stabilize
Zambia's financial position and improve the incentives for production. The
Kwacha was devalued by 20 percent in January 1983, and interest rates were
raised across the board. The method of price control was changed from
ex-ante approval of most price increases to post-facto review of prices set
by the producing firms themselves. The budget for 1983 contains large
increases for operations and maintenance for the agriculture and works
ministries; also, substantial reductions are budgeted in the allocations
for subsidies. These measures, together with additional actions being
taken to restructure the external debt, are expected to enable the
Government to re-establish equilibrium within the economy. Together, these
measures indicate that the Government has adopted a more pragmatic and
flexibile approach to the country's macroeconomic problems, which is a
reassuring sign.
Creditworthiness
11.       Zambia's creditworthiness is inextricably linked to the
production and price of copper. Estimates of economically recoverable ore
reserves indicate that copper production could be maintained at present
levels through the mid-1990s, but that depletion of reserves is expected to
cause production to fall off sharply towards the turn of the century.
Thus, Zambia's long-term creditworthiness requires strong measures to
diversify the economy and to develop viable sources of non-mineral
exports.  A start has been made during the past three years in the form of
real increases in agricultural producer prices and special tax incentives
which have resulted in increased acreage under cultivation. If sustained,
these measures should help to develop Zambia's long-term potential in this
sector. In addition, the measures noted in the previous paragraph will
assist in laying the groundwork for economic diversification and indicate
that the Government is serious in getting the process underway.
12.       Prior to 1975, Zambia's external public debt was relatively
small, and the debt service ratio was less than 10 percent of exports.
Since then, long-term debt has risen sharply, to an estimated US$2,300



-4-
million outstanding and disbursed by end of June 1982. The IBRD and the
People's Republic of China are Zambia's largest official creditors, with
about 15 and 13 percent, respectively, of contractual debt outstanding and
disbursed. In addition, arrears on import payments and external remit-
tances stood at US$640 million, and net drawings from the IMF at about
US$650 million, as of June 1982.
13.       The servicing of debt became more difficult in the last two years
as a result of continued declines in the price of copper.  In nominal
terms, the price of copper fell by 20 percent in 1981 and by a further 15
percent in 1982. In real terms, the 1982 price was the lowest in the
post-World War II era. These developments have caused Zambia's export
earnings to fall sharply, resulting in delays in the servicing of debt. In
addition, large repurchases of drawings under the 1978-79 IMF Standby
arrangement have come due. In all, it is estimated that total debt
service, including interest on arrears and payments to the IMF, were 35
percent of exports in 1981 and approached 50 percent of exports in 1982.
14.       Service on external debt will remain high for the next few years,
even with a projected increase in copper prices.  Recovery in prices is
likely for the fundamental reason that the current price of copper is about
15 percent below average world production costs and should tend to rise
towards the long-run supply price. The timing of this increase, however,
is dependent on the speed of recovery in industrial production in the OECD
countries. In the interim, Zambia will continue to experience difficulty
in meeting its debt service obligations and has already announced, at the
time of devaluation, that it would seek relief through rescheduling of
bilateral and private debt. The Government is thus aware of the magnitude
of the problem and has taken various steps to improve its management of
this situation, including the establishment of a new national debt unit to
centralize information on all external debt. At present, Zambia has little
scope for taking on an increase in its debt-servicing obligations due in
the next few years. Hence, additional borrowing should carry grace periods
and maturities such that its servicing can be accommodated within the
country's projected balance of payments constraint.  Continued improvements
in macroeconomic policies are expected to improve considerably Zambia's
prospects for diversification and growth over the larger term and, hence,
its capacity to service debt on commercial terms.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ZAMBIA
15.       Since 1956, the Bank Group has made 27 loans and 7 credits to
Zambia, totalling about US$619.51 million (net of cancellations). Two
additional Bank loans were made to Zambia and Zimbabwe jointly. Fourteen
loans and two credits have financed energy, transportation and communica-
tion projects. Four loans and one credit for education have helped expand
Zambia's secondary and higher education systems, teacher training, and
commercial, agricultural and technical education systems.   Two program
loans have helped Zambia maintain its development program in periods of
severe economic dislocation. In agriculture and forestry, seven loans and



- 5 -
three credits have been for industrial forest plantations, livestock,
commercial crops, integrated family farming, coffee production and
smallholder dairy development. Agricultural projects in the Eastern and
Southern Provinces are assisting smallholder farmers. Other loans have
assisted Zambia's urban development program and, through the Development
Bank of Zambia, its manufacturing, agricultural and industrial sectors. A
technical assistance credit is helping the Government improve its planning
and project preparation.
16.       The International Finance Corporation (IFC) has invested about
US$71 million in nine projects in Zambia since 1972. Two investments were
in shoe manufacturing, two in a packaging materials plant, and one each in
the Development Bank of Zambia, cobalt production, textiles and copper
production. The latest IFC investment was approved by the Executive
Directors on June 24, 1982. This investment (US$4.1 million equivalent) is
helping to finance a plant to produce ethanol from biomass (for blending
into gasoline). Summary statements of Bank Group loans, credits and
investments and notes on the execution of ongoing projects are in Annex II.
17.       Until recently, implementation of Bank-assisted projects in
Zambia has proceeded reasonably well. Currently, however, serious delays
are being experienced in the execution of a number of projects,
particularly in agriculture. This is due, in part, to a tight budgetary
situation and the Government's limited ability to mobilize local resources
for its contribution to project financing and for the prefinancing of local
expenditures, which are subsequently to be reimbursed by the Bank/IDA. It
is also partly due to ineffective coordination among government agencies
and lack of timely appointment of counterpart staff.
18.       The deterioration in project implementation has, as expected,
substantially reduced the rate of disbursements on Bank Group loans and
credits. During the first four years of the five year period (FY77-81),
the disbursement rate on loans and credits to Zambia averaged slightly over
25 percent per annum, higher than the Bankwide average of 21.2 percent, or
the 21.5 percent average for the Eastern Africa Region, and well above the
22.2 percent for Tanzania, 23.4 percent for Senegal and 20.2 percent for
Bolivia. In FY81, however, the rate dropped to just over 16 percent,
compared with 20 percent Bankwide, 16.5 percent for Eastern Africa, 22.2
percent for Tanzania, 20.8 percent for Senegal and 21.2 percent for
Bolivia, and a further drop may have occurred in FY82.  This problem is
being addressed through provision of technical assistance in projects to
strengthen implementing agencies, more frequent supervision missions, and
increased use of the Resident Mission in monitoring project execution.  In
addition, consideration is being given to the establishment of special
project accounts under ongoing projects which should substantially
accelerate disbursements while easing the Government's financial burden.
19.       The Bank Group expects to continue supporting government programs
to reduce dependence on copper, improve the efficiency of the copper
sector, reduce the energy import bill, narrow the urban-rural income gap
and develop local managerial and technical skills. Anticipated lending
reflects the Government's emphasis on directly productive sectors,
particularly agriculture-related activities, and on reducing the burden of



- 6 -
imported energy on the country's foreign exchange earnings. Continued
assistance to education, transportation and industry is also contemplated.
The proposed project is a significant step in assisting Zambia to reduce
the incidence of water-borne diseases in poorer rural areas of the country
and is the Bank Group's first operation in the water supply sector.
PART III. THE WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
Water Service Levels
20.       Adequate, up-to-date, statistics on access to potable water are
not generally available in Zambia, particularly for rural areas. However,
due to low investment levels in recent years, it is unlikely that water
service levels have changed much since 1973-74 when an estimated 50 percent
of the rural population obtained its water from traditional sources,
sources that were generally polluted and highly unreliable. Only 10
percent of the rural population was serviced with piped water at that time,
mostly because of being situated in local administrative centers or
surrounding villages. Of this group, about 25 percent was served by house
connections (15 percent) or plot connections (10 percent), with the
remaining 75 percent having to draw water from public standpipes. Piped
water in Zambia is usually treated and of acceptable quality. The
remaining 40 percent of the rural population gets its water from wells or
boreholes. Water from these sources is generally of satisfactory quality,
however, this is not universally true. In urban areas, an estimated 75
percent of the population had access to piped water in 1973-74, with the
remaining 25 percent relying on traditional, usually heavily polluted,
sources.
21.       Although detailed information on the incidence of water and
sanitation associated diseases does not exist, the lack of access to safe
water is thought to contribute significantly to health problems in Zambia.
Parasitic infections resulting in diarrhea, loss of weight, dehydration,
etc., are a major health problem and one of the most common causes of
patient admissions at health centers. In conjunction with malnutrition,
which is widespread among the population, this can have particularly
debilitating effects, especialy among young children. In the rural areas
the predominant causes of mortality are measles, pneumonia, diarrhea,
malnutrition and malaria. The child death rate (ages one to four) in 1978
was 190/1000, down from 400/1000 in 1963, but still high.
Objectives and Constraints
22.       The Government's objective is to provide all of the population
with safe water by the year 2000. At its request, the WHO/IBRD cooperative
program carried out a water supply and sewerage sector study in 1973-74 to
propose a long-term development program for the sector. The program
proposed would have assured 90 percent of the urban and 40 percent of the
rural population access to piped water by 1990, as well as water-borne
sewerage service to 60 percent of the urban and 20 percent of the rural



population. The 1973/74 Sector Study described rural sanitation as totally
inadequate. An additional 50 percent of the rural population would have
been supplied with safe water from wells and boreholes and have access to
pit latrines. This would have left only about 10 percent of the rural
population depending on unsafe traditional sources for water by the turn of
this decade and would have rendered achievement of the Government's
longer-term objective eminently feasible.
23.       Only a small part of the proposed program, which was estimated to
cost K 180 million (US$150 million) in constant 1973 prices (of which about
60 percent was to be for expansion in water supply services), has been
implemented, however, largely as a result of the country's severe budgetary
and foreign exchange difficulties since 1974. Beginning that year,
receipts from copper sales, the major source of government revenues and
foreign exchange earnings, declined sharply and have remained at
historically low levels since. Consequently, government expenditures have
had to be curtailed to correspond with the fall in revenues. Thus,
operations and maintenance expenditures and capital investment in the
sector have been constrained and the Department of Water Affairs (DWA) has
been unable to carry out government policies and programs as recommended in
the WHO/IBRD study. Moreover, the shortage of funds for spare parts and
technical and administrative staff has resulted in DWA being unable to
operate the existing water supply facilities adequately. Although there is
no direct connection between cost recovery and the amount of funds made
available by the Government for operations and maintenance since the
"earmarking" of revenues is not permitted under Zambia law, the collection
of funds through water tariffs has not been sufficient to cover operations
and maintenance costs in recent years.
24.       Another constraint on expanding or improving water supply
services in Zambia is the lack of qualified manpower. Very few Zambian
professionals, particularly qualified and experienced engineers, are
available. In part, this is due to the small number of secondary school
leavers who have majored in science courses and thus are prepared for
professional advancement. It is also partly the result of low civil
service remuneration levels which are not competitive with the private
sector, and to a shortage of staff housing in rural areas which discourages
the acceptance of postings outside the major urban centers.
Water Resources
25.       Surface water resources are abundant in Zambia.  Two principal
rivers, the Kafue and Zambezi, drain the western half of the country, the
Luangwa River drains the east, and the north is drained into several inland
lakes and marshes by smaller rivers. About 83 percent of the yearly runoff
is drained through a dense river network during the rainy season, while the
dry season base flow of about 17 percent is drained by the principal rivers
and some of their tributaries. Groundwater potential varies considerably
depending on geological characteristics. Good potential exists in western
Zambia and a strip from the Copperbelt to Lusaka has excellent potential.
Large parts of eastern, southern and central Zambia have less favorable
groundwater potential due to the presence of subsurface rock formations
that are not conducive to the development of good aquifers. Groundwater in
Zambia is generally of good quality.



- 8 -
26.       Sufficient technical information exists with which to plan water
resources development. Inventory studies on the various river basins have
been started, hydrological records from some 220 stream gauging stations
are available, and groundwater availability has been reasonably well
documented over the country. Based on this information, the Government
intends to develop with bilateral assistance a systematic master plan of
water resources development.
Sector Organization
27.       Ownership of all water resources in Zambia is vested in the
President, under the Water Act of 1948, as amended. The allocation of
these resources to potential users is the responsibility of the Water
Board, which is chaired by the Director of DWA and comprised of members
appointed by the Minister in charge of the water sector. Local administra-
tive responsibility for providing water supplies is governed by the Local
Government Act and by subsidiary bylaws and regulations of individual local
authorities. Existing water legislation is adequate, but the government
has undertaken to ensure that the relationship between DWA and the district
councils will be formalized in the course of project implementation.
28.       DWA is responsible for coordinating development of the nation's
water resources. As such, through its provincial representatives - the
Provincial Water Engineers (PWE) - it constructs rural water supply
systems, operates and maintains 62 piped sytems in rural communities on
behalf of 45 district councils, and provides technical assistance to those
district councils having the capability to run their own systems. DWA also
maintains point systems and constructs and maintains carals in swamp
areas. The PWEs are supervised by the Provincial Permanent Secretaries,
but report directly to DWA on technical and financial matters.
29.       Under Zambia's decentralized system, administration of economic,
social and security affairs resides with the district councils. This
includes responsibility for planning district development programs. The
district council's work programs are coordinated and reviewed by provincial
councils and their budgets are approved by Parliament. Central government
ministries are responsible for formulating policies, providing professional
assistance and manpower training and implementing projects that are beyond
the capacities of the district councils. Each district council has a
Director of Works who is responsible for the operation and maintenance of
council-run water supplies and a Treasurer whose office is responsible for
billings and collections, including those undertaken on behalf of DWA.
About 16 of the country's 58 districts are currently capable of developing,
operating, and maintaining their own water and sewerage facilities. The
remainder rely heavily on DWA support. The Buildings Department of the
Ministry of Works and Supply constructs and operates water supplies for
public institutions.



-9-
Sector Financing
30.       Although the Government is giving priority to the development of
rural water supply systems, shortages of funds have constrained expansion
of these systems in recent years. During 1974-79, DWA's capital expendi-
tures for rural water supplies averaged only about US$1.5 million per
annum, while direct investment by local administrations financed through
the national budget amounted to about US$0.7 million annually. DWA's
construction of water supply systems for other government departments added
an additional US$0.1 million. These investment levels are substantially
below those required to reach the goal of providing safe water to all
citizens by the year 2000.
31.       The costs of operating and maintaining water systems run by the
district councils are financed by water charges levied by the councils.
These charges, which are uniform for rural areas in all of Zambia, are
subject to approval by Cabinet and theoretically are set at a level suffi-
cient to cover costs and repay loans. In practice, however, they have not
kept up with cost increases for the past several years. The councils also
levy and collect tariffs for the water systems operated and maintained on
their behalf by DWA. These revenues, minus a collection fee, are paid
directly to the national treasury. The expenses of operating and maintain-
ing these systems are financed through direct budget allocations to DWA.
32.       Treasury transfers to DWA for recurrent expenditures in financial
years 1979-83 averaged only about 65 percent of the amount requested, not
sufficient to provide adequately for operations and maintenance. At the
same time, water revenue collections by the district councils were far
below expenditures, largely as a result of poor billings and collections,
supported by ineffective collection enforcement procedures. Consequently,
water supply facilities have not been maintained adequately in either the
major urban centers or in rural areas. DWA is working to ensure closer
consultation between the PWEs and the district councils to improve billing
and revenue collections.
The Implementing Agency
33.       Headquartered in Lusaka, DWA is headed by a Director who reports
to the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Deve-
lopment (MAWD).  The PWEs, who represent DWA in Zambia's nine provinces and
are responsible for constructing rural water supply systems, are supervised
by the Provincial Permanent Secretaries, but report as regards technical
and financial matters to the Director of DWA.
34.       Each of the district councils is headed by a chairman, who is
assisted by a District Executive Secretary. The latter reports to the
Provincial Permanent Secretary, thus providing the basis for coordination
with the PWEs. In practice, there is direct coordination and cooperation
between the PWEs and the district councils. Included in the district
executive secretary arrangement is a Director of Works, who is responsible



- 10 -
for the operation and maintenance of district council-run water supply
systems and a Treasurer whose office is responsible for billings and
collections, including those on behalf of DWA.
35.       DWA's staffing situation has improved markedly in recent months,
following a period of serious understaffing (including under-qualified
staff). Out of an approved establishment of some 260 posts, about 10-15
percent are vacant. Most managerial and professional posts are filled.
Many of the posts, including the Deputy Director of DWA and the Chief Water
Engineer, are filled by expatriates because of a lack of qualified
Zambians. Constraints in the Zambian secondary school system that limit
the number of candidates available for professional training, uncompetitive
civil service salaries, and shortages of appropriate staff housing are
major obstacles to reducing the heavy reliance on expatriates.
36.       A complete evaluation of DWA and district council water supply
operations is difficult because of inadequate accounting records and
information. The data that are available, however, indicate that DWA has
not received sufficient funds from the Ministry of Finance to operate and
maintain the water supply systems under its control to satisfactory
standards. Also, budget allocations for DWA's capital expenditure on water
supply systems have been about 60-70 percent of budget requests during the
1978-82 period and implementation was about 80 percent of the amounts
received,
37.       Recurrent expenditures of the district councils are financed from
local taxation, charges for services provided and transfers from the
central government. Based on a review of several district water supply
systems, the performance of councils in revenue collections from their own
water supply operations has been poor, with collections amounting to only
30 to 40 percent of the expenditures required for adequate standards of
maintenance and operation. A similar experience holds for district council
collections on behalf of DWA. Attempts to remedy this situation by
instructing PWEs to follow up with the councils have failed.
38.       A large part of the collection problem is related to inadequate
accounting and collection procedures. Water tariffs are often incorrectly
applied, few meters exist, customer records are incomplete, billings are
often inaccurate and late, and accounting records are deficient so that the
level of revenues and accounts receivable at any given time are not readily
ascertainable. PWEs do not monitor collections adequately, and enforcement
penalties for non-payment are seldom applied.
39.       DWA's expenditures are subjected to fairly tight control and
procurement procedures are ponderous. While the mechanics of the budgeting
process appear adequate, funds are not allocated to DWA on the basis of
need, and the amounts allocated are often released late with adverse
effects on the Department's operations. For this reason, allocated funds
are often not fully spent and operations are hindered by lack of materials
and spare parts. Performance monitoring within DWA needs to be improved,
as does monitoring and reporting by PWEs of the district councils' revenue
collection performance.



- 11 -
40.       The Government's stated policy is to recover operations and main-
tenance costs from users, and in 1979 water tariffs were increased signifi-
cantly to achieve this goal. Nevertheless, revenue collections are still
far below levels needed to ensure adequate operating standards.
External Assistance
41.       Little external assistance was made available to the sector prior
to the early 1970s, but such assistance has increased sharply since. In
most cases, this aid has been broad-based, including, in addition to
capital investments in wells, boreholes, dams and other facilities,
considerable amounts of technical assistance and staff training. Agencies
and governments providing assistance to the sector in recent years include
Sweden, the USSR, Denmark, Germany, Norway, the Netherlands, the UK,
Ireland, the Commission of European Communities (CEC) and UNICEF. The
African Development Bank has funded engineering studies for several urban
water systems and is expected to help fund these systems. Because of
institutional weaknesses in the sector, the various agencies have assumed
considerable responsibility for constructing and operating their projects,
with general supervision and coordination by DWA.
42.       The Bank's objective in the water supply sector is to support the
Government's efforts to supply the population with safe water at the least
possible cost. A subsidiary goal is to improve the operating efficiency of
the principal sector institutions, DWA and the district councils, particu-
larly in rural areas where institutional difficulties are the gravest. The
proposed project would be the first Bank Group operation in the water
supply sector, although a number of agriculture, urban and education
projects previously financed by the Bank Group have had water supply compo-
nents. Achievement of the Government's goals and the required institu-
tional improvements in the sector will require sustained assistance from
external agencies.
The Project Area
43.       The proposed project is located in six districts in the northeast
of Zambia (see map). Five (Isoka, Kaputa, Mpulungu, Kawambua, Samfya) of
the six are situated in the Northern and Luapala provinces, and the sixth
(Ndola Rural) is in the Copperbelt province, Both surface and groundwater
are generally available in the area. The Northern and Luapula Provinces
are among the lesser developed areas of the country.
44.       There were about 420,000 people living in the six districts in
1980, mostly in scattered homesteads, small villages and a few administra-
tive centers. By 1988, the population is expected to reach 530,000
persons. Over 70 percent of the population depends on smallholder
subsistence farming for a livelihood, and local authorities estimate that
about 75 percent of the population has incomes below the absolute poverty
threshhold. The Northern and Luapula Provinces are below the national
average in all major health parameters, which is partially the result of
the lack of safe water available to these low income households.



- 12 -
45.       About 8 percent of the population living in the six districts
have access to piped water and about 40 percent to wells and boreholes.
The remainder, 220,000 persons, live far from existing facilities and must
rely on natural, unprotected sources. The standard of service provided by
the existing piped systems is low, as mostly unchlorinated water is
supplied from unprotected surface sources. Both the piped and point
systems are in a poor state of repair as a result of past lack of
maintenance and rehabilitation.
46.       In an effort to raise health standards, the Government is embark-
ing on a program of primary health care aimed at the underserved, high-risk
groups in rural areas. The provision of safe water and basic sanitation,
along with health education and hygiene and promotion of adequate nutri-
tion, is to be integrated with the primary health care program.
47.       The proposed project would increase the supplied population in
the target area to 62 percent of the total in 1988, from 45 percent in
1980. Expansion of the piped systems in the four district centers would
meet demand in these centers until 1988. The point water systems would
include the construction of 400 wells serving 95,000 persons and 42 bore-
holes serving 15,000 persons. The present high level of water wastage
would be reduced by a combination of higher tariffs, improved maintenance,
additional water metering and increased public awareness through education
in water use.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
48.       Based on the sector survey undertaken in 1973/74 by the WHO/IBRD
cooperative program, CEC provided a grant to finance feasibility studies
for 23 water supply schemes in Zambia. Budgetary constraints and DWA's
limited implementing capacity restricted the number of schemes included in
the 1978/83 Third National Development Plan to eleven, for which CEC
financed the final engineering designs. Upon completion of the designs in
March 1981, CEC agreed to finance construction of the five schemes in the
South and IDA was asked by the Government to finance the six northern
schemes.
49.       The proposed project was appraised in February 1981.  Deficien-
cies in the feasibility studies and the preparation work were discussed
during appraisal and further work was required of the consultants. A
post-appraisal mission visited Zambia in July/August 1982 to update the
Bank's information for the project. It was determined during post
appraisal that additional work identifying least cost solutions for
supplying water in various areas was needed. This work was completed and
found acceptable by IDA prior to Credit negotiations. Negotiations were
held in Washington during the period March 28 - April 6, 1983; the Zambian
Delegation was led by Mr. F. Mbewe, Director of Planning, MAWD. The staff
appraisal report entitled, "Republic of Zambia Rural Water Supply Project"
(Report No. 4175-ZA) is being circulated to the Executive Directors
separately. A Credit and Project Summary appears at the beginning of this
report and a Supplementary Project Data Sheet is attached as Annex III.



- 13 -
Project Objective and Description
50.       The main objectives of the proposed project would be to assist
the Government to improve and expand water supply services in six districts
in northern Zambia and to strengthen DWA and the district councils as the
principal institutions charged with carrying out government programs and
policies in the sector. In addition, the proposed project would address
other major constraints on sector development, including the problems of
manpower shortages, inadequate operation and maintenance of water systems
and ineffective cost recovery, and would help the Government meet the water
supply sector targets of the Third National Development Plan.
51.       The project would consist of the following components:
(i)  improvement and expansion of water supply
facilities in the districts of Isoka, Kaputa,
Kawambwa, Mbala, Ndola Rural, and Samfya in
northern Zambia, comprising:
(a) piped systems in four district administrative
centers (Isoka, Mpulungu, Kawambwa, Samfya);
(b) point systems - wells and boreholes - for
selected villages in the six districts (400
wells and 42 boreholes);
(ii) engineering services required for supervising
construction of the four piped water supply
systems and for preparing detailed designs for an
additional four schemes for future projects;
(iii) provision and upgrading of two provincial and six
district workshops; and provision of standard
houses for DWA staff;
(iv) provision of tools and equipment for two
provincial and six district workshops and a
two-year supply of spare parts for all water
supply schemes operated by DWA (except for Western
X                          Province;
(v)  provision of vehicles, including spare parts, for
six district workshops and three provincial
workshops;
(vi) provision of the following technical assistance:
(a) one project coordinator (provision for an
additional two years following termination of
his existing contract which is being financed
by IDA Technical Assistance Credit 873-ZA);



- 14 -
(b) one cost and management accountant for DWA's
head office (provision for an additional two
years following termination of his existing
contract should NORAD not extend financing of
his services);
(c) two water maintenance engineers for the
provincial offices at Mansa and Kasama (four
years);
(vii)  provision of ten overseas scholarships for train-
ing of professional level staff; and
(viii)  health education, rehabilitation of the water
supply and sanitation facilities in the health
centers in the six project districts, construction
of standard houses for senior health staff, and
purchase of vehicles and spare parts.
Project Cost and Financing
52.       The total project cost, including taxes (the project is exempt
from duties), is estimated at US$21.6 million dollars, of which about
US$10.6 million (49 percent) is foreign exchange costs. An allowance of 10
percent for physical contingencies has been added to the base cost. Price
contingencies for foreign costs of 7.5 percent for 1983 and 7.0 percent
annually thereafter have been included in the total costs, as have contin-
gency allowances of 15 percent for 1983 and 12 percent annually thereafter
for local cost escalation. The consultants have determined that the
proposed project represents the least cost solution to providing water
supply services to the project areas.
53.       The proposed IDA and IDA Special Fund credits of SDR 9.2 million
(US$10.0 million equivalent) and SDR 5.6 million (US$6.0 million equiva-
lent), respectively, would finance 74 percent of the total project costs,
including 100 percent of the foreign costs of US$10.6 million and 49
percent - US$5.4 million - of the local costs, including taxes. The
Government would provide the equivalent of US$5.6 million for the balance
of the project costs, in accordance with the project implementation
schedule.  The local costs covered by IDA and the IDA Special Fund would be
split evenly between the two. An additional US$3.3 million (including
contingencies) of the equipment, vehicles, spare parts and technical
assistance may be procurred in accordance with Special Fund procedures.
Project Implementation
54.       DWA would have direct responsibility for project implementation.
A Project Coordinator, responsible only for this project, has been
appointed and is working under terms of reference approved by IDA. This
position is being financed for two years under a separate IDA Credit,
following which it would be financed for an additional two years



- 15 -
from the proposed Credit. DWA would be represented in the districts for
project purposes by the PWEs, who work closely with the district councils
and the Provincial Medical Officers. The Department of Preventive Medicine
of the Ministry of Health and the Building Department of the Ministry of
Works and Supply would cooperate with DWA in implementing the health
education component of the project at the district health centers.
55.       Revised preliminary designs based on least cost solutions for the
piped water supply systems included in the proposed project were completed
in January 1983 and are acceptable to IDA. Revised final engineering
designs for both the piped and point systems are scheduled for completion
in May 1983 and are not expected to result in significant changes in the
cost estimates. These designs were prepared by the Italian firm, Carlo
Lotti and Associates, consulting engineers, under a grant provided by the
Italian Government. Standard designs for provincial and district workshops
and stores have been prepared, as have lists of equipment and tools for the
workshops and of spare parts required for maintenance. Standard designs
for the staff houses to be constructed under the project have also been
prepared. These houses are of a standard appropriate to conditions in
Zambia and to the level of staff that occupy them. Their average unit cost
of about US$40,000 reflects the high cost of construction in rural areas of
the country. Tender documents are being readied and construction and
delivery of equipment, etc., to be financed under the project, are expected
to begin in August 1983. preparations for upgrading DWA's operations and
maintenance capacity are well advanced.
56.       Engineering consultancy services would be required for supervi-
sion of construction of the piped water systems and for preparation of
final designs for future projects. The Government has decided to retain
the services of Carlo Lotti and Associates for this purpose, which is
acceptable to IDA. The consultant would work to terms of reference that
have already been accepted by IDA and the contract for these services would
be approved by IDA.
57.       Additional professional staff would be required to assist DWA
with project implementation. Besides the Project Coordinator, who would be
financed for two years under this project, an accounting advisor and two
water maintenance engineers would be required. NORAD is providing a cost
and management accountant for a minimum of two years. Should NORAD for
some reason not extend its assistance past the existing two-year contract
period and other sources not be available, an added two years would be
financed under this project. The two water maintenance engineers would be
provided for a period of four years under the project. They would provide
technical assistance to the PWEs on the operation and maintenance of water
systems. Two graduate Zambian engineers from the three-year program at the
National Resources Development College in Zambia would be assigned to each
of the two water maintenance engineers for training in the operation and
maintenance of water systems. Terms of reference for the water maintenance
engineer positions have been prepared and are acceptable to IDA. Recruit-
ment for these positions is expected to begin shortly.



- 16 -
58.       A separate training section, headed by a training officer
seconded from MAWD's Central Training Unit, has been established in DWA.
This section is responsible for establishing manpower requirements, prepar-
ing a manpower development program and supervising and coordinating train-
ing. To provide support for the training officer, a water engineer with
considerable experience in organizing and carrying out training programs
has been employed by DWA. His services are being provided by Gesselschaff
Fuer Technische Zusammen Arbeit (GT2) of the Republic of Germany. Since
adequate facilities and programs exist in Zambia for the training of
technicians and the qualifications of staff at the technical level have
increased substantially in recent months as a result of an expanded
training program, training financed under the project would consist of ten
overseas scholarships for qualified engineers. The cost and management
accountant and the water maintenance engineers provided under the project
would provide on-the-job training.
59.       In accordance with the Government's policy of decentralization,
the water supply systems constructed by DWA under the project would be
handed over to the district councils for operation. However, since there
are few trained Zambians available in the districts to operate the piped
systems, these would be operated by DWA on behalf of the district councils
for a period of at least five years after project completion, which is the
existing practice in Zambia. DWA provided assurances during negotiations
that it would operate these systems for this period of time. District
personnel would be trained to take over these systems after this period.
The district councils would remain responsible for the operation and main-
tenance of the point systems. DWA would assist the district councils in
training villagers in the maintenance of point systems.
60.       The health component of the project was developed by the Ministry
of Health (MH), in cooperation with the provincial and district health
officers. Rehabilitation of the water supply and sanitation facilities at
the district health centers, plus the provision of laboratory facilities
and equipment for simple water analysis and vehicles would be carried out
at the same time and following the same procedures as those involved in the
construction and improvements to village water supply systems. Construc-
tion of staff housing and pit latrines would be carried out by the MH by
force account. Operation and maintenance of the water supply and sanita-
tion facilities, etc. provided under this component would be the responsi-
bility of the MH. In addition, the health education aspects of-this compo-
nent, including the regular radio programs disseminating health informa-
tion, the distribution of pamphlets, posters and audio-visual materials,
would be organized and supervised by the MH.
61.       To ensure that the local funding for the project would be
available when needed, the Government would establish a Project Advance
Account into which it would deposit at the beginning of each quarter the
amount required to cover its share of the estimated project cost for the
quarter (Section 3.01 (b) of both the draft Development Credit Agreement
and the draft Special Fund Credit Agreement). An initial deposit in this
account, estimated at K$ 0.6 million, would be a condition of effectiveness
(Section 6.01 (b) of both the draft Development Credit Agreement and the
draft Special Fund Credit Agreement).



- 17 -
62.       To resolve the problems of ineffective collections and billings,
accounting and record keeping, etc, a cost and management accountant has
been employed to advise and assist MAWD/DWA in recommending and implement-
ing improvements in budgeting, accounting and reporting procedures with the
view to establishing efficient financial management, planning, and
control. These improvements are expected to be adopted as well by the
district councils if and where appropriate. In addition, this accountant
would provide training to eleven qualified and experienced accounting
personnel that would be seconded to MAWD's accounting staff by the Borrower
(Section 3.06 of both the draft Development Credit Agreement and the draft
Special Fund Credit Agreement).  Nine of these personnel would be
dispatched to train district council staff, with the other two to assist
the cost and management accountant. The Borrower would seek assurances
from the district councils that they would adopt the recommendations of the
cost and management accountant as regards new revenue collection and
accounting systems and have their personnel trained in these systems
(Section 3.07 of both the draft Development Credit Agreement and the draft
Special Fund Credit Agreement). DWA staff have legal authority to inspect
district council accounts maintained on their behalf.
Cost Recovery
63.       With the view to improving cost recovery in the short run, DWA
some months ago commissioned a study of the system of water charges in
Zambia, including a review of the level and structure of such charges.
This study, which is being carried out by NIVA of Norway, is expected to be
completed by the end of May and will be forwarded to IDA for review. The
study is expected to recommend increases in water tariffs and a realignment
of the tariff structure so as to make the tariffs more equitable among
water users.
64.       Once the NIVA study is completed and reviewed by IDA, the DWA
would prepare a proposal for water tariff adjustments for submission to
to Government for approval. This proposal would be agreed with IDA prior
to its submission, and the tariff adjustments would be such as to make the
tariff structure more equitable and to achieve tariff levels and structure
as will ensure the recovery by the end of 1985 and thereafter of the full
costs of operation and maintenance. These adjustments would cover all
water supply systems in the country operated by DWA. The first tariff
4         adjustment for these purposes would be made not later than January 1, 1984
(Section 4.03 of both the draft Development Credit Agreement and the draft
Special Fund Credit Agreement).
65.       The Government has undertaken to provide adequate budgetary
allocations for the operation and maintenance of DWA's water systems and
the Government and IDA would discuss annually the adequacy of such alloca-
tions (Section 4.05(a) of both the draft Development Credit Agreement and
the draft Special Fund Credit Agreement).



- 18 -
Procurement and Distribution
66.       The main contracts for the construction of the four piped systems
totalling about US$6.44 million and procurement of the equipment, spare
parts and vehicles, totalling about US$1.64 million, as well as equipment
and vehicles required for implementation of point systems, the health
component and for technical assistance would be awarded on the basis of
international competitive bidding in accordance with IDA guidelines. To
allow participation by local contractors, bids will be accepted for one or
several schemes. Contracts totalling US$1.44 million for workshops and
staff houses would be tendered locally as they are small and unlikely to
attract international firms. Local bidding procedures, examined during
appraisal, are acceptable. Construction of wells and boreholes in villages
and at health centers, estimated at about US$2.98 million would be under-
taken by DWA in each province by force account and/or local contractors.
Force account work would be required in some areas because of the smallness
of the contracts involved and the dearth of local contractors available to
do the work. These arrangements are satisfactory and acceptable to IDA.
DWA has developed specialized expertise in such work, and the workload
would be within its capacity. Hand pumps (approximately 500) would be
imported under international competitive bidding procedures.
67.       All bidding packages for goods estimated to cost over US$150,000
equivalent and bidding packages for works over US$700,000 equivalent would
be subject to IDA's prior review, resulting in a coverage of about 95
percent of the total estimated value of contracts for goods and almost
all works contracts. The balance of contracts would be subject to random
review by IDA after contract award.
68.       Consultants have been selected and would be appointed on terms
and conditions acceptable to IDA. Consultancy services include about 60
man-months for the supervision of construction of the four piped systems,
and about 90 man-months for the preparation of future projects. The costs
of these services are estimated to total about US$1.39 million. The
average man-month cost, including salary, fees, international travel,
local transport, accommodation and subsistence, is expected to be about
US$9,300. In addition to these personnel costs, the contract costs would
include survey and laboratory equipment, test drilling and pumping, local
office operating expenses and other minor items.
69.       Proceeds provided under the IDA Special Fund Credit for the
project may be used to finance expenditures for goods produced in, or
services supplied from, any of the following countries:  a) any Part II
member of the Association and b) those countries who at the time of signing
the Credit Agreement had notified or advised the Administrator in writing
that they intended to make an SF Contribution in a minimum amount conform-
ing with paragraph 4 of the IDA Special Fund Resolution, or c) which had
notified or advised the Association in writing that they intended to make a
Special Contribution in such minimum amount to the FY84 Account and had
advised the Association in writing that such Special Contribution was to be
treated in the same manner as an SF Contribution for purposes of any future
adjustment of the voting rights of the members of the Association.



- 19 -
70.       The credit would be disbursed over five-years against:  i) 100
percent of foreign costs of all civil works, including materials; ii) 60
percent of local costs of civil works, including locally manufactured
materials; iii) 100 percent of the foreign cost of equipment, tools, spare
parts and vehicles; and iv) 100 percent of foreign cost of consultancy
services, technical assistance and training. Disbursements for work
carried out by force account would be made against statements of
expenditure (SOE).
Audits and Reports
71.       The financial statements of DWA and the project accounts would be
audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA and would be submitted to
IDA within six months of the close of the fiscal year. A summary of the
audit of the district councils would be submitted to IDA at the same time.
SOE would be audited separately and annual audit reports submitted to IDA
within six months after the end of the fiscal year in which the expendi-
tures were incurred. DWA would regularly monitor the construction, opera-
tion and maintenance, staffing, training and financial performance against
targets established for the project and would prepare regular progress
reports for IDA review.
Benefits and Risks
72.       In addition to the important benefit of providing safe water to
nearly 140,000 persons, 30,000 persons by the piped systems and 110,000
persons by the wells and boreholes, in low income rural Zambia, the project
would strengthen substantially key sector institutions, most notably DWA
and the district councils. It would also encourage significant policy
advances as regards cost recovery, accounting, operational efficiency and
staffing. The major risk involves the timely provision of local funds to
carry out the project and to cover operating and maintenance cost. The
difficult budgetary situation the Government is facing underscores this
risk, notwithstanding the high priority the authority place on the
project. Improvement, albeit gradual, is expected in the country's finan-
cial picture, however, which will help to reduce this risk. Establishment
of the Project Advance Account under the project would address the question
of timely allocations of local funds to the capital costs and the Borrower
has agreed to provide adequate budget allocations for the operation and
maintenance of DWA's water systems (para. 65). Other risks include
possible delays in the introduction of improved cost recovery systems and
procedures and continued problems of staffing, particularly as regards the
operation and maintenance of DWA water supply facilities. Technical
assistance, training and other arrangements under the project address these
risks.



- 20 -
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENT AND AUTHORITY
73.       The draft Development Credit Agreements between The Republic of
Zambia and the Association on the one hand and between The Republic of
Zambia and the Association Special Fund on the other, and the Recommenda-
tion of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1(d) of the Arti-
cles of Agreement of the Association are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
74.       Special Conditions of the credit are listed in Annex III of this
report.
75.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
76.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
by: Ernest Stern
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
April 15, 1983



- 21 -                                      ANNEX I
Page I of 5
TABLE 3A
ZA!BIA - SiOIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
ZAMBIA                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE7AGES
- MO3ST RECENT ESTI aT)
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. B)_                                                              -lSTREZTSTIMATE) a 
TOTAL            752.6                                MOST RECENT          MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL     400.6              1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIlATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  NORTH AFRICA & MIDDLE EAST
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                 230.0       380.0    560.0                 1053.2                  1253.6
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)        ..       692.3    831.9                 610.1                    713.5
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 3207.0       4242.0    5766.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 23.1        30.0      43.0                  28.3                    47.3
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      11.5
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                        35.9
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2105
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. g4.                        4.3         5.6       7.4                  54.7                    35.5
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND      6.1        10.6      13.9                 129.9                   420.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         43.0        46.1      47.2                 46.0                     44.3
15-64 YRS.                         52.5        51.4      50.2                 51.1                     52.4
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   2.5         2.5       2.6                  2.8                      3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.4         2.8       3.1                   2.8                     2.8
URBAN                              5.3         5.4       6.7                  5.2                      4.6
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    50.6         49.6      49.1                 47.2                     41.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    24.4         20.1      16.5                  15.7                    12.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.4         3.4       3.4                   3.2                     2.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..           ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          99.0        96.0      93.0                 90.7                    100.4
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   86.5        86.5      90.0/c               93.9                    108.5
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          58.3        57.5      57.87w               54.8                     71.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       13.5        16.0      14.17                17.0                    18.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     33.0        25.6      20.3                  23.9                    15.1
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   39.7         44.6      49.5                  51.8                    56.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          151.3       125.2     106.0                118.5                    104.3
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        37.0      42.0ld                  ..                    59.1
URBAN                               ..        70.0      86.07                   ..                    83.1
RURAL                               ..        22.0      16.07;                  ..                    39.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
*                   TOTAL                                ..        16.0      42.0/d
URBAN                               .,        12.0      87.07                   *
RURAL                               ..        18.0      16.O/I d
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          9544.6      8288.4  10406.8/d             14185.2                   4015.5
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     9915.07e    2479.0   1972.77-              2213.2                   1802.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL RED
TOTAL                            364.4       311.3     269.6               1036.4                    641.7
URBAN                            181.0/e        ..    357.4                 430.8                    538.3
RURAL                            468.67/        ..    247.4                3678.6                   2403.3
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL RED           ..          ..      31.0                    ..                    25.5
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..         4.4
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..         2.6
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URBAN                             27.5          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..



- 22 -
ANNEX I
TBE3APae2o                                                                
2BIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                           Page  2  of  5
ZAMBIA                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE  AGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-a
MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  NORTH AFRICA & MIDDLE EAST
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 42.0         91.0      95.0                  83.3                     88.7
KALE                  51.0       101.0      101.0                  96.1                    104.5
FEMALE               34.0         80.0       89.0                  80.4                     72.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  2.0         13.0      17.0                  15.3                      39.7
MALE                   3.0        18.0       22.0                  19.4                     49.3
FEMALE                 1.0         8.0       12.0                  11.3                     29.0
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)  27.8           3.2       3.0/c                 4.7                      10.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            50.5         46.8      47.6/f                38.6                     34.1
SECONDARY                          13.5         22.5      21.077                23.4                     23.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        28.5/e         ..      44.0                  35.6                      43.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         10.2         14.3      18.5/f                31.9                     17.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          4.7         17.7      22.4                  71.8                    131.3
TV RECEIVERS PER TNOUSAND
POPULATION                           *-          4.0        *-                  17.9                     44.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
TliOUSAND POPULATION                  5.0         13.4      19.4                  19.1                     31.5
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..            ..       0.3/f                 0.6                      1.7
L.ABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      1322.0       1653.6    2095.1
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   33.3         32.6      31.9                  36.5                     10.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              79.0         73.0      67.0                  56.5                     42.4
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  7.0          9.0      11.0                  17.7                     27.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                41.2         39.0      36.3                  37.0                      26.0
MALE                                 55.3         52.9      49.8                  46.9                     46.2
FEMALE                               27.3         25.2      23.1                  27.2                      5.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.2          1.2       1.4                    1.3                      1.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   33.7          23.0/
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  58.2          63. 7j,   56.7/f
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    5.4           3.87/     3.67..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   13.0          10.17     11.17,
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     247.0                 507.0                    279.2
RURAL                                ..           ..     168.0                 200.6                    178.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     126.0                 523.9                    403.6
RURAL                           *        -                85.0                 203.6                    285.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..      25.0                    ..                     22.1
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..                    ,,                     30.9
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1977; /d 1975; /e 1963; Jf 1976; /g 1973.
May, 1982



ANNEX I
-  23 -Pae  of 5
DEFINItTIONS OF SOCIAL IC5ICATO5SS
wotes:  Although the data ate dyso  frot sure  geealyfdged tine  -as  su.eete                          d reliable, it should eia he noted that they may vah b ie--
sstlitallyco ps...til  becaus  of the lathL of stdedanised dIeiluinuo   sad .oncepts  sdb   iieent   -tuto- tea                  1 1llrttiuf the data   Tee dat  un,cue
thetess. . usful to describe orders c  esgultue. indicae trends, odcacnie    rtIt eul- differences                              ..
Theceiteut tuop  ou  (I  ti  sae cocty troo   rf the -ubier  retryad (21 a   -outy  roop cith  so_uhat hither  Bvrge me   rs rh   outry group
majoity  cfte ceteuuu iusnroup  hue dat  Ourth t              tenrno -Crc  irvroec..u..e.amc S'u idfcvr  depesde  - tie  -cilohiliry of dato
indicatorf .. a   .a time -ogte  crr   o  reeec    groups.hl                                                   h--- .d.d            .y..f11  .t.ig  h 
cti(iboce-d su .                                                                                   ouuiipe    optltd-total, aebar, ad rua  -Pplainfinl
Tofal - Tera1  -ufacetr  cuaihi.lad urea aed bete.d eaer; 1979 data.                                  rbar ..ad r.rs.  divided by thoir repct Iye caber of huepitei   a.u
AiraLcratl.  - inetmate cf  uocterlaraued tes,poo-ily or P -etsrly                                  aaileble Ic prricad private gecera1 ecd  p_cialie-d bonpitel sedc-
or crps, pastures,keant sed if tcheo gardee - ot.n lie fall a; 1909 data.                         bahtitaitenrater.           -fcPiitalm   r   nabiie        peacet Op eteffed
hy a   en   m  physic ta.Osuibm sprcvdiOig priecipullp  c-tce
GNP PER   TA   IC)  - fP peo copina estisanee  at -crretmat price.' cal-                               dial rar  Are oa  icladrd.  icycu icytt. -ieeer  iccoueiolt
ca1tatd by  am  recrtamihd as fold Buet Atlas (1908-CC basis); 19CC,                                 _c dicel creite eon .        ere.Iet   1 leetafrd by a physIicia   fiat by 
19 70, aid 19t0 das                                                                                    eical aesut   ue,sd Ife                  .) eftuct cie  i-an_tuc~
dstic-  ed pe-vde a limited rege of medical facilities   Fc- sineie-l
ENERtY COpNSeMPTIdN PRo  CiTlA - A.ualcoempiu   f   -ortail eetot   (-u.tca1efct   ra  hoepituel  i-cldr WfHO cdcptCeca.oetmo
aid ligeite,ynaet,   roar            ..u sod hyac-,  -ol-araed g-beens1 ele-                         adert_    hpelel, tota  or e-ohuiuu   se  mdical aedearvy
triciuyl Ce kilentoss adca -       civ1    etPm  _mpita; 19t0, 1970, se  1779                        ceis 1.ty -ilfs  hosittuls ar  ircioded ory ceder refuC
deic.                                                                                             idisos  e   uytu             4e  - Tona  roebor of       ..m.... to ordischarges
freheOseduvtded bp the  -aie  of hide.
MPOPLATIC Off ANDMVTA STATISTICS
Tota  Pupl-to,   i-Ya  (ieed)-uof Jc1) 1; 1f6C, 1970, aed 1980                                  HOUSINGi
dote.                                                                                             Av-apegir  oftaaeholtIpesot  te  itturidi- tfel.cobe,tod rral
diffreo   deuiriae  of buhcare    a   ftec   comParability of d-t                                  sod theIr male matt.  A b-udre,  lo dger may ormy oa  he iecladed Is
ameut.. cotries; h96bO, 19ff,0IdI9t0 dais.                                                         Ic- hoemebld  c-  statiati-al puopoaen
PoaalrP ro..i.s                                                                                    Aerorcetrofpeeae_errom-total,  -ra,ad card  - arenge 00..
Popc1taido   beYra  20CC - Carrie  pryaIlaio    oojeottic-  art ba...d ee 19CC                     hoe of pove.e.  per ntocL  Aleul anbue   i   crl   ccyereeto
ita:1  Polatee by age ad me- ,ad their marrlity end f-rtiltrY eatee                             duelis  rptniv-cy.  eee1ioneorldereyraetioirse
Projecefuepurct         o  menalty rto    copee    a 't ire   l_evi  unet                      ucasymOpeit
ted Ilfe ePe:_e,     hrn   iconaseg a ti  cc-try'. sPe, -pita iccom                           A-ce-i .  le-cuicyt  frincit  fIdrloe   -Crl   rav   o   au  -
level,  Id temela life moper taiy  tiabiliiteg  at 00.5 yeuru.  tie pana-                       C         ..etica  dtecliioe etch clettirity  bei lietot.    .. g  ..oe   P. -ete-ge
maeefrfrIICyhrt  ae    at   iee I.e-Iea. lo  dacftee  in                               of tn         ne,adrue  d-ellion'erep               ey
f- iiltyarrondiet to Iucum  leci  -tc  Pua  fosalY  tuoe-i"  renforuste.
Eeach --ttt  Ia Lhcaatar   cu  c  there cict  -ei-siot-  of sor-lity                       EDUCATIONt
ated fertility creeds fuc prjriapopeo                                                           dj-ns  OcE-lsc11        t
Irstcr   roooliIetuni-i y ppao the tiIr is cc  co i - tr                                          vtcacr irbotl   - .cra.   ais aud   emalo -. Cron  total, sole and female
thr birth ruts in uccl to the dea,th  tr. end utso the age errn-e r-                               eeolmcco   ufl          . gee athe primary leelas -ecoae    f cepc 
_ei_ ro..ison.  TMi  Ia achieved crafte  fdiityu rais  de-lice cc                                  primary ethool-ate              ..ootoe  rore1ly irol.det childer aged 6-IL
the  -e1-roevn  level rf coinvt - rrdrro              ae   he- each gecerstiot                     con  her adjoeted E-c  diffe..e.i leo9tti  ci primary edu...tic; for
ad eare   -clare-  iteelf ...ocly.  The nit.iecay Pepo1lsi-e tiersu                                c_cetienli  coh I.e...Id       -c .1eorlat soy ror-d Ill0 pacer.t
meimacd o  te btteofthe pojetted chrateisic              f the pooaYeaie  oapyl   r  brle   oaov t.heofialcted ae
betrer28f.  sdi therue of dclieo of feneility esr  Ca replace-                             hecoedoereco   - .1oal  sole and femae   Comyored At ob-et; teccucry
mail level                                                                                         ed-ctiocr'quIec   at Ile..t tour        -~ yoa .t.o ap e    triyrmay ica -teuit.;
Tear acti-yac   PoPolftCoo le r-etod - The pear  hine etati-mat  popalartie.rof.                                 te-i,  al.  cciiu,-0teuchee crirce I'll,           ntl     fo  r-pios
lse sift he rearbd.                                                                               ceaully of 12 to 17 Yaars of ago; curremp-edere  ___er  see aeceul
Prr mu  a.  -Mad-pearpcpclattir per eqeace Ai--eie  (100 bcae)o                                  uaaolecisc    rretofe-codcy  -Ocaica   ie-i-ticos
C ttao;tiC, 1971  Ied 1909 daa                                                          tirlude te-hicol  tuuriat  cether prou                   hith ep.teteedped-
roroatloa.eCirotore(reecesif - Childree  (C-it yer)   otrftf O.pImary  -ad secda   levels dio-ded hr ...iere of t-eaer  c- the
i yee),od retired (t5 Y-.r aed ove) mar-,,ue   o    i-ye... yore-                                  corempondict  eo_l..
lne 16.1970. aid 19CC lava.                                                             halt1 literacy  rsfr ferecect  - Ltiieatrada1ts  (Able to rod aid erite)
erlte OrthRae   (-pereo) - tetal -ucAa.L CrouCh Yestee of itatl   d-                       atap-erecCge of eota1 udul  ppclerioc aged 15 yoa-  aed over.
rea   Puplaeice T-c  1950-60. 1C60-7B, sod 190-0-C.
Pcclrfe  rethbn   ecsi  -uan- uiA-. l dratb rtyn. of erbu  popa-                          CC5hlffPTlCy
l'ic.e  fur 195-l.9h-C                      so 10Cf.                                            Pueoefn (prtieucopylat-) &-teoe  cure c-pri mae
Crde Curi ' ar  (pe  rhooturd) -AdevI lice hienhe pot hoos-d of bed-year                           cusaaiflC   lpeai   rscedaldu  eoarm   crr   c
popufflaCl i 19 0, 1970, ocd lOC  data.                                                           etlir-yveils
Crude Decci Race (Per  bt--aud) -Maua1 teoethe per theu-ud  of std-yeo.                            eadlo kteearme  (per tb-eeaaod poplutc- All_Lypta of ceet-c  for radio
P.poltiot; 1960. 1970, aid 19CC duca.                                                              hco-dcu-tuitincnri  pubiIto  inticusud of  eyli_o;  _aloee_ t
irons  cyredciCc   at-Arc             cesi_ac af d-acht-raema    ill brertc                          litteedrries-rocvood Cryeui                             urparofeo   ai
t --IoepcdcroperIad ifehsrop-rtc-   pieeus-                       -e cfirfr-                   scasieeisc;drao-Ysu   ysresothrw olete
nilit' cis; ocu Ip lv-y      acote-diuc Io 1960. 197C. ard I9C0.                            vet   cteie  bhltuhd ItrIe_          t
PuMiOr rPueict-hcAecti-, Aeuss  (ibo-sadm) -    .~ -otoulou teof occep...Tt.ouoc    pr  hcedpraalr           eevr --                                             onY f o, oudcaut Ca
of tipi-ccitet deices cder aspicesof ee Ioe   f uniy plecetof prteu.                 Ce_re' public  le  ticee   poyu2aleic    erlde .e0Ivi-ed 7ff edeiv-e
Pastl  PleetveOeer   (peceptof mce td  -amvj- Pecetoge ef nuoieId                            I .. luaitu  and to y-aei ah-ecuurtO    ofTiet   a  loffect.
maa o   httd-beaefu at  f15-i4 ye-e) alto uee blrth-cetOOl  d-viros to                       _. Crtee  Cirrllurt-0 (te   ...euecdapuotic) - Cea  the overge tie-
al    ared eame  ic sue  ace uncap.                                                           c          Iaiu    cidully  g-1e iv-e-s   oM  pepr,dfed   apreie
puluai_ti   devurdg` prmaily tceecr-diog Ccru   rw.I  iseeiditd
FOOD ADOCU0TRCT1Cftub   "daily" if It uppeursCrtiIatr fea  iimmaterh.k
ude. of Peed Producebe per CyitaI'  (1969-71-100) - todee ci pee  -apita soe-o                    Cle_m   Cauta  Aitiedeucs Ott" inI   Per              Bea-Caec  toe ouste  of
p-odu-itc of al  food cesod'tirs.            d"t yradc 1io delode  d ad teed ucd                  ruiekte  eld duni.f tie year, tetladitgauigtuoi-              driv-ic otuma
is u laiedae yearhas-          omdte   oe pML:  et isot  uo       e (i    ugorta.e             aol -bile  -1-n
imairad  i augur) chin  urn odible a d ctci. _it-imet   ('e.g  clfe ..ed.
tea aceeucdd).  agg-enur  pteducLca. af rech coaoy is hone                                 LA dOce FORCE
cati_eial  _vrueprdue  penemtis;16-5  1900, and tyOC data,                                       fetal Lah- Ieroe fthctnt-del-ierlcl3atvepnea   ti-Cdici
c--ty sgc,l-ac  ofmet fuod napplise  -vlbluh   Id --stry per-             yt                      ceperteg   upelante  of all agaa.  Cefeilciocit -c t eCo   -auseie are
pee day-  Agostelotsupiscmrse_1I   - t    doauc-      ooor-r.teyot  DI...                         eon cupacuble; 1960. 1970 eel 19C0 dana.
_opora   v                  -bntr kt ev N. -e epyltes elade acti    ferdd..uede.                  Female (rpeceat  - Pemale taboofrea  prerc   i  e                     ce  fevr
eattr .ud ir fc-l pr-rc.siugt ted Ieset id  iscihteibti-   Cevaire-                       tuolultui,       (coe)-L.,ho  toc   c  eeup   oeir,bttn 
-aierotimated by PAO boe-d0  py Iogls  teel  fee  -uea   cti-                                 fimbiegl em p.Erctg  of ttl   abur - uc;' CO  19070 aed 1CC0 dsta.
al eod heulch cecidertec  -ci- -setl r                      bptr. bdy maighte, aE.               le"ituy (I'lmal,   -lao  forty id siuieg, c-mt-tiec, matfeateelog
-ud  _e  diutn"att"  ef pplaic,ad allomiog1 Cp-etm for ma  t.                                       so  electriityI, ouerad pE-  on peocec-ge cf tent1 Laber tepee;
ho..ehold ore-l: 1961-65, 1010 cod 1977 dat.                                                        L960. 1970 aol _98O dut.'
*                      ~~~~~Per ca)tt  -apoly ei  -rteId (arg    Per dey'" - Pr-roleruanet of Pro capira                  mirticpatiem  Cute    enei   - .tu, male, od female - Puintripatier o
o   sPply of food per day.Dn          Ypt  of food It dettc-danubece.  Oc-                      acuivityaet.en  ar -cpued u  teelml, eel f real  Ibh- furo  c
qgleem-t  forul  ceerie .eiai ...rd by USAa procter ion mcisa                                     poreu-atoc oft l  mal  cod fmir  oplaic  ufalor                        -tpo-ivety;
aleuocf if g-v  of tota  protel  ypr day eod 1O E_m  of  ci-1C ae.0C  i ,sd 19 7,                              900  eoI-rcr    aed ce00spcilanattete
pel-ntic. of which 19 grl    should he euloI pe-attr.  Three -tad-                             eeflecciugau---eeeonre of the racletit-  end 1toc  time  toted,  A
CecIl Peed Coc-y; 1961-65  107   od10  dtie                                .                        therte -1a lah-  f.rc.
Pur-  yi -   rotate  oply lc ro  -rtna  aed pulue - Pretrie suply of foed do-
riced from aetmals tmd pl-eis lePeas  pee day; 1961-65. 1970 aed 1977 deta.                   INCOME DICTRIBUTION
Child (uses i-   Death Cut  (cer tbemamd) - Asc..aI desthi Pee tiom-d Ic                          Perheotae ufprivate  Ic-c  (both I. cantaedd kiod) - bleived by ribeat
ege geo-p 1-4 peon, to  hitldr-  Ie thou agS.         e.    res  deeslopieprc                     C Porceec. ticheet d0 pecicci  poor-t Zf pe-teiC  ael peoreat 4  pe-eet
true. data derived foom life tables; 1960, 197C abd 19CC d-nu.                                    of  o_nehede..
HStul.T                                                                                           PPOVERTY OAOCT GOCelv
blif  iuy"r"a  at sCent  fyrer) - A--rge ceecer of yearn of life revtice                          Theftl     -efeti-t-e are ver  sycuse mascma  p-orty 1sotl,
uc  unC; 19CC, 1900 mad 19ff "uta.                                                               sdehod h e.I    Ouerre  mhth cuedesecuie.-
"'f -.1titeli  Rtce (err thaussd) - htA-l d-tshm  C iefree ceder ... y...                     intmtd CAmalen.t.        at  I"cmeisua(si  rer  ,ptu           l  - ais  ai -rra 
Act-se CuSfs CeW.        es e  oferltot-ntl                  jce,ab  earul - fNu-                   =atrtiomlly ade0ou-  dtet yl- e-seeial re-food  rJ.rat   15Ot
her of peapls (-enot.  -b-v, ud  -.ro) mittheme l s....           ess. to safe                    affordable.
eaersupl ..  I,aidesttreatd s                "ftsmCrg -e utreated hat a-tcis -ted                Etimated Cell-r  Puventv I.c.me Leel (us$ ...  -aital  -arha   ad rurl 
aster t.-h em that temprotctd hamahelee, np g. ad sanitay nele) am                                  -Ira  relative por-ty become levet In are-third ofaerg  per ....lt
per-prese  of their neepmtilv-pe                    Idias     Co an  ebseapublic                  permsmaI itum  ef the coaatry.  Urban lent  is detirod fee  the ra-e
fE..nst  up nian-dpest Il.c.ted eat mar  thee 2ff meer  f-- ru. huma may be                       Irvel o'ttb adjatimet-    f or higher cost ci llirg Ac oce. arema
cu=idared as hetg neithi  presumable adees  af etet h...se  .             -1rrs   -.e.m         Sataid Ppludoe  helm  dhAeiet  P-eovtecm   ee   (peee)-rhue
eese le maem  would isply that the houseife u-  mabe-  cf the beanehld                          aed  ferl   P- Pevet uf Popelstite  icobse ad eurl   h   c   eslt
de  ta been te spredd a dispiupertimte pat of the dap  id Cetibleg theper"
loee   nE fctt  R,.-ma  fPeoredt ci feusL-ium) - tis-L. -tb-e  sea -sl-
eN=bet f reaple (tis       bec-, and iesl) seived hy sert  dispus..as
p aEtoge  uf  hiheteepmtste  pepeisitucs       U . gemm  diepuss.I map tu-tdm
cb  eleti-  sad diepus.. w.ith se.      iutsstn. e-f hese  reerta
aed =st-ea-s  by ssee-hocesstmae  the  ae. ef ptt peiriss end sta-
ImastsrrPhystaas- P"pslstir. divided by ester uf resceisg ebysi-                                                                 fEesemie ad fe"ial fate Divt"te
cienn  qeulfiftd fre  a mediesl sths1et en  mle-ity te-.                                                                          tesmeAssale sod ?mejgmions fiefstinst
Peeteltiss mom Kfm-lm  Pemmas - Pepaesisne diolded by  nbee uf pe..ttistut                                                                             fts  C9f 2
ale sod Remai ge-unemsss  mam n ama,Pesutbeul  -ue  sod
mestg  matmrfm



- 24 -                                 ANNE I
Page 4 of 5
ZAMIA
EOCN{LC NDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCt IN 1981                            ANNUAL AVERAGE RAIE OF GRCW
(%, constant 1970 prices)
US$ Mln.   %                     1970-1975       1975-1980
CNP at Market Prices         3,140    100                        3.2           -1.7
Gross Donestic Investnent      799      25                       4.1          -22.4
Gross National Saving          208       7
Current Account Balance       -732    -23
Exports of Goods, NFS         1,219     39                       0.5           -5.3
Imports of Goods, NFS        1,590      51                     -1.2            -9.6
(1ITPUT, LABCR FOR(E AND
PRODUCIVITY IN 1980 (prelimlnary)
Value Added            labor Forcel          V.A. Per Worker
US$ Mln.      Z           Min.    %             US$   % of Ave.
Agriculture                    562       17.9         0.873    52.0           644      34.4
Industry                     1,005       32.0         0.252    15.0         3,988    213.3
Services                     1,520       48.4         0.428    25.5         3,551     189.9
Unallocated                     53        1.7         0.126    7.5              -         -
3,140     100.0          1,679   100.0         1,870    100.0
GCEVE-T FIANCE                General Goverrment2              Central Governnt (1980)
(K Mln.       % of CDP      (K Mln.)              % of CDP
1980      1971 - 79
Current Receipts                                            808            27           26
Current Expenditures                                      1,082            36           27
Current Surplus                                            -274           - 9          - 2
Capital Expenditures                                        220             7            6
External Assistance (net)                                   L38             5            3
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                1970   1975   1978   1979   1980   1981
(Million K Outstanding End Period)
Money and Quasi Moe                      356    493    640    832    907    978
Bank Credit to Public Sector           -164    373   1062   1122   1354
Bank Credit to Private Sector3           137    335    422    483    505
(Percentage of Index Numbers)
ney and Quasi Money as % of GDP         27.8   31.1   29.1   31.7   29.9   32.7
General Price Index (1%93=100)         102.6  145.4  240.9  264.3  295.2  336.5
Arual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                      2.6   10.1   16.4    9.7   11.7   14.0
Bank Credit to Public Sector                   378.2   34.3    5.6   20.7
Bank Credit to Private Sector3          21.9   17.0  -10.2   14.5    4.6
1 Total labor force as of June 1978, distributed by sector according to 1974 pattern;
unemploynent are allocated to sector of their normal occupation. IJnallocated" consists mninly
of umenloyed workers seeking their first job.
2 Figures do not differ significantly fran "Central Governnent".
3 Includes parastatal organizations
not available
. not applicable
Febnuary 1983



- 25 -                                     ANNE I
Page 5 of 5
ZAMBIA
TRADE PAMEN1TS AND CAPITAL FILOS
BAIANC OF PAYMENTS                                                   HERANDISE EXPORIS 1981
1978    1979    1980    1981                                US$ Mln.   %
(Millions US $)
Exports of Goods, NFS             934    1,556    1,367    1,219      Copper                     929     88
Imports of Goods, NFS             986    1,188    1,555    1,590      Cobalt                      45      4
Resource Gap (deficit  -)         -52      368    -188    -371        Lead aid Zinc               32      3
All other comodities        52      5
Total                  1,058    100
Nor-factor Services (net)        -145    -124    -231    -246
Net Transfers                    -112    -111    -112    -115
Balance on Current Account       -309      133    -531    -732        EIRL  DEB, June 20, 1982
US$ Mn.
Direct Foreign Investment
Capital Grants                     23       35       25       27      Public Debt, irl. guarantee     2,293
Net MT Borrwing                                                       Non--Guaranteed Private Debt      ..
Disbursenents                   105      217      688      336      Total Outstanding & Disbursed    2,293
Amortization                    145       90      219      196
Subtotal                         -40     127      469      140      DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 19822
Net IF                            204       94        8      369                                         %
Other Itens (n.e.i.)              104    -260       -98      224
Change in Reserves (-  increase)   16    -129       127      -28      Public Debt, incl. garateed
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Total Outstardirg & Disbursed    31.1
(est.)
IBRD/IDA LENDf, March 31, 1983
(Million US$)
RATES OF ECHAN1                                                                                 IBRD   IDA
SDR's
Outstanding & Disbursed   341.32  19.59
July 1976 - March 1978          1.0848                                Undisbirsed               79.04  68.16
April 1978 - December 1982      0.9763                                Outstanding incl.
January 1983 - present          0.7810                                  Undisbursed            420.36  87.75
1 The Kwacla has been pegged to the SDR since July 1976.
2 Ratio of estimated debt service, exluding arrears and IMF repayments, to exports of goods and non-factor
services.
not available
. not applicable
March 1983



- 26 -                                 ANNEX II
Page 1 of 9
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ZAMBIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
as of March 31, 1983
Amount in US$ Million
Loan   Credit                                                          (Less Cancellation)
No.    No.       Year   Borrower           Purpose                                 Undisbursed
Bank    IDA   Loan Credit
16 Loans fully
disbursed                                 247.71
900-1            1973   Zambia             Education                33.00          3.47
919              1973   Zambia Elec-      Hydroelectric
tricity           Power                   115.00          4.23
Supply Corp.
1131             1975   Posts & Tele.    Telecommunications        32.00          6.32
1356             1977   Zambia            Education                13.30          5.16
1424             1977   Zambia            Industrial Forestry    16.80            2.42
1566    798      1978   Zambia            Third Highway            11.25  11.25 11.25  10.51
863     1979   Zambia             Coffee Production                6.00          2.43
873     1979   Zambia             Technical Assistance             5.00          4.04
1790    973      1980   Zambia            Third Railway            25.00  15.00 20.77   4.37
1923             1981   Development       Second Development
Bank of Zambia   Finance Company           15.00          4.65
2001             1981   Zambia            Eastern Province
Agric. Development       11.00        10.39
1193     1982   Zambia             Southern Province
Agric. Development              18.00         16.87
1196     1982   Zambia             Smallholder Dairy Dev.           7.50          7.16
1251     1982   Zambia             Fifth Education                 25.00         22.78
2151             1982   Zambia Indus-
trial & Mining
Company           Oil Refinery              5.10          4.87
2152             1982   Zambia            Pet. Exploration          6.60          5.51
Total                                            531.76  87.75 79.04  68.16
of which has been repaid                        110.40    -_  -         -
Total now outstanding                            421.36  87.75   -        -
Amounts sold                        28.58
of which has been repaid           27.58          1.00    -      -
Total now held by Bank/IDA                       420.36  87.75   -
of which is undisbursed                          79.04  68.16
NOTE: The US$4.3 million Maamba Coal Engineering Credit approved on March 15, 1983 has
not yet been signed.



- 27 -                           ANNEX II
Page 2 of 9
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
as of March 31, 1983
Investment                                                         US$ Million Equivalent
No.      Year                         Type of Business         Loan Equity   Total
216-ZA      1972   Zambia Bata Shoe
Company Limited    Shoe Manufacturing         0.85   0.23    1.08
250-ZA      1973   Zambia Bata Shoe   Shoe Manufacturing
Company Limited    and Tannery                1.20    -       1.20
307-ZA      1975   Century Packages
Limited             Packaging Materials    0.78   0.21    0.99
324-ZA      1976   Development Bank   Development Finance
of Zambia           Company                    -     0.54    0.54
394-ZA      1978   Century Packages
Limited             Packaging Materials    0.10    -          0.10
483-ZA      1979   Zambia Consoli-    Copper and Cobalt
dated Copper Mines Production               28.00    -       28.00
527-ZA      1980   Kafue Textiles of
Zambia Limited      Textiles & Fibers        7.60    -        7.60
600-ZA      1981   Zambia Consoli-    Copper Production
dated Copper Mines                          28.85    -       28.85
632-ZA      1982   Ethanol Company of Chemicals and
Zambia Limited      Petrochemicals           3.68   0.60    4.28
Total gross commitments                      71.06   1.58   72.64
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayment and sales                     14.18   0.81   14.99
Total now held by IFC                       56.88   0.77   57.65
Total undisbursed                            30.64    -      30.64



-28 -                         ANNEX II
Page 3 of 9
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
as of March 31, 1982
Loan No. 900-ZA       Third Education Project:  US$33.0 million Loan of June
6, 1973; Effectiveness Date: August 9, 1973; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
The project, as originally approved (excluding certain university
components and technical assistance that were deleted at Government's re-
quest), was completed in March 1980, about six months after the original
completion date. The Closing Date, originally September 30, 1979, was
postponed to March 31, 1983 to enable the Borrower to utilize savings to
finance construction of twelve primary schools originally included under
the Lusaka Squatter Upgrading and Sites and Services Project (Loan 1057-ZA)
and a maintenance program for secondary schools. Five of the primary
schools have been constructed; however, construction of the seven remaining
schools has been delayed due to lack of counterpart funds. The maintenance
program has progressed well. The project was closed as of March 31, 19083.
Loan No. 919-ZA       Kafue Hydroelectric Project (Stage II):  US$115m0 mil-
lion Loan of July 16, 1973; Effectiveness Date: Jan-
uary 15, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The two 150-MW units at the Kafue Gorge power station were com-
missioned in mid-1977. Construction of the main dam has been completed and
the reservoir filled. The project is expected to be completed within the
appraisal cost estimates. The Zambia Electricity Supply Corporation's
(ZESCO) financial performance has not been satisfactory, however, due to
delays in approving tariff increases. Largely because of the economic
recession affecting Zambia, ZESCO has been experiencing a shortage of spare
parts and the departure of some expatriate staff. The Closing Date was
extended to December 31, 1982 to enable additional civil works on the
control of artesianal pressures to be carried out. The project was closed
on that date.
Loan No. 1131-ZA      Telecommunications Project:  US$32.0 million Loan of
June 24, 1975; Effectiveness Date: December 10, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
About US$6.3 million of the loan still remains to be disbursed.
Project completion is now expected by mid-1985, four and one-half years
behind schedule, due to delays in installing and commissioning telephone
exchange equipment. Although tariffs have tended to lag behind cost
increases, creating financial problems for the telecommunications company,
increases in tariffs in August 1979, averaging 75 percent and in 1980
(about 60 percent), have alleviated the problem. The problem of large
accounts receivable by PTC from Government and its agencies continues,



- 29 -                        ANNEX II
Page 4 of 9
however. Operational difficulties with the semi-electronic main telephone
exchange in Lusaka also have severely affected PTC's revenues by limiting
new connections, however, these problems are also being worked out. The
Closing Date was postponed from December 31, 1981 to December 31, 1983.
Loan No. 1356-ZA      Fourth Education Project:  US$13.3 million Loan of
January 17, 1977; Effectiveness Date: March 8, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The physical facilities are completed and have been handed over.
Nearly all furniture and equipment has been delivered. The NESC and the
Farmer Institutes and Training Centers are underutilized because of
recurrent budget shortages. About US$3 million of the loan allocated for
technical assistance is uncommitted due to the Government's reluctance to
hire foreign consultants on high salaries and a lack of suitable candidates
for the fellowship program. The project unit is well staffed and manages
implementation well.
Loan No. 1424-ZA      Second Industrial Forestry Project:  US$16.8 million
Loan of May 12, 1977; Effectiveness Date: November
15, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Project implementation continues to be satisfactory despite
staffing and management problems, and most targets for the plantation
program are being met or surpassed. The Industrial Plantations Division
has now been incorporated under Zambian law, and the project's accounts
(unaudited) for FY1981/82 show a modest profit compared with the previous
years' considerable loss. On the other hand, the project's performance in
sawmilling and logging continues to experience operational problems, and
plantation fires are occuring with increasing frequency. Project
management is preparing measures to overcome these difficulties.
Loan No. 1566         Third Highway Project:  US$22.5 million (US$11.25
and                   million Loan and US$11.25 million Credit) of June 27,
Credit 798-ZA         1978; Effectiveness Date:  November 26, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
Due to delays in loan and credit effectiveness and employment of
technical assistance personnel, project implementation is behind schedule
and completion is expected by the end of 1985, 18 months behind reappraisal
(July 1979) estimates. Progress in recruiting technical assistance
personnel has improved. The Bank is currently reassessing the project
scope in light of the Government's difficulties in providing the local
recurrent funds for road maintenance.



- 30 -                        ANNEX II
Page 5 of 9
Credit No. 863-ZA    Coffee Production Project:  US$6.0 million Credit of
December 14, 1978; Effectiveness Date: July 26, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Expatriate and counterpart staffing have been satisfactory, and
the planting and rehabilitation program for coffee and maize, as well as
disbursements, are ahead of schedule. Implementation under the smallholder
component, which had been slow and haphazard, has improved. The coffee
research component is processing satisfactorily. The estate component has
encountered financial difficulties, with a shortfall of about US$5.0
million, because costs have been much higher than expected. The Government
is expected to provide the additional local cost financing required.
Additional financing is being provided by Government also for the coffee
processing plant, which has risen in costs more rapidly than expected.
Credit No. 873-ZA    Technical Assistance Project:  US$5.0 million Credit
of December 21, 1978; Effectiveness Date: July 12,
1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
A planning expert and a project evaluation expert have been hired
to work in the Project Preparation Unit of the National Commission for De-
velopment Planning and a second project evaluation expert is being recruit-
ed. Phase I of feasibility studies for a fuel alcohol project has been
completed; preparation of a possible fisheries project is in progress; a
request to finance Zambia's contribution to the joint operational and staf-
fing study of Zambia Railways and TAZARA has been approved; and a request
for financing feasibility studies for a rural electrification project is
being considered.
Loan No. 1790-ZA      Third Railway Project:  US$25.0 million Loan and US$15
Credit No. 973-ZA    million Credit of June 16, 1980; Effectiveness Date:
March 31, 1981; Closing Date: September 30, 1984
The project is cofinanced by the EEC (through a Special Action
credit), AfDB, Japan, OPEC Special Fund, KfW, SIDA and ODA (UK).
Procurement is proceeding well and disbursement, which lagged due to delays
in issuing letters of credit, is expected to regain momentum. Technical
assistance for project implementation is proceeding well and, likewise,
training. Due to TAZARA's limited capacity, much copper has been sent to
Dar-es-Salaam by road rather than by rail, thus reducing Zambia Railways'
(ZR) share. This, combined with an increase in working expenses and the
lack of tariff revision, has caused financial difficulties for ZR. The
Government is considering a tariff increase and the Bank is discussing its
possible assistance for improving TAZARA with the Governments of Tanzania
and Zambia.



- 31 -                        ANNEX II
Page 6 of 9
Loan No. 1923-ZA      Second Development Bank of Zambia Project:  US$15.0
million Loan of January 8, 1981; Effectiveness Date:
May 1, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1987
The loan is almost fully committed for sub-projects in manu-
facturing, agriculture and transport.
Loan No. 2001-ZA      Eastern Province Agricultural Development Project:
US$11.0 million Loan of November 23, 1981; Effective-
ness Date: June 23, 1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1987
This loan became effective in June 1982, and considerable
progress has been made since that time. However, lack of coordination
among implementing agencies and poor integration into local institutions of
the counsultants has led to some confusion as to the project's direction.
This is being rectified. A recent increase in producer prices has given
incentives to agriculture in the Eastern Province, and so disbursements are
expected to pick up in the near future. Progress continues slow in
establishing the Agricultural Development Bank due to lack of clarity as to
its function.
Credit No. 1196-ZA   Smallholder Dairy Development Project:  US$7.5 million
Loan of March 24, 1982; Effectiveness Date: November
23, 1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1988
The project is designed to increase milk production and raise
incomes of smallholder dairy farmers in Mazabuka, Monze and Kabwe Districts
by increasing use of modern farm techniques and improving marketing
services. Credit will be extended to smallholders for on-farm development
and animal husbandry and veterinary extension services will be provided.
The loan has only recently become effective.
Credit No. 1193-ZA   Southern Province Agriculture Development Project:
US$18.0 million Credit of May 18, 1982; Effectiveness
Date:  November 16, 1982; Closing Date:  December 31,
1987
Effectiveness of this credit was substantially delayed as a
result of difficulties with subsidiary loan agreements, selection and
appointment of consultants and preparation of legal opinions. Otherwise,
implementation progress is satisfactory.



-32 -                         ANNEX II
Page 7 of 9
Credit No. 1251-ZA   Fifth Education Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit of
June 14, 1982; Effectiveness Date: September 14,
1982; Closing Date: March 31, 1988
This project is off to a good start, except for a proposed Study
of the Implications of the Education Reform. Discussions are underway with
the Ministry of Eduction with the view to getting the study underway as
soon as possible. Construction of three of the eight junior secondary
schools is expected to begin in April, and the five remaining schools are
to be tendered in April and completed by March 1985.
Loan No. 2151-ZA       INDENI Refinery Modification Engineering Project:
US$5.1 Million Loan of June 14, 1982; Effectiveness
Date: September 13, 1982; Closing Date: September
301, 1984
Implementation of this Project is proceeding satisfactorily. The
initial field work for the Engineering Study has been completed and the
consultants are working on the report.
Loan No. 2152-ZA      Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project:  US$6.6
Million Loan of June 14, 1982; Effectiveness Date:
August 6, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1986
Implementation of this project is proceeding satisfactorily. The
airmag survey has been flown, and the consultants are analyzing the data
collected. If the analysis shows favorable geological structures, a
gravity survey, also financed under the loan, will be carried out.



-33 -                         ANNEX II
Page 8 of 9
D. IFC PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
as of March 31, 1983
Zambia Bata Shoe Company Ltd. (216-ZA and 250-ZA) - Shoes and Tannery
IFC's investment in 1972 helped finance an expansion project to
triple shoe production to 2.9 million pairs.  The project also opened up
the ownership of the company to local investors. In 1973 IFC's investment
helped finance a tannery to process 300 hides per day to meet the company's
requirement for leather. The foreign exchange situation of Zambia
continued to limit raw material imports by the company. However, more
local materials are now used by the company, and this resulted in a 14
percent increase in production during 1980. The company has been operating
profitably.
Century Packages Ltd. (307-ZA and 394-ZA) - Packaging Materials
The plant was completed in 1977, about a year later than
originally anticipated, with an increase in project cost equivalent to 26
percent of total costs. Increased project cost has been met largely
through provision of additional financing acquired under the Project Funds
Agreement. Sales during the fiscal year ended March 31, 1981 were stagnant
at the previous year's level. Increases in administrative expenses,
especially provision for doubtful debts, and interest cost contributed to
the loss recorded for the year.
Development Bank of Zambia (DBZ) (324-ZA) - Development Banking
DBZ' principal objective is to provide medium- and long-term
loans and equity financing for productive enterprises in manufacturing,
agriculture and tourism.  Since 1979, the volume of DBZ business has been
increasing. Loan approvals, which had stagnated around US$9.5 million per
year in 1976-78, increased to about US$28 million in FY80 and US$49 million
in FY81. Profitability has also improved: between FY80 and FY81, net
profit rose from US$1.7 million to US$2.7 million, a roughly 60 percent
increase.  At the end of FY81, the total portfolio of DBZ was US$41 million
as compared with US$28 million at the end of FY80.
Nchanga Consolidated Copper Mines Ltd. (NCCM) (483-ZA) - Cobalt Production
The IFC loan of US$28 million (of which US$20 milion is for IFC's
account) to NCCM for a cobalt production production project was approved on
September 4, 1979. The project will more than triple NCCM's finished
cobalt production capacity to about 6,600 tpa by 1983. Physical
construction of the Project has been completed and commercial operations
are expected to begin shortly.



- 34 -                        ANNEX II
Page 9 of 9
Nchanga Consolidated Copper Mines Ltd. (NCCM) (600-ZA) - Copper Production
IFC's second investment in NCCM was a loan of DM 70 million
(equivalent to about US$30 million). IFC's loan which was approved on
December 3, 1981, will help finance a major expansion of the company's
tailings treatment capacity.  The project will produce an average of about
35,000 tpa of finished copper starting in late 1985, equivalent to about
six percent of projected total company output, at a cost far below the
company's existing operations.
Kafue Textile of Zambia Ltd. (KTZ) (527-ZA) - Textiles
A loan investment of US$7.3 million and a contingent commitment
of US$0.3 million were approved in 1980 to assist KTZ' US$28 million
expansion. In the expansion, the company's production capacity will be
increased from 10.6 million meters of finished fabrics per year to 18.9
million meters and diversification into the production of cotton blended
fabrics will be carried out. The project is still under implementation and
is scheduled for completion in June 1983.
Ethanol Company of Zambia L4mited (632-ZA) - Chemicals and Petrochemicals
A loan/equity investment of US$4.1 million to help finance
construction and operation of a plant to convert molasses from the Zambia
Sugar Corporation Limited into ethanol for blending with gasoline as motor
fuel. The plant will produce about 11.5 million liters of ethanol per
year, or the equivalent of 7.7 percent of current gasoline consumption.
Project implementation has just begun and the plant is expected to be
operating at the beginning of the 1984 sugar cane milling season which
starts in April/May.



- 35 -                        ANNEX III
Page 1 of 1
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.   Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project   :  Approximately 17 months
(b)  Project Prepared by                   Government of Zambia:
Commission of the European
Communities
(c)  Departure of Appraisal Mission  :   February 1981, post-appraisal
mission July/August 1982
(d)  Negotiations                          March 1983
(e)  Planned date of effectiveness   :   September 1983
II.  Special IDA Implementation Action
IDA financing for the project would be divided between IDA and IDA
Special Fund.
III. Special Conditions
(a) Government to provide local funds for the project quarterly in
advance. To accommodate this, the Government would establish a
Project Advance Account with an initial deposit of K 0.6 million
(condition of effectiveness, para. 61).
(b) DWA to implement tariff increases and other measures to improve
its financial performance (paras. 62 and 64).
(c) Government to provide adequate budget allocations for the
operation and maintenance of DWA water supply systems and discuss
appropriateness of such allocations annually with IDA (para.
65 ).



i~



REPUBLIC  OPF ZAPOTBiA                                                                1>'uP-
RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT                                                                               t C       t      .t,_T    A   N    Z   A    N    I   A
PROJECT LOCATIONS[
I                                                         C..~~~~~' I    l
0   Pyod oorer CypI, PCCC4CCC   7..-.. Noers                                   <A P  TA                    M1%A L 
F   Arlolds  ---PCo.OC.cCIbondoC,es                                                                        -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N,   A'-T H    F  /  CA
45<40  CA  CT                                                     AWN    J                  P    ..'5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'>   '  2  tC HI    5A    
~~<  ~~~~ ~    Z         A          I        R         Ehmah               ~           13A;                                   oNA                         
A   N     G, C)   L   A ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~    ~     ~     ~    ~ ~ afo                                                                )     HA~54       0
M    N L I I N C, A~CN                                                                                                             I.
A    N  C    L   A  WAN  SVGA           ,~~~~~~~~ 0L WL  ' i~~~                  ;         . .                                             6Mpko
N,oz                                         ,.CCAC 'CCOAC<AAWAI
NI'NH   r)IS
7 A 1, a  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aa                                                                                                AU (MLW
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,>AFIJ
PABN'AP&        .K A          M                                  u3hoy43               y 96E E EE-A    PE                                  
/  4(E5  TER N              ~                     NdoiCrn         -,             .       eCeCCC      iE)       F;K.p  LC1,A,
0ZnoHz,  KOCCICC<  Posar,Cpo  (                - - 'A                  -                                         o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ATT~
0    , A~..CT
~~~~  C AO  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  <I   ~       ~       ~      ~     Li     kA
oP A C 29    >CC~~~TCCCJCCCCkeCCde  -~~~  C)                              LUSAKA ZLUSA    (A'
\, N ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~0C  -. 7oK
V~~~~ 'A ~~~~ICCC                          7z      IM                  B    W     B                                      
pt-,.   ~ ~ HP .             140C U                            /-'         
K.  /  N               f                                   C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rr         Z    I M/CA  WO                     E                       4   .A
A4NGO CLA                  ~             '~§                        3I-7 
-.  ~~ ~~~NA  M   I B  I  A                                                                                                      ......Z    .... .CC  ,C.CC..COC'-
___________________   I OTA5s\               CiA>_____-__________                                ________                 ________                                           ___



