Document of
The World Bank                                    £t
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4175-ZA
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
April 21, 1983
Water Supply and Urban Development Division
Eastern Africa Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit              = Kwacha (K)
K 1.00                     = 100 ngwee
US$1.00                    = K 1.20
K 1.00                     = US$0.833
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                = 3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer                = 0.62 miles (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)  = 0.386 square miles (sq mi)
1 liter (1)                = 0.26 US gallon (UJS gal)
1 cubic meter per second
(m3/sec)    = 260 US gallons per second
1 Imperial gallon (gal)   = 1.2 US gallons (US gal)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BD                         = Building Department of the
Ministry of Works & Supply
CEC                        = Commission of the European Communities
DWA                        = Department of Water Affairs
GDP                        = Gross Domestic Product
GRZ or Government          = Government of the Republic of Zambia
MAWD                       = Ministry of Agriculture & Water Development
MH                         = Ministry of Health
NCDP                       = National Commission for
Development Planning
NORAD                      = Norwegian Aid Agency
PCW                        = Provincial Commissioner of Works
PLGA                       = Provincial and Local Government
Administration, Office of the Prime Minister
PMO                        = Provincial Medical Officer
PWE                        = Provincial Water Engineer
SOE                        = Statements of Expenditure
TNDP                       = Third National Development Plan
WHO                        = World Health Organization
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ZAMBIA
RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   THE SECTOR  .....................                                     1
Country Background .I....... .... . . .. . . .... .. . . .. . . . ..  .    1
Water Resources .        ................................. ..    2
Water Legislation  ................................             3
Organization ..............................                     3
Development and Finance ........ . . ..   ...... ..... .... ..  4
Water and Sanitation Service Levels ....          .............    5
Public Health *********** **********............ *........................    6
Objectives and Goals ..........7...................*            7
Constraints ..............................                      7
External Assistance .... ...... . .. . . . . ..  ...... .......    8
Role of the Bank Group ........ . . . . . . . . . . ............ . ..... .    9
II.  POPULATION, SECTOR SERVICE AND DEMAND IN THE PROJECT AREA             9
Project Area and Water Resources ...*.................    9
Regional Development Prospects            ......................   10
Sector Agencies ..........        ...........................   11
Water Supply and Waste Disposal, Population Served and
Standard of Service .............................  11
Public Health ........., 12
Service for the Poverty Group         ........................   12
Population Projections and Demand for Service ........  13
This report was prepared by Messrs. J. Kozel, Sanitary Engineer, G.F.
Steinke, Financial Analyst, and J. Sneddon, Senior Financial Analyst,
based on information obtained during a mission to Zambia in February
1981, and updated by G.F. Steinke and K. Kleiner, Sanitary Engineer, in
July/August 1982 during a mission to Zambia.
T his document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Page No.
III.   THE PROJECT  *........*.........................  ......    14
Project Origin ... t..... *S..*... ...................    14
Project Objectives  .... .............              ............    15
Technological Alternatives, Service Standards
and Technical Justification ......................    15
Project Description ... .... ......... ........... .....   16
Project Cost  *          **........................................    18
Project Financing                                     ..........    19
Project Implementation ....... .....  .............. ....    19
- Engineering for the Water Supply in the
Six Districts ....... ............................    19
- Upgrading Operation and Maintenance  ... ...... ...    19
- Construction Supervision and Engineering of
Future Projects  ... ................... ......    20
- Training of Water Sector Manpower                 ..............    20
- Health Component  ...... .  ....         ........... ..  ..    20
- Technical Assistance ........................ ...........   21
Operation and Maintenance ...........................    21
Environmental and Health Aspects  ............... ...   22
Water Resources Aspects  ......................... .....    22
Procurement  **...***..*,.......   *****.*****.......*...    22
Disbursement .....  ........  0000........  ........... ....    23
IV.  FINANCIAL ANALYSIS  .to.... . ...... .. ............... s...  .....   24
Past Performance and Present Financial Position   ....    24
-   Department of Water Affairs  ............... . ...   24
-  District Councils  *.... *..o** .................*.-   25
Capital Expenditures  ........ ........ .           .... .... too .   26
Accounting Systems   ................................    26
Revenues and Tariffs  ...* ...... *    *.*    ..................   28
Future Financial Performance ............... ...o               ...    30
DWA - Overall Financial Position ....-..-..o.,              ......    30
Shallow Wells and Boreholes  ............ .....    30
Monitoring and Evaluation           .......................           30
V.   THE IMPLEMENTING AGENCY  ..**..** .................. *****e *   ...    31
Lending Arrangements  .......          ... .. ...... ......... . e ... .  31
Organization  .. .... . .... . . . ...     ........ ..............     31
Management and Personnel  ...............*..          .     .....      31
Training    O... ... *.O... .00...........          0 ........... ........    32
Audit ..... .oo ..... o.... so........ too ...o......... o.    32
VI.   ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL ANALYSIS  ... oo ....................    33
Project Benefits  ...............        ....................  33
Least Cost Solution            .............................. o..  33
Pricing Considerations  ..........  o           ..................  34
Impact on Poverty Group  ....... ...........         ............  34
Project Merit and Risk  ..................     o...........  34
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  ..o                 ................  34



List of Annexes
ANNEX  1.    Rural-Urban Population Distribution by Province.
2.    Existing piped System - Population Served & Water Supplied in
1982.
3.    Piped Systems - Physical Facilities in 1982.
4.    Piped Systemns - Projected Population and Demand in 1988.
5.    Piped System - Proposed Facilities (1988).
6.    Detailed Description of the Project (text).
7.    Project Cost Estimate.
8.    Project Implementation Schedule.
9.    Water Engineer - Project Coordinator (text).
10.    Engineering Consultancy Services (text).
11.    Training Facilities in Zambia (text).
12.    Cost and Management Accountant (Job Description) (text).
13.    Program of Project Expenditures.
14.    Estimated Schedule of Disbursement.
15.    Department of Water Affairs - Recurrent Expenditures for
1978-1982.
16.    Department of Water Affairs - Capital Expenditures 1978/82.
17.    Department of Water Affairs - Projections of Revenues and
Recurrent Expenditures for Rural Water Supply 1982-1988.
18.    Proposed Tariffs for Point Systems.
19.    Assumptions for Financial Projections.
20.    Calculation of Average Incremental Cost.
21.    Monitoring Indices.
22.    Ministry of Agriculture and Water Development
(Organization Chart).
23,.    The Department of Water Affairs (Organization Chart).
24,.    District Council (Organization Chart).
25.    Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File.
MAP
IBRD 16709 - Rural Water Supply Project






ZAMBIA
RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. THE SECTOR
Country Background
1.01         Zambia,  in the southern half of Africa,  is a landlocked
country with a surface area of 753,000 km2 (about the size of France
and West Germany together).   Most of the area is a gently undulating
plateau varying from 900 m to 1,300 m above sea level, occasionally
broken by isolated hills and sharp escarpment  zones.   The plateau,
highest  in the north and east,  falls gradually  to 600 m along  the
southern  border  formed  by  the  Zambezi  river.    The  mean  annual
temperature varies between 20°C with a hot spell in October, when the
daily maximum temperature may rise to 350 and a cool spell in July,
when it may fall to 5°C. The mean annual rainfall ranges from 1,400 mm
in the north and north-west to 600 mm in the rest of the country. Most
of the rain falls during the wet season that lasts from October to
April, the remainder of the year being relatively dry.
1.02      The population in 1980 was estimated at 5.7 million, growing
at an annual  rate of about  3 percent  (Annex 1).   About 43 percent
(2.45million)   of  the  population  live  in  large  urban  centers,
predominantly located in the corridor along the railway line from the
Copperbelt  area in the north  to Livingstone  in  the  south  with  the
capital, Lusaka, in the center.   The urban population has grown at an
annual  rate  of about  6 percent  over  the  past  decade.    Population
density averages 7.4 per km2 for the country as a whole but is only 4.6
per km2  in the rural areas  (including  small  urban  centers  such  as
district headquarters), where the remaining 57 percent (3.25 million of
the total population) live.  Rural real incomes are about one quarter
of the urban level and rural social amenities are of markedly lower
quality  than  in  the  cities.    Consequently,  there  is  continuing
migration to the urban centers.
1.03          Zambia has nine provinces  subdivided into 58 districts,
administered by elected provincial and district councils assisted in
day-to-day administration by provincial and district secretariats. The
local administration was reorganized in January 1981, principally to
increase local involvement. Under the decentralized system, municipal,
township  and  rural  councils  were  abolished  and  all  powers  of
administration for political, economic, social and security affairs,
and   responsibilities   for   planning   development   programs,   were
transferred to newly established District Councils.   The work of the
District   Councils   is   coordinated   and   reviewed   by   provincial
councils,and budgets are approved by Parliament. Civil servants in the
provinces report to provincial head offices of central government
ministries, which also  constitute  the provincial  secretariats.   The



-2-
head  of  the  provincial  secretariat  is  the  Provincial  Permanent
Secretary who  reports  to  the  Prime  Minister's  Office  through  the
council's chairman, the member of the party'sl/ central committee for
the  province.    Central  government  ministries  are  responsible  for
formulating  policies,  providing  professional  assistance,  manpower
training and also implementing projects which are considered beyond the
capability of the district councils.
1.04        Zambia's economy depends primarily on copper mining, which
has been in a protracted slump since 1974 as a result of depressed
copper prices.   Diversification  from copper,  an economic goal since
independence in 1964, has been slow. Agriculture accounts for about 15
percent of current GDP, the same proportion as at independence (October
24, 1964), while the contribution of the manufacturing sector has
stagnated at about 17 percent since 1975.  GDP which was estimated in
1978 prices at K 2.0 billion (US$2.5 billion),  equivalent  to K 361
(US$451) on a per capita basis, has declined in real terms by an
average  of  2.0%  per  annum.    The  Government's  ability  to  provide
services and meet such basic needs as food, clothing, shelter, water,
health and education has declined dramatically.
Water Resources
1.05      Surface water resources are abundant.  Two principal rivers,
the Kafue and the Zambezi, drain the western half of Zambia while the
Luangwa river drains the east; the north is drained into several inland
lakes and marshes by smaller rivers.  The river system is simple, the
major part of the yearly runoff (83 percent) is drained through a dense
river network during the rainy season.  During the dry season the base
flow (17 percent) is drained by the principal rivers and some of their
tributaries.
1.06          Groundwater potential  varies  considerably depending  on
geological  characteristics.    Igneous  and  metamorphic  rocks,  which
generally have poor aquifers, underlie a large part of eastern, central
and southern Zambia;groundwater here is sporadic and sparce.   Western
Zambia has fairly good groundwater potential with shallow water-bearing
formations reachable by shallow wells. A strip from the Copperbelt to
Lusaka has excellent groundwater characteristics.  These aquifers have
been exploited for industrial and municipal purposes using boreholes,
usually about 50 m deep which provide yields of up to 200 1/s.
Groundwater is generally of good quality.
1.07      Sufficient technical information exists in the form of aerial
photography,   topographic  maps,  land  use  maps,  hydrological  and
groundwater data, with which to plan water resources development.
Hydrological records from a network of some 220 stream gauging stations
are published annually,and some water resources inventory studies on
the different river basins have been started. Groundwater availability
has been reasonably well documented over the country, and borehole
discharge data are available for different water-bearing formations.
1/   United National Independence Party.



Government intends in the near future to collate current knowledge into
a systematic master plan of water resources development with bilateral
assistance.
Water Legislation
1.08      The ownership, control and use of water resources are
regulated by the Water Act, 1948, as periodically amended. (Chapter 312
of the Laws of Zambia). Ownership of all water resources is vested in
the President with allocation of water resources to potential users
under the responsibility of the Water Board created by the Act. The
Board consists of members appointed by the Minister currently
responsible for the water sector and is chaired by the Director of the
Department of Water Affairs. Water rights are entered in the Water,
Lands and Mining Titles, and Township Registers.
1.09      The Water Act is currently being reviewed by a special
committee with a view to including provisions for the control of the
abstraction of groundwater, the discharge of wastes and to update
portions of the Act dealing with international waters along the
Zambezi, Luapula and Luangwa rivers.
1.10      Legislation which specifies local administration
responsibility for providing water supplies, sanitary services and
other powers is contained in the Local Government Act, (Chapter 480 of
the Laws of Zambia)and the subsidiary bylaws and regulations made by
individual local authorities. The Local Government Act has been
modified, effective from January 1, 1981, by the Local Administration
Act, 1980 (paragraph 1.03), but the regulations relating to water
supply and sanitary undertakings generally remain in force.
1.11      Existing water legislation in Zambia is adequate and, for the
purpose of the project, legislative changes are not required. However,
the legal relationships among the different institutions involved in
the project need to be clarified (paragraph 3.28).
Organization
1.12      The Department of Water Affairs (DWA), which is, as shown in
Annex 22, part of the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Development
(MAWD), is the sole agency of the Government of the Republic of Zambia
(GRZ) responsible for coordinating the development of national water
resources. Headquartered in Lusaka, DWA is headed by a Director who
reports to the Permanent Secretary of MAWD and is represented in all
nine provinces by Provincial Water Engineers (PWE) who are responsible
for constructing rural water supplv (piped and point) systems, for
operating and maintaining 62 piped systems in rural communities on
behalf of 45 district councils and for providing assistance to those
district councils that have the capability to operate their own water
supply facilities. They also maintain point systems and construct and
maintain canals in the widespread swamps. In line with the
Government's policy of decentralization, the PWE are supervised by the
Provincial Permanent Secretaries but report to the director of DWA on
technical and financial matters.



- 4 -
1.13      Each of the recently created District Councils (paragraph
1.03) is headed by a Chairman, who is assisted by a District Executive
Secretary who in turn also reports to the Provincial Permanent
Secretary in administrative matters and has 8 Secretaries reporting to
him. Included in these is the Development Secretary who has under him
the Director of Works with responsibility for the operation and
maintenance of council-run water supplies, while the Financial
Secretary has below him the Treasurer, whose office is reponsible for
billing and collections on behalf of DWA. An organization chart of the
district councils is attached as Annex 24.
1.14      The Building Department of the Ministry of Works and Supply
(BD) constructs and operates water supply and sewerage systems for
public institutions and provides technical assistance to district
councils in sewerage matters. While in the remote rural areas
sanitation is left to individuals, the Ministry of Health promotes an
education program through provincial and district health officers which
explains the importance of hygienic sanitation facilities.
Development and Finance
1.16      The Government's development strategy, as reflected in the
1978-83 Third National Development Plan (TNDP), gives high priority to
the development of services in rural administrative centers. These
will be the focal points for development of the decentralized
administration and expansion of service centers in the rural areas.
TNDP also aims at substantial improvement in services to villages.
1.17      Sixteen (16) districts, covering predominantly urban areas,
are currently capable of operating, maintaining and developing their
own water and sewerage facilities. Finance is provided from district
revenues, and water and sewerage tariffs sufficient for repayment of
loans and recovery of operating costs from users are implemented by the
district councils after approval by the Prime Minister's Office.
Development of these water supply and sanitation facilities is assisted
by government loans and grants up to about 70 percent of costs. The
remaining 42 districts comprise poorer rural areas which generally lack
an adequate revenue base. Government, through DWA and BD budgets,
assists these councils with grants to finance the development of water
supply and sanitation. Operation and maintenance costs of the
facilities are financed by the councils. However, 62 water systems are
operated by DWA on behalf of councils (paragraph 1.12) and financed
from DWA's budget; water revenues from such systems are collected by
the councils from users and paid to the Government Treasury after
deducting a 10 percent collection fee. The tariffs charged are
established by DWA to compensate for the aggregate operating costs of
the 62 systems under DWA's control and the same tariffs are currently
charged for the 42 systems operated by district councils, although they
have no relationship to the operating costs of a particular
undertaking.
1.18      Over the last few years a shortage of funds has been the
major constraint in developing water supplies in rural areas. During
1974/81,DWA's capital expenditures for rural water supply totalled



- 5 -
about K 12 million (US$10.0 million) or about K 1.5 million (US$1.3
million) annually.   The expenditures were financed through government
budget allocations to DWA.   Some rural water supply facilities were
alsc constructed by the local administration, districts and provinces,
financed from the national budget at an average annual cost of about K
0.8 million (US$0.7 million) over the same period.   In addition to
providing rural water supplies in villages, DWA also constructs systems
serving other government departments such as education, agriculture,
and health, as well as parastatal organizations.   Finance   for such
works, at about K 0.1 million (US$0.1 million) annually, is provided by
these entities.
1.19        The Treasury's recurrent budgets for water supply systems
under DWA's control have often been lower than the amount requested by
DWA and not enough to permit adequate operation and maintenance.   In
the financial years 1979 through 1982, DWA's annual requests for about
K 0.9 million (US$0.8 million) were reduced by the Treasury to about K
0.6 million (US$0.5 million). During the same period water revenues (K
0.06 million in 1979 and K 0.1 million in 1980 and 1981 respectively)
collected by the district councils were far below expenditures mainly
because of poor billing and the consequent inability of councils to
disconnect defaulters.   To remedy this situation, assurances would be
obtained  during  negotiations  that  DWA  would  adopt  measures  to
strengthen its accounting capabilities (paragraphs 4.14 and 4.15), that
Government would provide adequate budget allocations for operation and
maintenance (paragraph 4.23) and that Government would ensure that
district councils would remit collections to DWA (paragraph 4.20).
Water and Sanitation Service Levels
1.20        Adequate statistics on water supply and sanitation have not
been kept and are currently being compiled  by DWA in connection with
the International Drinking Water Supply and Sanitation Decade.   Data
for 1973/74 showed that about 75 percent and 10 percent of the urban
and rural populations respectively, had access to piped water systems
and over 40 percent of the   rural population obtained their supplies
from wells and boreholes. The remaining 25 percent of the urban and 50
percent of the rural population obtained water from traditional
sources, often unreliable and polluted.  Central water-borne sewerage
systems are used by about 40 percent of the urban population; about 50
percent have individual sanitation facilities, usually pit latrines;
and  the  remaining  10  percent  have  no  hygienically  acceptable
facilities.  Only about 50 percent of the rural population is provided
with adequate sanitation in the form of pit latrines.
1.21       Urban water systems are piped, serving about 60 percent of
the supplied population through individual connections and about 40
percent  through  public  standpipes.    Water,  usually  treated,  is
generally of an acceptable quality.   The majority of piped systems
currently suffer from water shortages, apparently caused by demand
which exceeds the normal per capita use in neighboring countries.
Excessive use is encouraged by the general absence or bad condition of
water  meters,   incorrect   meter  readings   and   poor  billing   and
collection.   There is also a substantial  amount  of wastage  due to



- 6 -
perrmanently running or faulty taps at individual connections and public
standpipes.   Vegetable gardens are commonly irrigated during the dry
periods.
1.22         Rural water  supplies  are basically of two types,  piped
systems and point systems such as boreholes, wells, and small
reservoirs;  the latter  are also  commonly used  for watering  cattle.
Piped systems mainly serve local administrative centers and the
surrounding villages supplying about 15 percent of the population
through house connections, 10 percent through plot connections and the
remaining  75 percent  through  public  standpipes.   The point  systems
typically serve the 15 to 40 households clustered in a village. Public
standpipe as well as point system users carry their water from the
supply point to their houses, a distance ranging from about 200 meters
for public standpipes to about 2 km for point systems.
1.23          DWA  water  facility  operations  suffer  from  inadequate
maintenance because the required equipment, vehicles, spare parts and
other items are not available due to a shortage of funds and because of
a lack of qualified staff.   Similar conditions apply to water systems
operated by district councils.
1.24        Sewerage systems exist  in 25 towns,  typically serving the
commercial and industrial areas but only parts of the residential
areas.    The  unserved  urban  population  use  septic  tanks  and  pit
latrines, but many low-cost houses are without acceptable excreta
disposal systems, thus posing a serious health hazard in densely
inhabited areas.  Various government institutions  such as hospitals,
prisons, police and army camps and boarding schools, in or near the
towns, are served by separate sewerage systems which usually have
oxidation ponds for treatment.   Pit latrines are the most common type
of facility in rural areas and Government is encouraging their
expansion through explanation of their use and importance under a
health education program.
1.25        Sewerage systems are always separate from the storm water
drainage which is generally carried out in conjunction with road
construction.  Both sewerage and storm water drainage are operated and
maintained by district councils but usually at a very low standard.
Public Health
1.26         During the past decade, major progress has been made in
developing a countrywide network of hospitals and health centers.  The
number of health facilities increased from 350 units in 1964 to 760
units in 1978.  Some of the results of the effort in improving health
services are visible; life expectancy has increased from 40 years in
1963 to 48 years in 1979, and the child death rate between ages one to
four has been reduced from 400/1000 in 1963 to 190/1000 in 1978.
1.27        Detailed information on the pattern of water and sanitation
associated  diseases  does  not  exist.   According  to the Ministry  of
Health's statistical summary, 10 percent of inpatient admissions and 11



percent of deaths in hospitals are due to diarrheal diseases.  Infants
and young children are particularly affected.   Cholera epidemics have
occurred in the last few years, particularly in districts along the
Tanzania,  Malawi  and  Zaire  borders.    Improved  water  supplies  and
sanitation, combined with inoculation campaigns and education in
hygiene,  have  improved  the  situation  and  contributed  to  reduced
incidence of epidemics.
Objectives and Goals
1.28        Zambia has made substantial progress since independence in
providing safe water to the people.   In pursuing this objective, the
WHO/IBRD cooperative program was requested in 1973/74 to carry out a
water supply and sewerage sector study2/ which would also propose a
long-term development program for the sector.   The study found that:
urban areas were better served with water than rural areas; sewerage
and sanitation was generally less extensive and served much smaller
segments of the population than water supply; and rural sanitation was
totally inadequate.  Recommendations were focused on the correction of
these imbalances so that by 1990: about 90 percent of the urban and 40
percent of the rural population would have access to a piped water
supply; and 60 percent of the urban and 20 percent of the rural
population would have access to water-borne sewerage.   The remainder
would continue to rely on pit latrines.  In addition, about 50 percent
of the rural population would be supplied with safe water from wells
and boreholes and have access to pit latrines.   The estimated cost of
the proposed program in constant 1973 prices was K 180 million (US$150
million), of which about 60 percent was expected to be expenditure for
water and 40 percent  for sewerage  and sanitation.   At the time of
preparation the proposed program was considered realistic and was
adopted by the Government, but following   a sharp decline in copper
prices and, consequently of government revenues in 1974 (paragraph
1.04),  only  a  small  portion  could  be  implemented.    The  general
objective of   providing all the population with an acceptable water
supply and sanitation service within the next 20 years has, however,
remained a key government goal.
1.29          The Government's  goal  for  the  sector's  organizational
structure is to maintain DWA as the central technical department, able
to provide assistance to the district councils, including the training
of technical staff.
Constraints
1.30         The major constraint in the expansion and improvement of
water supply and sewerage services is the shortage of funds for the
purchase of spare parts and of qualified and experienced engineers and
administrative staff. This has resulted in a situation whereby the key
sector agency, DW7A has been unable to carry out government policies
within the sector, plan and implement required sector development
programs  and adequately operate water sector facilities.    Currently
very few Zambian professionals are available in the sector, which is
partly attributable to the small number of secondary school leavers
enrolled for science courses (paragraph 5.06).   The proposed project
2/     World Bank Report   No. 559-a - ZA:   Zambia-Water Supply and
Sewerage Study; February 25, 1975.



-8-
aims at improvement of this situation, but it will take six to ten
years  for full Zambianization  in the sector  (paragraph 5.03).   The
number of qualified expatriates filling the vacancies in DWA  and the
local administration is also inadequate, mainly because government
employment conditions are unattractive.
1.31         Local   councils, which now control water and sanitation
services, have not been efficient and profitable in their operation and
have been reluctant to enforce collection.
External Assistance
1.32      Relatively little external assistance was provided to GRZ for
the sector prior to the early 1970s.   Between 1972 and 1976,  Sweden
provided a chief drilling superintendent, USSR financed the drilling of
about 300 boreholes in the Eastern Province, and UNICEF provided about
60 hand pumps for demonstration purposes in rural districts.  By about
the mid 1970s, external assistance increased substantially; Denmark,
Germany, Norway, the Netherlands and UK have continuously provided
about  12  professionals  to  DWA.    The  following  agencies  have  also
provided technical as well as capital assistance:   the Norwegian Aid
Agency,  NORAD,  is  supporting  a  water  supply  project  now  under
construction in the Western Province at an estimated cost of K 18
million (US$15 million) and consisting of nine piped systems in
administrative centers and 700 wells and 3 small dams in rural areas.
The project also includes provision of workshop equipment, spare parts,
staff training, engineering design and supervision. West Germany's aid
agency, Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau, (KfW) which financed the
groundwater and water supply management study for Lusaka, supports the
construction of several boreholes in the city, expansion of the urban
water supply system in Chipata which is estimated to cost about K 12
million  (US$10 million),  and  seven piped  systems  in  administrative
centers in the Northwestern Province estimated at about K 5.5 million
(US$4.6 million).   The project also includes provision of workshops,
staff training, engineering design and supervision.  The Commission of
European Communities (CEC) is financing expansion of the urban water
supply in Mpika, has provided a grant to finance a drilling rig for
DWA, has funded feasibility studies for 23 rural piped schemes and the
follow-up design of 11 schemes and is earmarking funds for implementing
five of these schemes in the Southern Province; all projects together
are estimated at K 5.5 million (US$4.6 million).  The Irish Government
is financing an engineering study for a piped water supply in Mungwi in
the Central Province.   The Netherlands Government, which is financing
the design of 15 small dams to meet residential and livestock demand in
rural areas in the Southern Province, has also provided equipment and
advisory staff for canal dredging in the Western Province; all projects
are estimated at K 2 million (US$1.7 million). The African Development
Bank has funded engineering studies for several urban water systems
(Choma, Kabwe, Kafue and Livingstone) and is earmarking funds for
partial construction. To ensure the success of their projects in light
of the existing institutional weakness, the various agencies have
assumed considerable responsibility for constructing and even operating
their projects under the general supervision and coordination of DWA
(paragraph 5.04).



9
Role of the Bank Group
1.33         The Bank's strategy in Zambia has been to support GRZ's
effort to: (i) diversify the economy and increase the share of
agriculture; (ii) narrow the gap between rural and urban incomes; and
(iii) develop a wide range of managerial and technical skills in order
to reduce  dependence  on expatriate manpower.    In the water  supply
sector, the Bank aims to assist the Government to meet the basic needs
of the population and improve the operating efficiency of the principal
sector institution, DWA, especially in the rural areas where the
problems are greatest.   The proposed project would be the first Bank
Group operation in the Zambia water supply sector although a number of
agricultural, urban and education projects financed by the Bank Group,
have  water  supply  components.3/    The  project  would  focus  on  the
improvement  of  water  supplies  in  rural  communities  and would help
strengthen DWA.   The proposed institutional improvement of the water
sector would require sustained Bank and other agencies' assistance to
be effective.  The proposed project should therefore be viewed as the
first slice of an extensive, long-term countrywide program.
II. POPULATION, SECTOR SERVICE AND DEMAND IN THE PROJECT AREA
Project Area and Water Resources
2.01        The project is located in six districts in the northeast of
Zambia (Map IBRD 16709). Five of the six districts are situated in the
Northern Province (Isoka, Kaputa, Mpulungu) and Luapula Province
(Kawambwa, Samfya).   The sixth district (Ndola Rural) is situated in
the Copperbelt Province.   Together they have an area of approximately
200,000 km2 and a population (1980) of 0.42 million.  The project area
is on a plateau at an elevation ranging from 800 m to 1400 m located
within the three main basins:   most of the area is part of the Zaire
River Basin; a small part in the north belongs to the Lake Tanganyika
Basin, and the Copperbelt Province in the southeast is in the Zambezi
Basin.
2.02         The abundant surface water resources in this part of the
country are fairly equally distributed.   The largest  rivers in the
Zaire Basin are the Luapula and the Chambeshi which drain the whole
central area of the Northern Province into Lake Bangweulu; they then
continue to Lake Mweru as the Luapula River, forming part of the border
between Zambia and Zaire.  The Copperbelt Province is drained into the
Zambezi chiefly by the Kafubu River.   Besides these large rivers and
lakes, numerous small perennial streams and, in the west of the area,
extensive swamps are found along the    rivers and around the lakes.
The largest of these is the Bangweulu swamp covering an area of more
than 10,000 km2 south of the lake.
3/    First Education Project  (LN 592-ZA);  Integrated Family Farming
Project (LN 882-ZA); Lusaka's Squatter Upgrading and Site and
Service Project (LN 1057-ZA); and Coffee Production Project (LN
863-ZA).



- 10 -
2.03       Geologically the project area belongs to the so-called Karoo
system,   mostly   represented   by  mudstone,   shale,   sandstone   and
conglomerate.        The  mudstone  and  shale  are  poor  aquifers  and
groundwater from deep formations is obtained mainly from sandy horizons
or thin sandstones intercalated between these rocks, generally at
depths of about 50 m in quantities ranging from 0.5 1/s to 10 i/s.
Shallow alluvial water-bearing formations are usually well saturated
with good quality water at a depth of 5 m to 10 m which can provide
adequate supplies for villages and farms.
Regional Development Prospects
2.04        The population of the six districts, which was estimated at
420,000 in 1980 and was over 90 percent rural, live in scattered
homesteads, in villages and several administrative centers each ranging
from 50 to 5,000 people.  The project's three provinces are considered
to be the less developed areas, compared to the Central, Southern and
parts of the Eastern Provinces. They differ in their demography, type
of farming, income level and access to basic needs.  For example, the
migration of males from the three project provinces has been marked and
sustained. Households headed by females constitute about one-third of
the total, and the ratio of child and senior dependents to active
adults is about 1.5 against the national average of 1.2. The majority
of households engaged in subsistence farming are small, characterized
by a lack of tools and equipment, smaller cultivated areas and much
smaller crop incomes per household - about K 6 (US$5) per month against
K 34 (US$28) per month in more developed areas.  The houses are often
far from administrative and service centers, which are not as frequent
as in more developed areas; consequently, fewer children have been able
to attend school.  Water often has to be carried long distances of up
to 3 or 4 km.   Roads,  transport  and  communications  are scarce and
health centers may be 10 km to 15 km away.  These factors have created
the large number of scattered and very poor households.
2.05           Estimates  made  during  1980  reveal  that  of  the  total
population living in the three provinces, about 15,000 were earning
wages in administration and commerce, about 5,000 were employed in the
informal sector (retail trade, bars, domestic service), and about 5,000
were  engaged  in  fishing,  in  total  representing    about  one-third
(120,000) of the population of three provinces, including  dependents.
The   remaining   300,000   people   were   dependent   on   smallholder
agriculture.   Average annual income  from agriculture,  including  the
value of the households' own consumption, was about    K 150 (US$188)
per household compared to K 350 (US$292) per household dependent on
wages.   Local authorities in the three provinces estimate  that about
75 percent of the population have incomes below the absolute poverty
level of K 70 (US$58) for rural Zambia.
2.06         The Government has now completed the decentralization of
administration into districts and expects that this will accelerate the
ongoing program of concentrating the rural population in villages. As
part of the program, Government is providing   priority villages with



- 11 -
extension and social services to create incentives to move into these
villages.   Improved  water  supplies  play an important  part  in such
incentives.
Sector Agencies
2.07        The three provinces together comprise 22 districts of which
nine are in the Northern, five are in the Luapula, and eight are in the
Copperbelt provinces.   Water supplies and sanitation facilities are
developed and operated by the district councils which, except for urban
district councils in the Copperbelt province, are unable to fully
discharge their duties to provide the services and are dependent on
assistance from the Government.
2.08       Heads of government departments such as the Provincial Water
Engineer (PWE), the Provincial Commissioner of Works (PCW) and the
Provincial Medical Officer (PMO) have their headquarters together with
the supporting stores, workshops and laboratories in the provincial
capitals  (Kasama, Mansa,  Ndola).4/   Both PCW as well as PWE employ
about 100 permanent staff in each province and between 100 to 200
temporary workers.   Part of the work force is usually located at the
provincial headquarters and more than half is located in the districts
and at water systems.
Water Supply and Waste Disposal, Population Served and Standard of
Service
2.09       According to a survey carried out by DWA and the Consultant
about 34,000 (8 percent) of the total population of 420,000 (1980)
living in the project's six districts have access to piped water and
about  160,000  (40 percent)  to wells  and boreholes.   The  remaining
225,000 live far from the existing facilities and depend on natural
unprotected   sources   (rivers,   lakes,   swamps)   to  provide   their
requirements.   Sanitation  is  provided  mainly  through  pit  latrines,
available to about 160,000 (40 percent); about 10,000 (3 percent) are
served  by  septic  tanks  mainly  in  houses  provided  with  water
connections; and some institutions such as hospitals, military camps
and boarding schools are provided with waterborne sewerage and
oxidation ponds for the treatment of wastes.  The sanitation standards
in the three provinces are above the Zambia average due to GRZ's
concentrated efforts in the form of education campaigns designed to
protect the population against the cholera outbreaks which have
periodically  occurred  in  neighboring  Tanzania,  Malawi  and  Zaire
(paragraph 1.27).
2.10      Water demand is predominantly domestic, non-domestic demand
being mostly from institutions such as health centers, schools,
resthouses  and  offices    and  small  commercial  enterprises.    Piped
systems  provide  water  through:    house  connections  to about  5,000
4/   The exception is the PWE provincial workshop in Luapula province,
which  is  located  near  Lake  Bangweulu  in  Samfya,  because  the
dominant activity is the repair and maintenance of the barges used
in dredging of the canals in Bangweulu swamps.



- 12 -
people; plot connections to about 4,000; and public standpipes to the
remaining 25,000.   Demand varies  from 180 lcd for house connections
through 80 lcd for plot connections to 20 lcd for public standpipes.
The standard of service provided by piped systems is generally poor
with unchlorinated water supplied in the majority of cases from
unprotected     surface  sources.  Some  piped  systerns  provide  only
intermittent supplies and up to 40 percent of the water is wasted
through leakage from mains or from defective taps.  The state of repair
of the point systems is considered worse than that of the piped systems
- about   half of the wells and boreholes do not operate because the
hand  pumps,  windmills,  motors  and  pumps  are  broken.    A  similar
situation prevails throughout the country due to insufficient funds
being provided by Government and the district councils for operation
and maintenance combined with the shortage of trained manpower.
Public Health
2.11      Research conducted by FAO and UNICEF in 1977 and 1979 showed
great disparities in the availability of health facilities between
favored and less favored areas. The priority health problems in Zambia
are maternal and child health, and socio-environmental factors such as
illiteracy,  poor diet,  housing,  water  supply  and  sanitation.    The
Northern and Luapula provinces are below the national average in almost
all these parameters.   The  literacy  rate was  about  35  percent  (60
percent for men and 20 percent for women), compared to the national
average of 45 percent.   Malnutrition and  anemia  were worst  in  the
Northern and Luapula provinces with an index reading of 190 and 130
respectively, compared to a Zambia average of 100.  About two-thirds of
the population live in improved houses built of dried or burned bricks,
but the remaining one-third live in huts constructed from wood poles
and mud.  About 65 percent of the population in the two provinces live
outside a 30-km radius of existing hospitals compared to the national
average of 4 percent and the ratio of doctors to population is
1:24,000, compared to the national average 1:9,000.  Absence of clean
water within a reasonable distance adversely affects health mainly in
the poorer households because of the effort required to fetch clean
water in adequate quantities from long distances.
2.12        To improve the situation GRZ is embarking on a program of
primary  health  care  to  make  essential  health  care  universally
accessible.   Primary health care aims at underserved, high risk and
vulnerable groups, particular attention being given to rural areas
where the health needs are greatest.   Integrated with primary health
care is the educatio of communities in health and hygiene, promotion of
adequate nutrition, safe water supplies and basic sanitation.
Service for the Poverty Group
2.13        The population with incomes below the poverty level, living
in the project area is about 300,000 and geographically almost equally
distributed in all the six districts.  Safe water is provided to about
140,000 mainly through point systems and to a smaller extent also
through public standpipes at piped systems.   Sanitation is available
through  their  own  pit  latrines  to  about  100,000.    According  to



- 13 -
government policy, the users of communal standpipes should contribute
to operation and maintenance and pay K 12 per household annually but
collection is not enforced and water is supplied free.  There are no
tariffs for the use of point systems.
Population Projections and Demand for Service
2.14      The population of 420,000 living in the six districts in 1980
is expected to grow to about 530,000 by 1988.   About 43,000 of the
present population, living in the four urban administrative centers is
expected to grow to about 57,000 in 1988.  Current service levels and
projections are as follows (see Annexes 2 and 4):
i)   Urban population in the 4 project towns served by piped water
supply systems.
Population      1982       1988      Increase
Total         43,000    57,000    14,000
Served        28,000    57,000    29,000
ii)   Rural population in the 6 project districts served by point
water supply systems.
Population      1982       1988      Increase
Total        377,000   473,000    96,000
Served       160,000   270,000   110,000
The project would provide safe water to an additional 139,000 persons
and  contribute  to increasing  the  supplied  population from about 45
percent in 1980 to 62 percent in 1988.



- 14 -
2.15       The proposed expansion of the piped systems in the 4 district
towns would satisfy the water demand projected in 1988.   The demand
forecast was prepared by the consultants based on actual consumption
and using unit consumption parameters for residential demand and
individual assessment of institutional demand for schools, hospitals,
hotels, administrative buildings, etc.   These range from 220 lcd for
houses with multiple tap (MT) installations, 80 lcd for a single tap
(ST)  installations,  to 30  lcd  for a public  standpipes  (SP).    The
projected water demand for the four piped systems in 1988 is shown in
Annex 4 and is summarized as follows:
Required                                                            Required
Water Demand         -------Residential------       Institu- Water  Produc-
Production            Total   MT    ST    SP    tional   Losses   tion
m3/d                 3,190                        1,105    1,105       5,400
% of total demand        59    16    10      22      21        20        100
Population served  57,050 5,990 6,596 44,464
% of pop. served        100    10    12      78
In order to reduce the present high levels of wastage of water,  the
Government decided to take such measures as raising tariffs, improving
the maintenance of private and public taps, supplying meters to MT and
large consumers and increasing public awareness through education in
water use.
2.16        The proposed point water supply systems would include the
construction of about 400 wells to serve about 95,000 and 42 boreholes
serving 15,000.
III. THE PROJECT
Project Origin
3.01          A sector  survey by the WHO/IBRD cooperative  program in
1973/74  led  to  the  Bank  Group  responding  to  a  GRZ  request  for
assistance, by asking DWA to prepare a project for improving service in
rural townships with inadequate   water supply.   Forty piped systems
were put forward, which after review by DWA, the National Commission
for  Development  Planning  (NCDP)  and  the  Bank  Group,  led  to  the
Commission of the European Communities (CEC) agreeing to provide a
grant for financing the feasibility studies of 23 schemes.  Constraints
in the TNDP and  DWA's  limited  implementation  capacity  reduced  the
projects included in the 1978/83 development plan, to 11 schemes.  CEC
financed  design  to the tender  stage  in late  1979,  the  work  being
carried out by the firms of consultants, Brian Colquhoun (Zambia) for
five schemes in the South and East, and by Dangroup (Denmark) and Carlo
Lotti (Italy) jointly, for six projects in the Copperbelt, Luapula and
Northern Provinces. Following completion of the designs in March 1981,
CEC agreed to finance the construction of the five schemes in the
south, and GRZ asked that the Bank Group finance the six northern



- 15 -
schemes, including improved water supplies in priority villages spread
throughout the project areas; the village supplies were not considered
until after completion of the consultants' work. The appraisal was
carried out in February 1981. During a postappraisal mission in
July/August 1982, MF and NCDP informed IDA that, because of budgetary
constraints, Government would be unable to contribute more than K 7.0
million (US$7.7 million) to the project and recommended that about
one-third of the main project components (construction of piped systems
and point systems) be deferred and included in a later project.
Accordingly, two piped systems, Ndola Rural and Kaputa, have been
dropped from the proposed project and the point systems have been
reduced in number from 660 to 442, although, for political reasons,
they are spread evenly over the six original districts.
Project Objectives
3.02      The main objective of the project, in addition to assisting
GRZ to expand water services in the six districts, would be to
strengthen   the key sector institution, DWA, to a stage where it would
become the efficiently managed and viable arm of GRZ for development
and implementation of sector policies. The project would also address
the other major constraints on sector development - manpower shortages,
inadequate operation and maintenance, and inefficient cost recovery
from consumers.
3.03      The proposed project would help GRZ to meet the water supply
needs of the Third National Development Plan and to develop Zambian
managerial and technical expertise.
Technological Alternatives, Services Standards
and Technical Justification
3.04      The consultants, Messrs. Carlo Lotti, submitted new
preliminary design reports for the piped water supply schemes which
were based on revised population estimates and projections and on
design criteria and groundwater investigations agreed upon with a
previous post-appraisal mission but which did not identify least cost
solutions. During the last appraisal mission the consultant agreed to
investigate alternative solutions and their effect on operation and
maintenance costs (e.g. the possibility of using either ground water
and/or spring water at Kawambwa and Isoka; and groundwater or
infiltrated lake water at Samfya). This report has been submitted in
January 1983 and is acceptable to the Bank. For Kawambwa and Isoka the
use of spring water, for Samfya the use of groundwater and for Mpulungu
the use of lake water proved to be the least cost solution. Final
designs and tender documents are scheduled to be available by May
1983.  The design for point water supply system for the villages will
be available at the same time.
3.05      The estimated cost of the four piped water systems as
proposed by the Consultant (Annex 5) is equivalent to K 120 (US$100)
per capita.



- 16 -
Project Description
3.06      The proposed project would include the following components:
(i) improvement and expansion of water supply facilities in six
districts in northern Zambia (Isoka, Kaputa, Kawambwa, Mbala,
Ndola Rural, Samfya) comprising:
(a) piped systems in four district administrative centers
(Isoka, Mpulungu, Kawambwa, Samfya);
(b) point systems - wells and boreholes - in priority
villages in the six district (400 wells and 42
boreholes);
(ii) engineering services required for supervising construction of
the four piped water supply systems and for preparing
detailed designs for up to four additional schemes for future
projects;
(iii) construction of one and upgrading of one provincial workshop
and construction of five and upgrading of one district
workshop; construction of four houses for provincial, six for
district and ten for headquarters officers;
(iv) provision of tools and equipment for two provincial and six
district workshops and a two year supply of spare parts for
all water supply schemes operated by DWA (except in Western
Province);
(v) provision of vehicles, including spare parts and repair of
existing vehicles, for six district workshops and three
provincial workshops;
(vi) provision of the following technical assistance for two and
four years respectively:
(a) one project coordinator (appointed);
(b) one accounting advisor for DWA's head office;
(c) two water (maintenance) engineers for the provincial
offices at Mansa and Kasama (4 years);
(vii) provision of ten overseas scholarships for training of
professional level staff;
(viii) health education, including rehabilitation of the water
supply and sanitation facilities in the health centers in the
six project districts, and construction of staff houses and
purchase of vehicles and spare parts;



- 17 -
3.07      Expansion of the four piped systems would provide water
through house connections, plot connections and public standpipes to an
additional population of about 29,000 by 1988, and to institutions and
commercial establishments; the new wells and boreholes would provide
water to about 110,000 people. Sanitation in the supply area,
consisting of septic tanks and pit latrines for individual houses and
oxidation ponds for schools and hospitals, is currently adequate.  The
existing program encouraging villagers to construct pit latrines at
their houses (paragraph 1.24) would be strengthened through a health
education campaign (paragraph 3.11).
3.08      DWA's low operation and maintenance standards would be
upgraded by expanding district and provincial workshops, and providing
tools and equipment, vehicles, spare parts and housing for operational
staff.
3.09      DWA would appoint an engineering consulting firm to supervise
the construction of the four piped systems and prepare detailed
engineering designs and tender documents for up to four piped water
supply systems expected to be included in a follow-up project.
3.10      The project would assist in training professional level staff
through the provision of overseas scholarships and expatriate
maintenance engineers, and accounting staff through the provision of an
accounting advisor (para. 3.12). DWA has appointed a Training Officer
whose responsibilities include assessing the department's training
requirements and formulating training programs. Facilities for
training in the subprofessional categories are available in Zambia.
3.11      To achieve the maximum benefit from the improved water
facilities, health education organized by the Ministry of Health (MH)
rwould form an important part of the proposed development program
including regular radio programs, the distribution of pamphlets,
posters and audio-visual materials. Construction and rehabilitation of
wells and pit latrines at all rural health centers would be undertaken
in the six project districts, and vehicles, staff houses and laboratory
facilities for simple water analysis would be provided.
3.12      The detailed description of the project components appears in
Annex 6; the location of the project is shown on Map IBRD 16709.



- 18 -
Project Cost
3.14       The total project cost (net of taxes) is estimated at K
24 million (US$20 million) with a foreign exchange content of K 12.7
million (US$10.6 million).  The construction and engineering costs were
established by DWA and its consultants at prices prevailing in Zambia
in January 1983 and are considered acceptable. The cost estimates are
detailed in Annex 7 and are summarized as follows:
% of
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  Total Cost
-  Kmillio       -US$ millioni--
Project Component
1.  Construction of piped
water systems             4.54    3.19   7.73    3.78      2.66   6.44      30
2.  Construction of point
water systens             2.11    1.27   3.38    1.75      1.06   2.81      13
3.  a-gineering                0.30    1.37   1.67    0.25     1.14   1.39       6
4.  Workshops, Housing,
Vehicles, Spare Parts     1.35    2.35   3.70    1.12      1.96   3.CB      14
5.  Training                   0.04    0.53   0.57    0.03     0.44   0.47       2
6.  H?ealth Education          0.2     0.33   0.68    0.24     0.33   0.57       3
7.  Technical Assistance       0.45    0.88   1.33    0.38     0.73   1.11        5
8.  Base Cost Estimate        9.CB    9.98   19.06    7.55     8.32  15.87       73
9.  Contingencies
- Physical                0.91    1.00   1.91    0.76      0.83   1.        7
- Price                   3.26    1.76   5.02    2.72      1.46   4.18      20
10. Total Cost of the Project
- including taxes       13.25   12.74  25.99   11.03    10.61  21.64      100
- net of taxes          11.26   12.74  24.00    9.:D    10.61  20.00      92
3.15       A physical contingency allowance of 10 percent has been added
to base costs which are not expected to undergo significant revision.
Price contingencies for foreign costs have been calculated at annual
rates of 7.5 percent for 1983, and 7.0 percent thereafter.  Local cost
price contingencies have been included at an annual rate of 15 percent
for 1983 and 12 percent thereafter. The project would be exempt from
customs duties on directly imported materials and equipment as are all
GRZ projects. Sales and import taxes on locally procured goods (mainly
cement,wood and fuel) and income taxes for all project personnel,
estimated at 15% of local project costs have been included in the
estimate but will be financed from the GRZ contribution.



- 19 -
Project Financing
3.16      The proposed project financing, net of taxes, would be as
follows:
K million  US$ million   %
IDA and IDA Special Fund         19.20       16.00       80
Governaent of Zambia              4.80        4.00       20
Total                          24.00       20.00      100
The proposed IDA credit would finance 80 percent of the total project
costs, including 100 percent of foreign costs of K 12.74 million
(US$10.61 million) and K 6.46 million (US$5.39 million), or 57 percent
of local costs net of duties and taxes. Assurances were obtained that
the Government would provide funds for the balance of the project costs
in accordance with the project implementation schedule as shown in
Annex 8 and would, as a condition of Credit effectiveness, establish a
Project Advance Account (paragraph 4.09).
Project Implementation
3.17      The proposed project is expected to be implemented between
July 1983 and October 1987 as shown in Annex 8. MAWD would have
general responsibility for overseeing the proposed project, except for
the health education component which would be the responsibility of
MH. Departments with direct responsibility for project implementation
would be DWA of MAWD, and the Department of Preventive Medicine of MH.
3.18      In view of the large number of project activities, DWA in
June 1982 appointed an executive engineer as Project Coordinator with
responsibility for the project only, and reporting to DWA's director.
His job description as accepted by IDA is shown in Annex 9.
3.19      Action to be taken for implementation of the project
components would be as detailed in paragraphs 3.20 - 3.27.
3.20      Engineering for the Water Supply in the Six Districts.  The
design for the project is being prepared by C. Lotti& Associati,
Consulting Engineers under a grant from the Italian Government.
Preliminary designs for the piped water supply systems and cost
estimates were submitted in July 1982. Revised reports in which the
least cost solutions have been identified were submitted in January
1983 and are acceptable to IDA. The detailed engineering designs for
the point and piped water supply systems are scheduled for completion
in May 1983 are not expected to result in major changes in the cost
estimates.
3.21      Upgrading Operation and Maintenance.  Final documents have
been prepared by the PWE under DWA direction and include: (a) standard
designs for provincial and district workshops and stores; (b) standard
design for staff houses including those required for DWA headquarters



- 20 -
in Lusaka; (c) lists of equipment and tools for the workshops; and (d)
lists of spare parts required for maintenance.  Tender documents for
construction works and for the purchase of equipment, tools, spare
parts and vehicles would be prepared by DWA and submitted to IDA by
May 1983.
3.22      Delivery of goods such as workshop tools, equipment and spare
parts, is expected over an 18 month period, commencing October 1983.
Delivery of vehicles is expected to start in August 1983. The
construction of workshops, stores and staff houses is expected to begin
in August 1983 and he completed within 9 months; this schedule reflects
the current lack of full employment among local contractors.
3.23      Construction Supervision and Engineering of Future Projects.
Consulting engineering services will be required for supervision of
construction of the piped water supply systems and for preparation of
final designs for a future project. DWA intends to retain the
consultants responsible for the design of the project for these
services and this is acceptable to IDA. General TOR for the consultant
were reviewed by IDA and are attached as Annex 10. The proposed
contract for the consultancy services will be submitted to IDA for
approval. Construction and supervision for the piped water supply
system in the villages would be undertaken by DWA. A detailed work
program has been discussed with DWA and will shortly be submitted to
IDA.
3.24      Training of Water Sector Manpower  A separate training
section has been established in DWA to focus on sector needs and a
training officer seconded from the MAWD Central Training Unit to head
the section. The training officer is responsible to DWA's director for
(i) establishing manpower requirements at all staff levels; (ii)
preparing a manpower development program and (iii) coordinating and
supervising training. To support the training officer, a water
engineer with considerable experience in organizing and carrying out
training programs is being provided for two years by the West German
aid organization GTZ. Since extensive training facilities are
available in Zambia for technicians (see Annex 11), training financed
under this project would consist of ten overseas scholarships for
qualified engineers. DWA will submit a list of candidates,
institutions, and courses by May 1983. On-the-job training to Zambian
graduate engineers will also be provided by the two maintenance
engineers to be appointed for two years.
3.25      Health Component.  The health component has been developed by
MH's Education Specialist from the Department of Preventive Medicine,
in cooperation with MH's Development Department and provincial and
district health officers. The component includes: (a) the
rehabilitation or the construction of water supply and sanitation
facilities at health centers in six districts (see Annex 6); (b)
equipment required for improvement of provincial water laboratories;
(c) design and construction of staff houses, including land
acquisition; and (d) procurement of vehicles.



- 21 -
3.26      Improvement of the water supply facilities at health centers
would be carried out at the same time and under the same procedure as
the proposed improvements in village water supplies. Laboratory
equipment and vehicles would be purchased on the basis of bidding
arranged by DWA in connection with upgrading 0 & M (paragraph 3.21 and
3.22). Construction of staff houses and pit latrines would be by force
account under MH.
3.27      Technical Assistance.  Additional professional staff are
required to assist DWA with project implementation. In addition to the
project coordinator, who has been appointed and is being financed from
Technical Assistance Credit 873-ZA, an accounting advisor (Cost and
Management Accountant) and two water maintenance engineers would be
provided. The cost and management accountant, whose job description is
shown in Annex 12, initially is being provided by NORAD and may later
be financed under the project (paragraph 4.14). The two expatriate
water (maintenance) engineers would be provided under the project to
carry out the duties of senior water engineers under two of the present
Provincial Engineers. These positions were selected since the duties
of water engineers in this position are entirely technical, whereas
those of the Provincial Engineers are almost entirely administrative.
Each of the two expatriate engineers would be responsible for operation
and maintenance of water supply systems under their control, and would
be expected to considerably improve the standard of operation and
maintenance during their contract period. The two new graduate 5/
Zambian engineers would be attached to each expatriate engineer for
training in the operation and maintenance of the specific systems
concerned. At the end of a four year period, the expatriates would
leave behind two, or more, water systems which would be in good running
order and four trained engineers, capable of operating and maintaining
water systems under conditions prevailing in their own country. DUA
would prepare the TOR for these positions with a view to recruitment by
October 1983.
Operation and Maintenance
3.28      In accordance with the policy of decentralization, the water
supply systems proposed to be constructed under the project would be
taken over from DVIA after completion for operation by the district
councils. However, few trained Zambians able to operate the piped
water systems within the districts would be available by project
completion. Assurances were therefore obtained that DWA would operate
5/   Graduates from the 3-year diploma course at the National Resources
Development College.



- 22 -
the piped systemas for the district councils as appointed agents for at
least five years following their completion, and that district councils
would be responsible for the operation and maintenance of point systems
in villages.  Assurances were also obtained that DWA would assist
district councils in training villagers in the maintenance of point
systems. On request, DWA can get assistance from a UNDP hand pump
specialist.
Environmental and Health Aspects
3.29      The improved water systems would provide an adequate quantity
of clean safe water to the growing population in four predominantly
rural district towns and in priority villages in six districts in
northern Zambia and six districts would contribute to a reduction in
the incidence of waterborne disease. The increased quantity of waste
water would not have a detrimental effect on the human environment in
any of the districts.
Water Resources Aspects
3.30      The original engineering design proposed to use groundwater
sources for all four piped systems. Availability has been proved by
test drilling and pumping. However, in light of the relatively modest
yields the use of alternative water sources have proved to be more
economical. For Isoka and Kawambwa spring water, for Samfya
ground water and for Mpulungu lake water will be used.
Procurement
3.31      The main contracts for the construction of the four piped
systems totalling about K 7.73 million (US$6.44 million) and
procurement of the equipment, spare parts and vehicles for workshops,
totalling about K 1.97 million (US$1.64 million) as well as equipment
and vehicles required for the implementation of point systems, the
health component and for technical assistance would be awarded on the
basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank
guidelines. To allow participation by smaller local contractors, bids
will be accepted for one or several schemes. Contracts totalling K
1.73 million (US$1.44 million) for workshops and staff houses would be
tendered locally as they are small and unlikely to attract
international firms. Local bidding procedures were examined during
appraisal and are acceptable. Construction of wells and boreholes in
villages and at health centers, estimated at about K 3.58 million
(US$2.98 million) would be undertaken by DWA in each province by force
account.  These arrangements are satisfactory and acceptable to the IDA
since DWA has developed specialized expertise in such work and the
expected workload would be within its capacity.  The local
manufacturing of hand pumps originally envisaged has been delayed.
Hand pumps (approximately 500) would be imported under international
competitive bidding procedures reviewed by IDA.



- 23 -
3.32      All bidding packages for goods estimated to cost over
US$150,000 equivalent and bidding packages for works over US$700,000
equivalent would be subject to IDA's prior review of procurement
documentation resulting in a coverage of about 95% of the total
estimated value of contracts for goods and almost all works contracts.
The balance of contracts would be subject to random review by IDA after
contract award.
3.33      Consultants would be selected and appointed on terms and
conditions acceptable to IDA.  Consultancy services include about 60
man-months for the supervision of construction of the four piped
systems, and about 90 man-months for the preparation of future
projects. The costs of these services are estimated to total about K
1.67 million (US$1.39 million). The average man-month cost, including
salary, costs, fees, international travel, location transport, housing,
and subsistence is expected to be about K 11,000 (US$9,300). In
addition to these personnel costs, the contract costs would include
survey and laboratory equipment, test drilling and pumping, local
office operating expenses and other minor items. Assurances were
obtained that DWA would retain consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment are satisfactory to
IDA.
Disbursement
3.34      The estimated program of project expenditures is given in
Annex 13.   The proposed IDA and IDA Special Credit would be disbursed
as follows:
A---,-Amount--------
K million    US$ million
a)   100% of foreign costs of all civil
works (including materials)                  5.1              4.2
b)   60% of local cost of civil works
(including locally manufactured
materials) and all other local cost
(to be disbursed from IDA and IDA
and IDA Special Funds in equal shares)    6.0                 5.0
c)   100% of foreign cost of equipment,
tools, spare parts and vehicles              2.0              1.7
d)   100% of foreign cost of consulting
services, technical assistance and
training                                     2.8             2.3
e)   Unallocated                                   3.3             2.8
Total                                  19.2            16.0



- 24 -
3.35      Disbursements for works carried out by DWA (Force Account)
would be made against Statements of Expenditures (SOE), the
documentation for which would not be submitted for review but would be
retained by DWA and made available for inspection by IDA during the
course of supervision missions.
3.36       The estimated disbursement schedule for the proposed project
is given in Annex 14. Since the project is relatively small, main
construction and disbursements are not expected to exceed 3 years and 5
years respectively.
IV. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Past Performance and Present Financial Position
4.01      Water systems are operated by separate autonomous entities -
the Department of Water Affairs and the district councils (paragraph
1.12).   The financial information base in both entities is very sparse
as financial statements (income statements, funds flow statements and
balance sheets) are not prepared. DWA consolidates only operating
expenditures and collections for the undertakings that it operates to
show an annual comparison of actual with budgeted expenditures and
collection targets.
Information on receivables and collections which is dispersed among the
different district councils is not consolidated, and thus an overall
view of these aspects of the financial picture is not available.
4.02      Department of Water Affairs.  The accounting records which,
in accordance with Government's accounting procedures are prepared on a
cash basis, are not adequate for a complete evaluation of DWA's
financial performance and position. Aggregate actual revenues and
expenditures for rural water supply systems under DWA's control for
fiscal years 1978 through 1982 are summarized below. Details of
recurrent expenditures for all of DWA are provided in Annex 15.



- 25 -
Revenues and Expenditures
(K thousand)
Year ended                 1978   %   1979   %    1980    %  1981    %   1982     %
Reveines
Revenue Collection Target    100.0  100 100.0  100  350.0  100 400.0  100  400.0   100
Actual Collections         63.0  63  55.1  55  139.6  40 131.5  33  153.2   38
Experxitures
DSA Operating iudget Request 809.0  100 880.9  100  702.0  100 912.8  100  9400   100
Authorized Expediiture    535.0  66 600.0  68  610.0  87 540.0  59  788.5   84
Actual Expenditure        497.3 1/ 61 523.6 1/ 59  614.9 2/ 88 613.2 2/ 67  775.4 1/ 83
Deficit                   434.3   -  468.5   -   475.3   -  481.7   -   622.2   --
1/ Expenditures bllow authorized levels reflect use of DWA funds for otler MAWD departments.
2/ Excess over authorized expenditure reflects payments by MA  from funds
budgeted for other MAWD departments.
4.03      The above summary reveals that DWA has not had sufficient
funds to operate and maintain water supply systems to satisfactory
standards. The department relies on budget allocations from the
Ministry of Finance but the funds made available regularly fall short
of requirements. Inadequate budget allocations have resulted from
Zambia's deteriorating economic situation and also from low water
revenue collections.
4.04      Government's stated policy is to recover 0 & M costs
excluding depreciation but in practice revenue collection targets are
established by the Ministry of Finance without taking account of
anticipated expenditures. Actual collections are below the targets set
because the district councils, which act as DWA's billing and
collection agents, are neither monitored nor supervised adequately and
have failed to discharge their responsibilities. Recognizing the need
for improvement in this area, DWA has several times attempted to take
remedial action by instructing PWE to follow up the status of
collections with district councils. These attempts have been generally
unsuccessful because while the PWE have the authority to inspect the
records maintained by the district councils, the follow up procedure
usually consisted of written enquiries which were ignored.
Furthermore, the records kept by the PWE themselves are typically
inadequate to permit an assessment of council performance.
4.05      District Councils.  Recurrent expenditures of district
councils are financed from local taxation, charges for the services
provided and the central Government budget. Government funds are
provided either to councils directly in the form of grants (about K 10
million annually), or indirectly through ministries for clearly



- 26 -
specified purposes such as the maintenance of roads, water systems,
buildings, water-borne sanitation, etc. Government contribcitions are
higher for those districts with predominantly rural populations because
of their smaller tax base.
4.06      Revenue and expense data on water supply operations are
difficult to obtain, being available only at the district level.
However, based on a review of the accounting records of several water
supply systems, the performance of councils in revenue collections from
their own water supply operations is similar to that for systems run by
DWA. Collections amount to between 30 and 40 percent of the
expenditures required for adequate standards of operation.
4.07      Government provides annual subsidies of about K 0.2 million,
as part of DWA's budget, for major repairs to water systems in rural
districts. DWA estimates that the sum is about 75 percent of what is
required.
Capital Expenditures
4.08       Budget allocations for DWA's capital expenditures on national
water supplies (piped systems) have been about 60%-70% of DWA's annual
budget requests for 1978-82 and implementation was about 80% of the
budget provided for the four year period ended 1981 (Annex 16). In the
same period budget allocations for councils' water systeims amounted to
about K 0.8 million annually; records on expenditures are not
available.
4.09     To ensure that the Government's funding for the project would
be available when needed, Government would establish, as a condition of
Credit effectiveness, a Project Advance Account into which it would
deposit its share of project cost at the beginning of each quarter,
with an initial deposit set at K 0.6 million.
Accounting Systems
4.10      Meter reading, billing and revenue collections for all rural
water systems are handled by the district councils. Revenue
collections for systems under DWA control are required to be remitted
monthly, after deducting a 10 percent collection fee, to the PWE for
onward transmission to the Treasury. In practice, tariffs are often
incorrectly applied, customer records are incomplete, few meters exist,
billing is done monthly but standards are poor in terms of accuracy and
timeliness, and the ledgers maintained are inadequate. The level of
revenues and accounts receivable at any given time is not readily
ascertainable and collections from both private and government
consumers are poor, ranging from 30 to 70% of theoretical revenues,
with district councils generally forwarding only 40-50% of collections
to the PWE for onward transmission to the Ministry of Finance. PWE
typically fail to monitor accounts receivable adequately and
disconnection programs are not being effectively applied.
Disconnections of customers who have refused payment on account of
interrupted service are deemed unjustified by district councils which
exert pressure on the PWE accordingly.



- 21 -
4.11      DWA's expenditures are subject to fairly tight control and
ponderous procurement procedures. PWE may authorize expenditures up to
K 500. Above this figure quotations must be submitted to the Provincial
Tender Board; imported items are purchased centrally by DWA head office
based on contracts awarded by the Central Supply and Tender Board.
Recurrent budget funds are released by the Ministry of Finance to DWA
through M4AWD in 12 installments and PWE are not permitted to authorize
expenditures prior to receipt, usually late in the month, of their
allocations. Funds for capital expenditures are also released on a
monthly basis by the Ministry of Finance, with the Planning Unit of
MAWD reviewing DWA's monthly requests to ensure consistency with the
capital expenditure program. Accounting for expenses is the
responsibility of staff at the office of the PWE, but actual payments
are effected by Provincial Accounting Officers reporting directly to
MAWD. Inventory records are maintained in quantity only at PWE
offices.
4.12      The mechanics of the budgeting process appear to be adequate
and the main problem lies in DWA not being allocated funds - recurrent
and capital - in accordance with need, but arbitrarily. A negative
impact on DWA's performance has been the late availability of funds
which has resulted in allocated funds not being fully spent and
operations being hindered by a lack of materials and spare parts.
4.13      Performance monitoring within DWA needs to be improved.  PWE
do not adequately monitor the district councils acting as their agents
and in turn do not submit their reports to DWA headquarters on time and
complete as required. At DWA headquarters in turn, the process of
reviewing, evaluating and following up on PWE's reports is in need of
improvement.
4.14      DWA has appointed a Cost and Management Accountant, who is
being provided by NORAD for at least two years, commencing April
1983, to advise and assist MAWD/DWA in recommending and implementing
improvements in budgeting, accounting and reporting procedures with a
view to establishing efficient financial management, planning and
control within the context of the government financial and budget
system (paragraph 3.27). In the event that financing of the Cost and
Management Accountant beyond two years is not forthcoming from other
sources, he would be financed for up to two years under the project.
4.15      The Cost and Management Accountant would train about eleven
accountants, to be drawn from MAWD's pool, in the use of the new
systems and procedures he will introduce. Following the training
period, nine accountants would be dispatched to train district council
staff, while two accountants would permanently assist the Cost and
Management Accountant in monitoring the performance of district
councils. Government would make available the required number of
accountants, to be selected in consultation with the Cost and
Management Accountant. Government would also seek assurances from the
district councils that they would adopt the recomme~ndations of the Cost
and Management Accountant concerning the introduction of a uniform



- 28 -
accounting system and procedures, and that they would have their
personnel trained in these systems. DWA staff have the legal right to
inspect accounts maintained on their behalf by the district councils.
Revenues and Tariffs
4.16      It is the policy of the GRZ to provide capital subsidies for
rural water supply developments. This policy reflects the fact that
rural incomes are about one fourth of urban incomes (see para. 1.02)
and that the costs of developing water supplies for low density areas
are high. In January 1979 uniform tariffs for rural water supplies
under DWA's control were introduced. The monthly charge for both
single and multiple tap connections is K 4.00 and for standpipe users
the charge is K 1.00 per household. There are a few metered
connections, primarily Government institutions, which in addition to a
K 4.00 monthly charge pay K 0.18 per m3 for consumption in excess of 35
m3 a month.  Based on these rates and the estimated consumption for
each type of connection, the lowest average rate per m3 is for the
multiple tap (K 0.13) followed by metered connections (K 0.15),
standpipe consumers (K 0.19) and single tap connections (K 0.35). In
practice, however, the single tap connections are billed at the
standpipe rate, resulting in the lowest price per cubic meter (KO.07).
There are clearly inequities both in the tariff structure and its
applications, in particular the fact that the private connections pay
significantly less per m3 than do households using standpipes.
4.17      The current tariffs replaced the individual tariffs that had
been established by local authorities 12 years earlier, based on local
political interests and generous welfare considerations. The
introduction of new tariffs was prompted by DWA's enforcement,
beginning in 1978, of Government policy on cost recovery within the
sector. That policy requires water utilities to be financially
self-sufficient and water tariffs to be adequate to allow full cost
recovery. Where this goal is not attainable, charges should cover at
least operation and maintenance costs excluding depreciation. In
accordance with this principle DWA, with GRZ's approval, imposed new
tariffs in 1979 to cover the aggregate operating costs of all water
supply schemes under its control. At the same time, township and rural
councils were instructed by the then Minister of Local Government and
Housing to adjust their water tariffs to the new levels. Although
township and rural councils have now been redesignated district
councils which, according to the Local Administration Act, 1980, may
impose their own fees and charges based on individual council costs 6/
including those for water, tariffs are likely to remain at current
levels until improvements have occurred in both accounting and
collections.
4.18      Recognizing the need for adjustments in the existing tariff
structure and levels, DWA some months ago commissioned a tariff study,
which is being carried out by NIVA of Norway and is expected to be
6/   All levies imposed by the councils should relate to the councils'
annual estimates of revenues and expenditures and require review
by the Prime Minister's Office and the approval of the Parliament.



- 29 -
completed by the end of May 1983. Following review by IDA, tariffs
would be adjusted not later than January 1, 1984 and maintained at such
levels as would ensure the recovery by the end of 1985 and thereafter
of at least the full cost of operation and maintenance of DWA's water
supply systems.
4.19       The following tariffs are considered to be indicative of the
tariff structure and levels prevailing after adjustments have been
made:
Monthly Tariffs             Current                        Proposed
(Subject to rounding)         1983         1984         1985     1986      1987    1988
Urmetered Connections
4Ultiple taps
(Kwacha per household)        5.00         13.00       14.56     16.30     18.26   20.46
Anrnual increase (%)           -           160.0       12.0      12.0      12.0    12.0
-Single taps
(Kwacha per household)        5.00          5.00       5.60       6.27      7.03    7.87
Annual increase (%)            -             -         12.0      12.0      12.0    12.0
Public Star2dpipes
(Kwacha per household)        1.00          1.30       1.46       1.63      1.83    2.05
Armnial increase ()            -            30.0       12.0      12.0      12.0    12.0
Metered Connections
First 35m3 (Kwacha)           4.00           -          -          -         -       -
First 12m3 (Kwacha)            -            4.00       4.48       5.02      5.62    6.29
Each additional m3 (Kwacha)   0.18          0.50        0.56      0.63      0.70    0.79
Arnual increase (%)            -          178.0        12.0       12.0     12.0    12.0
The adjustments on which these tariffs are based include: (i)
increasing the tariff for public standpipes by 30% to maintain in real
terms the one currently in effect, (ii) ensuring that the current
tariff for single tap connections is properly collected, (iii)
increasing the tariff for multiple tap connections to raise the charge
per m3 to approximately the level set for single tap connections and
(iv) for metered connections, reducing the water quantity covered by
the minimum charge and increasing the rate for each additional m3. The
resulting tariffs per m3 would be K 0.35 for both multiple and single
tap connections, K 0.25 for standpipe consumption and about K 0.47 for
metered connections. These tariffs compare with an average incremental
cost of water of K 1.67/m3 or K 2.01/m3 at 8% and 10% discount rates
respectively (Annex 20). These figures reflect the high capital cost
of the type of services to be provided under the project. About 85% of
the average incremental cost represents capital investment.



- 30 -
4.20       Both revenue targets and collections since 1979 reflect DWA's
determination to improve fiscal performance but are still far below the
levels needed to ensure adequate operating standards.  If the
collection rate were 90 percent, the current tariffs, if maintained in
real terms, would provide revenues sufficient to cover operating costs
and generate a surplus from 1983 onward. The anticipated changes in
the tariff structure would enhance that position. Government has
undertaken to improve collection procedures and ensure that district
councils remit collections promptly. Assuming a gradual improvement in
collections to a 90% level (Annex 19), operating costs would be fully
covered and contributions to capital costs provided from 1984 onward
(Annex 17).
Future Financial Performance
4.21      Financial projections showing operating costs and revenues
for all water supply systems currently operated by DWA are shown in
Annex 17. The assumptions used are contained in Annex 19.
DWA - Overall Financial Position
4.22      The financial projections of DWA water supply operations as a
whole reveal that operating costs would increase from K 1.7 million to
K 3.3 million over the period 1984-88, an average annual rate of 18
percent. Revenues, based on adjusted tariffs maintained in real terms
and on improved collections (paragraph 4.20), would increase from K
2.0 million to K 5.0 million. From 1984 onward, there would be
surpluses (K 1.4 million in 1987), which could be used to finance
capital expenditures.
4.23      Assurances were obtained that Government would provide
adequate budget allocations for the operation and maintenance of DWA
water supply schemes and would discuss annually with IDA the
appropriateness of such allocations.
Shallow Wells and Boreholes
4.24      Point systems are maintained by both district councils and
DWA;water is currently provided without charge.  The estimated combined
direct maintenance cost of wells and boreholes is K 416,000 p.a. in
1986 (Annex 18); to cover this amount each of the 18,330 families
served would be required to pay K 2.00 per month. Government has
undertaken to study the feasibility of requiring district councils to
introduce tariffs for the use of shallow wells and boreholes in order
to recover a portion of direct maintenance expenses, and to discuss the
results of the study with IDA by June 30, 1984.
Monitoring and Evaluation
4.25      DWA would regularly monitor and measure the construction,
operation and maintenance, staffing, training and financial performance
against targets established for the project and would prepare regular
progress reports for Bank review assisted by the Project Coordinator
and the Cost and Management Accountant. Proposed guidelines for a
project monitoring system are shown in Annex 21. DWA would also
prepare a project completion report.



31 -
V. THE IMPLEMENTING AGENCY
Lending Arrangements
5.01      The Republic of Zambia would be the borrower and DWA would be
the implementing agency (para.1.12).
Organization
5.02      The heads of the following departments and sections report to
the Director of DWA and his deputy: Data and Planning; Water Supplies;
Operation; Administration; Central Stores; Accounts; and Training. An
organization chart of DWA is shown as Annex 23. DWA has been
strenghtened considerably by filling the long term vacancies at the
managerial and professional levels (paragraph 5.03) and by establishing
the training section (paragraph 3.24), and further steps would be taken
as part of this project to strengthen DWA (paragraph 5.05) and to
enhance the effectiveness of its staff (paragraph 3.06).
ilanagement and Personnel
5.03      In addition to its approved establishment of about 260 posts,
DWA employs about 1,000 daily laborers, field workers and drivers. The
staffing position in DWA has improved markedly following an extended
period of serious constraints. The overall vacancy rate in DWA's
establishment is about 10-15 percent and most vacancies at the
managerial and professional levels are now filled, although some with
less than fully qualified staff. Thus, in seven provinces the PWE
serve only in an acting capacity although most of them are expected to
be confirmed, given the largely administrative nature of their duties.
Also, while the Director of DWA is a Zambian, the remaining
professionals, including the Deputy Director and Chief Water Engineer,
are expatriates on two and three year contracts. The constraints in
the Zambian secondary school system which limit the number of
candidates available for training in the professional categories, civil
service salaries and wages which are not generally competitive, and
staff housing shortages are likely to remain major obstacles to the
recruitment and retention of staff and, as a result, the heavy reliance
on expatriates will continue. The qualifications and experience of
staff at the technician and engineering assistant level have improved
significantly with the addition of a sizable number of diploma
graduates.
5.04      To alleviate DWA's staff situation, the bilateral aid
agencies active in the sector have provided technical assistance in the
administration of their respective projects. Thus, the Netherlands and
Norway have provided a total of three engineers as well as some
technical staff for the operation of construction equipment and for the
training of water supply operators; Germany will also provide two
engineers.
5.05      To further strengthen DWA and to improve the standards of
operation and maintenance in Luapula and Northern Provinces, where the
project piped systems are located, two expatriate engineers would be



- 32 -
provided under the project to carry out the duties of senior water
engineers and to train new graduate Zambian engineers (paragraph
3.27). Provision has also been made in the proposed project to finance
a project coordinator and an accounting advisor (Cost and Management
Accountant) for a period of two years (paragraphs 3.27 and 4.14).
Training
5.06      The lack of adequately trained staff has been identified as a
major reason for the poor operating and maintenance standards. During
the past five years, seven DWA employees received training at the
technician and university level, financed by Belgium, Britain and the
USSR, while another fifteen attended short courses relating to water
resources in Egypt and France. Extensive training facilities exist in
Zambia for technicians (Annex 11), but DWA has only recently begun to
absorb larger numbers of graduates from external programs. (paragraph
5.03). At present between eight and fifteen DWA employees are enrolled
annually in a 3-year course for Water Engineering Assistants at the
Natural Resources Development College. Pump attendants and fitters are
trained on the job and then tested by the Mechanical Services
Department, Mfinistry of Works and Supply.  The first training course
for water supply operators, set up within DWA in cooperation with the
Department of Technical Education and Vocational Training of the
Ministry of Education with financing from the European Economic
Community for equipment, scholarships as well as for a training course
coordinator (through January 1984) and instructors, commenced in July
1981. It is intended to be of one year's duration, with 20 students to
be trained each year. Sponsorship of students at the University of
Zambia and abroad has not been successful because standards are
relatively high and only a few high schools in the country offer the
courses required for admission.
5.07      To alleviate the dependence by DWA on expatriate staff
(paragraph 5.03), provision has been made in the proposed project for
scholarships for the training of professional level staff overseas.
IDA will participate in the selection of courses and candidates
(paragraph 3.24). Also, the Cost and Management Accountant is expected
to train several accountants in the course of implementing new systems
and procedures.
Audit
5.08      DWA and the offices of the PWE are subject to audits on a
selective basis by the Auditor General. The office of the Auditor
General is understaffed and consequently no audit has been conducted
since 1978. MAWD has an Internal Audit department, but DWA has never
been audited. On the other hand, the Provincial Accounting Officers,
who are part of MAWD, apparently check the accounting activities at the
offices of the PWE for accuracy and budget control.  Township and rural
councils have in the past appointed private firms as their auditors,
but district councils and their collection activities on behalf of DWA,
will now, under the provisions of the Local Administrationl Act, 1980,
fall under the jurisdiction of the Auditor General.



- 33 -
5.09      The Zambia National Audit Corporation was recently
established with responsibility for auditing all statutory
corporations, local authorities, parastatals, and any other accounts of
individual departments. Although the Auditor-General still has the
power to carry out ad hoc audit inspections of any publicly financed
institution, it is expected that the Zambia National Audit Corporation
will become responsible for auditing the accounts of DWA, the district
councils and of MH. Annual audits would be performed of project
expenditures and the financial statements of DWA prepared on the basis
of a new accounting system expected to be in place by the end of 1984;
audited statements would be submitted to IDA within six months of the
close of the fiscal year together with a summary of the audit of the
district councils. SOE would be separately audited and annual audit
reports submitted within six months after the end of the fiscal year in
which the expenditures were incurred (paragraph 3.35).
VI. ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL ANALYSIS
Project Benefits
6.01      The proposed project would strengthen the rural water sector
by (i) strengthening the key institution, DWA, through the addition of
further staff (paragraph 5.05); (ii) improving its financial position
by requiring that: (a) tariffs be adjusted and maintained at levels to
ensure recovery of at least the full cost of operation and maintenance
(paragraph 4.18); (b) collection procedures be improved and collections
be remitted promptly (paragraph 4.20); (c) adequate funds be provided
in the recurrent budget for DWA to operate and maintain rural water
supplies (paragraph 4.23); and (d) efficient financial management,
planning and control be established within the context of the
Government financial and budget system (paragraph 4.14). Through the
expansion of four piped systems, the project would also provide water
to an additional 29,000 people by 1988 as well as to institutions and
commercial establishments; a further 110,000 would receive water
following repairs to existing and construction of about 400 new shallow
wells and 42 boreholes. Improved operation and maintenance would help
ensure that clean water would be provided uninterruptedly. The
education of the general public in the use of water and in personal
hygiene would have a beneficial impact on health.   Computation of the
economic rate of return for these rural water supply systems has not
been considered practical because there will be little cost recovery in
the case of the point systems and a relatively modest contribution to
capital costs in the case of the four piped systems.  It is at present
Government policy to provide water from hand pump systems free of
charge and to recover only operations and maintenance costs for piped
systems in rural areas.
Least Cost Solution
6.02      The revised preliminary design reports for the four piped
water systems do identify the least cost solution (paragraph 3.04).
The point water supplies (shallow wells and boreholes) do represent the
least cost solution.



- 34 -
Pricing Considerations
6.03      Given improvements in billing and collections, the
anticipated tariff levels, if maintained in real terms, are estimated
to generate revenues in excess of those required to support efficient 0
& M standards, although they are significantly below the average
incremental cost of water (paragraphs 4.19 and 4.22).
Impact on Poverty Group
6.04      About 110,000 people who would be provided with water,
including most point system users and some public standpipe users,
belong to the poverty group.  Standpipe users are currently charged K 1
per month per household, a rate considered affordable also for point
system users although maintenance costs would not be fully covered
(paragraph 4.24, Annex 18).
Project Merit and Risk
6.05       The nigh priority accorded by the Government to water supply
is expected to ensure timely mobilization of the required manpower and
financial resources. It is also expected that maintaining the dialogue
with the Government on the water sector (during supervision of the
proposed project) would further strengthen the key sector institution,
DWA, and significantly reduce project risks. The project would bring
major improvements in the areas of staffing, financial position,
accounting and operational efficiency, but successful implementation
requires the full cooperation of Government and district councils. The
main risk,which the establishment of a Project Advance Account seeks to
lessen (paragraph 4.09), is in the provision of local funds by the
Government. Other risks include delays in the introduction of improved
systems and procedures which are necessary to achieve improvements in
collections and in the operation and maintenance of DWA water supply
schemes.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
(a) the Government would provide funds to finance the balance of
the project cost in accordance with the agreed implementation
schedule (paragraph 3.16) and would, as a condition of Credit
effectiveness, establish a Project Advance Account with an
initial deposit of K 0.6 million (paragraph 4.09).
(b) DWA would operate the piped systems for the district councils
as legally appointed agents for at least five years following
their completion and that district councils would be
responsible for the operation and maintenance of the point
systems in villages (paragraph 3.28);



- 35 -
(c) DWA would retain consultants whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment are satisfactory to
IDA (paragraph 3.33)
(d) DWA would adjust tariffs not later than January 1, 1984, and
maintain such tariff levels and structure as will ensure the
recovery by the end of 1985 and thereafter of at least the
full cost of operation and maintenance of DWA water supply
systems (paragraph 4.18);
(e) the Governmaent would ensure that collection procedures would
be improved and collections remitted promiptly by district
councils for onward transmission to Treasury (paragraph
4.20);
(f)  Government would provide adequate budget allocations for the
operation and maintenance of DWA water supply schemes and
would discuss annually with IDA the appropriateness of such
allocations (paragraph 4.23); Government would study the
feasibility of requiring district councils to introduce
tariffs for the use of shallow wells and boreholes in order
to recover part of direct maintenance expenses and would
discuss the results of the study with IDA by June 30, 1984
(paragraph 4.24);
(g) the Government would ensure that the required number of
accountants would be made available and that the Cost and
Management Accountant would participate in their selection;
Government would also seek assurances from the district
councils that they would adopt the recommendations of the
Cost and Management Accountant concerning the introduction of
a uniform accounting system and procedures, and that they
would have their personnel trained in these systems
(paragraph 4.15);
(h) DWA would prepare progress reports on the project and a
project completion report (paragraph 4.25);
(i) the Auditor-General or the Zambia National Audit Corporation
would perform annual audits of project expenditures and of
DWA's financial statements; audited statements would be
submitted to IDA within six months of the close of the fiscal
year together with a summary of the audit of the district
councils. SOE would be separately audited and annual audit
reports submitted within six months after the end of the
fiscal year in which expenditures were incurred (paragraph
5.09).
7.02      With the above agreements, the proposed project is suitable
for an IDA Credit and an IDA Special Fund Credit totalling SDR 14.8
(US$16.00 million equivalent).



ANNEX 1
ZAMBIA
RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(a)  Rural-Urban Population Distribution by Province                                             (b)  Population Density
(thousands)                                                                         Persons/km
- - -  1969      - - -        1978 ---         ---1980 --              ---1984  - - -              ---1978--
(Proj ect ion)
Province          Rural  Urban  Total   Rural  Urban  Total   Rural  Urban  Total   Rural  Urban  Total                  Rural  Total    Area km2
Central (incl.
Lusaka) 1/       385    328    713       433    718  1,151       445    762  1,207       471  1,057  1,528            3.76   10.0    114,944
Copperbelt           72    744    816        86  1,217  1,303       100  1,149  1,249        95  1,641  1,736             2.77   42.0      30,965
Eastern             496      13    509      616      20    636      597      59    656      708      27    735            9.02    9.3      68,304
Luapula             323      13    336      340      16    356      347      66    413      351      20    371            6.80    7.1       49,981
Northern            531      14    545      583      45    628      560    118    678       617      73    690            3.99    4.3    146,144
North-Western       228       4    232      276       9    285      264      38    302      314      12    326            2.22    2.3    124,269
Southern            430      66    496      478    113    591       500    186    686       506    155    661             5.67    7.0      84,296
Western             400      10    410      507      15    522      425      63    488      588      20    608            4.06    4.2    124,922
ON
Total Zambia      2,865  1,192  4,057   3,319  2,153  5,472   3,238  2,441  5,679   3,650  3,005  6,655                   4.46    7.4    743,825         1
1)   In 1980 this province has been separated into Central Province and Lusaka Province.
in 1980 tbe population distribution in these two provinces was as foilows:
Population in Thousands
Rural    Urban    Total
Central Province           330       183      513
Lusaka Province            115      579       694
Total                 445       762    1,207
January 1983



- 37 -
ANNEX 2
ZAMBIA
RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Existing Piped Systems - Population Served and Water Supplied in 1982
Populatio n-                -Average Production/Supply m3/d--
Name of               Total      Served Through                              Domestic      Non Domestic
Water System    Total  Served    (MT)         (ST)    (SP)    Total  Losses  Consumption  Consumption
1              2       3         4         5        6         7      8         9             10
Isoka            5,500   4,400    720        960    2,710        700    149         316         235
Kawambwa        11,350   4,400    710         710    2,980       515      97        304         114
Mpulungu         9,750   4,100    580         320    3,210       380      67        251          62
Samfya          16,500  15,150   2,240    1,000  11,930    2,020    810              930        280
Total           43,100  28,050   4,250    2,990  20,830    3,615  1,123            1,801        691
in x                        100       15        11      74       100      31          50         19
MT = Multiple Tap  = 220 1/cd             Total in % of Served Population = 67%
ST = Single Tap    =  80 1/cd
SP = Stand Pipes   =  30 1/cd
January 1983



ANtX 3
ZAMBIA
RIRAL WAER SPPLY ROECT
Piped Systens - Physical Facilities in 1982
-8a.z Water--Water Treatre -t                                                      - --istribution SystE-   -Balancitg Reservoir-
Name of                                                   Sediiout. Filtration                   Water             50 mm  100 mm 250 mm Tatal  Grourl  Elevatae  Total
Water SystE   Water Source      Intake         P    n         m3         m2          Dosig        Tank m3 aRAr                l km    km     km   Level m3 Takrs m3  m3
Isoka        Sprirgs          collection   electr 22 kW   (nct used)                d-lorine drip  680         -       7.5   1.6    0.9  10.0         110      355       465
danier, 200 diesel, 58 BP                            feeder
m of 150 mm
Kwalauia     furrow froa      6 km;              -            35    110             chiorine drip   160   electr       3.6   10.1    1.0  14.7       450         -       450
Sprirgs                                                               feeder                 45 + 18
+ 10 1W
Mpiluigu     Lake Tanganyika 3 x dia        2 electr          -      pressure       chlorine drip     -   -            3.15   3.1    -       6.25      44        -        44
100 mmn      12 IW                     filter        feeder
76 m
Samfya       Lake Bargwulu  30 m            2 electr 221kW    -      -              dclorine drip     -   2 electr    3.3    5.0    5.1   13.4    1,150        450     l
dia 150 mm   2 subhars.                               feeder                4 kW 
gnerator
Tctal                                                                                                              17.55  19.8    7.0  44.35                        2,559
JaDuary 1983



- 39 -
ANNEX 4
ZAMBIA
RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Piped Systems - Projected Population and Demand in 1988
-Population-                      -Average Production/Supply in m3/d--
Name of               Total   - -Served Through-                          Domestic      Non Domestic
Water System    Total Served       MT        ST      SP      Total Losses  Consumption  Consunption
1            2       3        4         5       6         7       8        9             10
Isoka            7,250   7,250   1,150    1,415    4,685   1,030    185          510        335
Kawambwa        15,000  15,000   1,080    1,830   12,090   1,210    205          755         250
Mpulungu        12,950  12,950      925    1,166   10,859      860    135        625         100
Samfya          21,850  21,850   2,835    2,185   16,830   2,300    580        1,300        420
Total          57,050  57,050   5,990    6,596   44,464   5,400  1,105          3,190     1,105
Total in % of
Served Population         100%       10       12       78       100     20         59         21
Served by new connections as
compared to 1982 (see Annex 2)  1,740    3,606   23,634
MT = Multiple Tap = 220 1/cd
ST = Single Tap   =  80 1/cd
SP = Stand Pipes = 30 1/cd
January 1983



ANNEX 5
ZAMBIA
RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Piped Systems - Proposed Facilities (1988)
--Raw Water---                   --Water Treatment---                -     Distribution System-  -Balancing Reservoirs---
Clear                75 mnr-  150 mm-
Name of                                                                             Water  Booster        100 mm  250 mm  Total   Ground   Elevated  Total
Water System   Water Source      Intake   Pumping   Sediment. Filtration   Dosing      Tank    Pumping        kn      km       km   Level m3  Tanks m3  m3
Isoka         sprirg water     1,850 m   2 electr.    -          -        chlorina-     -      3 electr.     13.3     3.7    17.0    790       350       1,140
dia 200                                    tion, lime
Kawambwa      spring water     5,500 m      --         -_         -       chlorina-      -     2 electr.     17.9     8.2    26.1    915         120     1,035
dia 250                                    tion,lime
Mpulungu      lake                 -     2 electr.   settling  slow sand  chlorina-    -       2 electr.     13.0     6.9    19.9    643          40       683
Tanganyika                               tanks    filters    tion
4-
Samfya        4 boreholes          -     4 + 1                            2 chlori-     -      2 electr      19.5     6.8    26.3  1,560         176     1,736        >
+ 1 standby                electr.                           nators,liue
Total                                                                                                      67.7    25.6    89.3                       3,545
January 1983



- 41 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 2
ZAMBIA
RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Detailed Description of the Project
The physical project would consist of the following components:
1.        Construction of four Piped Systems: Proposed works would include
improvement of existing or development of new water sources, provision of
treatment and pumping facilities and reservoirs and expansion of
distribution systems, including installation of public standpipes, plot
connections and water meters. It would also include upgrading of existing
facilities, improvement of access roads, fencing, housing for operators,
water meters, standby equipment, spare parts and about 10 km of small
diameter pipes for sufficient extension of distribution networks up to two
years after completion of the proposed works. Detailed list of facilities
for each system is shown in Annex 5.
2.        Construction of Point Systems: Proposed works would include
rehabilitation of existing wells and boreholes in villages in the project
area and additional construction of about 70 wells and 7 boreholes in
priority villages in each of the six districts. District workshops would
also be provided with spare parts, mainly for handpumps, sufficient to
maintain the installations for about two years after completion of the
proposed works. Since construction is by force account, DWA would be
provided with a drilling rig, vehicles and equipment to carry out these
works.
3.        Upgrading of Operation and Maintenance:  DWA's existing
provincial workshop/store buildings in Kasama and the district workshop in
Samfya would be rehabilitated and the provincial workshops in Mansa and the
district workshops in Isoka, Kaputa, Kawambwa, Mbala and Ndola Rural would
be replaced by completely new buildings. The workshops would be provided
with equipment, tools and spare parts for operation and maintenance of
water supply systems under DWA's control required for about two years after
completion of the project. Operation and maintenance capacity would also
be strengthened by provision of six lorries (7 to 8 tons) 6 four wheel
drive vehicles and 3 pick-ups. Additional staff housing would include 6
medium grade and 4 high grade houses at DWA's two provincial (Mansa and
Kasama) and six district offices and 10 high grade houses in Lusaka to be
used by DWA's headquarters professional staff.
4.        Technical Assistance and Consulting Services and Training: DWA
would appoint and retain suitable consultants and experts on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank Group to provide:
(a) engineering consulting services which would comprise supervision
of construction of the four piped systems, and preparation of
detailed design for additional four piped schemes and
approximately 450 wells and boreholes in villages to be included
in the next follow-up project;



- 42 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 2
(b)  training would be provided for professional level candidates by
provision of ten overseas scholarships.
(c) technical assistance which would comprise:
(i) one engineer to assist DWA in coordinating the project
activities; and
(ii)  one accounting specialist (Cost and Management Accountant)
to assist DWA in improving management information systems.
(iii) two maintenance (water) engineers for DWA's provincial
offices in Mansa and Kasama for improving maintenance of
the water supply systems and for training purposes.
(iv)  four pickups, spare parts and operating cost
for the project duration.
5.        Health Component:  Health centers in the six districts would be
provided with wells (or boreholes) and proper pit latrines. Provincial
health offices would also be provided with equipment for simple chemical
and bacteriological laboratory for drinking water analysis (to be installed
in provincial hospitals and be used by health inspectors), staff houses and
vehicles for staff. The major components are described below:
(i)   wells and pit latrines
District             Repair of defective   New hand pumps   New pit latrines
wells, pumps (hand-         required          required
pumps, diesel/pump
systems)
Nos.                  Nos.                Nos.
Mbala                         3                      3                  24
Isoka                         5                      4                  21
Kawambwa                      3                      5                   9
Kaputa                        -                      4                    6
Samfya                        2                     11                  13
Ndola Rural                  11                      -                   11
Total        24                    27                   84
(ii)   housing
MH requested 5 new houses in the health centers of
Mpulungu, Sumbu, Mbereshi, Kawimbe and Masaiti.
(iii)   transport
For supervisory duties in district headquarters the project
would provide 6 pickups, 1 four-wheel drive station wagons
and spare parts for two years.



- 43 -
ZAMBIA
Rural Water Supply Project
Project Cost Estimates 1/
K million               02$ million
Lcral  Foreign  Total   local  Foreign   Total
1.  Corstruction of Piped Water
Supply Systems
- Kawanbwa                             1.17     0.89    2.06     0.98    0.74     1.72
- M4pulurgu                            1.29     0.81    2.10     1.07    0.68     1.75
- Isoka                                0.95     0.'    1.54      0.79    0.19     1.28
- Samfya                               1.13     0.90    2.03    0.94     0.75     1.69
2. Construction of Point Water
Systems in six Districts
(including conrtruction eqtipmert)
- Wells (400) and boreholes (42)       1.77     1.19    2.96     1.47    0.99     2.46
- Rehabilitation of systems            0.34     0.(B    0.42     0.23    0.07     0.35
3.  Engineering
- Supervision of corstruction
of 4 piped systems                   0.10     0. %    0.68     O.C8    0.48     0.56
- Final design and tenier
docunents for follow-up project      0.20     0.79    0.99     0.17    0.66     0.83
4.  Workshops and  o-using
- Provincial (2) and district (6)
workshaps                            0.53     0.24    0.77    0.44    0.20    0.64
- Staff housing (20 units)             0.67     0.29    0.96     0.56     0.24    0.80
5. Tools and Equipment for 8 Workshops
and Spare Parts for all DWA Systems    0.10     1.23    1.33    0.(B    1.03      1.11
6. Vehicles incl. spare parts
for workshops                         0.05      0.59    0.64    0.04    0.49      0.53
7. Overseas Scholarships for 10
Candidates                             0.04     0.53    0.57    0.03     0.44     0.47
8. Technical Assistance (incl. transport)
- 1 project coordinator (2 yrs), 1
acooLmting advisor (2 yrs), 2 water
(maintenance) engineers (4 yrs)     0.45      0.88    1.33     0.19    0.73    1.11
9.  Health Education                       0.29      0.39    0.68    0.24    0.33      0.57
10. Base Cost Estimate                     9.CB      9.98   19.06    7.55    8.32    15.87
11. Cont irgencies 2/
- Physical                             0.91     1.00    1.91     0.76     0.83    1.19
- Price                                3.26     1.76    5.02    2.72     1.46     4.18
12. Total Cost of the Project
- Includirg taxes                     13.25    12.74   25.99    11.03    10.61    21.64
- NTt of Tames                        11.26    12.74   24.00    9.39    10.61    20.00
1/  January 1983 price level; K1.OO=US$0.833
2/  Physical contingencies 'nave been taken as 1CV of base cost. Foreign price cortinencies have been
assumed at 7.5M and 7% in 1983 ard 1984-1987 respectively an-d local price contirngencies at 147 ard
127.
January 1983



- 44 -
ANNEX 8
ZAMBIA
RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
1982         1983         1984         1985         1986        1987
123 4123  4  1  2j3 4                     2  3  4  1  2  3  4  1  2  3  4
Constiuction of Piped Water Supply Systems                   2
(International Bidding) for Kawambwa, Mpulungu,                                                    ON
Isoka, Samfya                                                         S/  B
D
Construction of Point Water Supply Systems
(by DWA) in Six Districts (Wells 400,
Borehcles 42, Rehabilitation 269)                                  D  W                  CO S  U  ION
Engineering                                                                      1 Enr. SUERISIN   2           IEn.1
Supervision of Construction for 4 piped WS systems                    TOR/S
Detailed Designs for Follow up Project(s)                             TOR          DE AIlED DEIIGIS DOTI,OW UP PRJE T
S B
Construction of Workshops and Houses
(Local Contractors)
Provincial (2) and District (6) Workshops                             DB           CO ST    10
Staff Housing (20 units)                                          D  B      COST UI
Procurement of Material for                                                           SUIPL
Piped and Point WS Systems                                            T  B            S
Tools and Equipment for 8 Workshops                                   T  B         SUPPLY
Spare Parts for all DWA WS Systems                                    T  B         SUPPLY
Vehicles incl. Spare Parts (15 units)                                 T  B     S7UOPLY
Training                                                                       1  |  1lING  ! 
Overseas Scholarships for 10 candidates                               C |P|                 E  OD
Technical Assistance                                                   P 0  CT CODIN NOR 1/|
1 Project Coordinator, 1 Accounting Advisor,                          TOR A    ACCOUNTING ADVISOR
(2 years)
2 Water (Maintenance) Engineers                                       TOR A      MAINTENANCE ENGINEERS
(4 years)
Health Education
Construction of Houses, WS and                                       W/lt/B
Sanitation Facilities                                           P    W/ B       CO          N
Procurement of Material, Vehicles                        L      L      T B |         <      P               {
1/ First two years of the project coordinator financed through Technical Assistance Credit 873-ZA
T = Tenders sent out.                              TOR = Terms of Reference prepared.              Main Activities.
B = Bidds received.                                 C   = List of Candidates ready.
S = Shc,rtlist of Contractor prepared .            A   = Advertising.                      - - -  Preparatory/completion
W = DWA. Work Program ready.                        P   = Program ready.                           work, or extensions.
D = Detailed Design and Tender Doc. ready.         L   = List for procurement ready
January 1983



ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 2
- 45 -
ZAMBIA
RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Water Engineer - Project Coordinator
Job Description
1.        The Department of Water Affairs, Government of Zambia, is
preparing a project for the reconstruction and expansion of water supplies
in six districts. The Department has employed a suitable water engineer
for departmental coordination and monitoring of project implementation.
2.        The coordinator is expected to proceed with the following duties:
(a) assist the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Development/
Department of Water Affairs in identifying and appointing staff
and consultants as required by the project description;
(b) in cooperation with DWA management, ensure timely preparation and
review of designs, studies and documents required for project
implementation by consultants, DWA and others, and arrange for
the review and approval of documentation by DWA and the World
Bank Group;
(c) in cooperation with consultants prepare and coordinate the tender
stage of the project;
(d) actively participate in the supervision of construction
undertaken by contractors or the departmental force and in the
development of procedures for monitoring and reporting on
implementation;
(e) in cooperation with consultants, provincial water engineers and
district councils, assure successful project operation, advise on
selection of staff in the operating and maintenance functions,
assist in preparing instructions for the operation and
maintenance of water supply systems, and in designing the format
and frequency of operating and maintenance reports;
(f) in cooperation with the Ministry of Hiealth, ensure the timely
preparation and implementation of the project's health component;
and



ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 2
- 46 -
(g) prepare quarterly progress reports on progress implementation for
DWA and the World Bank Group.
3.        The duty station will be Lusaka but extensive travel within
Zambia will be required. The engineer will report to the Director of the
Department.
January 1983



- 47 -
ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 3
ZAMBIA
RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Engineering Consultancy Services
1.        The Government of Zambia intends to improve water supply
facilities in the following districts located in Northern Zambia: Isoka,
Mpulungu and Kaputa in the Northern Province, Kawambwa and Samfya in the
Luapula Province, and Ndola Rural in the Copperbelt Province.
2.        The proposed project will include improvement of existing piped
water systems in Isoka, Mpulungu, Kawambwa and Samfya, rehabilitation of
269 existing shallow wells and provision of approximately 400 additional
shallow wells and of about 42 boreholes in the six districts.
3.        The piped water supply systems for the above-mentioned townships
have been studied by consulting engineers, (C. Lotti and Associati) and
preliminary designs and cost estimates for the rehabilitation and extension
of the piped systems have been prepared. (The study is financed by a grant
from the Italian Government). The consultant has been asked to compare the
construction and operation costs of alternative solutions and has recently
submitted the least cost solutions. Detailed engineering designs and
tender documents for the piped systems will be available by May 1983.
4.        The survey and design for the rehabilitation and construction of
point systems in the villages is also carried out by consulting engineers
(C. Lotti & Associati). The consultant has submitted the preliminary
design and the draft final design. Final documents will be available in
May 1983.
5.        Engineering consultancy services required under this project will
be for the supervision of the constructions for the piped water supply
systems and for the preparation of engineering designs and tender documents
for a follow up projects (Phase II). Construction and supervision for the
point water supply systems in the villages will be undertaken by DWA itself
and will not require consultancy services.
6.        The scope of work for the engineering consultancy services to be
financed under this project shall include the following:
7.         Supervision of construction for the piped water supply systems of
Isoka, Mpulungu, Kawambwa and Samfya. The Consultant shall supervise the
construction of the works and ensure that they are executed in accordance
with the design and contract requirements and certify payments.  On
completion of works, the Consultant shall deliver to the authority such
records, manuals and built drawings as are necessary for the efficient
operation and maintenance of the works.



- 48 -
ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 3
8.        Engineering designs and tender documents for follow up projects.
DWA has identified 6 other towns which are in urgent need of rehabilitation
and extension of their water supply facilities. Five towns, Puta, Lubunda,
Kambwali, Chipili and Mwense are situated in the Luapula Province and
Chilubi Island in the Northern Province. DWA will select 4 of these towns
for a possible Phase II project. Feasibility studies for five towns in the
Luapula Province were completed in 1979 but may require updating. For
Chilubi Island (25-30,000 inhabitants) a feasibility study will be required
since no designs are available and there are no existing water supply
facilities. Engineering consultancy services will also be required for
rehabilitation of existing and design of new point water supply systems in
the villages of the above 6 town districts. In general, the work required
to be undertaken shall include but not be limited to the following:
9.         Piped Systems.  On the basis of existing feasibility and design
reports for each township, the following further studies shall be
undertaken:
(i)  Assessments of population to be served, their income and
willingness to pay for services (supported with record of
actual payments within the last three years) preference for
level of service, investigation of current and estimate of
future level of consumption by different categories of users
and of losses within the system.
(ii) Review of groundwater resources, including geophysical
investigations, test drilling and test pumping in order to
compare the cost of using groundwater with the cost of
surface or spring water.
(iii) Recommendations for amending existing designs, if necessary,
preparation of preliminary cost estimates, time schedules
and suggested tender procedure.
(iv) After DWA's approval of the above, preparation of detailed
designs, estimates of construction costs (foreign/local),
the preparation of tender documents for civil works and
procurement of goods and services, the preparation of a
report outlining the maintenance and operation requirements
and suggested staff qualification.
(v)  For Chilubi Island a full feasibility study shall be
prepared including preliminary designs and cost estimates.
Following review of this by DWA final desings will be
prepared as under (iv) above.



- 49 -
ANNEX 10
Page 3 of 3
10.       Shallow wells and Boreholes.  DWA will prepare for consultants'
guidance a list of existing wells and boreholes to be repaired as well as a
list of priority villages requiring new water supply facilities. The
determination of priorities will take into consideration the need for clean
water, villagers' willingness to contribute in cash or in kind to
construction of facilities and willingness to pay for maintaining new
facilities. Consultants' task will include:
(i)   A survey and description of existing water and sanitation
facilities, water quality, present population and water
consumption and estimation of present and future water
demand for domestic and/or other purposes in each selected
village.
(ii)   Recommendations for rehabilitation of existing water wells.
(iii)   Determination of sites for new wells, including the
carrying out of geophysical investigations, digging of test
pits and test drillings where required.
(iv)   Well sites will be marked on the ground and sketch drawings
indicating size, estimated depth and other criteria for the
well design will be presented together with a short report
including estimates of equipment and construction costs as
well as the users' ability to pay maintenance of the
proposed facilities.
October 1982



- 50 -
ANNEX 1i
Page 1 of 2
ZAMBIA
RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Training Facilities in Zambia
1.   University of Zambia
The School of Engineering in the University of Zambia trains
engineers under a 5-year program leading to a degree in Bachelor of
Engineering. The number of engineering graduates is small in relation to the
country's needs, varying from 37 in 1978/79 to a projected 78 in 1982/83.
2.        The National Resources Development College
This college provides a 3-year diploma course in water development,
including courses in hydrology, hydraulic structures, public healt'h
engineering, irrigation and related subjects. The average number of graduates
is 12 per year. Graduates are accepted by the Department of Water Affairs at
the engineering assistant level.
3.        The Department of Technical Education and Vocational Training
This department operates 14 institutions offering over 90 full-time
programs in engineering technology, medical technology (paramedics), commerce,
applied arts, business, trades and teacher training. None of the institutions
offer specific public health engineering courses, some institutions offer
closely related programs such as:
-    Zambia Institute of Technology: diploma in civil technology and
advanced level certificate for civil techn.cians.
-    Livingstone Trades Training Institute, Munsa Trades Training
Institute, Kabwe Trades Training Institute, Lusaka Trades
Training Institute, Kukashya Trades Training Institute: training
in miscellaneous building and engineering trades,
4.        DWA/NORAD Waterworks Operators Course
Three waterworks operators courses each of four months duration have
been held to date, in the Western Province. The program began on a trial basis
in 1979 and is becoming well established,



- 51 -
ANNEX 11
Page 2 of 2
5.        DWA/Department of Technical Education and Vocational Training
With EEC's financial and technical assistance these two
organizatioins (DWA and DTEVT) are implementing a training program for water
plant operators and superintendents at Lusaka Trades Training School, and
provides a six-month course for 30 staff.
6.        North Technicall College
This is a trades training college including training for mechanics,
plumbers, electricians, etc. The college graduates about 60 trademen per
year.
7.        National Institute for Public Administration
This institute trains administrators, typists, stenographers, etc.
8.         Zambia Institute for Technology
This institute offers more advanced tradesmen courses such as
building construction, surveying, etc.



ANNEX 12
- 52 -
ZAMBIA
RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Cost and Management Accountant
Job Description
1.        The Ministry of Agriculture and Water Development, through the
Department of Water Affairs (DWA), is responsible for the operation,
maintenance and development of rural water supplies in Zambia, including
tariff setting, collection of revenues, and maintaining records of
development expenditures.
2.        The Ministry intends to appoint a Cost and Management Accountant
to assist the DWA accountant in reviewing and recommending improvements in
all financial matters relating to DWA.
3.        The candidate should either be a Chartered Accountant or a Cost
and Mangement Accountant, or have an equivalent degree. He should have at
least five years experience in budgeting, costing, financial control
systems and management information systems. Preference will be given to
candidates familiar with public utilities accounting and/or the
budgeting/accounting system of the Government of Zambia.
4.        The Accountant will have major responsibility for implementing
tariff policy including initiation of a tariff study. He will identify
ways of improving the preparation and control of the annual recurrent and
capital budgets of DWA and set up a costing system. He wLll monitor and
report on all aspects of budget performance relating to DWA and monitor and
supervise all financial progress reports and reimbursement claims in
respect of the various donor agencies. He will also assist in identifying
of training needs of DWA and district council accounting staff and be
involved in implementing training programs.
5.        Duty station will be in Lusaka, but extensive traveling
throughout the country will be required.
6.        The Accountant will report directly to the Assistant Secretary of
Finance, Ministry of Agriculture and Water Development. He will be
required to cooperate closely with the Director of Department of Water
Affairs in all aspects of his work.
January 1983



AWWEX 13
ZAMBIA
RAL WALt  SUPPLY PR)ECF
Program of Project Expenditures
(K milliors)
1983     -          -1984-                     1985    5198                     -              1987       --             Total
Local   eg   Total  Local Foreign Total  Local            F    Total  Local Foreign  Total  local Foreign  Total
1. GoCstr. of Piped WS systews   0.25      0.65    0.90   2.30    1.60    3.90   1.60      0.70    2.30   0.39     0.24    0.63     -      -       -         4.54    3.19    7.73
2. Constr. of point TWS systems   0.20     0.40    0.60   0.90    0.50     1.40   0.81     0.22    1.03   0.20     0.15    0.35     -      -       -         2.11    1.27    3.38
3. FIgineerirg                    0.05     0.15    0.20   0.10    0.65     0.75   0.10     0.40    0.50   0.05     0.17    0.22     -      -       -         0.30    1.37    1.67
4. Constr. of Workshops & Rouses 0.95      0.40    1.35   0.25    0.13     0.38   -        -       -        -      -        -       -              -         1.20    0.53    1.73
5. Tools, equip. & Spare Parts   0.03    0.35    0.38   0.05   0.70    0.75   0.02    0.18    0.20             -        -       -                  -         0.10    1.23    1.33
6. Vehicles                       0.05    0.59    0.64    -        -        -      -        -       -      -        -               -              -         0.05    0.59    0.64
7. Overseas Scholarships          0.01    0.05    0.06   0.02   0.25    0.27   0.01        0.23   0.24    -         -       -       -              -         0.04    0.53    0.57
8. Technical Assistance           0.10     0.20    0.30   0.10    0.20     0.30   0.10     0.20    0.30   0.10     0.20    0.30    0.05    0.08    0.13      0.45    0.88    1.33
9.  %alth Education               0.05     0.10    0.15   0.15    0.20     0.35   0.09     0.09    0.18    -        -       -       -      -       -         0.29    0.39    0.68
10. Base Cost Estimate             1.69     2.89    4.58   3.87    4.23     8.10   2.73     2.02    4.75   0.74     0.76    1.50    0.05    0.08    0.13      9.08    9.98   19.06
11. Physical Cont. & Base Cost    1.86      3.18    5.04   4.26   4.65      8.91   3.00     2.22    5.22   0.81     0.84    1.65    0.05    0.09    0.14      9.99   10.98   20.97
12. EBqected Price increase        0.26     0.24    0.50   1.18    0.70     1.88   1.29     0.51    1.80   0.49     0.27    0.76    0.04    0.04    0.08      3.26    1.76    5.02
13. Total Cost of t1e Project      2.12     3.42    5.54   5.44    5.35    10.79   4.29     2.73    7.02   1.30     1.11    2.41    0.09    0.13    0.22    13.25   12.74   25.99
Including Taxes
January 1983



- 54 -
ANNEX 14
ZAMBIA
RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ million)
Bank Fiscal Year                                Accumulated       %  of
Quarter Ending             Disbursement        Disbursement      Total
FY1984
September 30, 1983             1.30              1.30             9
December 31, 1983              1.10              2.40            17
March 31, 1984                 1.30              3.70            26
June 30, 1984                  1.40              5.10            36
FY1985
September 30, 1984             1.50              6.60            47
December 31, 1984              1.40              8.00            57
March 31, 1985                 1.20              9.20            66
June 30, 1985                  1.00             10.20            73
FY1986
September 30, 1985             8.00             11.00            78
December 31, 1985              0.60             11.60            83
March 31, 1986                 0.50             12.10            86
June 30, 1986                  0.50             12.60            90
FY1987
September 30, 1986             0.50             13.10            93
December 31, 1986              0.50             13.60            97
March 31, 1987                 0.34             13.94            99
June 30, 1987                  0.02             13.96            99
FY 1988
September 30, 1987             0.02             13.98           100
December 31, 1987              0.02             14.00           100
January 1983



ANNEX 15
ZAMJIA
RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJEC1'
Department of Water Affairs - Recurrent Expenditures for 1978-1982
(K 030)
~~1978~~ ~                        ~1979')                           1~l 9803 ~               ~         ~1981               -    -       1982     -
IWA   Authorized    Actual        DWA   Authori7ed      Actual       DWA   Authorized    Actual         DWA   ALthoriznd    Actual          DWA       Authorizd
P    st   xpnditure E2Mnditure   Raust Expenditure  Expenditure   Requst E                 Expenditure   F;oquest p             xpenditure RReq-t  Expenditure
1. Personal Emlusants                           756.2     561.4        571.1      799.0      659.5        603.2      731.2      619.8        549.0       765.2     731.9         618.9      1,056.1       975.2
2. Recurrent Departmental Charges
General Expenses                          638.0      385.6       345.3       677.6     418.3        356.1       823.7     417.3        457.4    1,027.2       626.1         669.0      1,364.8      942.8
Travelirig on Duty                        480.6      236.2       204.5       436.8     244.8        180.8       411.1     227.6        241.6       478.5      266.8         246.7       413.1       361.1
Traveling on Leave                          -         -            -           -         -            -           -         -            -           -          0.4           0.4          1.5        1.0
Expenses of Boards/Comittees                0.5       0.1          0.1         0.6        1.2         0.1         1.2       1.0                      1.5       0.2           -            0.8         0.2
Training Expenses                           -         -            -           -         2.0          1.1         -         -            -           -          -            -            5.0         -
Maintenanre of Plant anyd Vehicles         99.0      40.0         26.5        93.0      40.0         27.2        92.3      35.0         23.5        78.5       35.0          43.0       190.0       129.2
Maintenance & Operation of Water Supplies  809.0     535.0       497.3       880.9     600.0        523.6       702.0     610.0        614.9       912.8      540.0         613.2       940.0)      673.8
Maintenaane of Village Water Supplies     350.0      210.0       135.6       302.1     200.0        172.0       211.9     210.0        208.3       339.8      220.0         217.0       400.0       378.1
Maintenance of Field Works                731.9      530.0       453.9       563.3     540.1)       439.5       583,9     580.0        658.1       911.()     580.0         662.5      1,113.0    1,136.0
ZWF Contributions                          70.0       50.0         8.0        87.0      40.0         65.6        60.3      50.0         73.8        69.1       69.0          98.0        116.7       86.2
Cash in Lieu of Laave                       -          -           -           -         -            -           -         -            -           -         16.0          15.0        25.0         -
Total                                      3,179.0   1,986.9      1,671.2    3,041.3   2,086.3       1,766.0    2,886.4    2       _9     77.6    3,818.4    2,353.5                     4,569.9     3,708.4
3. Grants, Subsidies & Other Payments             18.5      10.0          5.0        13.5      10.5         11.2        24.0      11.0         10.0        44.0       11.0          6.0         3(0.0       11.0
4. Special Expenditure                           207.6      35.0          1.0       226.8      22.0          1.6        32.0       -            -          3(0.0)      2.0          -           18.0         2.0
GRAND TUEAL                                4,161.3   2,593.3      2,248.3    4,080.6   2,778.3       2,382.0    3,673.6   2,761.7       2,836.6    4,657.6    3,098.4        3,189.7     5,674.0    4,696.6
%        100           62         54        100           68         58        100           75         77        10(         67            69          100         83
March 1983



ANNEX 16
ZAMBIA
RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Department of Water Affairs - Capital Expenditures 1978-1982
(K 000)
1978                        1979                       1980                       1981                  1982
DWA      Autho-            DWA       Autho-           DWA       Autho-           DWA       Autho-            DWA      Autho-
Request  rized    Actual  Request   rized   Actual  Request  rized   Actual  Request   rized   Actual   Request  rized
11ydrological Branch         35.0    68.0    23.9    70.0    30.0    16.4    46.0    46.0    57.6    90.0               50.0    40.6    152      50 2/
Hydrogeological Branch       20.0    20.0       1.9    50.0    30.0    29.2    60.0    60.0    49.0   120.0             65.0    40.9    75       47
Drilling Section            220.0   250.0    95.5    170.0   150.0   137.4   250.0   250.0    53.1    270.0    250.0    95.2    225    150
Hydrological Survey         100.0    60.0      38.6   435.0   425.0    23.9    20.0    20.0           6.3    50.0       40.0    24.6       -      - 2/
National Water Supplies     520.0  1,200.0  1,145.2  2,336.0  1,500.0  1,506.5  3,000.0  3,000.0  2,079.6  4,360.0  1,000.0    529.8  9,800    500
River Basin and
Catchment Conservation   250.0   200.0   156.8  1,700.0  1,500.0    41.3   200.0   200.0    183.8   645.0    200.0    171.3   801    150
Canals                      140.0  1,140.0  1,094.5   890.0   800.0   305.5   300.0   300.0    102.4   605.0   400.0             47.1    618    680 3/
Rural Water Supply          280.0   275.0   221.1   200.0    50.0    40.0   210.0   210.0   199.7   740.0   300.0   168.5    856    400
Western Province
Water Supplies           300.0   300.0   146.7  1,645.0  1,645.0   215.2   800.0   800.0    84.5  2,189.0  2,000.0            - 1/  3,670  4,240
Office Accomodation
Staff Housing             30.0    46.0    25.0        -        -        -       81.0    81.0    75.3   365.0    90.0    84.1    623           70
Vehicles                    200.0   100.0   155.1   150.0    30.0    27.9   100.0   100.0    99.7    780.0               -        -      975      -
2,095.0  3,659.0  3,104.3  7,646.0  6160.0  2,343.3  5,067.0  5,067.0  2,991.0 10,214.0  4,395.0  1,202.1 17,777  6,287
1/ Administered directly by NORAD; expenditures in previous years were for NORAD - related projects.
2/  lydrological Branch and Hydrological Surveys now combined into Hydrological Programme.
3/  100% Netherlands grant.
January 1983



- 57 -
ANNEX 17
Page 1 of 2
ZAMBIA
RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Department of Water Affairs - Projections of Revenues
and Recurrent Expenditures for Rural Water Supply 1982-1988
1982      1983      1984      1985       1986      1987      1988
Total Volume Sales (000 m3)
- Multiple taps             2,433      2,530     2,635     2,736     2,843      2,953     3,073
- Single taps                1,770     1,840     1,917     1,990      2,067     2,148     2,236
- Public standpipes         2,323      2,415     2,516     2,612     2,713      2,820     2,934
- Institutions              1,600      1,670     1,740     1,810      1,880     1,950     2,010
Total                     8,126      8,455     8,808     9,148     9,503      9,871    10,253
Number of Households
- Multiple taps             5,050      5,250     5,470     5,680      5,900     6,130     6,380
- Single taps              10,100    10,500    10,940    11,360    11,800    12,260    12,760
- Public standpipes        35,350    36,750    38,290    39,760    41,300    42,910    44,660
Total                    50,500    52,500    54,700    56,800    59,000    61,300    63,800
Monthly Tariffs per Household
Multiple taps                      5.00      5.no     13.00      14.56     16.30     18.26     20.46
% Increase                                      160.0      12.0       12.0      12.0      12.0
Single taps                        5.00      5.00      5.00      5.60       6.27      7.03      7.87
% Increase                                         -       12.0      12.0       12.0      12.0
Public Standpipes                  1.00      1.00      1.30      1.46       1.63      1.83      2.05
% Increase                                       30.0      12.0      12.0       12.0      12.0
Institutions (per m3)             0.18       0.18      0.50      0.56      0.63       0.70      0.79
178.0      12.0      12.0      12.0       12.0



- 58 -
ANNEX 17
Page 2 of 2
ZAWBIA
RURAL WATER SUPPLY PRaJECI?
Department of Water Affairs - Projections of Revenues
and Recurrent Expenditures for Rural Water Supply 1982-1988
1982      1983      1984       1985      1986       1987      1988
Revenues (K 000)
Mihtiple taps                        90.9      126.0      469.3      694.7    923.2    1,208.9   1,409.8
Single taps                         181.8     252.0       361.0     534.4    710.3       930.8   1,084.5
Public standpipes                   127.3      176.4      328.5     487.6    646.2       P48.1      988.8
Institutions                        273.6     285.6       826.5     962.9  1,125.2    1,296.8   1,508.5
Total                          673.6 1/  840.0    1,985.3   2,679.6  3,404.9    4,284.6   4,991.6
Operation and Maintenance
Expenses
Wages 2/                            460.0      550.2      640.8      746.4    869.4    1,012.7   1,179.6
Materials  3/                       180.0     215.3       250.8     292.1    34.0.2      396.3      461.6
Other  4/                           360.0      430.6      501.5      584.2    68D.4      792.5      923.1
Overhead contribution  5/           100.0      119.6      139.3      162.3    189.0      220.2      256.4
Collection fee  6/                   67.4      122.1      198.5     268.0    340.5       428.5      499.2
Total                        1,167.4   1,437.8    1,730.9   2,053.0  2,419.5    2,850.2   3,319.9
Surplus (Deficit)                  (493.8)   (597.8)      254.4     626.6    985.4    1,434.4   1,671.7
1/  Represents theoretical revenues based on assumption that tariffs for single taps were correctly
applied, and that collections were remitted in full to DhA. Compares with a collection target of
K 400.0.
2/   Labor, weges, overtime.
3/   Irncluding building repair materials and spare parts.
4/   Fuel, chemicals, electricity.
5/   10% of Wages, Materials, Other.
6/   10% of Revenues.
January 1983



ANNEX 18
- 59 -
ZAMBIA
RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Proposed Tariffs for Point Systems 1/
(Wells and Boreholes)
Assets in operation (K 000)                  3,464.00
Annual maintenance @ 12% of assets 2/
in operation (K 000)                      416.00
No. of people served                       110,000.00
No. of households served                    18,330.00
Monthly tariff per household                      1.89
Proposed tariff 3/                                1.00
1/   Based on first year of full operation in 1986.
2/   Spare parts and village attendants only; other labour, transport,
etc., would be provided by PWE.
3/   Initially tariff for point system should not exceed present
charges for standpipe users.
January 1983



- 60 -
ANNEX 19
Page 1 of 2
ZAMBIA
RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Assumptions for Financial Projections
General
1.         The projections of revenues and recurrent expenditures relate to
all rural water supply schemes under DWA's control (Annex 17).
-  Water Volume Sales
2.         The population supplied with water from DWA controlled water
systems was assumed to grow by 4 percent annually from an estimated 280,000
in 1980 to 383,000 in 1988.  In 1980, about 10 percent of the population
was supplied through house connections (multiple taps), 20 percent through
plot connections (single taps) and 70 percent from public standpipes; this
composition was assumed to remain unchanged through 1988. Average family
size was taken to be six persons throughout the project period.  Water
consumption parameters were assumed unchanged throughout at 220 lcd for
house connections, 80 lcd for plot connections, and 30 lcd for public
standpipes. Institutional consumption was also projected to grow at 4
percent per annum, from an estimated 4,000 m3/day in 1980 to 5,500 m3/day
in 1988.
- Water Tariffs and Revenues
3.         The following tariff increases are considered to be indicative of
the adjustments that will be made no later than January 1, 1984 in the
tariff structure and levels, based on a tariff study which is expected to
be completed in May 1983. The tariff for public standpipes is assumed to
increase by 30% from K 1.00 to K 1.30 per household to maintain it in real
terms. The tariff for single tap connections would remain at its present
level of K 5.00 per household, but proper collection would be enforced.
The tariff for multiple tap connections would increase from K 5.00 to K
13.00 per household to raise the charge per m3 of water to approximately
the level set for single tap connections. For metered connections, the
minimum charge of K 4.00 would cover only 12 m3 rather than 35 m3 for the
same reason and the rate for each additional m3 would increase from K 0.18
to K 0.50. From January 1985 onward, all tariffs have been assumed to
increase 12% annually to take account of expected inflation. Total
revenues reflect collections by district councils of 95% from institutional
consumers throughout and the following collection rates from multiple tap,
single tap and public standpipe users: 30%, 40%, 55%, 70% and 80% in 1982,
1983, 1984, 1985 and 1986 respectively and 90% thereafter.  The revenues
actually flowing to DWA in 1982 and 1983 are lower than shown because
tariffs are not currently being applied correctly, and district councils do
not remit collections in full. The resulting shortfalls are assumed to be
covered by a subsidy component provided by Government in the recurrent
budget. From 1984 onward, revenues available to DWA would be sufficient to



- 61 -
ANNEX 19
Page 2 of 2
cover operation and maintenance expenses, part of DWA overheads, and the
collection fee (10% of total revenues) payable to district council; they
would also allow for a contribution to capital costs.
Operation and Maintenance Expenses
4.        DWA's estimate of funds required in FY82 (K 1.0 million) to
operate and maintain to adequate standards the systems under its control
was taken as the basis for projections of annual operation and maintenance
expenses. Wages, materials and other expenses were adjusted to reflect
increases in water production and improved quality of operating staff.
Prices were escalated 15% in 1983 and 12% annually thereafter.



- 62 -
AN~   20
ZAMBIA RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
CALCULATION OF AVERAE m(RiEMETAL OD5T
Grand Total Costs
Capital Cost        O&M Costs           Total         Market   Shadow  Incremental
Local  Foreign   Local  Foreign   Local Foreign   Price         Price     Sales        '000 (m3)
1983           275       715       -          -     275      715      990      1,347         84         27
1984         2,530     1,760      39         19   2,569    1,779    4,348      5,238         85        265
1985         1,760       770      81        40   1,841       810    2,651     3,056          86        503
1986           429       264      81         40     510      304      814        966         87        564
1987-2026        -         -      81        40       81       40      121        141    88-2026        627
la/,.10%
Present Value of Costs                           10,919             10,396
Present Value of Sales Volumes                    6,541             5,185
Average Incremental Cost                      K 1.67/m3          K 201/m3
1/ Foreign costs shadow priced to reflect 50% overvaluation of local airrency.



ANNEX 21
Page 1 of 2
- 63 -
ZAMBIA
RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Monitoring Indices
In view of the particular nature of this project, the usual
public utilities indicators apply only partly. Project supervision and
DWA's periodlic reports to IDA would concentrate on: (i) construction of
systems financed under the proposed credit; (ii) operation and maintenance
of existing schemes; (iii) accounts and finance; (iv) training of staff;
and (v) progress of institutional strengthening. In particular, the
supervision and reporting would concentrate on the following:
(i)    Construction of the Systems
(a)  Evaluation of actual progress against planned targets.
(b) Comparison of water systems costs with actuals.
(ii)   Operation and Maintenance
(a) Review of water systems with low quality or reliability of
supply and identification of cause of failure (staff,
spare parts, supervision, finance, etc.).
(b) Review of operation parameters on piped systems such as:
-  m3 of water produced per day (quarterly average);
-  m3 of water consumed per day (quarterly average);
-  total water losses in % of water produced;I/
-  % of population of administrative centers served by
water from the systems;
-  number of house connections, plot connections, and
public standpipes; and
-  average daily residential consumption per capita. 1/
(c) Review of preventive maintenance schedules for point water
systems and analysis of cause of most common breakage.
(iii)  Accounts and Finance
(a) District-by-district review of revenue due and actual
collections;
(b) Review of adequacy of funds provided for 0 & M; and
(c) Progress in improving billing and accounting procedures.
1/   After water meters have been installed.



ANNEX 21
- 64 -                       Page 2 of 2
(iv)   Staffing and Training
(a) Number of permanent employees and vacancies under
employment categories at the end of each quarter; and
(b) Staff under training would be monitored under the
following heading: (1) engineers and professionals;
(2) technicians; (3) craftsmen; and (4) accounts and
administrative staff.
(v)    Institutional Strengthening
(a) Review of DWA's district management of water facilities,
what improvement has taken place; and
(b) Staff recruitment, contribution of expatriates towards DWA
and districts' operations and process of Zambianization.
January 1983



- 65 -
ANNEX 22
ZA.BIA
MINISTR OF AGRIUf=  AND WATEVEIDD        INT
ORCANIZATION aiAar
MSTER
-2 Ministexs i State
Pianrirg Coordinator Iemanent
(Planr:LrgUnit)_                                          SecretaTy 
D         Asst. Sec etary          Asst                                                   ofSrco,t
|Asst. Sectetr   
I  (Tra nT)        l{  SPryDti 
rAsst. Secreta
(Adunistratiog |
Water~ ~E                            Cooperatives                         Agriailture                                tenary
January 1983



ANNEX 23
ZAMBIA
RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
The Department of Water Affairs
Organization Chart
| Drctor 
|  eputy Drco 
ra;;     4    ; nhiefaWater Eng.                                                                                                                                                                Chief Exec. M   g          Aecouniefc
Ofce             Data-ad! Planning                                                                                                                                                               OffieerScto
I           .                   ~~~~~~~~~~~ProvincialCifWtrEn.|                                                                                                                         Soe1
l l . | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Water Lng.                                           e   Water   SuPIY.. ..  eto
Drilling Section Hydrological Sec.      |ydrogeologiaSe              Water Eng.
Ofie                    Principal Eng.        S. Hydrogeologir                                                                                                                                               -
I     l                       |                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~In g Provinces  Watewn.Mc.Eg                                                      -heist              Executive Officer                                 r
|    Chief Supt.  1    |   Hydroiogist        Hydrogeologists
Central Prov.
(Kabwe)
North West Prov.          S. Eng. Assist.                                                           Lo r | ri i               iRegistration
S. Enq. Assist.         S. Eng. Asist.           S. v                                             Workshops               TransportI
AsIi~               E I  Assist. . I II    (Liingstone)       .
Northern Prov.
(Kasarna)            Drawing Offie
I  Water Dne. Off. I   | Water Dec. Off.       Water Dev. Off.           Lusaka PrOV.
(Loseaka)
Copperbelt Prov.
(Ndola) 
Western Prov.
Accoounting    l   l   Workshops          |    ield Workers|             (MorgL
Eastern Prov.
(Chipata)
L,apula Prov.
WorkLhop             CatY Readers               Transport    |           (Mansa)
|      Transport   ] |    Transport 
P ield Staff                Worker-s 
World Bank- 24287



ANNEX 24
ZAMBIA
RURAL WAR SuPPLY PRajElT
District Council - Organization ahart
Prime Minister's
Office
Central Government
Minis trie 
Prvinclal Council
Provincial PeAmaneni _
Secretary                                                                                       S
Heads cf GeverrnSeent                      Disttrict Council
Departmentsr
Executive  erty
Political Secretary               _              diitative              Development              --i Fnacal
_   __ _l                   Secret~~~~ary            _       sec retayy                         Sceary
|Camerclal Secretary                             ecrt Secretary  1    | ocial SecrtY }_IglSceary



- 68 -
ZAMBIA                            ANNEX 25
RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
1.        Feasibility Studies of 11 Townships in Northern Provinces by
Dangroup/Carlo Lotti, 1978.
2.        Kawambwa, Kaputa, Isoka, Samfya, Mpulungu, Ndola Rural Water
Supply Schemes. Reports on Design Stage I by Dangroup/Carlo
Lotti 1980.
3.        Kawambwa, Kaputa, Isoka, Samfya, Mpulungu, Ndola Rural Water
Supply Schemes. Preliminary Stage Reports by Carlo Lotti 1982.
4.        Rural Townships - Northern Sector -
Population, Socio-Economic Aspects and Water Demand by Carlo
Lotti, 1982.



IKEPU~LlC:  O-F  ZAPABIA\                                                                          ,
RURAL WATER  SUPPLY  PROJECT4//                                                                      /        ''       aSaB 0          t      *      A     N     Z    A     N     I     A
PROJECT LOCAT[ONS                                                               AA,          I                       p-ng0         q 
P paaaAarappIy pra.A-A                  ar-                                                                  K g /PPl                                    '
-TA   tl a.rrpaa-tea Ipply ...eIs    Sa-aPA                                                                                         M ,CHEAP  L U
-IC                                                                                                                   'r                                           A  V  A~©'rariaata    '~-'
4'   AAAAaaAAOAAO 0 Apart  .9 SArA Asaaa,Aaar as                  I       'a.                               -)                'A'>              L.'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t~~K s  m 
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ '-,aNAAaAPAA  / V  
0    AM                            >  daaa~~~~~~~~~H A
6         NAORT/-/'ERN0   ,                                                '~~~OM,  P
-0 ~      ~~~~~~            ALAP                                      E          as I                                  / JaaU                          HII>    .. A
2                                          K                    A'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                    \A           N~~~~~~~~~~~.    / ~   ALAWI
7                                                                                    I c            P, 7, RA  /  ~ .  A    L               S - 
A M ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~A                                                                                       FA                                     
A                        A                         - -    A                                           onla                                               MA               c/        <MALAWMIp 
>  A    A,',PA>NAP.                              (                   aaashya0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,                      A              t>A~ A'K A,  F~
'a  a PAZ  ~    ~L          [1/          S T E R             NEA >I EaoaaP                                                                 -,55                              HIVFALi           (
A~~~~          At   P   A                                                          PALL-A~~~~~~~~~~~i    .     
I                                                                                                                                   FaAajha                -       A~~~~~~N, 3  v 
N,A                                                                  ,'FI A F.
LSaa       , 0                                                                                                          _a aN                                  M PAZ    A k0I N                             U'
A'0Nomuahaaaade                                   I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TLUSAKA  Z UISA  KA
A  /  S  (5                     >  sAP~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TAI" 
IQADA-   CA                          /,-- UMans
K.  NangaaashP'a5  / 'A  A                          ACF~~~~~~~~~~~a   ~ ~ 0Q  coha    F PA B P~~~~', z I   MA    B    A    B       WV    E                 
AF 'H        FE                                  5,                    -
7)~~~~~~~~~~~H
N /           A I                                                                                                                                                                  >  A'  
ANGOLA     ~~~ .'"'',/-B/KTSWAN/



