O FFI CIAL
DOCUMENTS SPECIAL FUND CREDIT NUMBER SF-2 ZA
Special Fund Credit Agreement
(Rural Water Supply Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of the Special Fund
established with funds contributed by
certain members of the
International Development Association
Dated                 L, 1983


﻿SPECIAL FUND CREDIT NUMBER SF-2 ZA
SPECIAL FUND CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                       1 /3 , 1983, between the
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION as Administrator of the
Special Fund established with funds contributed by certain mem-
bers of the International Development Association (hereinafter
called the Administrator).
WHEREAS (A) by Resolution No. IDA 82-6 adopted on Octo-
ber 26, 1982 by the Executive DirectorE, of the International
Development Association (hereinafter callqd IDA) there has been
established by IDA a Special Fund constituted by the funds which
shall be contributed by certain members of IDA and administered
by IDA acting as Administrator of such Special Fund, for the
purpose of, and in accordance with, the provisions of said
Resolution;
(B) the Borrower has requested of the Administrator assist-
ance from the resources of the Special Fund in the financing of
the Project, described in Schedule 3 to this Agreement, and the
Administrator has determined that such assistance would be in
accordance with the provisions of the Resolution referred to
above;
(C) the Borrower has also requested IDA to provide addi-
tional assistance towards the financing of the Project and by an
agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and IDA
(hereinafter called the Development Credit Agreement) IDA is
agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal
amount equivalent to nine million two hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 9,200,000) (hereinafter called the IDA Cre-
dit); and
WHEREAS the Administrator has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Special Fund Credit to the
Borrower upon the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development


﻿-2-
Credit Agreements of the International Development Association,
dated June 30, 1980, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following
modifications thereof (said General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements of the International Development
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions):
(a) the term "Association", wherever used in the General
Conditions, means   the  International  Development  Association
acting as the Administrator of the Special Fund referred to in
the Preamble to the Special Fund Credit Agreement;
(b) the terms "Development Credit Agreement", "Credit" and
"Credit Account", wherever used in the General. Conditions, are
amended to read "Special Fund Credit Agreement", "Special Fund
Credit" and "Special Fund Credit Account", respectively;
(c) the second sentence of Section 5.01 of the General Con-
ditions is deleted; and
(d) in Sections 6.02 and 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the term "Association" shall also include the International
Development Association acting in its own capacity.
Section 1.02. Wherever 'used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth, and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "Development Credit Agreement" means the agreement of
even date herewith between the Borrower and IDA for the purpose
of the Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to
time; and such term includes the General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements of IDA, dated June 30, 1980, as
made applicable to such agreement, all agreements supplemental to
the Development Credit Agreement and all schedules to the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement;
(b)  "Department" means the Department of Water Affairs of
the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Development of the Bor-
rower;


﻿-3-
(c) "Project Advance Account" means the account to be
established and maintained pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this
Agreement;
(d) "Kwacha" means the currency of the Borrower; and
(e) "District Councils" means the district councils estab-
lished in January 1981 pursuant to the Local Administration Act,
1980 of the Borrower; and
(f)  "Special Account" means the account to be opened and
thereafter maintained pursuant to Section 2.02 (b) of this Agree-
ment.
ARTICLE II
The Special Fund Credit
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower on the terms and conditions in the Special Fund Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various curren-
cies equivalent to five million six hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 5,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Special Fund Credit may
be withdrawn from the Special Fund Credit Account in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such
Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement between
the Borrower and the Administrator, for expenditures made (or, if
the Administrator shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Special Fund Cre-
dit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and thereafter maintain in dollars a separate special
account in its Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Administrator. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(c) Withdrawals shall be made only on account of expendi-
tures for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the


﻿-4-
territories of (A) any Part II member of IDA; (B) any Part I
member of IDA which fulfills the conditions set forth in para-
graph 13 (d) (ii) of the Special Fund Resolution on the date of
this Agreement, as determined by the Administrator.
Section 2.03. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Special Fund Credit shall be governed
by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be April 30, 1988, or
such later date as the Administrator shall establish. The Admin-
istrator shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to IDA a commitment
charge at the rate of -one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Special Fund Credit not
withdrawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue
from a date sixty days after the date of the Special Fund Credit
Agreement to the.respective dates on which amounts shall be with-
drawn by the Borrower from the Special Fund Credit Account or
shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as IDA shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any
kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii)
in the currency specified in'this Agreement for purposes of Sec-
tion 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible
currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or
selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to IDA a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the amount withdrawn from the Special Fund Credit
Account and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay to IDA the principal
amount of the Special Fund Credit in semiannual installments pay-
able on each April 15 and October 15 commencing October 15, 1993
and ending April 15, 2033, each installment to and including the
installment payable on April 15, 2003 to be one-half of one per
cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment


﻿- 5 -
thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such
principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate financial, economic, administrative, technical and public
utility practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
purpose.
(b) Pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower
shall open, and maintain until the completion of the Project, a
Project Advance Account and shall deposit therein an initial
amount of five hundred thousand Kwacha (K 500,000). Thereafter,
the Borrower shall, at the beginning of each quarter, deposit the
amount estimated to be required to cover expenditures for the
Project during such quarter which are not to be covered by with-
drawals from the Special Fund Credit Account or the IDA Credit
account.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out the Project, the Borrower shall employ engineering consul-
tants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment shall be satisfactory to the Administrator, such
consultants to be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Administrator on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank
in August 1981; provided, however, that the eligibility restri6-
tions set forth in Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement shall apply
to the employment of such consultants and that the said Guide-
lines shall be read as containing the said restrictions.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Special Fund Credit against
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery


﻿-6-
thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such
insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Special Fund Credit to be used exclusively for
the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Adminis-
trator, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifica-
tions, reports, contract documents and construction and procure-
ment schedules for the Project, and any material modifications
thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Administrator
shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived from it), to identify the goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Special Fund Credit, and to disclose their
use in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Administrator's accre-
ditad representatives to visit the facilities and construction
sites included in the Project and to examine the goods financed
out of the proceeds of the Special Fund Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Adminis-
trator at regular intervals all such information as the Adminis-
trator shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost
and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Special Fund Credit and the
goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Administrator, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Administrator a report, of such scope and in such detail as
the Administrator shall reasonably request, on the execution and
initial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits
derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the Bor-
rower and the Administrator of their respective obligations under
the Special Fund Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Special Fund Credit.


﻿- 7 -
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land
and rights in respect of land as shall be required for carrying
out the Project.
Section 3.06. To ensure the carrying out of the Project as
required under Section 3.01 above, the Borrower shall assign to
the Department about eleven qualified and experienced accounting
personnel, to be selected in consultation with the cost and
management accountant employed under Section 3.02 of this Agree-
ment and to be trained under Part D of the Project.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall use its best efforts to
obtain from the District Councils their assurances that in the
event that the new system of revenue collection and accounting
for water supply operations adopted as a result of the recommen-
dation of the cost and management accountant referred to in See-
tion 3.06 requires the participation of the District Councils,
they will follow such system and, if appropriate, will have their
personnel trained for the purpose by the accountants assigned to
the Department under Section 3.06.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall in respect of the Pro-
ject, maintain or cause to be maintained separate accounts ade-
quate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
appropriate accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures of the Department of the Borrower's district admin-
istrative centers and of any other department or agency of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof.
(b) Without limitation to the foregoing, the Borrower
shall: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Special Fund Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure; (ii) retain, until one year after the
Closing Date, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing the expenditures on
account of which withdrawals are requested from the Special Fund
Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditure; and
(iii) enable the Administrator's representatives to examine such
records.


﻿-8-
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts referred to
in paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent (external) auditors acceptable to the
Administrator; (ii) furnish to the Administrator, as soon as
available, but in any case not later than six months after the
end of each such year, a certified copy of the report of such
audit by such auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Administrator shall have reasonably requested, including without
limitation to the foregoing, a separate opinion by said auditors
in respect of the expenditures -and records referred to in para-
graph (b) of this Section as to whether the proceeds of the Spe-
cial Fund Credit withdrawn from the Special Fund Credit Account
on the basis of statements of expenditure have been used for the
purpose for which they were provided; and (iii) furnish to the
Administrator such other information concerning said accounts,
records and expenditures and the audit thereof as the Administra-
tor shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. To ensure the efficient operation and mainte-
nance of the water supply systems constructed under the Project,
the Borrower shall ensure that:
(a) the Department operate and maintain the piped systems
for at least five years following their completion;
(b) the District Councils remain responsible for the oper-
ation and maintenance of village boreholes and wells; and
(c) the Department assist the District Councils in training
villagers in the maintenance of such boreholes and wells.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take such steps as shall be
necessary:
(a) to make the tariff structure for water supply more
equitable and to improve the collection and accounting procedures
related thereto; including the adoption of a uniform accounting
system for all water supply schemes operated by the Department;
and
(b) to achieve such tariff levels and structure as will
ensure the recovery by the end of 1985 and thereafter of the full
costs of operation and maintenance of water supply systems. The
first adjustment for such purpose shall be made not later than
January 1, 1984.


﻿- 9 -
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall ensure that all collections
for the supply of water be remitted promptly and that the Depart-
ment maintains accounts therefor, as provided for in the plan of
action approved under Section 4.03 above.
Section 4.05. (a) The Borrower shall ensure that the Depart-
ment be provided as and when needed with such funds as shall be
required for the proper operation and maintenance of the water
supply facilities operated by the Department and shall exchange
views annually with the Association on the adequacy of such
financing.
(b) The Borrower shall investigate methods aimed at
ensuring that the costs of operating and maintaining wells and
boreholes be borne by the users thereof and shall exchange views
with the Administrator on the results of such investigation by
June 30, 1984.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Administrator
Section 5.01. (a) For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that subject to para-
graph (b) of this Section:
(i) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
of any grant, loan or credit made to the Borrower
for the financing of the Project shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in
part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement pro-
viding therefor, or
(ii) any such loan or credit shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(b) Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if: (i)
such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obli-
gations under such agreement, and (ii) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement.


﻿- 10 -
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof, namely, that the event speci-
fied in paragraph (a) (ii) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement
shall occur, subject to paragraph (b) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination;
Designation of Administrator
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Special Fund Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Special Account has been opened;
(b) the Project Account has been opened and the initial
payment made therein in accordance with the provisions of Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement; and
(c) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Development Credit Agreement, except for the effectiveness of
this Agreement, have been fulfilled.
Section 6.02. The date 1--c-#4-, /3, /9e?3        is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Arti-
cle IV of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which the Special Fund Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a
date fifteen years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
Section 6.04. In the event that the Executive Directors of
IDA decide to terminate the functions of IDA as administrator of
the Special Fund pursuant to paragraph 17 of the Special Fund
Resolution, the Administrator may, by notice to the Borrower,
designate another party which, on the date specified in such
notice, shall assume part or all of the rights and obligations of
the Administrator under this Agreement in accordance with the
Special Fund Resolution and such decision of the Executive Direc-
tors, as specified in such notice.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time
responsible for finance is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 50062
Lusaka, Zambia
Cable address:                      Telex:
MINFIN                              ZA 42221
Lusaka
For the Administrator:
Administrator of the Special Fund
(International Development Association)
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                        440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                248423 (RCA)
64145 (WUI)
89650 (WUT) or
197688 (TRT)


﻿- 12 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of the Special Fund
established with funds contributed by
certain members of the International
Development Association
By
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds
of the Special Fund Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Special Fund Credit, the
allocation of the amounts of the Special Fund Credit to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Special Fund
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) Civil works
(a) by contract          1,380,000         100% of foreign
expenditures and
30% of local
expenditures
(b) by force               460,000         30% of local
account                                expenditures
(2) Vehicles, equip-            460,000         100% of foreign
ment and tools                              expenditures,
for workshops;                             50% of local
drilling rig                               expenditures
for ex-factory
cost and 45%
of local ex-
penditures for
other items
locally pro-
cured
(3) Consultants' and          1,380,000         100% of foreign
experts' services;                         expenditures
fellowships


﻿-14 -
Amount of the
Special Fund
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(4)  Initial deposit in         280,000         Amount due under
Special Account                            paragraph 3 of
Schedule 2
(5) Unallocated               1,640,000
TOTAL               5,600,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of,. and for goods produced in or services supplied
from, any country other than the Borrower which is (A) a Part II
member of IDA or (B) a Part I member of IDA which fulfills the
conditions set forth in paragraph 13 (d) (ii) of the Special Fund
Resolution on the date of the Special Fund Credit Agreement, as
determined by the Administrator; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Disbursement under Category (1) (b) shall be made on the
basis of statements of expenditures which shall be in form and
shall contain information satisfactory to the Administrator.
4.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Administrator that the proceeds of
the Special Fund Credit shall not be disbursed on account of pay-
ments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower
on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, pro-
curement or supply thereof; on this basis, if the amount of any
such taxes levied on or in respect of items in any Category
decreases or increases, the Administrator may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such Category as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Administrator.


﻿- 15 -
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of expenditures made prior
to the date of this Agreement.
6.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Special
Fund Credit or the disbursement percentages set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 above, if the Administrator has reasonably
estimated that the amount of the Special Fund Credit then allo-
cated to any Category will be insufficient to finance the agreed
percentage of all expenditures in that Category, the Administra-
tor may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Cate-
gory, to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall,
proceeds of the Special Fund Credit which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Administrator
are not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such
reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce
the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures
in order that further withdrawals under such Category may conti-
nue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
7.   If the Administrator shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditure for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Special Fund Credit, and the Administrator may, without in
any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy
of the Administrator under the Special Fund Credit Agreement, by
notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Special Fund
Credit as, in the Administrator's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Special Fund
Credit.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "Category" means a category of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Special Fund Credit as set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agree-
ment;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Special
Fund Credit allocated from time to time to Categories (1) through
(3) in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; and
(c) the t;erm "initial deposit" means an amount in dollars
equivalent to the amount allocated to Category (4) and to be
withdrawn from the Special Fund Credit Account and deposited in
the Special Account pursuant to the first sentence of paragraph 3
to this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclu-
sively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provi-
sions of this Schedule.
3.   The Administrator shall, at the request of the Borrower,
withdraw on behalf of the Borrower from the Special Fund Credit
Account and deposit into the Special Account the initial depo-
sit. Thereafter on the basis of requests by the Borrower fur-
nished to the Administrator at such intervals as the Administra-
tor shall specify, the Administrator shall further so withdraw
from the Special Fund Credit Account and deposit into the Special
Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish the Spe-
cial Account with amounts equal to payments made out of the Spe-
cial Account for eligible expenditures, but only to the extent
that the amount of any such deposit, together with any amount
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of
such request, shall not exceed in the aggregate the equivalent of
the initial deposit. Except as the Administrator may otherwise
agree, each such deposit after the initial deposit shall be with-
drawn by the Administrator from the Special Fund Credit Account


﻿- 17 -
under the respective Categories (1), (2) or (3) and in the res-
pective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by the
evidence supporting the request for such deposit furnished pur-
suant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   Prior to or at the time of each request by the Borrower for
a deposit by the Administrator into the Special Account, after
the initial deposit, the Borrower shall furnish to the Admini-
strator in respect of each payment made by the Borrower out of
the Special Account such documents and other evidence as the
Administrator shall reasonably request, showing that such payment
was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Sched-
ule and unless otherwise agreed by the Administrator, no further
deposit into the Special Account will be made by the Administra-
tor (a) when the Administrator shall have determined at any time
that all further withdrawals can be made directly by the Borrower
from the Special Fund Credit Account in accordance with the pro-
visions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement, or
(b) when the total unwithdrawn amount of the Special Fund Credit
allocated to Categories (1) through (3) for the Project, minus
the amount of any qualified agreement to reimburse made by the
Administrator and of any special commitment entered into by the
Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to the Project, shall be equal to the equivalent of
twice the amount of the initial deposit, whichever shall be
sooner. Withdrawal from the Special Fund Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Special Fund Credit allocated
to Categories (1) through (3) of the Project shall follow such
procedures as the Administrator shall specify by notice to the
Borrower and shall, except as the Administrator shall otherwise
agree, be made only after and to the extent the Administrator
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on
deposit in the Special Account as of the datd of such notice have
been or will be utilized in making payments for eligible expendi-
tures.
6.   If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that:
(a) any payment out of the Special Account (i) was made for
any expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to para-
graph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evi-
dence furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Administrator and,


﻿- 18 -
unless otherwise agreed by the Administrator, prior to any fur-
ther deposit into the Special Account by the Administrator, depo-
sit into the Special Account or, if the Administrator shall so
request, refund to the Administrator, an amount equal to the
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or
justified; or
(b) any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not
be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Administrator,
and unless otherwise agreed by -the Administrator, refund to the
Administrator such amount then outstanding in the Special
Account.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 3
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to expand the facilities for the
supply of potable water in the Districts of Ndola Rural, Samfya,
Isoka, Kaputa, Kawambwa and Mbala in northern Zambia and to
strengthen the capacity of the Department to carry out the poli-
cies of the Borrower in the sector of water supply. The Project
includes:
Part A:
Construction and installation of:
1.   piped systems in the four district administrative cen-
ters of Isoka, Mpulungu, Kawambwa and Samfya; and
2.   point systems - wells and boreholes - in priority vil-
lages in the six Districts (about 400 wells and 42
boreholes).
Part B:
Preparation of detailed designs for an additional three
or four water supply schemes as a future project, including a
feasibility study of the proposed scheme at Chilubi Island;
preparation of detailed designs for point systems in the same
locations.
Part C:
Construction and equipping with tools, equipment, vehicles
and a two-year supply of spare parts, of provincial workshops at
Kasama and Mansa, and at the six Districts; construction of
housing for the staff of the Department in the Districts and at
Lusaka.
Part D:
Training in accounting systems of staff of the Department;
fellowships for training outside of Zambia in engineering of
staff of the Department.


﻿- 20
Part E:
Strengthening education in health and hygiene through the
acquisition and use of educational materials, the rehabilitation
of water supply and sanitation facilities at the six District
Health Centers, the construction of housing for medical staff and
the acquisition for use by such Centers of vehicles and spare
parts.
The Project is expected to be completed by October 31, 1987.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Subject to the eligibility restrictions set forth in Section
2.02 (c) of this Agreement and except as provided in Part C here-
of, goods and civil works shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans
and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (July 1980
edition) (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of
international competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines. The above-mentioned eligibility restrictions shall be
stated in the tender or prequalification documents for the pro-
curement of such goods and civil works.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of interna-
tional competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Administrator as soon as possible, and in any
event not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to
the public of the first tender or prequalification documents
relating thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement
notice, in such form and detail and containing such information
as the Administrator shall reasonably request; the Administrator
will arrange for the publication of such notice in order to pro-
vide timely notification to prospective bidders of the oppor-
tunity to bid for the goods and works in question. The Borrower
shall provide the necessary information to update such notice
annually so long as any goods or works remain to be procured on
the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   Bidders for the construction of the piped systems will be
given the option of bidding for one or more schemes.
4.   Goods and civil works shall be bulked together in bidding
packages to the maximum extent practicable for the purposes of
bidding and procurement.
5.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported


﻿- 22 -
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of
inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery
of the goods to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Zambia may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bid's offering     goods manufactured    in
Zambia if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Administrator
that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Zambia equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest eva-
luated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.


﻿- 23 -
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this fur-
ther comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of cus-
toms duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C which as
a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the lowest eva-
luated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for the rehabilitation and construction of work-
shops and staff housing may be awarded on the basis of the com-
petitive bidding procedures normally applicable to the Depart-
ment.
2.   Construction of wells and boreholes in villages and at the
Health Centers may be carried out by force account through the
Department in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Association or by local contractors who shall be selected on the
basis of competitive bidding procedures normally applicable to
the Department.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Administrator
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for works estimated to cost
the equivalent of $700,000 or more and all contracts for goods
estimated to costs the equivalent of $150,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Administrator, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, toge-
ther with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in


﻿- 24 -
the said documents or procedures as the Administrator shall rea-
sonably request. Any further modification to the bidding docu-
ments shall require the Administrator's concurrence before it is
issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Administrator of the name of the bidder to which it intends
to award the contract and shall furnish to the Administrator, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids -received, and such other informa-
tion as the Administrator shall reasonably request. The Adminis-
trator shall, if it determines that the intended award would be
inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Administrator's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Administrator promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Administrator of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Administrator,
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Administrator of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Credit Account in respect of such contract, two con-
formed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the
respective bids, recommendations for award and such other inform-
ation as the Administrator shall reasonably request. The Adminis-
trator shall, if it determines that the award of the contract was
not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or issu-
ing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Administrator of the proposed modification, waiver, extension


﻿- 25 -
or change order and the reasons therefor. The Administrator, if
it determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
Jn witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of          ,
198-3-.
FOR SECRETARY


