Document of
The World Bank                       ,. , (
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3172-LBR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE NATIONAL IRON ORE COMPANY
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA
AND A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA
FOR AN
IRON ORE REHABILITATION PROJECT
December 9, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The official monetary unit is the Liberian dollar
with a par value equal to the U.S. dollar. The
U.S. dollar is a legal tender in Liberia.
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB        African Development Bank
BMC        Bong Mining Company
ExIm       U.S. Export-Import Bank
FMO        Netherlands Finance Company for Developing Countries
LBDI       Liberian Bank for Development and Investment
LIBOR      London Interbank Borrowing Rate
LEL        Liberian Enterprises, Ltd.
LJV        Lamco Joint Venture
LMC        Liberia Mining Company
ltpy       Long tons per year
MMAL       Mine Management Associates, Ltd.
NIOC       National Iron Ore Company
OAU        Organization of African Unity



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
LIBERIA
NATIONAL IRON ORE COMPANY REHABILITATION PROJECT
LOANS AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrowers:     Republic of Liberia and National Iron Ore Company (NIOC).
Guarantor:     Republic of Liberia (for loan to NIOC).
Amount:        US$20.0 million (US$8.3 million equivalent for Republic of
Liberia and US$11.7 million equivalent for NIOC).
Terms:         Both loans: 13 years, including 5 years' grace, with interest
at 11.6 percent per annum; NIOC will also pay a guarantee fee
of 1 perce:it per annum to the Government.
Project
Description:   The project's objectives are to rehabilitate NIOC's iron ore
mining operations and reestablish its financial viability.
Beneficiated ore output would be increased from 2.3 to 3.25
million long tons per year, and infrastructure facilities would
be improved and equipment would be installed to reduce operating
costs. The project would improve the railroad to the port at
Monrovia, repair the St. Paul River railway bridge, and provide
additional mining and miscellaneous support equipment; manage-
ment and technical assistance to execute the project and improve
the Company's operations would also be provided. The project
would benefit about 2,000 workers directly and some 16-18,000
people indirectly. Over the life of the project, the Govern-
ment should receive tax revenues of about US$74 million and
earn dividends of about US$30 million. The main risks are
financial, as returns and cash flow are sensitive to a fall in
revenues or an increase in operating costs. However, these
risks have been addressed by the inclusion of ample contingen-
cies in both the capital and operating costs as well as by the
establishment of an off-shore trust account into which all
revenues of the Company from the sale of iron ore would be
deposited. Payments out of the trust account would be made to
service the new loans and to meet the operational cash needs of
NIOC before any service payments were made oni existing debt.
Overall, the risks are considered acceptable, given the long-
term importance of iron ore exports to the Liberian economy and
potential earnings to the Government.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost: 1/
------------- UbS million ------------
Local   Foreign   Total  4 ot base Gost
A.   NIOC
Mining                               0.26      9.U3      9.29       36.1
Plant                                0.37      3.59      3.96       lb.3
Railroad                             1.07      4.25      5.32       21.9
Miscellaneous Equipment               -        U.6b      0.66        2.7
Project Management/Engineering    0.45         4.67      5.12       21.U
Base Cost                        2.15    22.20    24.35       1U0.U
Physical Contingencies               0.13      1.36      1.49
Price Contingencies                  U.03      1.55      1.58
Installed Cost                   2.31    25.11    27.42
Project Preparation                   -        0.75      0.75
Interest during Construction          -        6.47      6.47
Working Capital                      9.03    15.22    24.25
Subtotal NIOC                   11.34    47.55    56.b9
B.   Bridge
Bridp  Repair                        0.90      3.30      4.2U       97.9
Engineering                           -        O.U9      U.09        2.1
Base Cost                        0.90      3.39      4.29      1UU.U
Physical Contingencies               0.26      0.70      0.96
Price Contingencies                  0.26      U.62      1.U0
Installed Cost                   1.42      4.91      6.33
Project Preparation                   -        0.25      U.25
Interest during Construction          -        1.42      1.42
Subtotal Bridge                  1.42      6.56      6.U0
C.   Economic Studies                         -        0.25      U.25
Total Project Cost              12.76    54.36    67.14
1/   Net of taxes, from which the project is exempt.



Financing Plan:
US$ Million
Local           Foreign           Total
Debt Financing
World Bank                          1.4             18.6             20.0
African Development Bank             -              11.4             11.4
Netherlands Finance Company
for Developing Countries          -               3.5              3.5
The Opec Fund                        -               8.3              8.3
Commercial Banks                    6.0              8.5             14.5
Subtotal                        7.4             50.3             57.7
Equity Financing
Government Equity                   3.0              4.1              7.1
NIOC Participation                  2.3                -              2.3
Subtotal                        5.3              4.1              9.4
Total                          12.7             54.4             67.1
Estimated Disbursements:
(Bank Loans)
US$ Million
Bank Fiscal Years                FY82      FY83       FY84       FY85
Annual                           5.0      10.8        3.7        0.5
Cumulative                       5.0      15.8       19.5       20.0
Rate of Return:   26.5 percent.
Staff Appraisal Report: Report No. 3479 LBR, December 1, 1981.
Map: IBRD 15723






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON PROPOSED LOANS TO LIBERIA AND THE NATIONAL IRON Oi'E COMPANY
FOR A NATIONAL IRON ORE COMPANY REHABILITATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on:  (a) a pro-
posed loan to the National Iron Ore Company (NIOC) with the guarantee of the
Government of Liberia for the equivalent of US$11.7 million to help finance
a project to rehabilitate the NIOC mine. The loan would have a term of 13
years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at 11.6 percent per annum.
The Government of Liberia would charge NIOC a guarantee fee of 1.0 percent per
annum on the outstanding amount of the Bank loan, bringing the cost of the
loan to NIOC to 12.6 percent per annum; and (b) a proposed loan to the Govern-
ment of Liberia for the equivalent of US$8.3 million to help finance bridge
repairs and studies associated with the NIOC rehabilitation project. This
loan would also have a term of 13 years, including 5 years of grace, with
interest at 11.6 percent per annum.
2.        The proposed project would be cofinanced by (i) the Atrican Devel-
opment Bank (ADB) for the equivalent of US$11.4 million, with a term of 13
years, including 5 years of grace, at an interest rate of 7.5 percent to the
Government with an onlending rate of 8.5 percent to NIOC; (ii) the Nether-
lands Finance Company for Developing Countries (FMO) for the equivalent of
US$3.5 million, with repayment over 13 years, including 4 years of grace, at
an interest rate of 9 percent; (iii) the OPEC Fund for US$8.3 million to the
Government, with repayment terms of 15 years, including 5 years of grace, at
a service charge of 0.75 percent per annum, to be relent to NIOC at the same
terms as the Bank loan to NIOC; and (iv) US$14.5 million from a syndicate of
commercial banks led by the Bank of America, with repayment over seven years
and interest charges of about 2.0 percentage points above LIBOR and an addi-
tional 3.0 percent insurance charge.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
Structural Characteristics
3.        The growth of Liberia's economy remains heavily dependent on the
performance of the enclave sector consisting mainly of: (a) iron ore mines,
(b) rubber plantations, and (c) forestry concessions. These enclaves are the
main source of export earnings. Iron ore mining is by tar the largest single
activity in the enclave sector, accounting for about one-third of gross
domestic product at factor cost. There are only limited linkages between the
enclaves and the rest of the economy; as a result, the benefits of economic
growth have been unevenly distributed.
4.        The income disparities between traditional agriculture and the
(monetized) modern sector are a manifestation of structural imbalance in the
economy. Traditional agriculture has minimal inter-action with the rest of
the economy; however, it supports the majority of the population - as much as



-2-
60 percent - who live at, or near, subsistence level. With a population of
about 1.7 million, average per capita GNP in 1979 is estimated at US$500.
While the enclave sector yields a per capita GNP of about US$1,620 compared
to US$780 for the rest of the monetized economy, the great majority of the
population who live in the traditional non-monetized sector have a per capita
income of about US$185 per annum.
Development Plan and General Economic Policy
5.        After completing its first four-year Development Plan, Liberia
has embarked upon preparation of a Second Plan. The first Plan was intended
as the first of a series of multi-year investment programs aimed at meeting
the basic, long-term objectives of Liberia's socio-economic development. These
are: (a) diversification of production; (b) dispersion of sustainable socio-
economic activities throughout the country; (c) greater involvement of
Liberians in development activities; and (d) equitable distribution of the
benefits of economic growth. Performance under the first Plan fell short of
expectations. Investment in the productive sectors was below the original
target, while one-fourth of total expenditure during the Plan period was for
facilities and buildings for the Organization of African Unity (OAU) confer-
ence, which had not been included in the original Plan.
6.        The new Government which assumed power in April 1980, reaffirmed
the broad objectives of the First Plan. Work had been initiated under the
former Government on the preparation of the Second Plan (FY82-86) which is
scheduled for completion shortly. The general economic policy statement
issued by the Government of the People's Redemption Council on June 5, 1980
sets out the broad objectives of the new regime. The main thrust of the
economic policy is to expand the country's productive capacity, especially in
agriculture, and to ensure that benefits from economic growth and development
are enjoyed by an increasing number of Liberians. To achieve this end, the
Government intends to encourage local and foreign private investment and give
priority to labor intensive investments. Significant measures taken by the
new Government since its assumption of office include decisions: (a) to
retain the Liberian dollar at par with the US dollar, which remains legal
tender in Liberia; (b) to honor all existing contractual agreements with
foreign private investors and to change such agreements only through negotia-
tions with all parties concerned; (c) to permit free flow of capital, goods
and services; and (d) to regulate labor relations by full protection of the
rights of both workers and management.
Recent Economic Developments
7.        While strong world demand for Liberia's major export, iron ore,
brought large gains in export prices in 1974, the subsequent recession in
industrialized countries significantly reduced demand for the country's
most important export commodities--iron ore, rubber and timber--in the 1975-78
period. With growth performance continuing to be largely a function of
enclave activities, growth of real GDP--which averaged about 6.3 percent a
year in the 1967-70 period and 4.2 percent a year in the 1970-74 period--has
slowed down significantly and is estimated to have been about 0.7 percent per



- 3 -
year between 1974 and 1978. Economic performance in 1979 and the first
quarter of 1980 had taken a turn for the better, but following the change in
Government in April 1980 there was a setback in growth, and, according to the
preliminary estimates, real GDP is reported to have declined by 4.4 percent in
1980.
8.        During 1974-78, mostly reflecting accelerated international infla-
tion, imports rose by 14 percent annually, exceeding the 5 percent annual
export growth rate. However, the temporary resurgence in world prices of
iron ore, and increases in the price of timber and rubber helped Liberia to
expand its exports by 10 percent in 1979 and 14 percent in 1980. Oil imports
increased from US$15 million in 1973 to US$103 million in 1979, or one-fifth
of the country's total imports. But higher prices for Liberia's major exports
helped achieve a trade surplus of US$30 million in 1979; the growth in imports
has been relatively lower in the last 18 months due to the general slack in
economic activities following the change in Government. The current account
deficit, reflecting substantial remittances of capital and other factor income
from enclave operations, increased to about US$132 million in 1979, or 13
percent of GDP, as compared to US$30 million in 1974, or 5 percent of GDP.
Rising current account deficits were financed mostly by private capital
transactions, but in the last two years, official capital inflows have risen
substantially.
9.        Liberia has had a long history of sound fiscal management and
public sector resources did not come under undue pressure until the mid-1970s.
Since 1974, the Government has been facing growing budgetary deficits. The
deficit in 1975 was only about US$4.0 million, but by FY1979 had reached
US$161 million, or 79 percent of government revenues. The strain on public
sector finances intensified during 1979-80 and assumed serious proportions
in the aftermath of the change in Government. The decline in public revenues,
coupled with a decision to increase the salaries of low-paid military personnel
from $100 to $250 per month and the payment of pending bills from the OAU
Conference, increased the overall budgetary deficit from an estimated $56
million to $95 million (9 percent of GDP) by the end of the fiscal year. The
shortfall in revenues was caused largely by lower import duty collection in
the last quarter. The doubling of salaries of the lowest grade civilian
employees from July 1, 1980 aggravated the budgetary deficit for FY1981 and
the Government was faced with a serious liquidity crisis when it approached
the IMF in May 1980 for further assistance.
Relations with the IMF
10.       In July 1980 the new Government introduced a two-year stabilization
program to support a standby arrangement with the IMF providing for support in
an amount of SDR 65 million (about US$85 million). Major elements in the
stabilization program included tighter fiscal policies and stricter control of
the financial operations of the public corporations, increased mobilization of
domestic revenues, rationalisation of energy pricing policies, and a freeze
on wages and salaries of Government employees. Limits were placed on new
borrowings with a maturity of one to twelve years and on credit to the
Government and public sector from the banking system.



- 4 -
11.       An IMF review of progress made by the Government in implementing
the stabilization program took place in May 1981. The Government had intro-
duced the necessary measures to revise tax rates and levy import surcharges.
However, the budgetary deficit in FY81 is likely to be about $100 million
(45 percent of Government revenues), or $25 million higher than the original
budget estimates. While revenue collection is higher by 10 percent as com-
pared to the previous year, it fell short of the expected yields as a result
of a decline in customs duties. There was also some increase in recurrent
expenditures beyond budget estimates. This budgetary imbalance, lack of
strict control on the operations of public corporations, and the consumer
subsidy on rice are some of the major issues which were addressed in the
context of the second year of the stabilisation program. In this connection
the Government has recently announced some important economic decisions. The
consumer subsidy on rice has been eliminated; a new progressive national
reconstruction tax has been levied on wages, salaries and self-employed income,
and excise taxes on beer and gasoline have been increased. The Government
also proposes to improve the financial viability of the public corporations.
The IMF Board approved the program in August 1981 and made available SDR 55
million for the second year of the Standby Arrangement.
12.       Monthly payments for oil imports continue to create a serious
liquidity problem in public sector finances as receipts generated abroad are
not sufficient to meet oil payments and service the public sector's external
debt. A recent infusion of US$25 million provided by the U.S. Government
in form of a grant from the Economic Support Fund will help to ease the
situation.
Creditworthiness
13.       Liberia's external public debt outstanding and disbursed was
estimated at about US$495 million as of June 1980. The Bank Group share
of the public debt outstanding and disbursed is presently about 15 percent
and is expected to increase to about 24 percent by 1984. As a proportion
of public debt servicing liability, the Bank Group's share is expected to
increase from 14 percent to 18 percent over this period. Debt service pay-
ments as a proportion of exports of goods and non-factor services were esti-
mated at about 10 percent in 1979 as compared to 5.7 and 7.7 percent for 1974
and 1972 respectively. Public debt service payments as a percentage of
Government revenues (a more meaningful indicator for Liberia which uses the
US dollar as a medium of exchange) declined from about 24 percent in 1972 and
21 percent in 1974 to 16.5 percent in 1978, but again went up to 23 percent
in 1980. This upsurge in the debt service ratio has occurred primarily as a
result of short-maturity loans contracted by Liberia in the last few years to
finance OAU-related expenditures and meeting the growing budgetary deficits.
In the short run, this increase in debt servicing obligations has created
severe pressures on Liberia's public finances. The Government therefore
sought and obtained the assistance of the Paris Club in rescheduling its
external public sector debt of US$32 million maturing during the period July
1980 to December 1981; the rescheduled debt is to be repaid over 9 years,
including four years of grace.



- 5 -
14.       Assuming a continuation of the recent rate of growth in public
revenues and exports (10 percent and 5 percent per annum, respectively)
Liberia's debt service ratio is estimated to increase to about 33 percent
of public revenues and 12 percent of exports by 1985; should there be an
improvement in the country's economic prospects over the next few years, the
debt service ratio would be somewhat lower (around 29 percent) by 1985.
Although the movement in world prices of Liberia's main export commodi-
ties in 1981 is not particularly favorable, the growth in export earnings
is projected to be higher in subsequent years as a result of the likely
strengthening in demand for iron ore and an increase in iron ore prices.
Forecasts for natural rubber prices also indicate a consistently upward
movement, and Liberia may expect higher yields from the recently replanted
acreage and new planting of rubber. Other on-going agriculture projects
(particularly for coffee, cocoa, palm oil), and successful exploration and
development of other mining resources, including gold and barite, will help
diversify the economy and should result in an acceleration in the rate of
growth of exports during the next three to four years. Public revenues will
benefit from these increased export earnings. However, these prospects are
clearly contingent upon a number of policy measures which the Government has
to initiate and sustain over the next years, e.g., a reduction in the size of
the Government budget deficit, restraint on new commercial borrowings and
public sector credit expansion, increased mobilization of public savings,
maintenance of the traditional openness of the economy, appropriate pricing
and tariff policies, revival of investor confidence, inflow of new private
investment and improvement in the coordination of overall economic management.
Although Liberia has acute short-term liquidity problems, restoration of
growth and stability is feasible, provided the Government is able and willing
to pursue the right course.
15.       In recent years Bank group lending to Liberia has been a blend of
IDA credits and Bank loans; in view of the country's relatively low per capita
income and high public debt service liability, continued IDA assistance is
justified.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN LIBERIA
16.       The Bank has approved 18 loans (including one Third Window loan)
for projects in Liberia totalling US$135.7 million; there have been 9 IDA
credits totalling US$47.1 million, and one technical assistance grant of
US$200,000 for development planning. IFC has made two equity investments
totalling US$556,000 in the share capital of the Liberian Bank for Develop-
ment and Investment (LBDI). The Bank Group assistance has financed roads,
agriculture, rural development, power, education, water supply, LBDI, small
enterprises, and petroleum pre-exploration. Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank loans, IDA credits, and IFC investments as of August 31,
1981 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects. Following the change
of Government in April 1980, implementation of a number of projects was
disrupted. For the most part projects are now being implemented well,



although problems have been caused by the Government's inability to meet its
full share of financing for some projects as a result of the severe budget
constraints.
17.       The objectives of Bank Group operations are:  (a) to help Liberians
take greater initiative in developing their own resources for the benefit of
their own people; (b) to support policies and programs leading to a broader
distribution of the benefits of economic growth; (c) to help the Government
broaden the economic base and overcome infrastructural constraints to growtn-
and (d) to assist the Government in mobilizing development resources from
other external agencies. In furthering these objectives particular attention
is being paid to (a) the need to expand the supply of trained manpower and
(b) measures to strengthen and improve the operations and finances of the
public corporations in Liberia.
18.       In support of the objectives of raising the standard of living
of lower income groups and broadening the productive base, the Bank Group
lending program emphasizes agriculture and rural development. The Bank Group
is currently cofinancing with USAID two agricultural projects in Bong and Lofa
Counties. These projects are designed to (a) assist subsistence farmers to
expand their production base and to increase their productivity and income
through the provision of support services and infrastructure, and (b) to help
diversify the country's export and revenue base. A rubber project, co-
financed with the Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC), will expand
exports and increase productivity and incomes of small and medium size farmers
by strengthening credit and extension services and promoting greater Liberian
participation in the development of this subsector. The forestry project
which the Bank is co-financing with the African Development bank (ADb)
and the German Agency for Technical Cooperation, will strengthen the Govern-
ment's forest service, initiate an industrial plantation program, and help
Liberia better manage and exploit its forestry resources. The oil palm
project, co-financed by the ADB and the CDC, will help expand and diversify
the country's export and revenue base, provide employment, increase the income
level of rural families, and strengthen the institutional capability in the
country for oil palm development. A second phase of the Lofa County agricul-
tural development project was recently appraised by the bank. Consideration
is also being given to a rural development project in the southeastern region
of Liberia.
19.       In addition to its support for agriculture, the Bank Group is
also assisting the Government in its diversification efforts through exist-
ing lines of credit to LBDI for the manufacturing sector. The small and
medium scale enterprises project, approved in November 198U, will stimulate
economic activity and employment by providing a line of credit and technical
assistance. The objective of the petroleum exploration promotion project,
approved in October 1980, is to establish Liberia's hydrocarbon potential by
attracting oil companies to take oil exploration permits in Liberia. While
the proposed project to rehabilitate the National Iron Ore Company would
not serve the Government and Bank Group's objectives directly, the project
addresses a number of development issues of importance to Liberia. It would
mobilize resources for a productive activity which would improve the Govern-
ment's ability to achieve these objectives through other means. By improving



the efficiency of an existing investment, the project would secure the Jobs of
2,000 workers with no alternative means of employment and would permit the
Government to take advantage of the recovery in the iron ore market which is
expected in coming years. Over the life of the rehabilitated mine, the
government should receive over U100 million in taxes and dividends from the
Company whaich could be used for development purposes.
20.       Given Liberia's pressing needs for physical infrastructure, the
Bank Group continues to play a leading role in financing development and
maintenance of water supply, roads, and power. A water supply project for
which a credit was granted in 1978 is designed to help rehabilitate and
expand the Monrovia water supply system, extend water distribution to lower
income groups in metropolitan areas, and strengthen the management, staffing,
and finances of the Liberia Water and Sewer Corporation. The teeaer roads
project for which a Bank loan was approved in 1979 is designed to open up the
agricultural hinterland of Liberia in support of the ongoing and proposea
agricultural and rural development programs. The nearly completed fourth
highway project has, like earlier Bank-financed projects, expanced the coun-
try's limited basic road network. A fifth highway project under consideration
would improve the country's road maintenance capability. In tthe power sector,
a nearly completed fourth power project has expanded the Liberia hlectricity
Corporation's (LEC) thermal generating facilities to meet current demand,
strengthened LEC's management, and extended connections to poor urban house-
holds in Monrovia. Bank Group assistance will also be considered to meet
Liberia's longer term electricity needs through hydropower development.
21.       Since the lack of trained manpower is a major constraint to develop-
ment in Liberia, the Bank Group has financed three education projects and is
currently financing preparation of a fourth project through an advance trom
the PPF. The proposed project would continue the emphasis on manpower training
and upgrade primary and secondary education in the rural areas.
PART III - THE MINING SECTOR
Contribution to the Economy
22.       Mining dominates the modern sector in Liberia, accounting tor more
than 54 percent of the country's export earnings and 24 percent of GDP in
1979. Iron ore accounts for about 95 percent of total mineral production,
with artisanal gold and diamond mining accounting for the balance. Througn-
out the 1960s and early 1970s, iron mining provided substantial 6overnment
revenues, making possible initial efforts to develop infrastructure and otner
sectors outside the concession areas.
23.       Total iron ore production and its contribution to GDP showed average
annual increases until 1974, during which year production amounted Lo 2j
million tons and iron ore revenues accounted for over 37 percent of GDP and
13 percent of Government revenues. Since 197b, however, prolonged recession
in the world steel industry has depressed both the volume and price of iron
ore exports. Liberia's total tonnage exported fell by 28 percent from 1974 to



- 8 -
1979, although iron ore continues to account for over half of export earnings.
In terms of contribution to Government revenue, the share of tne iron ore
mines has been small during the last few years because earnings have been low
or negative and most of the concession agreements provide for profit sharing
with the Government and no fixed royalties. Thus, in 1979 iron ore production
accounted for only five percent of Government revenues.
24.       Over 35 percent of employment in the modern sector is in mining;
a greater proportion of the workers employed in mining are skilled and
semi-skilled than in other industrial sectors of the country. In 1979,
expatriates accounted for under 8 percent of the labor force in the Liberian
iron ore sector; at the National Iron Ore Company (NIOC), this proportion was
even lower at slightly above 3 percent.
25.       The mining sector provides socio-economic benefits to the families
which depend directly or indirectly on the mining activities for support.
The mining companies provide housing, schooling, and medical services in
remote areas of the country.
Iron Mining Activity
26.       Three companies currently produce iron ore in Liberia.  The most
important mining company is the Lamco Joint Venture (LJV) which is owned
jointly by Bethlehem Steel of the United States (25 percent) and Lamco
(75 percent)--a consortium in which the Government holds 50 percent, private,
local, and foreign interests 12.6 percent, and a Swedish consortium heaced by
Granges AB holds the remaining 37.4 percent. LJV's production capacity is
12 million long tons per year (ltpy), but production has fallen in recent
years because of market problems and the need to suspend the costly production
of pellets because of fuel price increases. Deposits in the current LJV
mining area are expected to be depleted by 1985-1987. k'easibility studies for
expansion into the Western Area have been completed, but no decision has been
made whether or not to undertake the investment for which about US$30U million
would be required. The decision will be influenced by plans to develop the
Mifergui-Nimba iron ore deposits across the border in Guinea. Current plans
call for evacuation of the Guinean ore on the LJV railroad infrastructure.
More recently, a proposal has been made to combine the LJV Western Area and
Guinean projects, but few details have been presented. Thus, the future of
Liberia's principal iron ore mine is uncertain.
27.       The Bong Mining Company (BMC), Liberia's second largest iron ore
mining company, produced 7.5 million ltpy in 1980. BMC is owned 5U percent by
the Government, but is controlled by several European steel companies, consis-
ting of a consortium headed by Exploration and Bergbau of Germany (34 percent)
and Finsider S.A. of Italy (16 percent). BMC's reserves are sufficient to
permit production at present levels until the mid-to-late 1990s. riowever,
pellets account for a large share of its production, and production costs nave
increased, resulting in large financial losses. BMC has been torced to cut
back production in order to reduce losses.
28.       The National Iron Ore Company (NIOC) is described in aetail in
Part IV of this report. Upon effectiveness of the proposed rehabilitation
loans, it would be owned 80 percent by the Government and 20 percent oy



- 9 -
foreign and local private shareholders. Until recently NIUC produced about
2.4 million ltpy. Production in 1980 was only 1.8 million tons because of
technical and financial problems, which, if not addressed promptly, will lead
to the closing of the mine. Sufficient proven reserves exist, however, to
produce the planned 3.25 million ltpy until 1995 if the mine is rehabilitated
under the proposed project.
29.       A fourth mining company, the Liberia Mining Company (LUC), operated
the Bomi Hills deposits until 1977 when its reserves were depleted. Until
LMC withdrew, it owned the railroad from Bomi to Monrovia which is now owned
by the Government and forms part of the railroad infrastructure used by NIbC
to transport its ore to the Monrovia port.
Future Development Potential
30.       Prospects for the iron ore sector are uncertain; ail three operating
companies are experiencing financial, technical, and/or marketing problems
which may jeopardize their future operation. In addition to the three opera-
ting mining concessions, three other iron ore deposit areas (the bie mountains,
the Wologisi range, and the Putu range) are covered by concession/lease agree-
ments. Exploration work has been done in all these areas, and the reserves
are estimated at 200-600 million tons of low-grade, fine-grainea ores suitable
mainly for pellet feed production. These areas lack infrastructure, and would
require substantial investments to be developed.  In view of tne poor quality
of the reserves in these concessions and the high investment costs required to
develop them, the likelihood that these deposits will be developed in tne
foreseeable future is slim.
31.       The Bank has had no previous involvement in the mining sector in
Liberia. Indeed, through both its lending program and its economic dialogue,
the Bank has encouraged the Government to diversify the economy so as to
reduce dependence on a single commodity and spread development beyond the
enclaves to the largely subsistence rural population. The proposed project
represents, therefore, a special case in which the life of an existing mine
would be extended in order to "buy time" to prepare for an orderly phaseout
and generate government revenues with which to stimulate alternative economic
activity for the population currently dependent on the mine.
PART IV - Tdh PROJECT
32.       The proposed project was initiated in 1978 at Government's request
for assistance to rehabilitate the National Iron Ore Company tNIUC) in order
to forestall imminent suspension of mining production at the Mano kiver mine.
The Bank subsequently helped NIOC and the Government prepare the project by
providing in 1979 a US$500,000 Project Preparation Facility (PPF) advance to
the Government to finance consulting studies and engineering work to aefine
the project scope, design, and viability. The project was appraisea in
December 1980, and a second PPF advance of US$500,0O0 was approved in February,
1981 to finance detailed engineering and legal assistance. Loan negotiations



- 10 -
were held in Washington on September 4, 1981. The LiDerian delegation was
headed by Mr. Rudolph Johnson, Deputy t4inister of Finance. Signiticant events
and special conditions are summarized in Annex III. The project is described
in detail in Staff Appraisal Report No. 3479-L±R, dated December 1, 1981.
Objectives
33.       The immediate objective is to increase run-of-mine and beneficiated
ore output, reduce operating costs, and improve infrastructure facilities
(bridge and railroad) so NIOC can operate efficiently for at least another 13
years, the estimated life of its proven ore reserves. The longer term objec-
tive is to make it possible for the Government to use the revenues it obtains
from the restructured company to promote economic development in Cape Mount
County, where the mine is situated, and provide alternative sources ot income
for the population once the mine is depleted.
Background
34.       NIOC was established in 1958 to develop the Mano River iron ore
deposits near the Sierra Leone border. The Government of Liberia received 50
percent of the shares in exchange for permanent exemption from taxes or
royalties. Lansdell Christie, a U.S. citizen who had explored the deposits
and had already formed LMC 1/, retained 27 percent of NIOC's stock, L&G
received 15 percent, and numerous other US and Liberian investors (financed
primarily by Christie) purchased the remaining eight percent. NbUC owns all
the assets at the mine, port facilities in Monrovia, and the railroad link
from Mano to Bomi; the railroad from Bomi to Monrovia was turned over to the
Government when the LMC mine closed.
35.       The Mano mine was originally developed as an adjunct to the LAG
mine at Bomi Hills, with whose ore NIOC's could be mixed to meet grade
specifications. The NIOC installation was badly designed from the start and
never met its expected annual production target of four million tons. During
1972-74, in anticipation of the closing of Bomi, additional capital investment
was made at Mano to expand NIOC's production to 4.5 million tons. NiOuC
encountered severe operational problems after the commencement of phase two
because of ill-advised technical decisions by the management firm and poor
supervision of the engineering firm in charge of plant modification. More
recently, inadequate maintenance and replacement of equipment have led to
interruptions in production and financial losses. By the end of 1980, NIOC was
producing only 1.7 million ltpy and had incurred losses of about US$6 million.
36.       Although the Government was the largest shareholder, it played no
significant role in supervision of the Company until 1979. NIUC was managed
by contract with Mine Management Associates, Ltd. (MMAL) which was owned by
the Christie Estate. In 1979, the Board of Directors, on which the Government
had appointed four out of seven members, terminated the contract with PLVLAL,
which was by then perceived by the Government as costly and ineffective.
1/   LMC was owned 41 percent by Christie and 59 percent Dy Republic bteel
(US). In 1980, Republic Steel transferred all of its shares in LMC to
the Christie Estate which currently holds Christie's interests.



- 11 -
37.       The Christie estate and an associated interest also held some US$8
million of NIOC debt, part of which was disputed by NIOC. The remainder of
the term debt is held by the U.S. Export-Import (ExIm) Bank. NIOC currently
owes ExIm US$3.5 million, part of which was assumed last year when Bankers
Trust and Citibank called in the guarantees on NIOC loans which ExIm had
guaranteed. Finally, NIOC owes the Government of Liberia US$5.6 million.
Prior to negotiation of the proposed Bank loans, agreement was reached in
principle to restructure the existing debt, and appoint a new consulting firm
to manage the project and mine operations.
Project Description
38.       Iron ore production from the concentrating plant would be increased
from the present level of 2.3 million ltpy to 3.25 million with a recovery
of 53 percent, implying an increase in run-of-mine ore output from about
4.5 million ltpy to 6.1 million ltpy. Major project components include
additional mining equipment, a surge facility for crushed ore, modification
of the concentrator flowsheet, improvements in the railroad to the port at
Monrovia, repair of the St. Paul River railway bridge, and miscellaneous
support equipment. A critical project component would be management and
technical/engineering assistance to execute the project and improve the
operations of the company. The project also includes studies and pilot
projects to determine the economic potential of the Mano River mining area.
Project Implementation
39.       The project is expected to take about 20 months, after which another
year may be needed until the final production target is met. Under the new
corporate structure agreed upon by all the shareholders, the Government would
own at least 80 percent of NIOC and would control the Company; up to 12
percent would be owned by the Christie Estate and up to 8 percent by the
other existing owners. To ensure adequate management authority to carry out
the project, the role of the minority shareholders would be limited, and full
responsibility for management decisions would be vested in the Government.
The Government's control would be assured by the establishment of a voting
trust arrangement into which all the shares in the Company would be placed.
Effectiveness of the voting trust agreement would be a condition of effective-
ness of the Bank loans (draft NIOC Loan Agreement, Section 7.01(b)). The
Government would have a controlling majority in the voting trust and would
appoint the Board of Directors for the Company.
40.       The Board would appoint a three member executive committee composed
of the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Planning and Economic Affairs and
the Minister of Land and Mines. This Executive Committee would meet at least
once a month and is expected to supervise the operations of the mine closely.
The day-to-day operations of the mine would be managed by a General Manager
located at the mine site, who would report directly to the Executive Committee.
As a condition of effectiveness of the Bank loans, the NIOC Board would approve
terms of reference, satisfactory to the Bank, setting out the responsibilities
of the Executive Committee (draft NIOC Loan Agreement, Section 7.01(e)).



- 12 -
41.       Over the past year, NIOC has suffered from the loss of qualitied
management personnel. As a result of a perceived deterioration in NIUC's
future prospects and the unsettled climate following the coup, a number of
senior expatriate and Liberian personnel, including the General Manager and
the Assistant General Manager, resigned. In order to strengtnen the manage-
ment capability, Met Chem Consultants Limited of Canada, (a wholly-ownea
subsidiary of the United States Steel Corporation of the U.S.A.) have been
selected by NIOC to provide necessary management and technical services.
Signature of agreements on the management of NIOC in a form satisfactory to
the Bank would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loans (draft
NIOC loan agreement, Section 7.01(b)). Met Chem would provide initially about
ten experienced expatriate technicians, including a General Manager. The
agreement would provide for total management of NIUC's operations up to June
30, 1984. Aside from the General Manager and Financial Controller, who are
expected to remain for the full period, most team members would be replacea
after about a year as qualified Liberian or individually recruited expatriate
replacement personnel are hired and trained. Assurances have been received
that NIOC would review with the Bank the appropriateness of retaining the
consultants beyond the above date and based on this review would make manage-
ment arrangements satisfactory to the Bank (draft NIOC Loan Agreement, Section
4.02(b)).
42.       The cost of Met Chem's services is consistent with costs of similar
assignments worldwide. The total number of man-months requested is estimated
to be about 380. The estimated average cost per man-month is US$12,00u, and
the total cost over the 30-month period is estimated at about US$5.4 million
(including engineering work needed for the project).  The vet Chem contract
includes strong production incentives in the form of royalties, and penalties.
43.       Ore Resources.  NIOC's proven ore reserves as of June 1980 were db
million tons with an average Fe content of 51.4 percent. This is sufficient
to enable the mine to operate at the increased level of production for at
least 13 years. In addition, probable/possible reserves of 24 million tons
with a similar iron ore content are estimated. These latter estimates are
based on scarce geological information but, because of past experience and the
uniformity of the geology of the area, the estimate is considered conservative.
These additional reserves are likely to extend the mine's life by anottier 5
years.
44.       While sufficient ore classification information exists for 60
percent of the proven reserves, detailed classification of the remaining 4U
percent would be undertaken as part of the project in order to facilitate
mine planning. NIOC has agreed to prepare a detailed drilling program by
March 31, 1982 and to carry out the program by December 31, 1982 (draft
NIOC Loan Agreement, Section 4.06).
45.       Mine Planning.  In connection with the studies done by Met Chem, a
preliminary long-term mine plan has been prepared. Assurances have been
obtained that, by specified dates during project implementation, NIOC would
prepare--with the assistance of a mine planning apecialist provided by i'iet
Chem--more detailed two-year, medium, and long-term mine plans. N1bC would
review and update these plans annually and afford the bank a reasonable
opportunity to comment on them (draft NIOC Loan Agreement, Section 4.05).



- 13 -
46.       Railroad.  Until the Bomi Hills mine closed in 1977, LMC maintained
the 40-mile railroad track between Bomi and Monrovia, while maintenance of the
50-mile track between Mano River and Bomi has always been the responsibility
of NIOC. As a result of neglect by LMC, the former track is in poor condition
and immediate measures are required to reduce the risk of derailment. The
proposed project includes relaying 6.25 miles of mainline track and a general
track rehabilitation program. Additional ore cars would be provided, and
equipment and parts would be purchased to rehabilitate and maintain both the
track and cars.
47.       Bridge Improvements.  The above-water structure of the railroad
bridge crossing the St.Paul River is in good condition, but damage caused by
scouring and corrosion of the piers under the water line must be repaired
in the near future to prevent collapse of the bridge. The bridge would be
repaired by contractors as proposed in a study by Raymond Technical Facili-
ties, Inc. (US). The Government would employ management experts acceptable
to the Bank to supervise the bridge rehabilitation (draft Loan Agreement with
the Government, Section 3.02 (a)). Emergency repairs as recommended by
Raymond were completed by NIOC in November 1979 to reduce the risk of imminent
bridge collapse. The more permanent work to be carried out under the project
should extend the life of the bridge at least another 20 years.
48.       Economic Development Studies.  To promote development of alternative
employment opportunities in the region when mining is phased out, the proposed
project includes funds for an economic development study of the area, feasi-
bility studies, and pilot projects. To execute the study, the Government
would employ consultants not later than December 31, 1982 whose qualifications
and experience would be acceptable to the Bank and under terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank (draft Loan Agreement with the Government, Section
3.02(b)). Such studies would be expected to provide the basis for future
Bank Group support to the agricultural sector in the area.
Iron Ore Market
49.       The iron ore produced by NIOC is a specialty product for which the
demand is not much affected by fluctuations in the world iron ore market
demand/supply situation. Nevertheless, the price for NIOC ore does reflect
world market prices; following a decrease in real terms in 1981, iron ore
prices are expected to recover to the pre-1981 level in 1982 and thereafter
increase an average of one percent per year in real terms.
50.       The sales agent for NIOC (Caemi International B.V., of the
Netherlands) has been able, over the years, to place all NIOC's available
production, and has obtained letters of intent from five out of six of NIOC's
major long-term customers explicitly stating their willingness to receive a
total of 13.6 million tons of iron ore undelivered under current contracts
and their intention to negotiate new long-term contracts with similar annual
quantities. Assurances have been obtained from NIOC that Caemi or another
marketing agent acceptable to the Bank would be retained (draft NIOC Loan
Agreement, Section 4.03).



- 14 -
Project Costs
51.       Total costs for the NIOC project are estimated at US$67.1 million,
of which US$54.4 million or 81 percent are foreign costs. NIOC would continue
to be exempt from import duties for project items and all costs are net of
taxes. A breakdown of project costs is given in the project summary at the
beginning of this report.
52.       The costs of mining and miscellaneous equipment for the mine and
the plant are based on quotations obtained from suppliers. A 5 percent
physical contingency has been applied to mining and maintenance equipment,
and power plant switchgear, while a 10 percent physical contingency has been
applied to plant equipment. For the plant modification and construction of
the surge system, cost estimates are based on the preliminary engineering done
by Met Chem and physical contingencies of 25 percent and 30 percent respec-
tively have been applied. For the railroad repair, the bulk of the cost would
be foreign equipment, for which quotations have been obtained from suppliers
and to which a 10 percent physical contingency has been applied. The local
cost, which covers repair work to be performed by NIOC, supplemented by addi-
tional local labor, is based on Met Chem estimates. The estimated foreign
cost of the management contract is based on 30 months at the contractual ceil-
ing price agreed upon between NIOC and Met Chem (para. 42) plus an additional
provision for reimbursables as estimated by Met Chem. A physical contingency
of 10 percent has been applied to the management costs.
53.       The cost estimate for the repair of the St. Paul River bridge is
based on preliminary engineering and a quotation by Raymond Technical plus a
20 percent physical contingency. The interest during construction estimates
cover interest from 1982 to mid-1984. A provisional amount has been included
for economic studies and pilot projects. The base costs are in constant
September 1981 dollars for all items except the bridge rehabilitation which is
in constant end-1980 dollars.  Price contingencies applied to the base prices
assume foreign and local price increases for equipment, construction, and
engineering of 12.5 percent in 1980, 9.0 percent in 1981, 8.5 percent in 1982,
and 7.5 percent in 1983.
Financing Plan
54.       The foreign financing required for the project--amounting to US$54.4
million, or 81 percent of total requirements--would be financed through long-
term foreign loans amounting to US$41.8 million, commercial bank financing
amounting to US$8.5 million, and a Government equity contribution to NIOC of
US$4.1 million. The local costs of US$12.7 million would be financed with a
Government equity contribution of US$3.0 million, a NIOC contribution of
US$2.3 million, and US$1.4 million from the proposed Bank loan to the Govern-
ment and US$6.0 million of commercial bank financing.
55.       The new Government equity would finance US$3 million of working
capital as well as US$4.1 million of interest during construction on all
loans except for the proposed World Bank loans. The US$3 million equity
contribution for working capital is a condition of effectiveness of the
Bank loans (draft NIOC Loan Agreement, Section 7.01(c)). The Government



- 15 -
contribution to cover interest during construction would be made when required
to meet such charges up to June 30, 1984 (draft Guarantee Agreement, Section
2.02 (a)). The Government would also guarantee all the new loans to NIOC,
and it would provide funds to cover any NIOC operational or project shortfall
(draft Guarantee Agreement, Section 2.02(b)).
56.       NIOC's equity contribution would be in the form of force account
work (erection of the surge system, repair of the railroad) and rail, bal-
last, and equipment for the plant which were acquired by the Company over the
last two years in anticipation of the rehabilitation project.
57.       The proposed World Bank contribution would be separated into two
loans: a loan of US$8.3 million to the Government to finance the rehabilita-
tion of the bridge (which is government-owned) and studies; and a loan of
US$11.7 million to NIOC to finance part of the mine rehabilitation cost. Each
loan would have a total maturity of 13 years (i.e., the proven life of the
mine) including 5 years of grace. NIOC would pay a guarantee fee to the
Government of one percent (draft NIOC Loan Agreement, Section 5.10). The
PPF advances, which were made to the Government and total about US$1.0 million
would be apportioned to the NIOC and Government loans as appropriate. Thus,
about US$250,000 for studies on the bridge and for legal assistance to the
Government would be refinanced under the loan to the Government, and US$750,000
would be refinanced under the loan to the Company. Prior to loan signature,
NIOC is expected to have purchased about US$1 million of spare parts included
in the proposed project and to have spent at least US$200,000 on Met Chem's
services. It is proposed that expenditures not to exceed US$2 million and
made after January 1, 1981 be retroactively financed under the proposed loan
to NIOC (draft NIOC Loan Agreement, Schedule 1, para. 4(b)).
58.       The ADB loan would be made to tne Government at 7.5 ptzLceat per
annum to be re-lent to NIOC with the same charge, plus a 1 percent per annum
guarantee fee; repayment would be over 13 years including 5 years of grace.
The loan from FMO would be made directly to the Company at 9 percent per annum
interest, for 13 years including 4 years of grace. The OPEC Fund loan would
be made to the Government for 15 years including 5 years of grace, with no
interest charge, and a 0.75 percent service charge; this loan would be onlent
to NIOC on the same terms as the Bank's loan to NIOC.
59.       In addition to the long-term financing requirements outlined above,
NIOC's critical financial situation and the projected cash needs for 1981 and
1982 made it necessary to secure US$14.5 million of commercial bank financing
for working capital. These funds, to be provided by a syndicate of commercial
banks led by the Bank of America, would be repaid by the end of 1988 and would
carry interest charges of about 2.0 percent above LIBOR. In addition, there
would be an insurance fee to the American International Group of 3.0 percent
per annum. At the date of this report, firm commitment has not yet been
obtained from the commercial banks to provide this financing. However, in
view of the strong interest which has been expressed by a number of banks, it
is expected that by the time this proposal is considered by the Executive
Directors, such a commitment will have been made.



- 16 -
60.       NIOC's existing long-term and short-term debt--amounting to about
US$16.4 million at the end of 1980--has been rescheduled. The Government has
agreed to convert US$5.6 million of pre-1981 debt into equity. The U.S. ExIm
Bank has agreed in principle to reschedule its existing loans, which amount to
US$3.5 million, into a long-term loan subordinated to the new loans. The
other previous lenders, most of whom are related to the Christie interest,
have agreed to convert and reduce their outstanding claims, amounting to US$8
million, into a US$3 million long-term loan subordinated to the new loans.
The terms of both rescheduled long-term loans provide for 13 years' repayment,
including 6.5 years of grace, bearing interest at 12 percent, to be fully
subordinated to the new lenders for the rehabilitation project as well as to
the operational requirements of the company. Effectiveness of these conver-
sion, rescheduling, and subordination agreements would be a condition of
effectiveness of the Bank loans (draft NIOC Loan Agreement, Section 7.01(b)).
Trust Account
61.       To provide the lenders to the Project with additional security and
to ensure that NIOC operates on a sound financial basis, the proceeds from the
sale of iron ore would be allocated, as a first priority, to debt service
payments and, as second priority, to finance day-to-day operations of NIOC's
mine-related facilities as well as necessary renewal investments. To this
effect, all NIOC sales revenues would be paid into a trust account with a
number of sub-accounts.   The Wilmington Trust Company (U.S.) would be Trustee.
All "senior" (i.e. new) project loans, including those to both NIOC and the
Government, would be serviced from the trust account. The commercial bank
loans would also be serviced from the account. The subordinated (i.e.,
existing) loans would be serviced only after debt service requirements of the
new lenders and the operational requirements of the Company have been met.
Effectiveness of the security trust agreement--in which all new lenders to the
project including the commercial banks, the Government, NIOC, and Wilmington
Trust would participate--is a condition of effectiveness of the Bank loans
(draft NIOC Loan Agreement, Section 7.01(b)).
Allocation of Bank Loan and Disbursement
62.       The proposed Bank loan to the Government would finance:  (i) the
rehabilitation of the St. Paul River bridge (US$6.3 million); (ii) the eco-
nomic studies (US$0.3 million); (iii) interest during construction on the
proposed loan (US$1.4 million); and (iv) refinancing of the engineering
studies for the bridge and legal assistance to the Government financed under
the PPF advance (US$0.25 million). The proposed Bank loan to the Company
would finance: (i) the management and technical assistance contract with
Met Chem (US$5.4 million); (ii) spare parts (US$3.2 million); (iii) interest
during construction on the proposed loan (US$2.3 million); and (iv) refinancing
of the engineering and feasibility studies for NIOC financed under the PPF
advance (US$0.75 million). The proposed Bank loans would be disbursed against
100 percent of the foreign exchange costs of the management contract and
economic studies and against 100 percent of the costs of imported spare parts
or 70 percent if purchased locally. For the bridge, it is proposed that the
Bank disburse against 100 percent of the civil works contract including a



- 17 -
local component estimated at US$1.4 million. The financing of this local
cost, as well as interest during construction, is justified in view of the
acute cash shortage affecting both the Government and NIOC.
Procurement
63.       All goods and services financed under the Bank loans would be
procured in accordance with Bank guidelines. The bridge rehabilitation
(US$6.3 million) would be executed by contract which would be awarded after
international competitive bidding. The management contract (US$5.4 million)
negotiated with Met Chem (Canada) is acceptable to the Bank. Spare parts
(US$3.2 million) would be procured by limited international tendering or, in
the case of items which need to be compatible with existing equipment, and up
to a value of US$2 million, from the original suppliers (draft NIOC Loan
Agreement, Section2.03). The economic studies (US$250,000) would be commis-
sioned in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Financial Analysis and Covenants
64.       Starting in 1983, NIOC is expected to generate an annual profit
(before taxes) which would increase from US$0.6 million in 1983 (or 1 percent
of sales revenues) to about US$27 million by 1994 (or 24 percent of sales
revenues). However, in 1982, operating losses are expected to amount to about
US$5.5 million as a result of the low production levels achieved. These
losses, together with the repayment of some of NIOC's outstanding short-term
obligations, would be financed with the additional Government equity and
commercial bank loans included in the financing pla-..
65.       NIOC currently pays only minor taxes and does not pay corporate
income tax. Amendment of the concession agreement to subject NIOC to all
taxes of general application, including corporate income tax, would be a
condition of effectiveness of the Bank loans (draft NIOC Loan Agreement,
Section 7.01 (a)). During the period 1981-87, all those taxes which NIOC does
not now pay would be deferred until certain financial ratios are met (see
below) in order to ensure that sufficient cash is available to NIOC to repay
the debt to commercial banks. Thereafter, annual taxes of 50 percent of
profit and accrued taxes--taking into account a loss carry-forward of five
years--would be payable by NIOC.
66.       To ensure maintenance of a sound financial position and to safeguard
the position of the new lenders, the following covenants have been agreed to:
(a) NIOC would not pay any dividend if after such dividend the ratio
of current assets to current liabilities would be less than 1.3:1
or the debt:equity ratio would exceed 60:40, and in any case until
at least 75 percent of the aggregate principal of the "senior" loans
has been repaid (draft NIOC Loan Agreement, Section 5.06 (a));



- 18 -
(b)  NIOC would defer payment of new taxes, including corporate income
tax, unless after such payment the ratio of current assets to
current liabilities would be at least 1.3;1 and at least 50 percent
of the aggregate principal of the "senior" loans had Deen repaid
(draft NIOG Loan Agreement, Section 5.Ub (t)),
(c)  NIOC would not repay any principal or interest on the subordinatea
debt unless after such payment the ratio of current assets to
current liabilities would be at least 1.3:1 (draft NIOC Loan Agree-
ment, Section 5.06 (c));
(d)  NIOC would not repay any of the principal on the subordinated debt
until 12 months after the first principal payment on the balK loan
had been paid (draft NIOC Loan Agreement, Section 5.06 (d));
(e)  NIOC would maintain a ratio of current assets to current liabilities
of at least 1.3:1 at all times (draft NIOC Loan Agreement, Section
5.04);
(f)  NIOC would not incur any additional debt--beyona the debt incurred
for the financing of the project and the debt incurred in 19di-b2
with commercial banks foir cash short-fall financinlg--before December
31, 1987 without prior Bank approval and thereafter it, as a result
of such debt, the debt:equity ratio would be above 6U:4U, or the
projected debt service coverage ratio (excluding subordinated debt)
would be below 1.5 (draft NIOC Loan Agreement, Section J.O_)i and
(g)  before completion of the project, NIOC would not make any invest-
ments other than those directly related to the rehabilitation
project, and thereafter, aggregate annual capital investments would
not exceed US$5 million, unless otherwise agreed by tne banK (draft
NIOC Loan Agreement, Section 5.11).
Audit
67.       As a result of the management and financial difficulties Ni0c has
faced, the audit of its accounts for 1980 is still in progress. Suomissioin of
this audit report to the Bank would be a condition of effectiveness of the
proposed Bank loans (draft NIOC Loan Agreement, Section 7.Uld)). Thereafter,
NIOC would submit annual audited accounts to the bank in a torm satisfactory
to the Bank no later than four months after the ena of its fiscal year (draft
NIOC Loan Agreement, Section 5.02).
Economic and Financial Benefits and Risks
68.       Iron ore mining has made a substantial contribution to Liberia's
economic development in the past, accounting for an important proportion of
the Government's revenues in the 1960s and 197Us and about half of the
country's exports in 1979. The industry has been adversely attected by the
decline in world demand for steel products which began to be felt in 1976, ana
more recently by the economic recession that has afflicted industrialized



- 19 -
countries and depressed iron ore prices even further. NIOC is, however,
basically viable and could contribute to exports, employment, and Government
revenues once economic conditions in industrialized countries are normalized
and iron ore prices improve. Rehabilitation of tne NIOC mine, ensuring that
it has sound management, and that equipment and transport facilities are
provided to reduce operating costs, would improve the Company's ability to
survive through a period of depressed demand and would enable it to quickly
reap benefits as economic conditions improve. The alternative to rehabilita-
tion is to close the mine, which would result in a permanent loss of part of
Liberia's foreign iron ore market and would reduce Government revenues in the
long run.
69.       The project's pre-tax financial rate of return on incremental
investment (including commercial bank loans incurred in 1981), calculated in
real terms, is estimated to be 14.3 percent. The economic and social bene-
fits of the project far exceed its direct financial returns, and result in an
incremental economic rate of return of 26.5 percent. The benefits are finan-
cial revenues which would accrue to the Government, income taxes and divi-
dends, as well as the social services provided, e.g., schools, hospitals,
and infrastructure maintenance. The costs include all capital and operating
costs as adjusted for shadow pricing of local labor, and exclusive of indirect
taxes. NIOC would pay taxes amounting to 50 percent of gross income estimated
to begin in 1988. Over the life of the project, these revenues should be
about US$74 million. The Government should also receive dividends of about
US$30 million, resulting in a return on equity for the Government of 25
percent. The availability of these funds would make it possible for the
Government to nr-mote economic development in the mining area and prepare for
an orderly phaseout of mining operations.
70.       Without the rehabilitation project, the NIOC would be forced to
close down, resulting in a loss of jobs for about 2,000 workers. Including
dependents and persons engaged in fringe commercial activity, some 16-18,000
people would lose their primary means of support. A number of social services
provided by the mine would either be lost or have to be taken over by the
local government if the mine were to close. These include a 90-bed hospital,
providing medical services to approximately 80,000 out-patients and 4,500
in-patients annually; two schools serving about 775 students; housing; and the
transportation/communication infrastructure which is currently maintained by
NIOC and which constitutes the only link between western Liberia and Monrovia.
71.       The financial risks are the most significant.  The financial rate
of return is sensitive to a fall in revenues: a drop in iron ore prices
of 10 percent, an increase in operating costs of 10 percent or a decrease in
production of 10 percent, would reduce the Company's ability to service its
debt. The main burden of this risk would, however, be borne by the previous
lenders whose loans would be subordinated to the new loans and would be
payable only after all operational requirements (including current operating
and renewal costs) have been met. The financial risk would be further limited
by the establishment of an off-shore trust account into which all the Company's
revenues from the sale of iron ore would be paid. Finally, the Government
would guarantee or contract all the new loans, and it has agreed to cover
any cash shortfall which might jeopardize NIOC's operations.



- 20 -
72.       Additional risks are that transport infrastructure may not be
rehabilitated in time, thus affecting the volume of production, and that
the Company may be affected by labor or social unrest. Measures have been
taken to start improvements to rail and bridge installations as soon as
possible, thus reducing the risk of production delays due to infrastructure
failure, and the chances of the project being affected by work stoppages
are considered small, given the Government's strong support and that workers
and inhabitants in the mining area already know that closure of operations
has been considered. The market risks are also considered small in view
of the special characteristics of NIOC's ore and the commitments already
received from its customers. Overall, given that the project would preserve
an existing investment and provide potential earnings to the Government, the
risks are considered acceptable.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
73.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Liberia and the
Bank, and between the Bank and the National Iron Ore Company, the Guarantee
Agreement between the Republic of Liberia and the Bank, and the Reports of
the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of
Agreement, are being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
74.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III to this Report.
75.       Additional conditions of effectiveness of the Bank loans would be:
(a) amendment of the certificate of incorporation and concession
agreement in a manner satisfactory to the Bank;
(b) effectiveness of the agreements to reschedule and subordinate
NIOC's existing debt; the security trust agreement; the management
agreement; and the voting trust agreement;
(c) fulfillment of all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of
all other new loans;
(d) cash payment by the Government of US$3 million as new equity
contribution to NIOC;
(e) submission to the Bank of audited NIOC accounts for 1980, in a
form satisfactory to the Bank; and
(f) appointment of an executive committee of the Board with terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank.



- 21 -
76.       I am satisfied that the proposed loans would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
77.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loans.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
December _, 1981






- 22 -                                          ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                           Page  1
LIBERIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LIBERIA                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEXAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                          - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL            111.4                                 MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME           RIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL       6.1               1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  160.0       260.0     500.0                 794.2                   1616.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       87.5       558.8     448.2                 707.5                   1324.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)   978.0       1335.0    1797.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 20.5         26.2      32.3                  27.7                     64.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                        3.7
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         11.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2095
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                        8.8         12.0      16.1                  55.0                    34.3
PER SQ. EM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    163.0        217.0     284.6                 130.7                    94.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         45.4         46.7      47.6                  46.0                    40.7
15-64 YRS.                         52.0         50.8      50.0                  51.2                    55.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   2.6          2.5       2.4                   2.8                     4.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.8         3.1       3.3                   2.8                     2.4
URBAN                               5.4         5.7       5.6                   5.1                      3.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      50.2        49.3      48.1                  46.9                     31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      20.3        16.3      13.6                  15.8                      8.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.4         3.4       3.4                   3.2                      2.3
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..            ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          96.0        101.0     100.0                  89.9                   108.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   95.0         97.0     104.0                  92.3                   107.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          38.0         41.0      42.0                  52.8                    65.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        9.0         11.0      10.0                  16.1                    34.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      29.3        21.9      16.4                  20.2                      7.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    44.4         49.4      53.5                  50.8                    64.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                              ..          ..        ..                    ..                    70.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..           ..      20.0                  27.4                    65.7
URBAN                               ..           ..      64.0                  74.3                    79.7
RURAL                               ..           ..       6.0                  12.6                    43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..           ..      11.0                    ..                    59.9
URBAN                               ..           ..      35.0                    ..                    75.7
RURAL                               ..           ..       6.0                    ..                    30.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          12600.0/c   11754.5    9259.0               13844.1                  1728.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     5810.17      4651.1    2904.0                2898.6                  1288.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            711.8        592.0     623.0                1028.4                   471.2
URBAN                            181.3        194.4        ..                423.0                    558.0
RURAL                               ..           ..        ..               3543.2
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..        27.7
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..           ..
URBAN                              3.9           ..
RURAL                               ..           ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..           ..
URBAN                               1.7/d        ..        ..
RURAL                               ..           ..        ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..          ..        ..
URBAN                                ..          ..        ..
RURAL                                ..          ..         ..



- 23 -                                          ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                              P age  2
LIBERIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LIBERIA                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVTAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)a
MOST RECENT          MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
1960 /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                 31.0        53.0      64.0                 73.7                   101.7
MALE                 45.0        71.0      80.0                 96.8                   103.0
FEMALE               18.0        35.0      48.0                 79.0                   101.5
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                  2.0         9.0      20.0                 16.2                    35.3
MALE                  3.0        15.0      29.0                 25.3                    34.9
FEMALE                1.0         4.0      11.0                 14.8                    35.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (I OF SECONDARY)   ..          5.3       3.0                  5.3                    30.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           32.0        36.0      42.0                 36.2                    29.6
SECONDARY                         12.0        17.0        ..                 23.6                    15.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        8.9/e      15.0      30.0                   *-                    80.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         1.0        11.1       8.1                 32.3                    42.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                       102.2       116.1     162.8                 69.0                   215.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         1.5         4.9       5.9                  8.0                    b9.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  0.8         5.2       4.9                 20.2                    62.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.6         0.6       1.1                  0.7                     3.2
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      379.8       480.4    605.8
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  34.1        32.8      32.1                 36.7                    22.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             80.0        75.6      70.5                 56.6                    35.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                10.0        11.6      13.7                 17.5                    23.2
PARTICIPATION RATE 'PERCENT'
TOTAL                               38.8        36.0      33.7                 37.2                    31.8
MALE                                51.9        49.0      46.3                 47.1                    49.0
FEMALE                              26.1        23.3      21.4                 27.5                    14.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.2         1.4       1.5                  1.3                     1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..        61.7/f
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..        72.677
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..          5.37        .
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..        10.97T
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..         ..        ..                 381.2
RURAL                               ..         ..       75.0                156.2                   187.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..         ..    137.0                  334.3                   513.9
RURAL                              ..          ..    125.0                  137.6                   362.2
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..         ..       23.0
RURAL                              ..          ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-eighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Host Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   1964;  /d City of Monrovia only; /e 1962; /f Population, higher income calculated as residual;
includes expatriates.
May, 1981



- 24 -                                                             ANNEX I
Page 3
DSPINITITRSO OPFSOCIAl INDICATORS
Note.:  Although the dote ore dron  frol sre  genralyjuge  the most acthurintive and reliable, it should also be notd  htha  tbey  ap not be inter-
mattnnllyonnerehlebacoac  of thelee  of atadadlre'.d definitione nod  -onopes used by diffe...to.. cutries in colctn    tb  dote.  Thr date urn,nos
obelese,uceful  o deecnie arden  ofesutue   indic te . teds  and rhronteries neta in major differeones bet..n. outres
. the  eeec    ouaat()tesn   oor   ru  nf the subject . cutrY and(21 a ..onery genup with somehat high- en  rerge tocme  h the. th noe..tty groop
of  he  ubjot  ounry  oucpt  or  CoptalOurhu  Oi  outr"gru              Kic   fiddls In..o.e North Alrco   ntd riuddlt tEa.t  Ic obcs-  be-cu  orsrue
sorn-cltrelafietia) .In  herefrece  rop dtsthe  onae  eaPePolatiet neightad arithmetic neon. for etc h idicetor end shone only wheo
sJoIryo   h   urnn   nagophaedt  for thatidicto.Sic  nhe covrag  of c..tnina among the iodic-t.r  depeods or th  -vilabil it  of dots
and la no  unifor, cautio  moa  he-eria-d in rlaltingevrgsonu  indicator enanther.  Tbhtoe averges art o_ly usful incmaigthe  aueo
one iudicanor etoteamn ti    -       he ecco.nty end reeec     -gepe.
LAND dARkA (thucse   e.h.)P                                                                                         "Iicic   erhopiH Bd - toe1, urban, ord  -runt  - Populotito   (tait1,
Tte  -  emisurace  reacomrisng lnd  reaandinled ener.                     uhen o..d rua)dvdd by thi,,en cePr1t1t  nunherl ci hospita  bds'
hanioltoel -fstite  t ogiculturl uea used inepers.tily or pernenetly                      availahis in public and privte   eeu  noI d eeaizied hasina  ed  e
fee crps,paue,ene  end  itchnHeadea or tc lie follow; 1979 deta.                                buiicinerr.fnynleesaltmonyn.nnl   tfe
by an Ieaartore physcion..  iEuabltehksetn1 prddn   peincipally r..t.
GNfP PER tOITA (US$) - GfNP per caPita estimates at -u-ot taak.t prices, -1-                         dia1l_cr  are col icudd   Rural hospitas  huorr  icud                tsee
ruited by name ... covrion mehad no acrid Back Anion (1977-79 heels); 1960,                       and urIa  neonte not permanetly eteffed by a-phynici.en l(hut by A
1970, nod  9197  date.                                                                              ndIca   sitn,nre             idwife, arc)  hkichoffer tn-patient .c...o
ENESRGY CONfSUMPTION fER CAPITA - ea-ol con-upti- of -oeecil  neg 1            (u...eIupoe  unbarP,.J  lhesylnt  includep Stiffs pniord,ipel/geeersl, h,syitle,
und lignite, petrlelun, norrt  foean 9_   thYdro-, nucleo  an        theo  tir-n on   opnl    iio   urlbsiaeedmdcledmtrity
tniciry) in kilogam   of coa  equiseo  par estt; 196, 197, nd 1979                                Stne    pecisliend hpi tale are included only under total.
dste.                                                                                           Adelseinne Pee gospita1 Bad - Total number of  disi-sn     to or disch.arge
fro haspitols divided by the number of beds.
PIPILATION dA VITAL STATISTICS
Total PoPulstioc, Mid-dear tannu       A. of July 1; 19hf, 1970, -nd 1979                     HOUSlINi
deta.                                                                                         Ave-re  lie  of         "I'eul  (Pn'r  m    oneod    ctaP, urba,,- en  rura I-
gns   ounic(ecnrolon)-ntcc   rbnc   oa   onoir                                                    A Ebonobold ...nisre of .a.g.up.f idvdul   ho shar  tivn   qus..nta
diff-rn   deinti,n   ofubnuca   aysfe               enaaility of duto                          and their  aio meals..  A berder or lodger may -c uy ntbe inoluded tn
amougcounles;  961,1970, and 1979 dat.-                                                   the      eod.fo   ..a. istienI "P""'es
Populnioc  t yer 110  - CurentPoplto'     rjciosaehsdo  1990                           bnr of P-r-n  pe-cn  it allbuhc  and ecea1 necupind euonno
oca touaie by  g aud se d        thic -orliy and ferilityes,                            dwllgs,  e-pectiv-ly.   D.  -eiieeoladao--Ptrm....t niroenre  end
Proectonponunosfor motality  -tnn   "cPris  of three  leel  osu-uocuidprs
iog  itfe  enyPonocy at bthenei          HFnogoe,outrsprepto an                             Acens En tncit,n (corret of dw-lli-o    - toa.   rbec. and mini1 -
level  codreman hf onpen-oc   seniliniug on 77.5 yearn.  The porn-                     Cunminl  wlig    ith electricity in living quentees as pee..eetage
meter  for  ernilicylrte slen here thre  levels aaumiog decline in                      of ntno, urban  and rura  doellin respectively.
f-til icy accoding cc iccon  l.vel nod Punt fatly plannig performance
tack country So 1 t.e  ..sigeonofthese nine conbinetiote ot   etnlity                     EDUCATlION
nod fertilitl   ruofrpoeno    upss                                                          AdJusted no1lsent bations
Statio...ry ropulaion-ocnaioo yPopultion thnre in no groth since                                Prmr`ci-  oa,ml  ndtml-ra    total  moeed femle
hebirth   o        ,t,Io to don death rate, red tine the aesrtoee-nolmtofllgsatbnpimar  levla  percentaes nf ...spe-tiv-
mtel  ooaot-         Tin  nuhi,edonyatrferiiyrtes decline tc                                    primary sc hool-age populati...n; cnlpicue  children ogd h-il
the repla_onnut ioe  of_uit -otp-yrd-nti.  rain, whet eah generation                            ynare bun adjonted for difterent lengthscfpeimary   uune;for
of  ome  rdee    enei  eeenyf   The  tcecconory populationnn n                            cutries nick  -niveneo  ed..utint enolee   a  emceed 155 pennant
anlre hni     i fusso  the  rol codohrotnerie  fthe ipu,lotire                           atOtns   o           rfnono   bn   h  oficial schoolae
it, eke peer 2000, cod the race of deo1ice of f-rilioyrletocorelplsce-                        Ceodn         ai-total maEndfeti- Computed as  bhvv; sa... dry
mer  level.                                                                                     educationrqufreeo  ieafu   peer  of appvd primary iseri
Tsa ecl ican  pouato       hI eatd -The y-n  eh..  tnooiocay pnusnpro_iden gec.ral.voaton l,  r                                           ce t  raining  .ot   .tio   fee popib
site h.baa .heso.eachna.                                                                        us.elly ot 12 no 17 pears ef ege; cotn...poudno..e co-ea  are gsne.talip
Pe In .  . - id-peer pupulation pe   kqc      ilcee.t-r (Ill bantam.) of                    Voainlenomn.preo   fncrdr)-lctiona  inatitutiens
totulara  1900.  971 a-d 1979 date                                                              icla-ds technical, i.duniol  oother progeo=    hich operate ind.p..d-
Per sq. Am.a_oi_uua lauJd - Computd na above fcrogicln llad                                       souporl   u  depat-eot  ef.sec.odory institutios
only; 19601, 1970 and iyyg data.                                                              Punil-tcencbeo rato - pimoc adinocdry-Toalsudns-neledi
Popeatic hs iruaure(pere-e) -  hihldror (5-14 yearn, nekiegag   (P5 pimar  sod  ..ecodur  lvl s dite    ynmer   fnnbe  inthe
64ynr)  aodreo   d (69 pears no d oven)  npect eof midyer...u.curepondiglevl
lto;1961.t 1970, an  1979 data.                                                            Adlt literay rote (pneret),- litsrete adults (able to read an.dtantis)
PouoinGrot Rt  (percn-)- ce-1 - annuagl-reh rate  of ntet  mid-                                ospe....nnge cf itel1 edut popolti-c sand 15 years   adevr
yea population for 1910-hi,. 1960-70 , and 1971-79.
Poru~Looo -Goth bate (reeont  - urban - htA..  gl .oth rates of ether pope-                   CONfSUMPTION
lotions ten 1950-60, 190170  ad1970-79.                                                       Pasnsefrn frete th-onnd e2nulation>-Pasercnsoyism e
Brd   irt bt  (e  thua            nul IlIce bittle Per thousan.d of mid-peer                  crssin laetnsight Persons; noloden amnb eosb1                        ee  an..h d
populeeln; 1910, 1970, and 1979 data                                                            miiayveils
Crue lnrhban  (le rouuud)- uoco  dethepenthonene o  mi-yer        bdinbanivee farthousand ppolati-u   - All types of r-ci.es fee  .adie
popaloelun; 1960, 1970, end 1979dana.                                                           broad, tner  no genare1 public per thb.....d ofpopulation; acoa   n
Gl... Repoduction ate - Av-gn  -uber of doughtocewma cill beer in                                 licennd rcivers in coon tries and in yearn nbnegsraio    f eadia
her,unlnpcuov  peidi   k   nelne   reo   g-prfecfa-                                             easentcefet;dn  for receot years may no  he comparable sines
tilopruns;usull  tie-ec  ovrar   ndng  n  96, 197, nd 19.mntotrsshike li                                              ceesiog.
PFmily Planning -    c--oor  anu l.(husn)   ~-anul camber of-accptor                             VRcivr  ntthuadnnuai                        TV ne..ni-nes for bnnadoaet no
of hrth-coeri deteesuode  cuP..e. of natIona  foll   plnisg Pro               g         aurlpublic Pertosnppati; nolades ulic ....ssd T   ees
amlPloicolec   (neuof maried e.en).    rrotgof marnied                                      iteco...ntien  nod in yearn when -giant-nin  of TV sets nsa in   lat.
oue   f child-heaing  geg  (15-44 year) nh. u-  birth-oonrrnl devices to                  Newapoent Circu laion (norhsodoul                n)- then...Sh     the  aneg  eke-
s _mrrted  -oe  in san  eon getup.                                                            can       cf 'daily generl  inten -cpapnr", defined en   periodica1
pa .is .o dnted primarily no I.... di,,g genee.  nws   Itis considered
POOR ANfD NfUTRITION                                                                                 to be"dol"if in  pynrs at i...n fear timen 0sk.
Indon of Food Production pe  Cnnlta (96971-             - Indec of p-t ..pit. onoo-l            CieaOce   nedretni                      n   enB.sed em thn  -m - of
pondoctio_ ofe al  food  -oedicias              -.1Poueit  utdee sed -o fe  and                 ticlete sold doring the peer, including adeleion  to drOv-ia timsa
iu on caledar peer   ...i.  Co,di....ec._r primay godo (e.g.  ug-..ae                           ned mobile  -nita.
tonu  cinua) which are edible.  od e-oneco uu-iennn (e.g. coffee and
te   r  lded) . A0gcgunga production ci esh coutry in base.d on                      LABOR PORCR
caniomal aveage lprnducr   prcewigts; 196-65, 19, nd1979 deto.                         Tiilbo oe  (th-usandn) - ico-i-clly activeprsn_   including
Per canta soyly of olonico(noncec of rnuinmnta) - Computed from                     er        ..fre  sod uepluyed but ...olading houesti-n,  suets   n..'
energy eqoicleot ci cot FoodepinalIabl  inontyper cait'cvein   pouaion o  al   gs                                                    eiti... in v-r... cutrles sin
peIo.   Avilabisupies t-mrisednni.                 rdoio.upreln                              o   oprbn  1960,f1197  nud 1979 daita.
noPorne, ad Ienduies in ae.1        e   ople    ciude  nmlfed1            sd,               FemaIn (n.eoon  -e P lzelabor fore  specntg  o   orlisbne foecs.
quui  esue   ofodpono o,adlanni   ierhto.   nor-Aeiunt (ieret  -aborForce in  amig  teoy. hunting and
meto  nes etlunodby FuG bh.a.d  -v phyaoolngi-al needa for  -co  scoti-                 fiaigasPeretg          Ieoa  labo  forte; 1960, 1970 lend 1979,dana,
viysdhath co-idening evorrrlteeaoe  body -ighrs,,agIduty(ae)-Lbofrc  to m.'ining, cotruteo,   "anoecorin
end .-c diun ibotto  of populunion, end olloin  11pecet For caset annd e1letricity, wetno  and gte as p-enretnge  fnn                                     ao f   ers   90
hou.sehod leve; 1961-65, 1970,_ad  977 dens             0 .                                   197i aed 1979 da.t.
Pml edit0 suply of poei  aon e  day) - Protein conen  of Per  .pi,a                           Paricipation Oeto (Neret) - tota, mle, adrsl  - Pert~tiniaia
net supply  If food pen.day.  Ne"t aupply  f food in de~fined.as shv        R e-              ottinitp rates  r    nue  asttl  ml,ad femal  Iaerfree
quirumeons forsl  ccI rt,i-  onnblishd hy USDA procide for  iima                              p.lertongas of tona,  nIs  n  isl        1pp tive ef all a saespettively;
elon..nce of 60 fram    f tonl1 protein per dy end 20 gra    of anma1ad                       1960, 1970, and 1979 data.  Tbhes-  or  base d on ItO's partiripteiartell
pulso proect o' f whic1  aroma should be a-imol pnntetn.  Thaneansed,-                        talnritae-e   cucro-  of the popolntic, end leng time trend.  A
tr - r    -loe  thee. chue  fi 75 goens cf ltonal pro ein and 77 gran  ofit  est imaese lm  n-ii..oI.n.rce
e  pim l  ctni as. on .verge for  h,  -ltd, propose.d by PA  io the Third               Dcemlpondenrybat - Ratio ef populsnion under 15 and 65 and over
WoldPod Survey; 1961-6,  1970 aod 1977 dan,                                                t   the tetu  laoI     fre
Psr _nric  Pr...i. so     I iro   a-lne  eod  -ulse - Proteen nopply of fuod de-
rived from enanean  pulse  in gnn  pot day; 1961-65, 1970 and 1977 dent.                  IOCONE oIITRIRL'TSlff
Child (ones 1-4) Oruiybt  (cn thr.n..d)- annua  deacha per thousad in                           Pecntg   f Pri-trn Ir        a (honk in_cant sod kiod) - ne...ived by cioheet
age group. 1-4 pears, to  hkildra t  thin oge ec..uP; for motdeveopiug ...u-                    S perenni  richest 20  peret,p          -e  20 par-nt, and poorsen 4sO parteen
tria dens derived from life tais;1611           97   od 197 tdco                                of -onholda.
HEAL.TH                                                                                         POVERTY ThARGES GROUPPS
LIfe inrPonnoco an  Bilth (peace) -tAverage  cbnhe  ci years c  life r-ilulg                    The following enimanee em  veryapromnmeon i p-verly levels
enf birth;960  1971 andl 1979.. dana                                                             so. -.f  let     d.    -y  d ehocid he innnpretnd with ce...idereblecni
Ican ,ceoivtos(e  huso)-acdldah  ofIn-enlodttoeleon                                    taimannd Ahaciunn Povety Incom           e lenl (Oil terr   rie  ura    nd ruts -I
of hge ,r thuadlv   ito                                                                   houepvryicm   ee  is the  income level bnn  whc  emnia
Access n  cafe tter (caceot of opuietiuf - toal, tho, nod  _ur1 -un-                nurcinll         .dquate lien plun es..e.nill oct-inc d roqoleser  isOt
..t.r   P, ly (i- ud.el.  l __!: tLlb., u-.t_-td                      tEtimated Relative Povety Ite e leve   (155 Per cepita) - urban ned rurl-
Pet.. toch osta   eaponcdhchlmppig,adsntrois   5Rrlrltv    pover ty incom   lon  is    _t-hind of -avrag  par -apits
proscee  ofthecl resPective Ippuloi-n.  1. an orbs n ere  o public
foouelei or  tnuodpont lc-tadeo  meethan 200 mtr               mahuemybe                        personal  i.trn  of the coutry.  Urbanleve  in derived from  ohs core
f...   h..   -y            1-lece  with  djo-tm t for bigher cost of living to urban ecea
ocueldena as btog etc in eonvnahle  oceas  f than bon.u   Sorua  aren...maa Puaic   nion mAc.lone Povety Incm  Level fet-ent) - urban
rensoamble occeno oculd imply tha  the housewife or ...bell ofthe houseold              ndirral  Pertto  pplton(ra  sdrrl)eoea  a lt
do nothae to sPrOdisp-oporro-o   pant of the day ic fetching the.l                                d~l P--- fppl,.    .b..d- )h    ,    ..It
fumily' s-e-e Peed
Nmeofpeople (toal  uo, and rurl) ..-.Ad bytcer  disposa  a
P....ctngea of their  tspciotpopulation._  fElret  diapoel may include
the cletoad diposl,0m hritnu   toteo, of h-.ace-ceta                                                                                  eencadSca.eslvno
cod easte-weten bYetr- c   epetem   or th  use of pit prvesad simie                                                             i       ...ec  anieis nd P-ivjec tio  Deprme
Population ReonPhscin-Ppultioc divided hy number of pr-tilog physi-                                                                                           8
cians qualified ite a endicel echnol en u-ic-riy leve...I
Pouaio lr   N-eo   rsn-Pplno  divided by numbero fettco
mais so  fmle gradl. u      It currs  yrcoicl   one,edaetto   uen



-25-                                     ANEX I
Page 4
ECONOMIC INDICATORS - LIBERIA
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT IN 1979                                         ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (% 1971 CONSANT PRICES)-1
US5 Mln.       2                                 1974-78             1979
GDP at Market Prices             890.0       100.0                                 1.6                 4.8
Gross Domestic Investment        218.6        24.6                                11.5               20.5
Gross Domestic Saving              ..         12.6
Current Account Balance         -113.2        12.7
Exports of Goods, NFS            551.6        61.9                                -7.3               -1.3
Imports of Goods, NFS            536.6        60.2                                 4.8              -11.8
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1979
Value Added                         Labor Force-                V. A. Per Worker
US$ Mln.       1                       '000      2                   US$        1
Agricult2uye                     328.0        35.0                    324.8   47.5                  1009.8    73.4
Industry-ye                      217.0        23.0                     39.6    5.8                  5480.0   398.8
Services                         395.0        42.0                     73.5   10.7                  5374.0   391.1
Unallocated                                                           246.1   36.0
Total/Average              940.0       100.0                    684.0  100.0                   1374.2   100.0
GOVERNZ[ENT FINANCE
General Governrment                           Central Government
Mln.)        % of GDP                 (US$ Mln.)               %of GDP
197       197      196 - 7               1980-814/         1980-815/ -1976-806/
Current Receipts                   ..         ..         ..                 220.0               20.8        20.4
Current Expenditures               ..         ..         ..                 220.5               20.8        15.4
Current Surplus                    ..         ..         .                   -0.5                ..           3.5
Capital Expenditure                ..         ..         ..                 126.0               12.0         12.8
External Assistance (net)          ..         ..         ..                  45.0                4.3         6.1
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1974           1975           1976           1977           1978           1979
(Million USS    Outstanding End Period)
Money and Quasi Money                                  .
Bank Credit to Public Sector          4.0            2.2            0.9             4.7            9.4           61.7
Bank Credit to Private Sector        72.7           76.8           83.1          109,2           132.1          146.3
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP    .                 .
General Price Index (1963 - 100)3/
Annual Percentage Changes in:
General Price Index                  19.5           13.6            6.0             5.S            8.6           11.6
Bank Credit to Public Sector          ..           -45.0          -59.1          422,2          100.0          656.0
Bank Credit to Private Sector         ..             5.6            8.2           31.4           20.9           10.7
Note: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
1/  Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation.  "UNallocated" consists mainly of
unemployed workers seeking their first job.
9/  Over 80 percent is accounted for by iron ore.
Consumer Price Index (September, November 1964 - 100).
./  1980-81 budget estimates.
5/ GDP estimates for 1979 are preliminary and subject to change.
t/ Fiscal years 1976 to 1980
NMt applicable.
Not available.
June 1981



- 26 -                             ANNEX I
Page 5
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
CE OF PAYMENTS                                              MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1978-RO)
1977     1978      1979                                           US$ Mln.        2
(Millions US$)
Exports of Goods, NFS            458.0    500.1    551.6          Iron Ore                          291.3         53.8
Imports of Goods, NFS          -490.1   -535.6    566.7           Rubber                             86.4         15.9
Resource Gap (deficit - -)       -32.1    -44.5    -35.5          Diamonds                           34.5          6.4
Logs or Lumber                     62.0         11.4
Interest Payments (net)           -6.7    -10.8    -22.0          Coffee                             28.5          5.2
Workers' Remittances             -27.5    -32.5    -35.0          Palm Products                       3.0          0.5
Other Factor Payments (net)    -68.0    -92.8    -78.8            Cocoa                              12.0          2.2
Net Transfers                     30.8     32.2      37.7         All Other Comodities               23.5          4.4
Balance on Current Account    -104.5   -139.4   -113.2                 Total                        541.2        100.0
Direct Foreign Investment-/        8.1    -10.5    -58.4          EXTERNAL DEBT, JUNE 30, 1980
Net MtT Borrowing                 38.3     64.5    123.6
Disbursements                   50.0     78.7    178.0                                                 US$ Mln.
Amortization                  -13.7    -14.2    -54.4
Sub-Total                  -19.8    -54.0      65.2         Public Debt, Incl. Guaranteed            533.3
Capital Crants                     ..        ,.       .,          Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                 -
Other Capital (net)              -35.3     79.6       T. otal Outstanding and Disbursed                   533.3
Other Items n.e.i.                51.1      ..        ..                                       2/
Increase in Reserves (+)           4.0     25.1    -48.0          DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1980-2
Gross Reserves (end year)          ..        ..
Net Reserves (end year)
Public Debt, Incl. Guaranteed            7.9
Fin' and Related Materials                                        Non-Guaranteed Private Debt               -
orts                                                        Total Outstanding and Disbursed           7.9
of which:  PetroleunL       103.2      68.8      84.6
Exports                                                         IBRD/IDA LENDING, (JUNE 30, 1980) (MILLION USS)
of which:  Petroleum                                             - -                                          S-
IBRD       IDA
RATE OF EXCHANGE
Outstanding and Disbursed          53.6      18.0
Through - 1971                       Since                      Undisbursed                        66.3       25.9
US$1.00 = l.CO                       US$1.00 = 1.00             Outstanding Incl. Undisbursed   119.9        43.9
1.00 = us$                           1.00 = USS
1/ Includes errors and omissions.
2/ Ratio of debt service to exports of goods and non-factor services
Not applicable.
Not available.
June 1981



- 27 -
Ai^NNX 11
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GkUUP 0PUkATIONS IN LIEiIA
A.  STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CEDI'1 (kas of August 31, 1961)
Loan or                                                             Amount (US* £aillion)
Credit                                                               less cancellation
Number   Year      Borrower                Purpose             bank      IDA /a   Jnaisnursed
Seven loans and three credits fully disbursed                  28.47    10.96
1055    1974  Liberian Bank for         Second Development
Dev. and Investment    Finance                  4.0                   0.09
577    1975  Rep. of Liberia           Agriculture                       6.U         1.09
1156    1975  Rep. of Liberia           Third Road             27.5                   3.12
1266T   1976  Rep. of Liberia           Second Education        4.0                   U.63
1323    1976  Liberian Bank for         Third Development
Dev. and Investment    Finance                  7.0                   3.6)
1417    1977  Rep. of Liberia           Education               6.3                   2.74
700    1977  Rep. of Liberia           Agriculture                       1.0         2.61
786    1978  Rep. of Liberia           Rubber Development                6.0         4.52
839    1978  Rep. of Liberia           Forestry                          6.U         4.34
Development
859    1978  Rep. of Liberia           Monrovia Water                    8.U         3.69
Supply
1544    1978  Rep. of Liberia           Rubber Development    7.0                     7.U0
1573    1978  Rep. of Liberia           Fourth Highway         13.8                   U.51
1600    1978  Liberian Electric         Fourth Power           10.0                   0.16
Corporation
1644    1979  Rep. of Liberia           Feeder Koads           10.7                   8.55
1765    1979  Rep. of Liberia           Decoris Oil Palm       12.0                  11.46
1076    1980  Rep. of Liberia           Small & Med.-Scale
Enterprises             -        3.2        3.20
1907    1980  Rep. of Liberia           Petroleum. Explo.       5.0        -          0.95
Total                                          135.77    47.16        58.71
of which has been repaid                      14.91       -
Total now outstanding                          120.86    47.16 b
Amounts sold                           0.41
of which repaid                      0.41      0.0
Total held by Bank and IDA                     120.86    47.16
Total undisbursed                               39.06    19.65        58.71
/a   Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 28 -
ANiNEX ii.
Page 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of August 31, 1981)
Fiscal
Year      Obligator            Type of Business        Loan      Equity     Total
1966     Liberian Bank for    Development
Development and       Finance Company
Investment                                              0.250       0.Z50
1977     Liberian Bank for    Development
Development and       Finance Company
Investment                                              U.306       0.306
0.556      0.55b
Less Sold                                               0.001       0.01
Now Held by IFC                                         0.555       0.155



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
(Status as of September 30, 1981)
Loan No. 1266T-LBR    Second Education Project:  US$4.0 Million Third Window
Loan of June 7, 1976;. Effective Date: July 8, 1976;
Closing Date: August 31, 1982
Physical implementation of the project is nearing completion after
delays due to shortages of construction materials and unusually long rainy
seasons. The extension of a teacher training institute was completed on
schedule and within appraisal cost estimates. Eighty-five of the one hundred
planned primary school units have been completed. The technical assistance
program has been completed and most of the fellowships have been awarded. The
only major activity which is outstanding is the educational publications
component. The overall project is expected to be completed in mid 1982, about
two years behind the original target date.
Loan No. 1417-LBR   Third Education Project:  US$6.3 Million Loan of
May 26, 1977; Effective Date: July 13, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Overall, project implementation is about two years behind schedule
due to poor contractor performance, site changes, and delays in placing
fellows. The Vocational Training Center/Agricultural and Industrial Training
Board, the Forestry Training Institute and three of the four Science and Tech-
nology Centers should begin operation soon. The construction of the fourth
Science and Technology Center will begin soon. The technical assistance
program is being implemented as planned. The fellowship program for the
Vocational Training Center is being implemented satisfactorily but the
remainder of the fellowship program is about two years behind schedule. The
project is expected to be completed about two years behind the original
completion date but close to appraisal cost estimates.
Credit No. 577-LBR    Agricultural Development (Lofa) Project:  US$6 Million
Credit of August 1, 1975; Effective Date: May 26. 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Project performance continues to be satisfactory in swamp and
upland rice development with 101 percent and 90 percent of their respective
targets to date achieved. About 75 percent of the cocoa targets and 58 per-
cent of coffee targets were met. The main reason for these shortfalls were
the temporary disturbances in field operations in May and June 1980 following
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 30-                           ANNEX II
Page 4
the April change of government and shortage of planting materials. The
performance of the completely Liberianised Senior Staff continues to be
satisfactory although the Cooperative and Agricultural field staff needs
strengthening. A Bank mission appraised a second phase of this project in
June, and the appraisal report is being prepared.
Credit No. 700-LBR    Agricultural Development (Bong) Project:  US$7 Million
Credit of December 29, 1977; Effective Date: March 15,
1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Project performance continues to be satisfactory. About 100 percent
of upland rice targets, 13 percent of swamp rice targets, 100 percent of cocoa
targets and 85 percent of coffee targets, have been achieved. The project
continues to face difficulties in getting farmers to develop swamp rice.
Project management is adjusting to recent staff changes.
Credit No. 786/           Rubber Development Project:  US$7 Million Loan and
Loan No. 1544-LBR         US$6 Million Credit, both of April 21, 1978;
Effective Date: October 3, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
Satisfactory progress is being made in the management of this
project. However, improving smallholders involvement in the full range of
rubber activities is progressing only slowly. A new Training Officer is being
appointed and traffning of staff, farmers and tapper: sh^uld soon commence.  The
Bank is considering amendments to the project scopc and design, to include
processing facilities. Some 90 percent of project targets are likely to be
attained for 1980/81.
Credit No. 839-LBR    Forestry Project:  US$6 Million Credit of July 28, 1978;
Effective Date: December 20, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
There has been a perceptible improvement in staff morale since
the new Managing Director was appointed. Progress is being made in the
building program and the development of the trial industrial plantation site.
The reduced effectiveness of the Forest Development Authority and of Ministry
of Finance in collecting forest taxes has resulted in considerable arrears
from concessions. This has limited the Authority's role in the sector and the
plantation program has also suffered. Planting is now expected to reach only
63 percent of appraisal targets. The fellowship and training program is
proceeding satisfactorily.



ANNEX II
Page 5
Loan No. 1765-LBR
Special Action Credit No. 35-LBR
Decoris Oil Palm Project: US$12.0 Million Loan and
US$2.0 Million EEC Credit, both of December 21. 1979:
Effective Date: February 23, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1987
Project performance is satisfactory, and land development is almost
on target with some 1225 ha of nucleus and smallholders land cleared. Pro-
cedures for compensating farmers for land obtained for the nucleus estate are
being developed. Although funding is at times difficult, Project Management
continues to make reasonably good progress.
Loan No. 1156-LBR   Third Highway Project:  US$27.5 Million Loan of
August 28, 1975; Effective Date: October 14, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
The construction of a major bridge and an urban main road (5.4 m)
in Monrovia was completed in 1979, and the main trunk road (83 m) was substan-
tially completed in May 1981 after delays due to bad weather, difficulties in
the supply of materials and disturbances associated with the change of govern-
ment in 1980. The feasibility studies of about 98 miles of main roads and an
urban transport study of Monrovia have been completed. The Lofa County Feeder
Road Unit, which became operational in January 1977, has been transferred to
the Feeder Road Project (1664-LBR) after completion of the three-year construc-
tion program. Technical assistance in developing the Planning and Programming
Division of the Ministry of Public Works has been reasonably effective.
Loan 1573-LBR        Fourth Highway Project:  US$13.8 Million Loan of
June 2, 1978; Effective Date: September 11, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project includes reconstruction and improvement of the Pay-
nesville-Totota and Paynesville-Robertsfield road, road maintenance, technical
assistance and preinvestment studies. Reconstruction of the Paynesville-
Robertsfield road, financed by the Kuwait Fund, was completed in October 1980.
Rehabilitation of the Paynesville-Totota road was resumed in September 1980
after disruptions caused by the change of government, and is now about 65 per-
cent completed. Detailed engineering of the Ganta-Sanniquellie and Ganta-Tapeta
roads, delayed temporarily, was substantially completed in December 1980. Due
to a shortage of funds and changes in government personnel assigned to mainte-
nance operations, technical assistance for maintenance has not been effective.
During the last six months of their contract, the road maintenance advisory
team assisted the Ministry of Public Works to prepare a study for a follow-up
maintenance project. A project cost overrun of about US$9.5 million is now
expected as a consequence of implementation delays and higher than expected
construction costs due to faster deterioration than foreseen at appraisal
of Paynesville-Totota road; Government is exploring other sources of funding
to complete the works.



32-                          ANNEX II
Page 6
Loan No. 1664-LBR         Feeder Roads Project:  US$10.7 Million Loan of
April 4, 1979: Effective Date: April 30, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project provides for the construction or improvement and main-
tenance of about 700 miles of feeder roads and for the maintenance of a
further 200 miles of feeder roads. The work will be undertaken by three
brigades operated by the Ministry of Public Works. While some of the equip-
ment has been delivered, the project has been adversely affected by the
unsettled situation since the 1980 change of government and, more recently,
by a shortage of counterpart resources.
Loan No. 1055-LBR         Second Development Finance Company (LBDI) Project:
US$4 Million Loan of December 3, 1974; Effective
Date: January 3, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1980; and
Loan No. 1323-LBR         Third Development Finance Company (LBDI) Project:
US$7 Million Loan of October 7, 1976; Effective
Date: December 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
Loan 1055-LBR is fully committed and should be completed shortly.
Commitment of Loan 1323-LBR has been slower than anticipated (50 percent of
the loan has been committed) owing to depressed economic activity in Liberia
and a downturn in business investment. Following the 1980 political changes
and subsequent general economic difficulties, the quality of LBDI's portfolio
and its financial position have deteriorated considerably. LBDI is now
concentrating its efforts on project follow-up and loan recovery.
Loan No. 1076-LBR         Small and Medium-Scale Enterprise Project:
US$4 million Credit of January 9, 1981;
Effective Date: September 14, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Credit effectiveness and initial project implementation have been
delayed by weak management in the implementing agency (NIC). The consultant
study on industrial incentives and revision of the investment code is underway.
The first of three technical experts will join NIC soon. Minor disbursements
have been made for technical assistance only.
Loan No. 1600-LBR         Fourth Power Project:  US$10.0 Million Loan of
July 7, 1978; Effective Date: December 11, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project consists of expansion of thermal generating facilities
by 26 MW to meet demand up to 1985, power distribution to urban poor, rural
transmission studies and technical assistance for management and training.
Construction of the power plant has been completed, and the two diesel units
are in operation. LEC's financial performance has been severely affected by



33-                           ANNEX II
Page 7
low operating efficiency. A five-man management support team started work at
LEC in July 1978 as a part of the Management Improvement Program instituted
under this loan. Progress of this team has been satisfactory but loan funds
for this component were exhausted in June 1981. LEC is funding a one year
extension from meager resources; additional funding is needed to keep the team
in place after June 1982.
Credit No. 859-LBR        Water Supply Project:  US$8 Million Credit of
January 8, 1979; Effective Date: April 2, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Project costs have escalated from $16.1 million at appraisal to
$23.2 million. The Government successfully approached the Finnish Aid Agency
(FINIDA) for funds to finance the local component. Construction works are now
progressing according to plan, except for the raw water intake and pipeline
which are pending resolution of a LEC claim for compensation. The installa-
tion of standpipes in Monrovia's urban poor quarters has been completed.
Unaccounted-for water remains at a high level, almost 50%. Serious revenue
shortfalls continue to plague LWSC but billing and collection are slowly
improving. Government funding of LWSC remains irregular and Government
intends to introduce by 1982 new funding arrangements based on LWSC's actual
cash needs. The Management Improvement and Technical Assistance Program has
not yielded expected results due to changes in top management, shortages in
counterpart funds and financial constraints. The German Government is funding
a continuation of the program through GTZ.
Loan No. 1907-LBR         Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project; US$5.0
Million Loan of November 21, 1980; Effective Date:
January 9, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project seeks to promote Liberia's offshore petroleum potential
by financing a seismic survey; processing, interpreting and integrating seis-
mic data; consulting services for the promotion, auction and negotiation of
new exploration permits and technical assistance to the Bureau of Hydrocarbons
and for energy planning. Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily.
The seismic survey was initiated on March 4, 1981 and has now been completed.
Availability of counterpart financing may constitute a problem in the future
for the implementation of the project.



- 34 -                             ±ANix iii
Page I
LIBERIA
National Iron Ore Company Rehabilitation Project
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
I.   Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Identification Mission:         August 1978
(b)  Project Preparation Agency:   National Iron Ore Company (I'lUC)
assisted by consultants financed with
a PPF advance.
(c)  Date of appraisal mission:    December 1980
(d)  Negotiations:                   September 4, 1981
(e)  Planned effectiveness:          March 1982
II.  Special Bank Implementation Action
None
III. Special Conditions
(a) Signature cf management contract and -erms of reference tor the
Executive Committee, both in a form sacisfactory to the banK, as
conditions of effectiveness, (para. 40 and 41)i
(b) NIOC would review with the Bank the appropriateness of retaining
management consultants after June 30, 1984 and make management
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank (para. 41);
(c) NIOC would prepare a detailed drilling program by March 3i, 198Z
and carry it out by December 31, 1982 (para. 44);
(d) NIOC would prepare detailed two-year, medium-term, and long-term
mine plans by specified dates, carry out the plans, review and
update them yearly (para. 45);
(e)  The Government would employ management experts acceptable to the banK
to manage the bridge rehabilitation (para. 47);
(f) The Government would employ consultants acceptable to the baanK Dy
December 31, 1982 to execute economic studies in the minin6 region
(para. 48);
(g)  NIOC would retain a marketing agent acceptable to the banK Ipara.
50);



- 35 -
ANNEX Ili
k'a8e 4
(h) The Government would make a US$3 million equity contribution
to NIOC to finance working capital as a condition ot effectiveness,
(para. 55);
(i) The Government would make further equity contribution during project
implementation to cover interest during construction on all loans
except the World Bank loans (para. 55);
(j) The Government would cover any NIOC financial shortfall (para. 55),
(k) NIOC would pay a guarantee fee of one percent on the Bank loan to
the Government (para. 57);
(1) Retroactive financing of up to US$2 million for management fees and
spare parts incurred after January 1, 1981 would be provided under
the NIOC loan (para. 57);
(m)  Fulfillment of all conditions precedent to the effectiveness ot
all other new loans as a condition of effectiveness (para. 6u);
(n) Effectiveness of the agreements to reschedule and subordinate
NIOC's existing debt as a condition of effectiveness (para. bU),
(o)  Effectiveness of the security trust agreement as a condition of
effectiveness (para. 61);
(p)  Effectiveness of the voting trust agreement as a condition of
effectiveness (para. 39);
(q) Amendment of the concession agreement and the certificate of
incorporation of NIOC as a condition of effectiveness (para. 65);
(r) NIOC would observe certain financial covenants regarding payment
of dividends, service of existing debt, payment of taxes, incurring
of additional debt, and making investments; and NIUC would maintain
a current ratio of 1.3 to 1 (para. 66);
(s) NIOC would submit to the Bank audited accounts for l19U as a
condition of effectiveness (para. 67); and
(t) NIOC would submit audited accounts to the bank no later than four
months after the end of its fiscal year (para. 67).



BRD 15723
*   '~~~  9   ^                                                                    8-                  a>RIX~LIERI
J           ,*    r         t-VOINJAMA *                                                                              LIBERIA
*Sj ,elo-t80  >a  GA 0NIOC IRON ORE
KouahcAr )   \ emOREHABILITATION PROJECT
S I E R R A                           *. J   WOLOGISI fl                                         C                                    Iron Ore Concession Areas
LOt )                                                                           Iron Ore Co-cessons
L   E   0     N   E        F.1-o,rrr                                                                                                    El   Poteti  Ir- Ore Develp-ent &'
St Po.l Over Bridge
kl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                          R-~~~~~~~~~~~~Pod Ronyt
L.oe Surface Roads
Salopie G                                  !              M  /jtte-aio-n1l A,rpprt
v/zEk 4f/NE X <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ *  A-1NN Q.UELlIE                                                               ,;>   M,nor Perle
± x~~R,
D5   \,  j   ef /                    /           Y       f       B~~~~~~~~~elef Jenal   \._Guna  to. nr (tm     ade0      n~.C   Rivern
\    ~ Couty Capwtln
D- I   ~ ~ ~          ®     Nori-oo  Capital
3(~~~~~~M-                                                                         1,                         Kp.74
t 4 0g : / S , /  I   V                                                                                                                                    O R   Y
r y                              X                     Blep                                                       Bouedar,en
MONROVIA          bel    C-p-d Nb 2                                             P RNO  Soiele                r          Ritroin   B,ore
WSS                                                                   I             °eS                                                          / 0f 
Tvbne4blNr S(g  f Po    \ ONG i
Zeruke     EDR \(/ /e
WvrZ 8wkrs stotPlr4rrvWv2 fK                                                                                                           '               IT/ 
lhe ovmff"*i*eeawx Of Omb'\ R0"W  Of                                                                                                 /         /
i~  cAtcr is cew  tZ  r/  
, 4.0w               xr woh                                                                    \    fA.kwA<
8    m      ,      hL~~ A  L i           5                                                                       K ue2t                                                               5
GWINEA-+                               VO*f LTA$                                                                                                    
GUIEA i  Ttkcs   pk
COAST  J  I.                                      At;BObiTER$3                                               \\              od k    / 
hLonavvAR;L~~~~~~~ --b   o  3IG l  4V 5o  60 
A  t   c   ti i   c   O c e on M.ILES                                                                                                                                 fR         r-



