OGFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS         LOAN NUMBER 2081 LBR
Guar~ntee Agreement
(NIOC Rehabilitation Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                              , 1982


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2081 LBR
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated  gizu           , 1982, between REPUBLIC OF
LIBERIA (hereinafter ca led the uarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOP  NT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and National Iron Ore Company, Ltd. (hereinafter called
the Borrower) the Bank has agreed to make to the Borrower a loan
in various currencies equivalent to eleven million seven hundred
thousand dollars ($11,700,000), on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the
Guarantor agree to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in
respect of such loan as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower and of the
Borrower's agreement to pay to the Guarantor a fee of one per cent
per annum of the equivalent in the currency of the Guarantor on
the disbursed and outstanding balance of the Loan, has agreed so
to guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provlsions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement
have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any
of its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the


﻿-2-
Guarantor hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor
and not as surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the
premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loan and the punctual
performance of all the other obligations of the Borrower, all as
set forth in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor
specifically undertakes:
(a) to make available to the Borrower, until June 14, 1984,
the funds required by the Borrower to pay interest and other
charges on the FMO Loan, such funds to be made available to the
Borrower: (i) at such times and in such amounts as shall be
required to make such payments when due and payable; and (ii)
solely in exchange for shares of common stock of the Borrower;
(b) to finance, until June 14, 1984, in exchange fox shares
of common stock of the Borrower, interest and other charges on the
proceeds of the ADB Loan and the OPEC Fund Loan relent by the
Guarantor to the Borrower; and
(c) in addition, whenever there is reasonable cause to
believe that the funds available to the Borrower will be inade-
quate to meet the estimated expenditures required for the carrying
on of its operations (including the Project), to make arrange-
ments, satisfactory to the Bank, promptly to provide the Borrower
or cause the Borrower to be provided with such funds as are needed
to meet such expenditures.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, if
the Guarantor shall prepay part, or all, of its debt under the ADB
Loan Agreement or the OPEC Fund Agreement, or of the Borrower
under any Senior Loan, the Guarantor shall, upon making such
prepayment, make available to the Borrower, on terms and condi-
tions satisfactory to the Bank, such amounts as shall be necessary
to enable the Borrower to comply with the requirements of Section
5.08 of the Loan Agreement in respect of the other Senior Loans.
Section 2.04. The Guarantor shall collect from the Borrouar,
when due, the fee referred to in the second Whereas of the reci-
tals to this Agreement.


﻿-3-
Section 2.05. The Guarantor shall make arrangements, satis-
factory to the Bank, for the purpose of providing that the Bor-
rower shall not be obligated to pay duties, charges or fees on the
importation of goods, equipment and materials for the Project, and
shall not change such arrangements without the Bank's agreement.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek,
in normal circumstances, specific security from the member con-
cerned but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or distri-
bution of foreign exchange held under the control or for the
benefit of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created
on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto, and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Guarantor, in
creating or permitting the creation of suc% lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Guarantor shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more
than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Guarantor, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Guarantor or any
such subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets
held by any institution performing the functions of a central


﻿-4-
bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Guarantor.
Section 3.02. The Guarantor shall exercise its rights and
powers as a shareholder of the Borrower and every other right,
power or remedy available to it to permit or cause the Borrower to
perform all its obligations under the Loan Agreement and the
Scheduled Agreements, and it shall not take, nor cause or permit
any of its political subdivisions or any of its agencies or any
agency of any such political subdivisions to take, any action
which would prevent or interfere with the performance by the
Borrower of its obligations in the Loan Agreement and the
Scheduled Agreements contained.
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Guarantor shall not take any action to modify the share
capital of the Borrower, or sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of
any of its common stock of the Borrower if as a result of such
action, or sale, transfer or other disposal the percentage of
common stock of the Borrower held by the Guarantor would be
reduced to less than 80% of the total common stock of the
Borrower or the Guarantor would lose effective control of the
Borrower.
Section 3.04. If at any time the Guarantor shall, pursuant
to the provisions of this Agreement, make any of the payments due
under the Loan, the Guarantor shall, to the extent of any such
payment, be subrogated to the rights of the Bank under the Loan
Agreement and the Security Trust Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Minister of Finance of the Guarantor is
designated as representative of the Guarantor for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Ministry of Finance
Monrovia
Liberia


﻿-5-
Cable address:                        Telex:
MINFIN                              4221
Monrovia
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the Borough
of Manhattan, The City of New York, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Reprepentattve


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          day of  A    , 198.
F[ft-EC1TARY


