        Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
        PE Social Inclusion DPL(P131028)



                                                                                                                 Report Number : ICRR0020135


1. Project Data



 Operation ID                                             Operation Name
 P131028                                                  PE Social Inclusion DPL

 Country                                                  Practice Area(Lead)
 Peru                                                     Social Protection & Labor



  L/C/TF Number(s)                                        Closing Date (Original)                                       Total Financing (USD)
  IBRD-82210                                              31-Dec-2013                                                           45,000,000.00

  Bank Approval Date                                      Closing Date (Actual)
  13-Dec-2012                                             31-Dec-2013

                                                                IBRD/IDA (USD)                                           Co-financing (USD)

  Original Commitment                                              45,000,000.00                                                       0.00

  Revised Commitment                                               45,000,000.00                                                       0.00

  Actual                                                           45,000,000.00                                                       0.00




 Sector(s)
 Other social services(58%):Health(21%):General education sector(15%):Compulsory pension and unemployment insurance(6%)

 Theme(s)
 Social Safety Nets/Social Assistance & Social Care Services(50%):Nutrition and food security(19%):Income Support for Old Age, Disability
 & Survivorship(13%):Social Inclusion(12%):Social Protection and Labor Policy & Systems(6%)

 Prepared by                          Reviewed by                          ICR Review Coordinator             Group
 Hjalte S. A. Sederlof                Soniya Carvalho                      Joy Behrens                        IEGHC (Unit 2)




2. Project Objectives and Policy Areas


a. Objectives
    The First Social Inclusion DPL (SI1) originally was to be the first in a two-part programmatic DPL series (SI1 and SI2). According to the
    Program Document (PD) for SI1, the overarching objective of the two DPLs was to enhance the inclusiveness, performance, and overall results
    orientation of the Ministry of Development and Social Inclusion (MIDIS)’s programs and policies (PD, p.15).
    Specific development objectives for the series were the following:

        1 supporting the institutionalization of the stewardship of the social inclusion agenda under MIDIS
          Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
          PE Social Inclusion DPL(P131028)



          2 laying the foundations for improving the inclusiveness and effectiveness of key MIDIS social programs; and
          3 developing adequate systems for targeting, monitoring and evaluation, and overall coordination.


      The objectives are reflected in the three Policy Areas supported by SI1, and set out below.
      SI1 was to support the establishment of a new Ministry of Development and Social Inclusion (MIDIS) that was to be in charge of implementing
      the social inclusion agenda; and SI2 was to focus on implementing the agenda. The DPL series was to be supported by a Social Inclusion
      Technical Assistance Loan (TAL), presented to the Board at the same time as the first DPL.
      SI1 was disbursed six months after Loan Effectiveness.
      Following extensive discussions during the preparation of SI2, it was dropped at the end of 2014. The ICR (p. 4-5) discusses the events that
      led to the decision not to proceed with a second phase DPL as initially planned. The ICR indicates that the design of the reform program did
      not sufficiently take into account the bureaucratic institutional rigidities that can make themselves felt when engaging cross-agency and sub-
      national levels in reform. This affected the timetable for actions supported by the programmatic DPL, and SI2 was finally dropped as the Bank’s
      statutory deadline for programmatic DPLs was reached. Personnel changes in MIDIS also appear to have played a role, including at
      management levels, shifting priorities within the strategy which in turn affected triggers for SI2. The strategy itself was not altered by these
      changes.


b. Were the program objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation of the series?
     No



c.   Pillars/Policy Areas
      SI1 supported three main policy areas:

          • Consolidation of the institutional framework for the stewardship of the social inclusion agenda under MIDIS. This included: (i) the
          establishment of the Ministry with an organizational set-up to function as steward of the development of national social inclusion policies;
          and implementer of temporary social inclusion-related programs; and (ii) the progressive extension of the MIDIS’s organizational model to
          sub-national levels.
          • Enhancing the inclusiveness and effectiveness of key social programs. This included: (i) enhanced coverage of Peru’s conditional cash
          transfer (CCT) program Juntos; (ii) introduction of a social pension; and the development of a broader strategic approach to social
          protection of the elderly; and (iii) introduction of a new school feeding program in public schools. These programs were primarily aimed at
          the extremely poor.
          • Reforming social policy approaches and systems. This included: (i) overhauling the national household targeting system; (ii)
          progressive development of a national monitoring and evaluation system for evidence-based decision-making in social policy; and (iii) the
          adoption of a cross-sectoral coordination strategy for social inclusion policies and programs, in SI1 focused on chronic malnutrition and
          early childhood development.


      .



d. Comments on Program Cost, Financing, and Dates
      Project cost and financing. SI1 was supported by a Bank Loan of US$ 45 million. The Loan was fully disbursed.
      Dates. The Loan was approved on December 13, 2012, and closed on December 31, 2013.




3. Relevance of Objectives & Design

a. Relevance of Objectives

     Peru had experienced strong economic growth over the 2000-2011 period, accompanied by a steady reduction in poverty and inequality. Still,
     poverty and inequality remained important challenges for social policy. Social programs were fragmented, and their interventions
     uncoordinated, in part due to the absence of a coherent institutional framework. Reflecting this, the Government in 2011 introduced a “growth
               Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                              Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
               PE Social Inclusion DPL(P131028)



       with inclusion” strategy to gradually increase the effectiveness of its safety net programs; this also included the establishment of MIDIS. The
       Government reform, further elaborated in 2013, was in line with the Bank’s country partnership strategy (CPS) for 2012-2016, which was
       designed to support the reform. The intended DPL series, in addressing institutional and program strengthening, was a direct reflection of
       this.




       Rating
       High


   b. Relevance of Design

       The original two-DPL design was consistent with the PDO; and the introduction of a complementary technical assistance project underpinned
       the development of the institutional elements of the reform program. A number of recent and ongoing projects, including the technical
       assistance project that accompanied SI1, also addressed relevant social sector institution-building issues. A policy matrix provided the logical
       framework, indicating the legal, regulatory, policy actions, and institution building activities for each policy area, the objectives of each policy
       action, and expected short-term results. Given the limited time-frame of the project, outcomes in most instances were framed as intermediate
       outcomes.
       The choice of a programmatic series was based on recognizing the still formative nature of the institutional and organizational environment
       that was being reformed, and there a programmatic DPL could provide flexibility to adapt strategies to changing circumstances on the ground.
       A stable macro-fiscal framework reduced potential financial risks of a DPL approach. Macro-economic policies were adequate: the country had
       a conservative fiscal policy stance, low and declining debt, sufficient fiscal space to respond to external shocks, and a prudent monetary and
       exchange rate policy (PD, p. 2-5); and over the decade, Bank and the IMF had collaborated on building-up public financial management and
       on modernizing budgetary processes.
       However, as the ICR also notes, the project design entailed significant institutional change over a short period of time. It required regional
       coordination not only between MIDIS and its five social programs but also collaboration with other ministries and local government.




       Rating
       Modest



   4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy)
PHREVISEDTBL



    Objective 1

    Objective
     Supporting the institutionalization of the Stewardship of the social inclusion agenda under the MIDIS.


    Rationale


      By the end of the SI1-SI2 series, MIDIS's stewardship of the social inclusion agenda was to be institutionalized, as measured by the
      establishment of legal and organizational rules for MIDIS at the central level, and integrated liaison units created in all regions. At
      the central level, this goal was achieved. At the sub-national level, the goal was partially achieved with integration of the inclusion
      agenda a work-in-progress.
               Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                            Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
               PE Social Inclusion DPL(P131028)




    Rating
    Substantial

PHREVISEDTBL



    Objective 2

    Objective
     Laying the foundations for improving the inclusiveness and effectiveness of key MIDIS social programs

    Rationale

    The CCT. By the end of the SI1-SI2 series: (i) at least 150,000 new users were to have been enrolled in the Juntos CCT program; and (ii)
    at least 90 percent of local CCT promoters were to have been trained in family guidance and counseling. By the end of SI1, the CCT had
    been expanded to over 280,000 beneficiaries. Training of promoters was started on a pilot basis, but was subsequently discontinued, as
    Juntos was refocused towards a more comprehensive approach that was to address the main supply- and demand challenges to
    compliance/co-responsibility - deficiencies in access and quality of services, information failures, and family conflict. In that context, the
    role of promoters also was to be redefined.
    Elder poverty. By the end of the SI1-SI2 series, at least 65 percent of the elderly living in extreme poverty would be covered by Peru’s
    social pension, and have access to complementary health services. Under SI1, coverage reached 79 percent; and all beneficiaries also
    had access to the national health insurance scheme, and affiliation processes and payments systems were standardized.
    School feeding. By the end of the SI1-SI2 series, at least 70 percent of children attending public pre-school and schools would be reached
    by a new, decentralized, school feeding program; and at least 40 percent of districts where the school feeding program operates have
    introduced mechanisms for transparency and civil society oversight. Under SI1, the school feeding program was reaching 82 percent of
    targeted children; and transparency and civil society oversight mechanisms had been introduced in 44 percent of targeted districts.




    Rating
    Substantial

PHREVISEDTBL



    Objective 3

    Objective
     Developing adequate systems for targeting, monitoring and evaluation, and overall coordination

    Rationale
    Key areas included: (i) reform of the targeting system; (ii) building the foundations of a national monitoring and evaluation system; and (iii)
    improved coordination of social inclusion policies and programs.
    Targeting system. The legal and institutional framework to improve the management of the targeting system was pending approval.
    Monitoring and evaluation system. By the end of the SI1-SI2 series, MIDIS’s programs were to have started to implement at least 40
    percent of the recommendations generated through the monitoring and evaluation system. By the end of SI1, technical guidelines for the
    system had been issued, but had not yet been approved by MIDIS.
    Policy and program coordination. By the end of the SI1-SI2 series, the coverage of effective interventions defined in the chronic malnutrition
    guidelines was to have increased in at least three regions. SI1 supported a strategy and introduced guidelines for effective interventions.
     A pilot was introduced in two regions in 2013, applying a package of proven effectiveness. By the end of 2014, it had been expanded to 16
    regions.




    Rating
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         PE Social Inclusion DPL(P131028)



 Modest



5. Outcome

The relevance of the PDO was high, reflecting its relevance to the country situation, Government policy, and the Bank's CPS. Relevance of
design was rated modest in that it entailed institutional change and sub-national coordination within a short timeframe. Achievement of
objectives was rated substantial, substantial, and modest, respectively. The partial achievements at the sub-national level under the first
objective and the shortcomings relating to the targeting and M&E systems under the third objective together constitute moderate shortcomings,
resulting in a moderately satisfactory Outcome rating.



a.     Outcome Rating
       Moderately Satisfactory



6. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating

The DPL reforms were introduced into a stable political and macro-economic environment. The social inclusion theme has wide support among
key stakeholders, having been developed through broad public consultations, including with civil society. The theme continues to be central to
the Government’s national development strategy. Risks are mainly to be found in inter-sectoral collaboration, and the gradual devolution of
program implementation to sub-national levels. However, those risks are reduced by collaborative inter-sectoral decision making, and by M&E
and feedback systems that, once fully operational, should quickly signal issues.



a.     Risk to Development Outcome Rating
       Modest


7. Assessment of Bank Performance

a. Quality-at-Entry
     In designing the SI, the Bank team drew on extensive prior and ongoing analytical work, as well as other DPLs and investment operations
     that also addressed social inclusion. Moreover, close collaboration with the IMF on public financial management provided a strong
     understanding of potential macro and fiscal risks (which were judged minor). The team focused on relevant issues, but some may have
     been too ambitious, involving operating with integrated units at the regional level. More attention should have been paid to building an
     effective M&E system that would have allowed rigorous monitoring of project progress.



     Quality-at-Entry Rating
     Moderately Satisfactory


b. Quality of supervision
     The supervision team was faced with supporting the implementation of an ambitious agenda, albeit with the support of the Technical
     Assistance project. Still, the team appears to have been able to work proactively with counterparts in moving forward the reforms set out for
     SI1-SI2, with many of the program targets being met. This was done despite high management and staff turnover in MIDIS, and shifting
     priorities arising from such personnel changes. Throughout implementation, the supervision team faced the challenge of weak M&E
     arrangements developed at entry, and as a result, in some instances indicators of progress were absent, or hard to define. Here, the team
     should have proactively strengthened M&E and looked at possibilities to achieve better measurement of progress in the various policy areas.
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                             Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         PE Social Inclusion DPL(P131028)



   Quality of Supervision Rating
   Moderately Unsatisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory


8. Assessment of Borrower Performance

a. Government Performance
   The Government backed its social inclusion policy and, consequently, the reform actions that were being pursued, at least in their formative
   stages under SI1. This has, according to the ICR (p. 26) moved forward a broad and cross-sectoral social policy agenda in Peru. Still, some
   awkwardness in implementing SI1 and considering SI2 was created by frequent personnel changes in MIDIS. Government ownership and
   support also was less apparent when attempting to move towards SI2, which the Government (maybe correctly) judged unnecessary.
   Moreover, it was in any case involved in a broad dialogue with the Bank through the Banks other lending and non-lending activities in Peru.




   Government Performance Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory


b. Implementing Agency Performance
   n/a



   Implementing Agency Performance Rating
   ---

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating
    Moderately Satisfactory



9. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization

a. M&E Design
   Monitoring and evaluation design and the quality of indicators was weak, for example, the ICR (p. 11) correctly points to the ”percentage of
   …recommendations [ generated by the M&E system] implemented” as a weak indicator. The institutional nature of the project called for
   innovative M&E, including through combining qualitative and qualitative methods.




b. M&E Implementation
   Insufficient consideration at the design stage made it difficult to measure key indicators on a continuous basis throughout the project
   period. This is reflected in the absence of quantified indicators in some instances in ISR reports. During implementation, additional
   baseline data was supposed to be collected; this was done in one instance, in the other four cases where it was initially contemplated, the
   time-frame would prove to be too short. The above-mentioned indicator for the M&E system was not changed.




c. M&E Utilization
   The M&E system was used to collect information and prepare for SI2. At the same time, consideration was being given to adjust the
   indicators for the second phase. This of course, never came to pass.
             Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                           Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
             PE Social Inclusion DPL(P131028)




   M&E Quality Rating
   Modest


10. Other Issues

a. Environmental and Social Effects
   No environmental and social effects were discussed in the ICR.




b. Fiduciary Compliance
No fiduciary issues were discussed in the ICR.




c. Unintended impacts (Positive or Negative)
       ---



d. Other
       ---




11. Ratings
                                                                                                                  Reason for
Ratings                                   ICR                                IEG
                                                                                                                  Disagreements/Comment
Outcome                                   Moderately Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory               ---
Risk to Development Outcome               Modest                            Modest                                ---
                                                                                                                  There is no disagreement--with
                                                                                                                  a moderately satisfactory
                                                                                                                  Quiality at Entry rating and a
                                                                                                                  moderaely unsatisfactory
Bank Performance                          Moderately Unsatisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory               Quality of Supervision rating,
                                                                                                                  the ICR should also have rated
                                                                                                                  Bank Performance moderately
                                                                                                                  satisfactory (as per the
                                                                                                                  harmonized criteria).
                                                                                                                  Turnover in management and
                                                                                                                  staff of MIDIS and the resulting
Borrower Performance                      Satisfactory                      Moderately Satisfactory
                                                                                                                  shifts in priorities lead to a
                                                                                                                  moderately satisfactory rating.
Quality of ICR                                                              Substantial                           ---


Note
When insufficient information is provided by the Bank for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade the relevant ratings as warranted
beginning July 1, 2006.
The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column could cross-reference other sections of the ICR Review, as appropriate.
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       PE Social Inclusion DPL(P131028)




12. Lessons

The review draws the following lessons from among the lessons from the ICR:
1. The involvement of various stakeholders relevant to the sector significantly facilitated the initiatives being introduced, ensuring that they had
significant institutional support.
2. Maintaining communications with the counterpart is crucial when executing complex reforms. In this case that was done, both through the
DPL mechanism and through a number of other mechanisms that allowed a continuous dialogue on structuring reforms to individual programs.
3. In that perspective, a combination of instruments - DPLs, technical assistance, non-lending technical assistance, and SWAPs in key
sectors (health and education) proved to be an effective means to provide considered and timely responses to MIDIS on the whole area of social
inclusion. A key element when a variety of instruments are being used, is coordination.




13. Assessment Recommended?

No


14. Comments on Quality of ICR

The ICR is generally in line with the ICR guidelines.




a.   Quality of ICR Rating
     Substantial
