                                         Document of
                                     The World Bank

                                                         Report No.: ICR00003471

              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                               (IBRD-82210)

                                        ON A LOAN

                         IN THE AMOUNT OF US$45.00 MILLION

                                              TO THE

                                    REPUBLIC OF PERU

                                              FOR A

              FIRST SOCIAL INCLUSION DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN

                                     December 15, 2015




Social Protection and Labor Global Practice
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
                    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
           (Exchange Rate Effective as of December 15, 2015)
                      Currency Unit = Nuevo Sol
                          S/.1.00 = US$0.30
                           FISCAL YEAR

                         January 1 – December 31

                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CCT       Conditional Cash Transfer
          Dirección General de. Seguimiento y Evaluación (General Office of
DGSYE
          Monitoring and Evaluation)
DPL       Development Policy Loan
ECD       Early Childhood Development
FED       Fondo de Estímulo al Desempeño (Performance Incentive Fund)
GoP       Government of Peru
ICR       Implementation Completion and Results Report
          Instituto Nacional de Estadísticas e Informática (National Institute for
INEI
          Statistics)
ISR       Implementation Status and Results Report
Juntos    Juntos (Conditional Cash Transfer Program)
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
MEF       Ministerio de Economia y Finanzas (Ministry of Economy and Finance)
          Ministerio de Desarrollo e Inclusión Social (Ministry of Development and
MIDIS
          Social Inclusion)
MINSA     Ministerio de Salud (Ministry of Health)
NLTA      Non-lending Technical Assistance
PCM       Presidencia de Consejo de Ministros (Council of Ministers)
PGH       Padrón General de Hogares (General Household Registry
          Programa Nacional de Asistencia Alimentaria (National Food Assistance
PRONAA
          Program)
PSIA      Poverty and Social Impact Analysis
QW        Qali Warma (School Feeding Program)
          Registro Nacional de Identificacion y Estado Civil (National Registry of
RENIEC
          Identification and Civil Status)
          Sistema Nacional de Desarrollo e Inclusión Social (National System for
SINADIS
          Development and Social Inclusion)
SIS       Seguro Integral de Salud (Integral Health Insurance Program)
SISFOH    Sistema de Focalización de Hogares (Household Targeting System)
SWAP      Sector-wide Approach
TAL       Technical Assistance Loan




                                    i
            Viceministerio de Prestaciones Sociales (Vice Ministry of Social
VPS
            Benefits)
            Viceministerio de Politicas y Evaluacion Social (Vice Ministry of Policies
VPES
            and Social Evaluation)




       Senior Global Practice Director:    Arup Banerji
                      Sector Manager:      Margaret Grosh
                 Project Team Leader:      Iamele P. Rigolini
                    ICR Team Leader:       Julieta M. Trias

                                          ii
                                                PERU
                           First Social Inclusion Development Policy Loan
                                       TABLE OF CONTENTS

A. Basic Information ...................................................................................................... iii 
B. Key Dates .................................................................................................................. iii 
C. Ratings Summary ...................................................................................................... iii 
D. Sector and Theme Codes........................................................................................... iv 
E. Bank Staff .................................................................................................................. iv 
F. Results Framework Analysis ...................................................................................... v 
G. Ratings of Program Performance in Implementation status and results report (ISR)
....................................................................................................................................... vii 
H. Restructuring (if any) ............................................................................................... vii 
1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................ 1 
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5 
3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 12 
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ......................................................... 23 
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 24 
6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 27 
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 28 
Annex 1 Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes.............. 29 
Annex 2. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 31 
Annex 3. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ................................................... 32 
Annex 4. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 33 
Annex 5. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 40 
Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 41 
Annex 7. Description of the MIDIS Mandate ............................................................... 43 
Annex 8. Policy Matrix for Peru’s First Social Inclusion DPL .................................... 44 
Annex 9. Level of Fulfillment to Date of Triggers for DPL2 ....................................... 48 
Annex 10. Selected World Bank Support to MIDIS..................................................... 50 
MAP                                                                                                                                    53




                                                                  ii
A. Basic Information

                                                                        First Social Inclusion
Country:              Peru                    Program Name:             Development Policy
                                                                        Loan (DPL)
Program ID:           P131028                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-82210
ICR Date:             12/15/2015              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
Lending Instrument:   DPL                     Borrower:
Original Total
                      US$45.00 million        Disbursed Amount:         US$45.00 million
Commitment:
Revised Amount:       US$45.00 million
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Economy and Finance
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
B. Key Dates

                                                                              Revised / Actual
     Process            Date             Process          Original Date
                                                                                  Date(s)
Concept Review:       06/07/2012   Effectiveness:          07/22/2013            07/10/2013
Appraisal:            10/22/2012   Restructuring(s):
Approval:             12/13/2012   Midterm Review:
                                   Closing:                12/31/2013            12/31/2013
C. Ratings Summary

C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Moderate
Bank Performance:                             Moderately Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory
C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                 Ratings                  Borrower                Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:                   Satisfactory
                             Moderately         Implementing
Quality of Supervision:                                                       Satisfactory
                           Unsatisfactory       Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                 Moderately         Overall Borrower
                                                                              Satisfactory
Performance:               Unsatisfactory       Performance:




                                            iii
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                           Rating:
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem
                                                   Quality at Entry
Program at any time        No                                              None
                                                   (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Program at any                            Quality of
                        No                                            None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:
D. Sector and Theme Codes

                                                                  Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Compulsory pension and unemployment insurance                          6                   6
General education sector                                              15                  15
Health                                                                21                  21
Other social services                                                 58                  58


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Income Support for Old Age, Disability & Survivorship                 13                  13
Nutrition and food security                                           19                  19
Social Inclusion                                                      12                  12
Social Protection and Labor Policy & Systems                           6                  6
Social Safety Nets/Social Assistance & Social Care
                                                                      50                  50
Services
E. Bank Staff

         Positions                        At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Jorge Familiar Calderon              Pamela Cox
Country Director:          Alberto Rodriguez                    Marcelo Giugale
Practice
                           Margaret Ellen Grosh                 Helena G. Ribe
Manager/Manager:
Program Team Leader:       Iamele P. Rigolini                   Carine Clert
ICR Team Leader:           Julieta M. Trias
ICR Primary Author:        Julieta M. Trias




                                                iv
F. Results Framework Analysis

Program Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The Social Inclusion DPL Series had three main development objectives: (a) supporting
the institutionalization of the stewardship of the social inclusion agenda under the Ministry
of Development and Social Inclusion (Ministerio de Desarrollo e Inclusión Social,
MIDIS); (b) laying the foundations for improving the inclusiveness and effectiveness of
key MIDIS social programs; and (c) developing adequate systems for targeting, monitoring
and evaluation (M&E), and overall coordination.
Revised Program Development Objectives (if any, as approved by original approving
authority)
 (a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target     Formally        Actual Value
                                               Values (from       Revised         Achieved at
    Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                  approval        Target        Completion or
                                                documents)        Values         Target Years
Indicator 1 :      The MIDIS's stewardship of the social inclusion agenda is institutionalized
                                                                             Legal and
                                                                             organizational rules
                                            Establishment of
                                                                             at the central level
                                            legal and
                   Lack of a single entity                                   have been
                                            organizational
                   exercising stewardship                                    established.
Value                                       rules at central
                   and oversight of the
(Quantitative or                            level and the
                   social inclusion agenda                                   Regional
Qualitative)                                operation of
                   at central and                                            coordination is
                                            integrated units at
                   subnational levels                                        ongoing. The
                                            subnational level
                                                                             MIDIS has
                                            in all regions
                                                                             appointed 24
                                                                             liaison coordinators
Date achieved      12/31/2012               12/31/2014                        12/31/2014
Comments           Partially Achieved
(incl. %           •Achieved at central level
achievement)       •Partially achieved at subnational level
Indicator 2 :      New users enrolled in the Conditional Cash Transfer Program (Juntos)
Value
(Quantitative or   0                       150,000                           284,357
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2012              12/31/2014                        12/31/2014
Comments
(incl. %           Exceeded target
achievement)
Indicator 3 :      Juntos local promoters trained in family support methodology
Value
(Quantitative or   0                       90%                               57.5%
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2012              12/31/2014                        12/31/2014



                                                 v
Comments           Not achieved. The family support methodology was piloted in three areas. The
(incl. %           indicator refers only to pilot areas. The training was discontinued as the
achievement)       program decided to revise its design to improve efficiency.
                   Elderly living in extreme poverty and complying with the program's eligibility
Indicator 4 :
                   criteria receiving Pension 65
Value
(Quantitative or   40.1%                   65%                               79.4%
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2012              12/31/2014                        12/31/2014
Comments
(incl. %           Exceeded target
achievement)
                   Children attending public preschool and schools served by the School Feeding
Indicator 5 :
                   Program (Qali Warma, QW)
Value
(Quantitative or   0                       70%                               82%
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2012              12/31/2014                        12/31/2014
Comments
(incl. %           Exceeded target
achievement)
                   QW districts operating with mechanisms for transparency and civil society
Indicator 6 :
                   oversight
Value
(Quantitative or   0                       40%                               43.5%
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2012              12/31/2014                        12/31/2014
Comments
(incl. %           Exceeded target
achievement)
                   Poor households (as estimated by the National Institute for Statistics (INEI)
                   have their socioeconomic information (Ficha Socioeconómica Única) updated
Indicator 7 :
                   by the Household Targeting System (Sistema de Focalización de Hogares,
                   SISFOH) within a period not exceeding three years
Value
(Quantitative or   n.a.                    90%                               91.6%
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2012              12/31/2014                        12/31/2014
Comments
(incl. %           Exceeded target
achievement)
                   The MIDIS’s programs have started to implement the recommendations
Indicator 8 :
                   generated through the M&E system
Value              n.a.
(Quantitative or                          40%                             61%
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2012              12/31/2014                        12/31/2014



                                                 vi
Comments
                   Exceeded target. However, this is a questionable indicator and its value is not a
(incl. %
                   reliable measure. See sections 2.3 and 3 for more discussion.
achievement)
                   Regions with increased coverage of effective interventions (as defined in the
Indicator 9 :
                   chronic malnutrition guidelines)
Value
(Quantitative or   0                         3                                 9
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2012              12/31/2014                        12/31/2014
                   Exceeded target. Original indicator was based on model of joint planning and
Comments
                   budgeting. The government of Peru (GoP) created a new and more effective
(incl. %
                   instrument based on result-based agreements to accelerate the reduction in
achievement)
                   chronic malnutrition.
G. Ratings of Program Performance in Implementation status and results report
(ISR)

                                                                                    Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                              DO                         IP                 Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                (US$, millions)
  1     04/13/2013            Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      0.00
  2     11/22/2013            Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    45.00

H. Restructuring (if any)

Not applicable




                                                 vii
1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.      Adequate macroeconomic environment and fragmented social policies. At the
time of appraisal, the macroeconomic situation and policy environment were adequate to
proceed with the Development Policy Loan (DPL) as the central government was running
a solid primary fiscal surplus, public debt was relatively low and declining, and there was
no apparent currency overvaluation. Peru was one of the fastest growing economies in
Latin America,1 which contributed to almost a 31 percent reduction in poverty between
2004 and 2011 and a decrease in extreme poverty from 16.7 to 6.3 percent over the same
period. Distributional changes were also positive, with the expenditure-based Gini
coefficient declining from 0.44 in 2004 to 0.38 in 2011, whereas the income-based Gini
fell from 0.51 to 0.46. However, the relatively high levels of poverty and inequality still
posed a significant challenge for the government. The government of Peru (GoP)
responded to this situation by making considerable progress in its social policy by
increasing social spending and expanding social programs to reach the most vulnerable
population—which was particularly undercovered. In spite of these efforts, social
programs were still implemented in isolation and the social policies, as a rule, were
fragmented with limited institutional coherence.

2.       Rationale for World Bank assistance. As indicated, one of the challenges faced
by the GoP was the fragmented nature of its social policies, embedded in a framework of
weak institutional coherence. This situation inevitably resulted in a less-than-optimal
allocation of resources and indicated the presence of a significant space to increase policy
effectiveness. In the light of this situation, the GoP decided to introduce a major social
reform with the creation of a new sector called Development and Social Inclusion and a
new institution in charge of it—the Ministry of Development and Social Inclusion
(Ministerio de Desarrollo e Inclusión Social, MIDIS).2 The MIDIS had the mandate to
design, coordinate, guide, and implement policies and strategies to reduce poverty and
vulnerability and to promote social inclusion. To achieve this mandate, the MIDIS had two
basic roles: (a) the implementer of temporary and targeted social programs and (b) the
steward of the development of national social inclusion policies and programs (steering
role). The creation of the MIDIS in October 2011 represented a milestone in the
institutionalization of social inclusion as a Peruvian state policy. This social policy reform
was completely in line with the Bank Group's Country Partnership Strategy 2012–2016
(Report # 66187-PE). The Country Program Strategy called for supporting the
government's plan of ‘Crecer para Incluir’3 (Growth with Inclusion) to ‘overcome social
gaps and boost productivity.’ In particular, the reforms targeted by this Social Inclusion
DPL Series aligned with the first strategic objective of ‘Increased access and quality of




1
  Between 2000 and 2011, gross domestic product (GDP) expanded at an average of 5.7 percent.
2
  See annex 7 for more description on the MIDIS.
3
  This strategy was reformulated later in 2013 under the name ‘Incluir para Crecer’ (Include to Grow).

                                                    1
social services for the poor,’ and specifically with the first result area of ‘a more inclusive
and effective social protection system.’

1.2 Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)

3.      Program development objectives. The Social Inclusion DPL Series had three
main development objectives: (a) supporting the institutionalization of the stewardship of
the social inclusion agenda under the MIDIS; (b) laying the foundations for improving the
inclusiveness and effectiveness of key MIDIS social programs; and (c) developing
adequate systems for targeting, M&E, and overall coordination. In relation to the programs
under point (b), the operation specifically focused on improving the effectiveness of three
social protection programs: the Conditional Cash Transfer Program (Juntos, the social
pension program Pension 65, and the School Feeding Program (Qali Warma, QW).

4.      Key indicators. The key development indicators defined to assess the achievement
of the program outcomes in the three policy areas outlined were the following:

    (a)    The MIDIS' stewardship of the social inclusion agenda is institutionalized as
           measured by the establishment of legal and organizational rules at the central
           level and the operation of integrated units at the subnational level in all regions.

    (b)    Number of new users enrolled in the Juntos program.

    (c)    Percentage of Juntos local promoters trained in the new family support
           methodology.

    (d)    Percentage of elderly women and men living in extreme poverty and complying
           with the program's eligibility criteria receiving Pension 65.

    (e)    Percentage of children attending public preschool and schools are served by the
           QW.

     (f)   Percentage of districts where the QW operates, including mechanisms for
           transparency and civil society oversight.

    (g)    Percentage of poor households as estimated by the National Institute for
           Statistics (INEI) have their socioeconomic information (Ficha Socio-
           economica Unica) updated by the Household Targeting System (Sistema de
           Focalización de Hogares, SISFOH) within a period not exceeding three years.

    (h)    Proportion of recommendations generated through the M&E system that helps
           implement MIDIS programs.

     (i)   Regions with increased coverage of effective interventions (as defined in the
           chronic malnutrition guidelines).



                                              2
1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and Reasons/Justification

5.     The PDOs and key indicators were not revised.

1.4 Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program (as approved)

6.      Policy Area 1. The first policy area involved the consolidation of the institutional
framework for the stewardship of the social inclusion agenda under the MIDIS, including
(a) the establishment of the new ministry itself, which began to operate in January 2012.
In a short period of time, the MIDIS was tasked to organize itself based on the principles
established by the Law 29792 and to make a radical shift from programs working as
‘isolated islands’ to an integrated policy and operational platform and (b) the progressive
setup of its organizational models at the subnational level, with a view to operate
effectively and maximize synergies across programs on the ground.

7.      Policy Area 2. The second policy area focused on improving the inclusiveness and
effectiveness of key MIDIS social programs with a special focus on (a) the expansion of
the coverage of the Juntos Program and the improvement of support to users through its
social promoters; (b) the establishment of the social, noncontributory Pension 65 program,
which represented a major achievement in the GoP's efforts to provide income support for
the elderly living in poverty; and (c) the reform of the GoP's food-based programs, with
the path-breaking decision to close the deficient National Food Assistance Program
(PRONAA) scheme and to initiate a new QW.

8.       Policy Area 3. The third policy area focused on reforming social inclusion policy
approaches and systems, which involved (a) the overhaul of the SISFOH, so that the MIDIS
could function more effectively with a clear, transparent, and technically sound system to
identify social program users; (b) the progressive establishment of a National System of
M&E for Social Policy, known as Evidencia, to improve the effectiveness of social
inclusion policies and programs through timely evidence-based decision making; and (c)
the development and implementation of the GoP's National Social Inclusion Strategy,
Incluir para Crecer, which the government has defined as the axis for the intersectoral
coordination in the field of social inclusion. In addition to this policy platform, the MIDIS
needed to ensure the day-to-day organization, coordination, and functioning for the
institutional platform that underpins the MIDIS' coordination role, the National System for
Social Development and Inclusion (Sistema Nacional de Desarrollo e Inclusión Social,
SINADIS).

1.5 Revised Policy Areas (if applicable)

9.     The policy areas were not revised.

1.6 Other Significant Changes

10.    DPL initial concept, amounts, and timing. The DPL was originally conceived as
a programmatic series to support the organization of the MIDIS as the main agency
responsible for developing the Social Inclusion Strategy. The first loan (US$45 million)

                                             3
was planned to support the establishment of the new Ministry of Development and Social
Inclusion, which was in charge of implementing the social inclusion agenda, while the
second one (US$30 million) was intended to support the implementation of the Social
Inclusion Strategy through enhancing the inclusiveness, performance, and overall result-
orientation of the MIDIS’ programs and policies. DPL2 was expected to be submitted to
the Board during the first half of the calendar year 2014, but the preparation continued till
the end of 2014,4 and at that point it was terminated. The reasons for dropping DPL2 are
outlined in the following paragraphs.

11.     Instrument selection under a stance of strong support: optimistic outlook in
combination with formal rigidity. In the context of the continued efforts to support the
GoP, the Bank considered that the most adequate format involved a programmatic
operation instead of a single operation, as it was expected to take time to gradually
implement reforms. This decision allowed providing more robust support, but it also had
the downside of introducing a number of potential risks—which later materialized. It is
important to keep in mind that the information available to the team at the moment of
making the decision on the financing instrument was different than the information
available at the time of the Implementation Completion and Results Report (ICR) and that
this decision was made in the context of a policy stance of strong support from the Bank to
the GoP. Having made this caveat, it is still possible to argue that the team was too
optimistic regarding the feasibility of implementing significant institutional changes over
a short period of time. For instance, its institutionalization at the central and subnational
levels was too ambitious for a two-year timeline. Operating with integrated units at the
subnational level is challenging because it not only requires regional coordination between
the MIDIS (Vice Ministry of Policies and Social Evaluation [Viceministerio de Politicas y
Evaluacion Social, VPES]) and its five social programs (Vice Ministry of Social Benefits
[Viceministerio de Prestaciones Sociales, VPS]) but also requires articulation with the
other ministries and local government. Hence, the formal rigidity introduced by the
objectives of the programmatic series in combination with the timing for a programmatic
operation5 was an important factor contributing to terminate the preparation of DPL2.

12.     Changes in the MIDIS. After the approval of DPL1, the head of the MIDIS
changed twice between July 2013 and February 2014, and staff turnover was high. As a
result of these changes, some of the priorities in the MIDIS shifted, which in turn modified
previously scheduled activities. 6 For instance, the MIDIS concluded that the piloted
approach for promoters implementing the family support model was not effective, and
decided to revise it. This decision affected the achievement of indicative triggers for DPL2
and the achievement on expected outcomes under DPL1. The changes in MIDIS staff also
caused delays in dialogue and implementation. Moreover, the MIDIS subsequently



4
  The Project Concept Note took place on June 23, 2014 and the the Regional Operational Committee was
planned on November 2014, a month before the deadline for the programmatic series.
5
  The deadline for DPL2 was December 12, 2014. According to Bank Operations Policy, a programmatic
series is considered to have lapsed if 24 months have passed between Board approvals.
6
  These changes did not affect the Social Inclusion Strategy ‘Incluir para Crecer’ which remained
unchanged.

                                                 4
prioritized the rest of the instruments supported by the Bank instead of the preparation of
DPL2.

13.     Combined effects shaping the conditions for dropping DPL2. In summary, the
preparation of DPL2 took place in a changing environment, where its relevance was
diminished due to the early achievement in one tentative prior action, the delay in several
prior actions, and the GoP's decreasing interest in a DPL of such a small amount (US$30
million) for budget support. The MIDIS also had the Technical Assistance Loan (TAL)
project as a means for dialogue with the Bank and as an instrument to support technical
assistance. These factors, in addition to the strict rules for programmatic series on timing
and policy matrix structure, led the Bank and the government to agree on terminating the
preparation of DPL2. Despite this cancellation, the Bank has maintained its dialogue with
the government on the social sector through the TAL and Nutrition Sector-wide Approach
(SWAP) projects, and Non-lending Technical Assistance (NLTA).

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Program Performance

14.     Disbursements for the first operation were carried out close to the schedule
established at appraisal. Table 1 summarizes the dates and amounts.

                                  Table 1. Disbursements
      Tranche #        Amount         Expected       Actual Release             Release
                                     Release Date         Date
        DPL1         45,000,000      April 1, 2013   August 26,       Regular
                                                     2013
        DPL2         30,000,000      n.a.            n.a.             Cancelled

15.  The government met all the conditions for DPL1 described in the Program
Document. Specific policy actions that had to be met before Board approval of DPL1 are
summarized in Table 2.




                                             5
                                  Table 2. Policy Areas for DPL1
                                         Tranche 1
        List Conditions from Legal Agreement/Program Document                            Status
I.       Consolidation of the Institutional Framework for the Stewardship          Met
         of the Social Inclusion Agenda under the MIDIS
      The borrower has approved the legal and institutional framework
         required for the stewardship of the social inclusion agenda under the
         MIDIS, as evidenced by (a) Law No. 29792, dated October 10, 2011,
         and published in the Borrower's Official Gazette on October 20, 2011,
         which created the MIDIS; (b) Supreme Decree·No. 001-2011-MIDIS,
         dated December, 26, 2011, and published in the Borrower's Official
         Gazette on December 27, 2011; (c) Resolution of MIDIS General
         Secretariat No. 004-201 I-MIDIS, dated December 31, 2011, and
         published on the MIDIS web page, which ascribed five social inclusion
         programs to the MIDIS; and (d) Supreme Decree No. 011-2012-MIDIS,
         dated September 4, 2012, and published in the Borrower's Official
         Gazette on September 4, 2012, which approved the MIDIS' rules of
         organization and operations.
II.      Improving the Inclusiveness and Effectiveness of Key MIDIS Social         Met
         Programs
II.1 JUNTOS: Enhanced Coverage and Support to Users by Local
Promoters
      The borrower has approved the expansion of the coverage of Juntos to
         the borrower's districts where the SISFOH has carried out a
         socioeconomic evaluation and where the poverty levels are between 40
         and 50%, as evidenced by Supreme Decree No. 009-2012-MIDIS,
         dated July 5, 2012, and published in the Borrower's Official Gazette on
         July 06, 2012.
      The borrower, through the MIDIS, has launched the process to improve
         the quantity and quality of family support provided by Juntos, through
         the recruitment of 1,000 new local promoters with enhanced terms of
         reference, as evidenced by Official Letter (Oflcio) No. 120-2012
         MIDIS/SG/OGCAI, dated October 25, 2012.
II.2 Pension 65: Enhanced Coverage and Broad-based Strategy for the
Elderly Living in Extreme Poverty
      The borrower has approved the expansion of the coverage of Pension
         65 nationwide, as evidenced by (a) Supreme Decree No. 006-2012-
         MIDIS, dated May 5, 2012, and published in the Borrower's Official
         Gazette on May 6, 2012, which defined the new scope of Pension 65
         and (b) Supreme Decree No. 009- 2012-MIDIS, dated July 5, 2012, and
         published in the Borrower's Official Gazette on July 6, 2012, which
         approved Pension 65's geographical expansion nationwide.
II.3 QW: Establishment of a New QW in Public Schools
      The borrower has created the QW to ensure food service delivery to
         children enrolled in public preschools and primary schools, as
         evidenced by Supreme Decree No. 008 -2012-MIDIS, dated May 30,
         2012, and published in the Borrower's Official Gazette on May 31,
         2012.




                                                  6
                                           Tranche 1
          List Conditions from Legal Agreement/Program Document                               Status
 III.     Reforming Social Policy Approaches and Systems                                Met
 III.1 Overhaul of the GoP's Targeting System (SISFOH) for Social
 Programs and Policies
       The borrower has started developing the institutional framework for the
          SISFOH under the MIDIS, as evidenced by (a) Emergency Decree No.
          001-2012, dated January 21, 2012, and published in the Borrower's
          Official Gazette on January 22, 2012, which approved the transfer of
          the SISFOH from the Council of Ministers (Presidencia de Consejo de
          Ministros, PCM) to the MIDIS until December 31, 2012; (b) Budget
          Bill of Law No.l465/20l2-PE, submitted to the Congress on August 29,
          2012, which transfers the SISFOH to the MIDIS permanently and
          approves the transfer of information complementing the General
          Household Registry (PGH), to the MIDIS.
       The borrower has taken measures to update the PGH, as evidenced by
          (a) the agreement (Convenio) between the PCM and INEI, dated
          November 21, 2011, which instructed the INEI to conduct a
          socioeconomic census in nine regions in the borrower's territory; (b) the
          agreement (Convenio) between the Sectoral Projects Coordinating Unit
          (Unidad de Coordinación de Préstamos Sectoriales, UCPS) and INEI,
          dated February 9, 2012, which instructed the INEI to continue the
          socioeconomic census in three additional regions in the borrower's
          territory; (c) Budget Bill of Law No.1465/2012-PE, submitted to the
          Congress on August 29, 2012, which authorized the MIDIS to transfer
          S/. 70 million) to the INEI to continue the socioeconomic census; and
          (d) Ministerial Resolution No. 143-2012-MIDIS, dated August 16,
          2012, and published in the Borrower's Official Gazette on August 17,
          2012, which approved the technical guidelines to improve information
          collection for the PGH.
 III.2 Foundations for a M&E System for Social Inclusion Policy and
 Programs (Evidencia)
       The borrower, through the MIDIS, has approved guidelines for the
          development of an M&E system for results-based policy formulation
          and management in the social inclusion sector, as evidenced by
          Ministerial Resolution No.192-2012-MIDIS, dated October 23, 2012,
          and published in the Borrower's Official Gazette on October 25, 2012.
 III.3 Development of Systems and Strategies to Enhance Overall
 Coordination of Social Inclusion Policies and Programs
       The borrower, through the MIDIS, has approved guidelines for inter-
          sectoral and inter-governmental coordination to reduce chronic
          malnutrition in the framework of development and social inclusion
          policies, and has identified priority districts in the borrower's territory
          where effective interventions will be implemented, as evidenced by
          Ministerial Resolution No 131-2012-MIDIS, dated July 23, 2012 and
          published in the Borrower's Official Gazette on July 25, 2012.




16.    Despite the cancellation of DPL2, many of its tentative triggers were met.
Others were delayed to 2015 or not considered as priority within the changing environment
where the MIDIS operated. The status of the tentative indicative triggers for DPL2 are
presented in annex 9.

                                                      7
2.2 Major Factors Affecting Implementation

17.  Key factors that contributed to the successful implementation of the DPL are
summarized below.

18.      Strong government commitment to organize social inclusion policies, to
establish clear targets, and to focus on results. Before 2011, the GoP had made different
efforts to promote coordinated actions to tackle challenges related to poverty. However,
the main step happened in 2011 when the GoP decided to focus attention and resources on
the social inclusion policy. The MIDIS was created with the mandate to design, implement,
and evaluate policies and strategies that promote social inclusion. The creation of the
MIDIS was a milestone in the Peruvian social policy and constituted a significant
institutional reform of the Peruvian public sector. In 2013, the GoP approved the National
Strategy for Development and Social Inclusion ‘Incluir para Crecer’. This strategy was
prepared under the framework of the SINADIS and was supported by 14 ministries
including the Ministry of Economy and Finance (Ministerio de Economia y Finanzas,
MEF). The strategy is the MIDIS’ main managerial tool to guide social-inclusion-related
interventions under a life cycle approach and integrate ongoing result-oriented sectoral
initiatives, as well as those of regional and local governments. All MIDIS programs are
under a mechanism of results based financing led by the MEF in the annual budget process.

19.     Several years of a positive dialogue on social policies and practices provided a
sound basis for designing the DPL series. The Bank has supported social inclusion
policies in Peru and worked closely with the government in the social sectors for the last
decade. Experienced multisectoral teams from Social Protection, Poverty Reduction and
Economic Management and Sustainable Development have supported the MIDIS to
elaborate the national strategy; institutionalize the MIDIS; improve inter-sectorial and
inter-governmental coordination; improve efficiency and effectiveness of MIDIS
programs; and improve targeting mechanisms, M&E systems, and transparency. Multiple
research products have been produced to support the government initiative.7 A Poverty and
Social Impact Analysis (PSIA) accompanied the preparation of both DPL operations. The
first PSIA focused on examining the poverty dimensions of the baseline reform programs
and identifying key opportunities and risks to the reforms achieving their poverty and social
inclusion objectives. The second PSIA considered for the preparation of the draft DPL2
built on an extensive literature review analyzing the potential effects of the expansion of
Pension 65 and Juntos on poverty and inequality, as well as polices to better target social
spending.

20.     The Bank made use of multiple instruments to support government needs for
financing the social inclusion policies. Since 2011, the Bank's efforts have been focused
on the improvement of the MIDIS’ institutional capacity and service quality, the
strengthening of multisectoral interventions, and the support of social inclusion reforms.
In addition to the DPL (Loan 8221-PE), the TAL (Loan 8222-PE) was carefully designed


7
 For instance, Perova and Vakis (2009, 2013a, 2013b), World Bank (2008), Escobal et al (2012), and Rofman
et al (2014).

                                                   8
to maximize complementarities with the DLP-supporting activities to implement the Social
Inclusion Strategy. A Programmatic Knowledge Service also supported the MIDIS in the
design and implementation of social inclusion reforms. The SWAP ‘Results in Nutrition
for Juntos’ (P117310) supported the demand, supply, and governance of nutrition services
provided by the GoP organized under the Articulated Nutrition Program, including Juntos.
The M&E System IDF (Institutional Development Fund) and the Poverty and Social Inclusion
NLTA (P146773) provided technical assistance to the INEI and MIDIS to increase the GoP
capacity to design, monitor, and evaluate social policies aimed at reducing poverty and
improving social inclusion. Two NLTAs supported the SISFOH under the MIDIS, the
Poverty NLTA (P151096) provided support in the evaluation of alternative algorithms to
design targeting instruments and the Social Protection NLTA (P152321) supported the
operation of the SISFOH. The combined support of these different instruments provided
wide flexibility to the Bank to respond promptly and effectively to the GoP’s needs for
financing the social inclusion policies (through the DPLs), medium-term technical
assistance issues (through the TAL and SWAP), and short-term issues (through the NLTAs
and Institutional Development Grant grant). A summary of the multiple instruments used
to support the MIDIS is presented in annex 10.

21.    The design of the DPL series was based on lessons learned from similar
programmatic DPL series on social sector reforms. Among these, the following are
worth mentioning:

 (a)   Strong government ownership and alliances between social sector champions
       and finance ministries. In Peru, the MEF and the MIDIS' leadership have formed
       a strong alliance that will help mitigate the risks of resistance to reforms.

(b)    Breadth of support combining lending and non-lending instruments. For
       example, the Peru Analytic and Advisory Activities Recurso Program was critical
       in defining and monitoring the accountability reforms targeted by the Results and
       Accountability DPL series.

22.      With regard to the complexity of the policy areas supported by the operation,
a major source resides in the inherent complexity of the functions and tasks assigned
to the MIDIS. In effect, the MIDIS took over existing social plans that were themselves
complex requiring improvements in targeting, coverage, quality of service, transparency,
but also high levels of coordination between them and other stakeholders. In addition to
the implementer role, the MIDIS also had a steering role. It was expected to define the
Social Inclusion Strategy; take the leadership for the M&E component for the social policy
under the SINADIS which provides information for decision making on program’s
implementation and policy design; and manage the SISFOH whose natural organization
would have probably been the INEI, given the highly technical and statistical nature of the
activities. Moreover, the MIDIS was required to effectively articulate with the three
government levels and the other sectors. Each task was extremely complex per se creating
a challenging mandate for the MIDIS. This inherent high level of complexity also posed a
significant challenge to the Bank’s team as it had to adapt to a situation of high complexity
in an uncertain environment.


                                             9
23.      Relevance of the risks identified at appraisal. The program identified four broad
risks at appraisal:

    (a)   Macroeconomic risk. There is always a risk at the macroeconomic level (crises
          such as sudden stops in capital flows, quick reversal of exchange rates, and so on.)
          Peru’s domestic policies were prudent overall and the GoP had done an appreciable
          effort to reduce the country’s vulnerabilities. Overall, the GoP had undertaken
          measures to mitigate the risk and with the information available to the team at the
          time of appraisal, the macroeconomic risk appears to have been a relevant risk.

    (b)   Implementation and coordination risk. The team identified a number of risks
          related to implementation and coordination. In particular, it noted the risk of policy
          reversal, change in leadership, and lack of continuity of technical staff. In hindsight,
          the team appears to have made an accurate assessment of these risks as they
          manifested in similar forms as discussed in section 1.6.8 As for the validity of the
          mitigating elements, the political support of the president appears to be a reasonable
          measure given the nature of the political interactions in Peru, which is the same as
          the political coordination with the MEF given the importance of this ministry for
          the effective operation of the MIDIS.

    (c)   Stakeholder opposition risk. This risk identified for staff and management of
          social programs that were recently absorbed under the authority of the MIDIS also
          appears to have been adequately identified as a risk, as it is well-documented that
          organizational changes are typically resisted by the members of that organization.
          The mitigating strategies also appear to have been adequate within the limitation of
          the change under consideration. In particular, there were attempts to increase and
          improve the communication, open channels for the members of the MIDIS to voice
          their opinions, and increase their sense of ownership. The implementation of the
          ‘Incluir para Crecer’ strategy helped to provide the justification and rationality of
          the changes implemented. The NLTA also supported the communication strategy.

    (d)   Social risk. The so-called ‘social risks’ (lack of identification documents of
          potential beneficiaries, limited mobility for Pension 65 beneficiaries, and
          decentralized approach for the QW) are better understood as
          logistical/implementation risks. Under this later interpretation, the risks appear to
          have been reasonably assessed and the mitigation efforts appear to bear an adequate
          relation. For instance, the team identified the lack of proper personal identification
          documents as a potential risk, then mitigated that risk by increasing efforts to
          provide such documentation in the areas most likely to contain users of social
          programs. Alternatively, the mobility difficulties of the elderly population are a
          reasonable risk, and the team mitigated this risk through the pilots for alternative


8
 It is important to stress here that the merit of the assessment must take into account the information set
available to the team at the moment of assessing these risks. It would be erroneous to take the materialization
of one of such event as an indication of the relevance of such risks. However, the relatively high coincidence
between the sequence of assessed risks and their manifestation can be taken heuristically as a confirmation
of its appropriateness.

                                                     10
         payment options expanding locations and payment mechanism to what seems an
         appropriate mitigating measure (financed by the TAL).

2.3 M&E Design, Implementation, and Utilization

24.     Assessment of the M&E design. The policy matrix lacks an appropriate definition
of indicators to monitor the progress of the program. In particular, for many indicators there
is no definition of baselines or a description of the specific indicator that is going to be
used to assess the achievement of a specific outcome. Furthermore, as a consequence of
this lack of definition, there is no proper reference to the data sources or which unit within
the MIDIS would be responsible for the generation of the data. Another problem that
emerges is that it is not clear what the relevance of some indicators is. For instance, in the
objective for Policy Area 3.2, the indicator of percentage of M&E recommendations
implemented by the program is a questionable measure, as the recommendation made
might not be highly relevant or might be difficult to implement within the time frame of
the DPL.9

25.      Assessment of the M&E implementation. Given the lack of adequate definition
of the variables to be monitored—for instance, how to measure percentage of M&E
recommendations implemented—for many indicators, no appropriate data and collection
methods exist. To measure each indicator, there should have been an agreement on which
evaluations or what type of evaluations need to be taken into account, the time frame the
programs have for implementation, and the verification methods in place. In the same way,
if the indicator requires the operation of MIDIS integrated units at the subnational level,
there should have been a description on how to measure this indicator. This difficulty to
quantify the indicators was reflected in the Implementation Status and Results Report (ISR)
where the baselines were not calculated as initially proposed in the Project Appraisal
Document and four indicators were not monitored as no data was available.10 However,
the ISR should have informed the Bank and client about the problems on the M&E
arrangements and delay on the achievement of few indicators.

26.    Assessment of the M&E utilization. As indicated by the two previous points, the
M&E system is inherently limited in its objective. However, in spite of these limitations,
there was a collection of information and measurements of variables that informed the
preparation of DPL2. It must be noted, however, that the information and variables used
for such preparation do not correspond to the indicators under DPL1 due to the problems
outlined in the previous two paragraphs. It should also be pointed that these problems did
not go unnoticed, and the preparation of DPL2 planned to modify key outcome indicators
to address the shortcomings previously described.




9
  This objective points to the development of an adequate M&E system for social inclusion policy and
programs to promote evidence-based decision making.
10
   It is worth stressing that this assessment in this ICR does not refer to the M&E system established in the
MIDIS and the quality of the data collected under that system, but rather to the M&E corresponding to the
DPL series.

                                                    11
2.4 Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation (if any):

Not applicable

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
Rating: High overall relevance of objectives

27.      Objectives’ relevance. The three objectives remain relevant at the time of the ICR.
The objectives of the DPL were, and still are, highly relevant to the country’s current
development priorities as they are aligned with the ‘Incluir para Crecer’ strategy. These
objectives are consistent with the Bank Group’s Country Partnership Strategy 2012–2016
(Report 66187-PE) as its reforms were aligned with the First Strategic Objective of
‘Increased Access and Quality of Social Services for the Poor’ and specifically with the
first result area of ‘a more inclusive and effective social protection system.’ The rating is
based on these findings.

28.     Relevance of design. The program was designed in accordance with its objectives,
and was based on previous research directly related to the areas of intervention and lessons
learned from the Results and Accountability DPL. In effect, the prior actions and indicative
triggers were supportive of the government’s strategic objectives in the area of social
inclusion policies; moreover, the prior actions of the first series were instrumental in the
achievement of the goals established for the MIDIS. However, while all the objectives are
highly relevant, some of them turned out to be too ambitious given the complexity
involved11 and the uncertainty associated with the creation of a new ministry.

3.2 Achievement of Program Development Objectives

29.     All DPL objectives are highly consistent with the Social Inclusion Strategy
‘Incluir para Crecer’ and hence they need to be analyzed within that framework. This
strategy represents the MIDIS’ management tool to organize social-inclusion-related
interventions and generate inter-sectoral and inter-governmental coordination. The MIDIS
used several instruments to exercise the responsibility of the social inclusion policy under
the framework of the SINADIS. Within the SINADIS operational structure, the MIDIS
developed the strategy ‘Incluir para Crecer’ that is a management tool to organize social-
inclusion-related interventions under a life cycle approach and integrate ongoing result-
oriented sectoral initiatives, as well as those of regional and local governments. The
strategy has five strategic axes: (a) Nutrition (children below three years old); (b) Early
Childhood Development (ECD) (children below five years old); (c) Comprehensive Child
and Adolescent Development (6–17 years); (d) Economic Inclusion (18–64 years); and (e)
Protection for the Elderly (more than 65 years). The strategy considers a set of instruments
for the inter-sectoral and inter-governmental coordination based on processes of planning,


11
   Operating with integrated units at the subnational level is challenging because it requires regional
coordination within the MIDIS and between the MIDIS and the other ministries. The GoP has been trying to
identify mechanisms to articulate its public policy during the last 15 years.

                                                  12
budgeting, implementing, M&E, and prioritizing key effective interventions. This
articulation requires a consistent targeting and M&E approach.

30.      The first objective is the creation of an entity to not only exercise the leadership
role of designing and executing the social inclusion policy but also implement the social-
inclusion-related programs. The MIDIS institutionalization responds to both roles, creating
two vice-ministries (VPS and VPES) to take on each role and Regional Liaison Offices to
coordinate in the territory. The second objective covers (a) the expansion of three MIDIS
programs to the most vulnerable population and (b) reforms to improve their effectiveness,
all of them contributing to the four axes of the strategy. The third objective supports the
development of systems and strategies for targeting, M&E, and overall coordination and
responds to the result-based financing approach of the strategy and its targeting and M&E
mechanisms.

31.     The actions in the policy matrix were conditions before Board approval (see
prior actions in section 2 - table 2). DPL1 was implemented in a satisfactory manner, setting
the legal and institutional framework for the social inclusion agenda. The government made
good progress in DPL1 and toward the tentative triggers expected for DPL2, even though
its preparation was terminated. Annex 8 presents the policy matrix for Peru’s First Social
Inclusion DPL and the level of achievement for each indicator by December 2014. As a
point of reference, annex 9 summarizes the progress toward the tentative triggers for DPL2.

32.    The nature of the DPL instrument and the simultaneous use of multiple Bank
instruments do not allow the identification of a causal link between the DPL and the
observed outcomes. The following sections take into account (a) the objectives within
each policy, (b) how they fit the strategy ‘Incluir para Crecer’, (c) level of achievement of
each outcome; and (d) when feasible, how the Bank contributed (through the DPL or
combination of instruments) to the observed outcomes.

Policy Area 1 - Consolidation of the institutional framework for the stewardship of
the social inclusion agenda under the MIDIS.
Objective: Support the institutionalization of the stewardship of the social inclusion
agenda under the MIDIS, at both central and subnational levels.
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

33.     This policy area supported the GoP's objective of establishing an institutional
framework to organize the social inclusion policy. It supported the creation of the
MIDIS, including the legal definition of its mandate, roles, and the development of its
organizational rules. The MIDIS' mandate was to design, coordinate, guide, and implement
policies and strategies to reduce poverty and vulnerability and to promote social inclusion.
The MIDIS had two basic roles: (a) the implementer of temporary and targeted social
programs and (b) the steward of the development national social inclusion policies and
programs (steering role). The MIDIS institutionalization responded to its basic roles
through the creation of the VPS in charge of the implementer role and the VPES in charge
of the steering role. At the local level, this policy area was planned to support the setup and
consolidation of the MIDIS' organizational model through DPL2. The tentative trigger for


                                              13
DPL2 required the MIDIS to evaluate and adopt integrated operating models in all regions
to achieve the operation of integrated units in all regions.

34.     The reforms included in this DPL have successfully supported the
consolidation of the stewardship of the social inclusion agenda under the MIDIS.
Since the creation of the MIDIS in October 2011 (Law No. 29792), the MIDIS has achieved
the establishment of the legal and organizational rules at the central level as described in
annex 8.

35.     The MIDIS’ role in the territory and challenges to coordinate at the
subnational level. Within the SINADIS framework, the implementation of the strategy
‘Incluir para Crecer’ required the coordination of the development and social inclusion
policy in the territory. The MIDIS needed to articulate initiatives and efforts within its five
programs but also to connect them with priorities at the local and regional levels. To
support those activities, the MIDIS created the Regional Liaison Teams in all 23 regions
and the area of Apurímac, Ene and Mantaro River Valleys. While the structure has been
created and the MIDIS has been able to open its offices in the territory, some of the
regulations related to the integrated units and offices have been dated after the end of 2014
(see annex 8). Moreover, there are still challenges to operating at the desired level of
integration. For instance, the regional liaison coordinators have experienced difficulties to
coordinate with the regional representative for each of the five MIDIS’ programs.

36.      With regard to Bank contribution, the DPL particularly supported the
institutionalization of the MIDIS at the central level. The NLTA has supported the
articulation at the local level by (a) strengthening the management tools for articulating
social inclusion policy; (b) systematizing learning from the experiences of the articulation
pilots in 20 provinces; and (c) designing and implementing articulated strategies between
the MIDIS’ social programs. The MIDIS has tested different models and decided to create
MIDIS offices in each region (Regional Liaison Office) to operate with integrated units.
Annex 10 summarizes Bank support to the MIDIS.

Policy Area 2 - Enhancing the Inclusiveness and Effectiveness of Key Social
Programs.
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

37.     This policy area covers three main areas of reform:

      (a)   Enhanced coverage of the Juntos program to reach the poorest population and
            better support to users.

      (b)   Enhanced coverage of income protection for the elderly population living in
            poverty through the development and expansion of Pension 65.

      (c)   The setup and implementation of the new QW, with a strong focus on
            transparency, efficiency, and accountability standards.

Policy Area 2.1 - Juntos Program: Enhanced Coverage and Better Support to Users
by Local Promoters
                                              14
Objective: Enhance the inclusiveness and effectiveness of Juntos by (a) expanding its
coverage to additional poor households and districts and (b) improving the quantity and
quality of family support provided by local promoters to users.
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

38.     This policy area fits the first three axes of the strategy (Nutrition, ECD, and
Comprehensive Child and Adolescent Development). It responds to two main challenges
that limited the ability of Juntos program to reach the poorest population: insufficient
coverage (the program benefitted 68 percent of its target population) and missed
opportunities with regard to the role of promoters on affiliation and verification of
compliance of coresponsibilities. The PSIA found that errors in the affiliation and
verification of coresponsibilities were partly due to poor training, or the lack of time to
follow up on the task.

39.    The government expanded Juntos’ coverage to more disadvantaged
households, exceeding the expected target of 150,000 new beneficiaries. The DPL
supported the expansion of Juntos. The program expanded its coverage between 2011 and
2014 from 700 districts to 1,144 districts, reaching 284,357 additional beneficiaries from
the baseline of 474,064 beneficiaries in 2011. The program is now operating in the poorest
15 regions of the country.

40.     The government piloted the family support model in three regions and at that
point decided to change its design, hence discontinuing the training of promoters and
the post-pilot expansion. In 2012, the Bank’s NLTA supported the revision of the role of
promoters that were currently acting as liaison between the program and beneficiary
households. In the enhanced model, promoters were expected to provide family-oriented
information, guidance, and counseling services (including follow-up services) to ensure
that the most vulnerable families stay in the program and that those who have difficulty in
complying with the coresponsibilities receive more support. The DPL supported the
recruitment of 1,000 new local promoters with enhanced terms of reference and expected
to support its training on the new family support methodology. The program tested the
model in the three regions with the lowest rate of compliance of coresponsibilities
(Ayacucho, Huánuco, and Piura). As part of the pilot, the program revised the reasons of
low compliance and concluded that the Juntos model needed to be redesigned to tackle the
main reasons for noncompliance (deficiencies in supply, access and quality of health and
education services, lack of information, and family problems). During 2012–2013, the
program trained 57.5 percent of the promoters in the pilot areas, but it discontinued the
training plans for 2014 until a new model was in place. The new Family Support Strategy
focused on creating awareness and promoting feeding practices to reduce chronic
malnutrition of children below five years of age.

Policy Area 2.2 - New Program and Approach for the Elderly Living in Poverty:
Pension 65
Objective: Increase access of the elderly living in extreme poverty to the new social
pension program Pension 65 and complementary services enhancing their well-being, with
special emphasis on health services.
Rating: Highly Satisfactory

                                            15
41.     This policy area fits axis 5 of the strategy ‘Protection for the Elderly’ and is
also part of the national policy regarding the elderly. Protection for the poor population
aged 65 years and above is closely related to three factors: (a) achieving economic security,
(b) accessing quality health care services, and (c) increasing social support networks.
According to National Household Survey (Encuesta Nacional de Hogares, ENAHO 2010),
28 percent of people aged 65 years or older are in poverty. The situation in rural areas,
where the poverty rate reaches 58 percent, is critical; 30 percent have no health insurance
and 72 percent do not have a contributory pension. This policy area addressed two main
issues associated with the inclusiveness and effectiveness of Pension 65: (a) the need to
expand the coverage nationwide to provide protection to the elderly in extreme poverty and
(b) the need to develop a broader and more long-term strategic approach to the social
protection of the elderly living in poverty.

42.     The DPL supported the expansion of the program on the elderly living in
extreme poverty and the MIDIS has successfully exceeded its target. Between
December 2012 and December 2014, the number of beneficiaries has expanded from
247,673 to 450,000, reaching all the districts. By the end of 2014, 79.4 percent of the
elderly living in extreme poverty and complying with the program's eligibility criteria
received Pension 65, exceeding the target of 65 percent for the DPL series.

43.      Pension 65 beneficiaries have access to health insurance and other services.
One of the tentative triggers for DPL2 required the implementation of a strategy to
strengthen the provision of complementary services for the elderly living in extreme
poverty. The MIDIS needed to coordinate with other ministries to achieve the desired
results in protection for the elderly. In 2012, the MIDIS, MINSA, and Integral Health
Insurance signed an agreement establishing that Pension 65 beneficiaries could be enrolled
in the Integral Health Insurance (Seguro Integral de Salud, SIS). This agreement provided
health access to Pension 65 beneficiaries and represented a prime accomplishment for the
MIDIS. By the end of 2014, 100 percent of Pension 65 beneficiaries were affiliated to the
SIS and have a clinical history. In coordination with the health sector, the program
conducted 2,399 health campaigns in the 24 provinces and provided services to 147,393
program beneficiaries. Another complementary social service provided is ‘Saberes
Productivos’ which promotes social interaction and revalorization of the knowledge of the
elderly. The MIDIS signed agreements with several municipalities for the provision of
‘Saberes Productivos’. These interventions were implemented in 24 provinces and 81
districts.

44.    The MIDIS approved a new procedure to access, remain, and exit Pension 65
and expanded payment mechanisms. The second indicative trigger required the
introduction of improvements in the affiliation process and payment system of Pension 65.
In 2014, the MIDIS established a procedure to access, maintain, and exit Pension 65
(Supreme Decree 048-2014-MIDIS). The MIDIS also piloted different payment modalities
with the support of the NLTA. Pension 65 has worked with Juntos to expand the coverage
of payments at a lower cost. Pension 65 increased payment points from 697 in 2012 to 870
in 2014.



                                             16
Policy Area 2.3 - QW: A New QW with Transparency and Accountability Standards
Objective: Enhance the effectiveness and transparency of school feeding through the
creation of a new, decentralized school feeding program (QW), and the development of
mechanisms for civil society oversight of the program.
Rating: Satisfactory

45.     This policy area fits two axes of the strategy: ECD and comprehensive child
and adolescent development. It also coincides with the priorities of the National Plan of
Action for Children and Adolescents 2012–2021, prepared by the Ministry of Women and
Vulnerable Populations. The PRONAA was for many years the main feeding program with
national coverage that aimed at reducing malnutrition of vulnerable populations. It was
based on the distribution of prepackaged food to low-income households. The program
suffered from design problems such as low nutritional content of the food distributed; weak
coordination between the health and social protection sectors; targeting problems with
regard to both errors of inclusion and exclusion (more than 50 percent of the beneficiaries
were not living in extreme poverty and only 16 percent of poor children below three years
of age received the program); and lack of an adequate M&E system. When the MIDIS took
over the program, it immediately recognized two critical challenges for efficient service
delivery of the PRONAA: (a) deficiencies in the information system which did not allow
for timely, reliable, and transparent reports and (b) the lack of participation and user
feedback across the quality control cycle of the food procurement-delivery chain. The Bank
supported the PRONAA’s senior management, through the NLTA, in the implementation
of a stakeholder assessment at the request of the MIDIS. 12

46.     This policy area supported the creation and expansion of a new decentralized
school feeding program called the QW based on global best practices of school
feeding. The program was supported by the Bank through the NLTA by the identification
of best practices in feeding programs and the development of a mechanism for transparency
and civil oversight. The QW was created as a new program based on the joint responsibility
of parents and school teachers for purchasing meals from specially prepared menus for
nursery and primary school children taking into account local products and tastes. The
program aimed to guarantee high quality and diversified food service for children from the
age of three onward in public preschool and primary schools and started to operate in 2013.
By the end of 2014, it reached 3,173,235 children in 57,677 schools. The QW served 82
percent of children attending public preschool and schools served by the program. This
indicator exceeded the target in the DPL Series by 12 percentage points.

47.     The QW has developed procurement mechanisms for transparency and civil
society oversight. The second area supported by the DPL series was the scaling up of the
operation of the program based on revised rules and regulations to ensure efficiency,
effectiveness, transparency, and accountability. The tentative trigger of the DPL required


12
  The assessment identified main winners and losers of the reform and a set of strategic measures leading to
minimize its potential negative impacts on vulnerable groups, neutralize the potential opposition of strong
business stakeholders, and boost social and political support from the main winners and stakeholders who
had the capacity to influence public opinion and decision-making.


                                                    17
the development of mechanisms for transparency and civil society oversight. The QW
developed transparency mechanisms as detailed in the Multisectoral Report of December
9, 2013, and the Procurement Process Oversight13 (Veeduria del proceso de compras) of
January 3, 2014. By December 2014, 110 Procurement Committees were in place and 43.5
percent of the QW districts included mechanisms for transparency and civil society
reaching the target in the DPL series.

48.     This policy area is rated Satisfactory as its indicators exceeded the target and the
creation of the new program (QW) tackled the main challenges faced by PRONAA on
service delivery.

49.     Overall Outcome Rating (Policy Area 2). The overall rating is Moderately
Satisfactory because there were moderate shortcomings in the implementation of Policy
Areas 2.1 as explained above.

Policy Area 3 - Reforming social inclusion policy approaches and systems
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

50.     The third policy area focuses on reforming social inclusion policy approaches and
systems, which involves (a) the overhaul of the SISFOH, so that the MIDIS can function
more effectively with a clear, transparent, and technically sound system to identify social
program users; (b) the progressive establishment of a National System of M&E for Social
Policy, known as Evidencia, to improve the effectiveness of social inclusion policies and
programs through timely evidence-based decision making; and (c) the development and
implementation of the GoP's National Social Inclusion Strategy, which the government has
defined as the axis for the inter-sectoral coordination in the field of social inclusion.

Policy Area 3.1 - Reform of the GoP's Targeting System for Social Programs and
Policies
Objective: Overhaul the SISFOH to ensure targeting accuracy of the MIDIS's social
programs and social services using the SISFOH, through (a) setting up clear rules and
division of responsibilities between the SISFOH and its users and (b) ensuring an updated
database (PGH) and strong quality standards.
Rating: Satisfactory

51.     The strategy ‘Incluir para Crecer’ identified the need to define common targeting
criteria to improve the impact of the social inclusion policy within the SINADIS
framework. This DPL program supported two critical aspects of the reform: (a) the
establishment of an institutional framework for the targeting system, including clear rules
and division of roles and responsibilities between the SISFOH, its users, and those who
exercise stewardship of social policies and spending and (b) improvements in the


13
  RM 16-2012-MIDIS defines the institutions approved for the oversight: (a) MIDIS Committee for
Transparency and Civil Oversight, (b) RoundTable to fight poverty, and (c) Local Education Management
Unit. Each institution should assign a representative for the oversight process who should check if the
procedures indicated in the purchase manual were followed and fill out the oversight and early warning
templates.

                                                  18
SISFOH’s socioeconomic database, the General Household Census. DPL2 was expected
to support the consolidation of these efforts by (a) the approval of the revamped targeting
system's legal framework and (b) the continuation of efforts to enhance the targeting
accuracy of the overhauled SISFOH. The reform of the SISFOH was crucial to improve
the effectiveness of the social programs.

52.     The MIDIS has completed and updated the PGH. The DPL supported the
transfer of the SISFOH from the MEF (PCM) to the MIDIS in December 2012 and the
update of the PGH. An NLTA provided funding to the GoP to update the PGH and
supported the development of quality standards, security, and confidentiality of the
SISFOH. In 2014, the census that collected targeting data of potential beneficiaries was
completed (as evidenced by Min INEI Note 288-2014-INEI/DNCE dated August 21, 2014).
At the end of 2014, 91.6 percent of the poor households included in the PGH had the
socioeconomic information (Ficha socio-económica única) updated and therefore the
expected target for the DPL series was achieved. The SISFOH has implemented a process
to allow a continuous update with the support of the local units of enrolment to reach
households that were not captured by the census. The update of the PGHhas also helped to
identify an identity gap. The MIDIS has worked with National Registry of Identification
and Civil Status (Registro Nacional de Identificacion y Estado Civil, RENIEC) for the
provision of personal identity documents.14 The government has continued updating the
registry since the closing of this DPL and reviewing the consistency of its information. In
addition, the MIDIS has drafted the guidelines to access information (which was a tentative
trigger for DPL2) managed by the General Office of User Management but its approval is
dated after the closing date of this DPL and therefore, not considered achieved.

53.     The MIDIS advanced on the preparation of the institutional framework to
improve the management of the targeting system. The Poverty NLTA (P151096)
provided support in the evaluation of alternative algorithms to design targeting instruments
and the Social Protection NLTA (P152321) supported the operation of the SISFOH
including the revision of the Operational Manual. The legal framework to regulate the
operation of the SISFOH and the new methodology for households’ socioeconomic
classification, including the new algorithm, was approved after the closing date of this DPL.

Policy Area 3.2 - Foundations of a National M&E System for Social Policy (Evidencia)
Objective: Develop an adequate M&E system for social inclusion policy and programs to
promote evidence-based decision making.
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

54.   Within the SINADIS framework, the MIDIS had the responsibility to develop the
M&E for social policy known as Evidencia. DPL1 supported the development and
implementation of clear operational and technical guidelines for evaluations and key
monitoring initiatives for the MIDIS' social programs and policies. DPL2 was expected to



14
  The census helped to identify 852,500 persons in poverty without a personal identity document. Lack of
documentation prevented individuals to be included in the PGH and consequently to be considered as
potential beneficiaries in the programs.

                                                  19
support the legal directives to govern the use of the information generated by the M&E
system to transform M&E recommendations into productive actions by respective
stakeholders.

55.     The MIDIS successfully developed three tools to monitor the performance of
its social programs. First, a platform of georeferenced information on coverage of social
programs (INFOMIDIS). Second, dashboards to monitor the program’s performance and
the achievement of the ‘Incluir par Crecer’ Strategy. Finally, it has developed checklists
to verify the compliance of protocols and quality standards.

56.     The MIDIS has approved the guidelines for the development of an M&E
system for results-based policy formulation and management. As part of the prior
actions for DPL1, the MIDIS approved the guidelines for the development of the M&E
system (RM 192-2012-MIDIS) in 2012. It also advanced on the legal directives related to
the trigger DPL2, creating the monitoring dashboards for each MIDIS social program in
2013 (Directive 008-2013-MIDIS) and preparing a proposal to update the guidelines for
the INFOMIDIS (Directive 008-2012-MIDIS) during 2014.

57.     The MIDIS developed a model to generate rigorous knowledge and use of
evidence in policymaking. The MIDIS has promoted the production of process and impact
evaluations, literature reviews, and meta-analysis, including the preparation of
recommendations based on their results. Those products are included in the Annual
Evaluation Plan approved each year. The MIDIS designed 14 process evaluations and 5
impact evaluations (1 for each program). Impact evaluation results are expected for 2016–
2017. In addition, five process evaluations have been finalized—two for the QW, one for
Juntos, one for Pension 65, and one for the Roundtable for Poverty Reduction.15

58.     The PDO indicator has limited relevance to assess whether an adequate M&E
system is in place. The indicator of percentage of recommendations generated through the
M&E system that are implemented by the programs cannot be clearly measured. Some
questions arise when computing the indicator, for instance, which evaluations should be
taken into account, whether all the recommendations are relevant, whether the time frame
considered to implement the recommendations is sufficient. In addition, limited data is
available to compute this indicator. Based on six technical notes prepared in 2012, which
included recommendations, 61 percent of those recommendations were implemented. Even
though a figure was obtained on the quantification of the indicator, as explained before, the
value of this indicator is questionable.16 Hence, this policy will be rated considering the
overall progress in the design and implementation of the M&E system (operational and
technical guidelines for evaluations and key monitoring initiatives, design and
implementation of monitoring tools, number of evaluations, and regulations for the use of
the information generated by the M&E system).



15
   List of completed evaluations: evaluation of providers (QW), evaluation of Comite de Compras (QW),
evaluation of role of mother leader (Juntos), evaluation of the use of cash transfers, and performance
assessment of the round table for poverty reduction (Mesa de Concertacion de Lucha contra la Pobreza).
16
   It is worth noting that this indicator would have been revised if DPL2 had taken place.

                                                 20
59.     The MIDIS has promoted evidence-based decision making. In 2012, the MIDIS
revised the design of its programs, incorporating lessons learned from process evaluations,
previous impact evaluations for some of the programs, and best practices from similar
interventions. One of the most important evidence-based decisions was the closure of the
PRONAA already discussed in policy area 2.3. The MIDIS also has improvement plans in
place, which are tools used by social programs to implement the recommendations arising
from evaluations. Finally, the Quipu Commission was set up in 2012 to promote evidence-
based policies. The commission comprising the MIDIS, the MEF, national and
international academics, and private sector representatives proposed seven innovations
related to social inclusion, youth employment, school feeding, and chronic malnutrition
among others.

60.    Through the M&E NLTA, the Bank supported the review and guidance in the
development of the general guidelines governing the M&E of MIDIS policies, programs,
and projects.

61.     This policy is rated as Moderately Satisfactory as the M&E system is in place but
the MIDIS has narrowed the scope on those activities under its direct oversight. This was
largely due to the uncertainties regarding the National M&E system under development
through the MEF, as well as the need to define the functionality of the M&E activities of
the MIDIS in the short term. By the end of 2014, the MIDIS had not approved the M&E
operational guidelines establishing the process for evidence-based performance
agreements of its social programs (tentative prior action for DPL2).

Policy Area 3.3 - Development of Systems and Strategies to Enhance the Coordination
of Social Inclusion Policies and Programs
Objective: Develop an MIDIS-led, coordinated strategy to enhance the effectiveness of
interventions to reduce chronic malnutrition in selected priority regions, as the first pillar
of the National Strategy Growth with Inclusion.
Rating: Satisfactory

62.     The strategy ‘Incluir para Crecer’ seeks to enhance inter-sectoral and inter-
governmental coordination to achieve the expected goals on each axis. To reduce chronic
malnutrition, the first DPL supported the adoption of the strategy for axis 1 (nutrition) and
axis 2 (ECD). In 2012, as part of DPL1 prior actions, the MIDIS approved the guidelines
(Lineamientos) to prioritize geographical settings and effective interventions to accelerate
reductions in chronic malnutrition as evidenced by Ministerial Resolution 131-2012-
MIDIS. During the same year, all the social sectors Inter-ministerial Commission for Social
Affairs (Comisión Interministerial de Asuntos Sociales) and the regional governments
signed an Agreement to Fight Chronic Malnutrition. In that agreement, they defined
coverage targets for effective interventions at sectoral and regional levels to achieve the
national target for 2016.

63.    The MIDIS piloted the implementation of effective interventions to reduce
malnutrition. As part of the tentative triggers for DPL2, the MIDIS implemented a pilot
during 2013 in two regions (San Martin and La Libertad) where all relevant agencies
worked together (plan and budget) to implement a package of interventions that have been

                                             21
proved to be effective. The TAL and the Juntos for Nutrition SWAP provided additional
support to reduce malnutrition. The TAL supported the development of a monitoring
dashboard for infant malnutrition indicators and the systematization of pilot experiences in
the local coordination of social policy on chronic malnutrition. The SWAP incentivized the
registration of new children in the household, increasing the demand for nutrition services.

64.     The MIDIS developed and implemented a new instrument for inter-
governmental and inter-sectoral coordination that is more effective to reduce chronic
malnutrition. While the pilot on joint piloting and budgeting was successful to reduce
malnutrition in the pilot areas, the government needed to accelerate the reduction of chronic
malnutrition at the national level to reach the target of 10 percent by 2016. The GoP created
the Multisectoral Commission comprising all the ministries in the social sector and the
MEF and designed a new instrument that incentivized regions to reduce chronic
malnutrition called Performance Incentive Fund (Fondo de Estímulo al Desempeño, FED).
The FED is a system of results-based agreements between the central government and
regional authorities that allocates resources in regional governments’ budgets based on the
level of compliance with their commitments. The FED works on the provision of four
packages of services to pregnant women or children up to five years of age. By the end of
2014, 16 regions have signed results-based agreements. Nine departments completed the
process of compliance verification reports (phase 1). Seven departments have delivered the
first verification reports (phase 2) and nine departments are initiating the implementation
process after signing the corresponding Performance Agreement (phase 3). The FED
covers 1,060 districts, representing 58 percent of the total districts. The FED reaches 4,214
health facilities and 35,947 schools.

65.      This policy is rated as Satisfactory. While the initial expectation was to expand the
pilots to at least three regions, the GoP successfully designed and implemented an
improved instrument for multisector and inter-government coordination to reduce
malnutrition. Hence, the policy is rated Satisfactory taking into account the spirit of this
objective and the successful implementation in the nine regions of phase 1 (covering 753
districts, 1,928 health facilities, and 7,504 schools).

66.     Overall outcome rating (Policy Area 3). The overall rating is Moderately
Satisfactory because there were moderate shortcomings in the implementation and
selection of indicators of Policy Area 3.1, as explained above.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

67.     Considering the above discussion, as the three policy areas are rated as Moderately
Satisfactory, the overall rating is Moderately Satisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes, and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

68.    The reforms supported by this DPL aimed to reduce poverty and increase
inclusiveness. The strategy ‘Incluir para Crecer’ works around a package of short-,
medium-, and long-term interventions. In the short term, it provides relief to those in
                                             22
extreme poverty. In the medium term, it promotes economic opportunities and investments
in basic infrastructure. In the long term, it creates opportunities for the next generation,
with emphasis on reducing severe malnutrition in children, promoting early infant
development, and comprehensive child and adolescent development.

69.    The expansion of the Pension 65 and Juntos programs and the improvement
in targeting mechanism have contributed to the reduction of poverty. Previous
rigorous impact evaluations conducted for the Juntos program (Perova and Vakis 2009)
have found that the program reduced the poverty gap and poverty severity by 5 percent and
6 percent, respectively. The impact evaluations for the programs are ongoing but the results
are expected in the next year. Between 2012 and 2014, extreme poverty fell from 4.7 to 4.3
percent and incidence of extreme poverty of the elderly dropped from 5.9 to 3.9 percent.

70.     Ethnicity and gender. The PSIA that accompanied the preparation of the DPL and
TAL operations helped to identify measures to enhance positive impacts on the indigenous,
women, the elderly, and Afro-descendants through culturally and gender-sensitive design
in the MIDIS’ programs. The PSIA for the second DPL operation provided an analysis of
the positive outcomes on poverty and inequality of the policy actions outlined in the DPL
expanding the analyses by region, gender, and indigenous origin when possible.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

71.    The DPL program played a key role in supporting the creation and
consolidation of the MIDIS. It supported the establishment of the MIDIS’ legal and
organizational rules and enhanced the inclusivity and effectiveness of key MIDIS social
programs, expanding coverage to the most vulnerable population and revising targeting
mechanisms. It also supported the development of an M&E system for results-based policy
formulation and management in the social inclusion sector. The DPL also supported the
development and implementation of the National Social Inclusion Strategy enhancing the
MIDIS’ capacity to articulate with all sectors and the three levels of government.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

Not applicable

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

72.    The development outcomes are still subject to four risks, which are assessed below
and are the basis for the Moderate rating:

    (a)    Macroeconomic risk. As already stated, there is a risk at the macroeconomic
           level (financial crises, sudden stops in capital flows, quick reversal of exchange
           rates, and so on). The domestic policies have already adjusted to the change in
           the external environment diminishing the policy space. If the external or
           internal conditions deteriorate significantly, the policy space for countercyclical
           policy can be quickly eroded. This is a risk that has increased since the inception
           of the operation. Still, the GoP remains committed, maintaining stability and

                                             23
           reducing macroeconomic uncertainties emerging from both policy design and
           fiscal space. In summary, the macroeconomic risks have increased moderately
           since the inception of the program.

    (b)    Implementation and coordination risks. Given the observed developments
           since the inception of the program, the risk related to implementation and
           coordination issues has increased. In effect, there have been two changes in the
           head of the MIDIS, and changes in staff-caused delays on activities, but
           maintained the key priorities of the national strategy ‘Incluir para Crecer’.
           Another set of risks emerges from the necessary logistics to implement social
           programs (as discussed above, distribution of personal identification
           documents, transport and logistics, and so on).

    (c)    Political and policy risks. In addition to these problems, the political situation
           in the face of the upcoming elections is another source of uncertainty. The
           national strategy ‘Incluir para Crecer’ is expected to guide the social inclusion
           policy in the next few years. While a new administration might modify the
           strategy Incluir para Crecer, the principles like performance-based financing
           (presupuesto por resultados) are likely to remain.

    (d)    Stakeholder opposition. The risk of internal conflict and opposition is now
           moderate. Initially, there has been opposition to some implementation
           arrangements of the QW, which has been resolved. Staff working in social
           programs before the migration to the MIDIS may also resist changes in the
           structure and operational rules. Challenges in coordination between the regional
           liaison coordinator and regional program coordinators may also affect MIDIS
           capacity to articulate at the local level.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

73.   The Bank performance in assisting the borrower to identify, prepare, and
appraise the operation is rated Moderately Satisfactory. The design of the DPL
program benefited from several years of Bank support on social inclusion policies and
recommendations in published analytical reports. Many of the team members had been
working with the GoP for a long time, allowing them to provide in-depth support.

74.     The Bank used multiple instruments to support the creation and consolidation
of the MIDIS promptly and effectively. As described in section 2.2, the Bank made an
important effort to support the creation and consolidation of the MIDIS using a wide range
of instruments (DPL, TAL, NLTAs, and SWAP) to accommodate government needs.
Annex 10 summarizes key instruments used to support the MIDIS’ creation and
consolidation. Multiple Bank teams approached the MIDIS together during missions and
events working as a single support team.
                                            24
75.     The Bank’s support was key to reorganize the programs through a process of
evaluation and redesign. During the preparation of the DPL, the Bank supported the
evaluation and posterior closure of the PRONAA feeding program, which was highly
sensitive but necessary considering multiple deficiencies and lack of transparency. The
Bank then supported the creation of a new QW with an emphasis on transparency and
accountability.

76.      While the Bank provided support to the creation of the MIDIS, the objectives
of the DPL series were too optimistic for the DPL time frame. As discussed in section
1.6, this DPL involved the creation and consolidation of a new ministry (and a new sector)
with all the uncertainty typically associated to this kind of processes. The design of the
operation introduced a formal rigidity in the selection of objectives and tentative prior
actions that contributed to the delay and posterior cancellation of DPL2.

77.     Important shortcomings in the DPL are the M&E arrangements. As discussed
in section 2.3, there are shortcomings in the definition of indicators, lack of baselines for
several indicators, and no specification of the source of data to be used. An effort to identify
sources of data for each indicator is observed from the Aide Memoire July 2012 but it was
not reflected in the final document.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

78.     As indicated in sections 2.2 and 4, the team identified a series of risks. Some of
them were clearly outside the area of influence of the Bank, such as the macroprudential
policies undertaken to minimize macroeconomic risks, and internal and external
imbalances. Among the identified risks, those falling within the category of
implementation and coordination risks were, up to a point, within the sphere of potentially
actionable items for the team. In this area, the team undertook just-in-time actions to
minimize the negative impact of the introduction of the reform (creation of the MIDIS,
redistribution of responsibilities, emerging coordination problems, and so on). In particular,
the team provided support to design a communication strategy that attempted to ameliorate
the internal resistance to the institutional rearrangements. However, there are actions that
were foreseeable at the beginning of the program, with the information available at that
time, that were not pushed forward. In particular, as discussed previously in this document,
there is a problem with the quality of the indicators in the sense that they are not
appropriately defined, a problem that trickles down to measurement issues. This is an area
where proactive corrective measures should have been taken. As an example of this point,
it is worth noting that the first ISR does not include values for any indicator, while the
second ISR indicates no data available for four out of nine indicators and lack a discussion
on why the PDOs are progressing as expected when there is no data available to measure
the progress of four indicators. Moreover, the Aide Memoire did not reflect the discussion
on the measurement issues of key outcome indicators. Overall, the rating for the quality of
supervision is Moderately Unsatisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

                                              25
79.     As noted in the previous points, the rating for the Bank performance with regard to
ensuring quality at entry is Moderately Satisfactory. On the other hand, the rating with
regard to the quality of supervision is Moderately Unsatisfactory. The ICR guideline states
‘When the rating for one dimension is in the satisfactory range while the rating for the other
is in the unsatisfactory range, the rating for overall Bank Performance normally depends
on the outcome rating. Thus, overall Bank performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory if
the outcome is rated in the satisfactory range, or Moderately Unsatisfactory if outcome is
rated in the unsatisfactory range, except when Bank performance did not significantly
affect the particular outcome.’ Given the multiple instruments in place and the nature of
the supervision arrangements in a DPL, it is not possible to conclude that the Bank
performance affected the particular outcome. Therefore, the Bank performance is rated as
Moderately Unsatisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance (MEF)
Rating: Satisfactory

80.     The Ministry of Finance played a key leadership role in the implementation of
the DPL. The ministry effectively coordinated actions to support a result-based financing
approach with all the social ministries, contributing to the achievement of the strategic
goals defined in the strategy ‘Incluir para Crecer.’ The MEF performance is therefore rated
Satisfactory.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance (MIDIS)17
Rating: Satisfactory

81.     The government’s strong ownership of the development of the social inclusion
agenda and reforms supported under the DPL were critical factors determining the
success of the operation. After three years of the creation of the Development and Social
Inclusion sector, the GoP has changed the social protection debate in Peru: it has developed
a cross-ministerial poverty reduction and inclusion strategy, and set up a variety of targeted
programs to identify and reach the most vulnerable. The consolidation of the MIDIS has
marked the start of the reform of an evidence-based development and social inclusion
policy that emphasizes intervention targeting and inter-sectoral and inter-governmental
coordination. Government ownership has led directly to the achievement of the PDOs.

82.      Changes in GoP priorities affected the preparation of the second DPL. While
the key priorities of the strategy remained unchanged, the GoP changed some of its
implementation priorities and concentrated most of its dialogue with the Bank on the rest
of the financing instruments instead of the DPL. As explained in section 1.6, those changes
affected the prompt preparation of the second operation.




17
  Despite the MEF being the implementing agency in the DPLs, for the purpose of this section the
implementing agency is defined as the MIDIS.

                                              26
83.     Despite the aspects that affected the second operation, government performance is
rated Satisfactory due to the important achievements in the Development and Social
Inclusion sector.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

84.    Overall, the borrowers’ performance is deemed Satisfactory for the reasons stated
above.

6. Lessons Learned

85.     The programmatic development policy instrument proved to have weaknesses
in context of this operation. While the programmatic DPL supports gradual reforms, the
uncertainty attached to the establishment of a new ministry requires an operational design
flexible enough to adjust to changes in institutional priorities. The nature of the
programmatic DPL did not provide enough flexibility to include new priorities.

86.     The design of the M&E system needs to ensure that the set of indicators are
properly defined, ensuring clarity of measuring methods, data collection, and
availability of baseline. These elements were central for the success of the M&E
arrangements in this operation. More attention should be paid to ensure the use and
selection of indicators that are specific, measurable, achievable, attributable, relevant, and
time-bound (S.M.A.R.T).

87.    The selection of indicators needs to take into account that they should be
achievable within a short DPL framework. Including the requirement of integration at
the subnational level within two years (Policy Area 1) affected the rating of the operation
on quality at entry and the level of achievement of its key indicator.

88.     The selection of indicators related to pilot activities proved to be risky. The
indicator on training to promoters for family support was based on an activity that the
government needed to scale up after piloting. As the government cancelled the expansion,
the expected outcome was not achieved.

89.     Maintaining a fluid communication with the counterpart proved to be crucial,
especially when executing complex reforms. It is of utmost importance to keep
continuous communication with the counterparts and to constantly maintain a proactive
stance to ensure adequate communication and implementation of the agreed actions.

90.    Government commitment and the development of a sector strategy are key
elements for the success and sustainability of social inclusion policies. The change in
the head of the MIDIS did not affect the direction of the reforms, evidence of a broader
support for the reforms supported by the DPL.

91.     The combination of instruments (DPL, TAL, NLTA, and SWAP) proved to be
effective to provide adequate and timely response to the MIDIS in the area of social
inclusion. The ability to offer a mix of tailored instruments in combination with the cross-

                                             27
sectoral composition of the teams were essential elements to successfully support the
MIDIS. The drawback is that this mix of instruments increases the difficulty of the
operation, requiring good communication between teams and coordination of budgets.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/Implementing agencies

92.    A summary of the comments received from MEF and MIDIS is presented below.
All comments have been incorporated into the final version of the ICR.

(a)    In reference to the stipulation in paragraphs 34 and 37, which analyzes Policy Area
       2.2 linked to the Juntos Program, it is necessary to specify that the indicator related
       to the training of family support was never dropped nor revised despite the pilot
       program was not expanded. The family support component was revised in order
       to improve efficiency in the development of the activity, which is in line with the
       priorities of the Social Sector.
(b)    The rating for Policy Area 2.3 (QW) should be changed. The report (paragraphs
       43 and 44), points out that the goals established for program coverage and for
       implementation of transparency mechanisms monitored by civil society have been
       achieved. In this respect, the rating of "moderately satisfactory" would not be the
       most appropriate.
(c)    Include the acronyms for ISR and PAD on the list of Abbreviations and Acronyms,
       page i.
(d)    Include in Annex 4, page 33, the following subtitle: Bank's translation of the
       Borrower‘s ICR.
(e)    According to the Borrower’s Implementation Completion Report No. 1171 -
       2015-EF/52.10 of 09-23-15 submitted to the Bank, please add at the end of
       paragraph 4, page 33, a footnote that says "See the annex Policy Matrix of
       Programmatic Series." Additionally, please include a footnote at the end of
       paragraph 23, page 36 saying "617,815 individuals satisfy the eligibility criteria
       (target population)."




                                             28
                 ANNEX 1 BANK LENDING AND IMPLEMENTATION
                      SUPPORT/SUPERVISION PROCESSES

(a) Task Team Members
               Names                           Title                  Unit
Lending
Alessandra Marini             Co-TTL (Senior Economist)              GSPDR
Ana Karina Rozas              Operations Analyst                     LCC6C
Andre Medici                  Senior Economist (Health)              GHNDR
                              Co-TTL (Lead Social Protection
Carine Clert                                                         GSPDR
                              Specialist)
Carlos Silva-Jauregui         Lead Economist                         GPVDR
Carmen Veronica Silva         Senior Social Protection Specialist    GSPDR
Ekaterina Vostroknutova       Lead Economist                         GMFDR
Facundo Cuevas                Senior Economist                       GPVDR
Francesca Recanatini          Senior Public Sector Specialist        GGODR
Ignacio Raul Apella           Research Analyst                        GSP04
Indu John-Abraham             Representative Ecuador                 LCCEC
Jimena Garrote                Senior Counsel                         LEGLE
Lerick S. Kebeck              Program Assistant                      GSPDR
Louise J. Cord                Country Director                       AFCF1
                              Senior Financial Management
Lourdes Consuelo Linares                                             GGODR
                              Specialist
Maria Eugenia Genoni          Economist                              GPVDR
Maria Gracheva                Senior Operations Officer              GHNDR
Marta Favara                  Consultant                             GPV02
Nelson Gutierrez              Senior Social Protection Specialist    GSPDR
                              Senior Financial Management
Patricia de la Fuente Hoyes                                          GGODR
                              Specialist
Patricia O. Orna              Language Program Assistant             GSPDR
Rafael P. Rofman              Program Leader                         LCC7C
Renos Vakis                   Lead Economist                         GPVDR
Rory Narvaez                  Consultant                             GSP04
Sara Burga                    Program Assistant                      LCC6C
Sarah Keener                  Senior Social Development Specialist   GSURR
William Reuben                Consultant                             GSU04


Supervision/ICR
Alessandra Marini             Senior Economist                       GSPDR
Ana Karina Rozas              Operations Analyst                     LCC6C
Carmen Veronica Silva         Senior Social Protection Specialist    GSPDR
Hugo Martin Brousset          E T Consultant                         GSPDR
Iamele P. Rigolini            Program Leader                         LCC6C
Ignacio Apella                Consultant                             GSP04
Jose Luis Gacigalupo          Consultant
Julieta Trias                 Economist/ICR Primary Author           GSPDR
Lerick Kebeck                 Program Assistant                      GSPDR


                                                29
Maria Eugenia Genoni           Economist                              GPVDR
Rafael Rofman                  Program Leader                         LCC7C
Sarah Keener                   Senior Social Development Specialist   GSURR

(b) Staff Time and Cost

                                                      Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                  Stage                                                      US$ (including travel and
                                                No. of Staff Weeks
                                                                                 consultant costs)
Lending
FY12                                                   16.95                      104,930.77
FY 2013                                                52.95                      239,915.05
                          Total Lending                69.90                      344,845.82
Supervision/ICR
FY13                                                    3.76                       21,401.19
FY14                                                    9.97                       14,869.79
FY15                                                    6.83                       34,637.61
FY16                                                    6.50                       18,988.84
                       Total Supervision               27.06                       89,897.43




                                                30
                 ANNEX 2. BENEFICIARY SURVEY RESULTS

Not applicable




                                 31
      ANNEX 3. STAKEHOLDER WORKSHOP REPORT AND RESULTS

Not applicable




                             32
      ANNEX 4. SUMMARY OF BORROWER'S ICR AND/OR COMMENTS ON
                            DRAFT ICR18

I.         General

1.      In 2012, the Peruvian government requested support from the Bank to promote
reforms to its policies for fighting poverty to achieve the social inclusion of marginalized
sectors, through a programmatic loan named the ‘Results Management for Social Inclusion
Program’ and a technical support loan known as the ‘Support for the Results Management
for Social Inclusion Program’ amounting to US$14.3 million (including local contribution).

2.     The coordination and disbursement of the program loan was to be organized in an
annual manner, in two periods between 2012 and 2014. The first of these operations,
amounting to US$45 million, was approved on April 3, 2013, through Supreme Decree No.
070-2013-EF published in El Peruano on April 4, 2013.

3.      For the second operation, amounting to US$30 million, the negotiation had been
scheduled for December 2014 with the agreement to be reached in January 2015. However,
this program was never concluded because the policy matrix had to be restructured to
provide greater continuity with regard to the first operation, requiring extra preparation
time. In addition, given the time that had passed between the two operations, it was no
longer possible to delay approval of the second operation, and for this reason it fell through.

II.        Program Description

4.    The reforms associated with the program, which aim to promote social inclusion
and improve the performance and results-based character of the programs and policies of
the MIDIS were organized into three policy areas. 19

5.      Policy Area 1: Strengthening the institutional framework required for the
MIDIS to carry forward the management and promotion of the social agenda. This
policy area included actions related to the approval of the institutional and legal framework
required for the MIDIS to carry the management and promotion of the social inclusion
agenda forward.

6.      Policy Area 2: Improved inclusion and effectiveness of the MIDIS’ principal
social programs. In this policy area, actions that were undertaken were subdivided into
three areas:

7.      Policy Area 2.1: National Program for Direct Support of the Poor - Juntos.
This area sought to strengthen coverage and support for users developed by local promoters.
The actions undertaken through the program concern the approval of the expansion of
coverage of Juntos to districts where the SISFOH will have carried out socioeconomic
evaluation and where the level of poverty stands between 40 and 50 percent. In addition,


18
     This section has been translated by the World Bank.
19
     See the annex Policy Matrix of Programmatic Series.

                                                    33
the beginning of the process was considered to improve the quantity and quality of the
support provided by Juntos to families by hiring 1,000 new local promoters whose terms
of reference were better suited to requirements.

8.      Policy Area 2.2: Non-contributory Social Pension - Pensión 65. In this area,
efforts were focused on strengthening the coverage of the Pensión 65 program and
formulating a more general and long-term strategic focus. The activity considered by the
program was the approval of the coverage expansion at the national level.

9.      Policy Area 2.3: School Feeding Program - QW. This area of work covers the
establishment of a new school meals program for public education facilities. Hence, the
program incorporates as a prior action, the creation of the QW program to guarantee the
provision of food to children enrolled in public schools at preschool and primary school
levels.

10.     Policy Area 3: Reform to the social policy approaches and systems. In this
policy area, actions were undertaken that were subdivided into three areas:

11.      Policy Area 3.1: Review of the SISFOH for social policies and programs. In
this section, the programmatic series addressed securing the precision of the targeting
system of the social programs and services provided by the MIDIS through the preparation
of rules and a division of responsibilities between the SISFOH and its users, and the
updating of databases of the PGH, together with quality standards. The actions taken by
the program in relation to these problems were related to the development of the
institutional framework for the SISFOH within the MIDIS, and the updating of the PGH
by the SISFOH.

12.     Policy Area 3.2: Developing the fundamentals of the M&E system for social
inclusion policies and programs. This section addressed the development of an M&E
system for the social inclusion policy and programs to promote evidence-based decision
making. The actions undertaken by the program in this section were related to the approval
of the guidelines for the development of an M&E system for the formulation of a results-
based policy in the social inclusion sector.

13.     Policy Area 3.3: Development of systems and strategies to strengthen
coordination of social inclusion policies and program. This section seeks to develop a
coordinated strategy for strengthening the effectiveness of interventions to reduce chronic
malnutrition in selected prioritized regions as part of the first pillar of the national strategy
Incluir para Crecer. In this way, the program incorporated the approval of the guidelines
for inter-sectoral and inter-governmental coordination by the MIDIS to reduce chronic
malnutrition, identifying the priority districts where the interventions will be implemented.

III.    Evaluation of Objective, Design, Operational Experience, and Execution

14.    The program proposed reforms in the area of social inclusion, with the objective of
improving the capacity for inclusion as well as the performance and general results-
oriented character of the programs, and policies of the MIDIS. According to observed


                                               34
experience, the objective of the program was adequately framed within the policy priorities
of the government.

15.     At the beginning of the current administration, the GoP determined that a
fundamental aspect to ensure that the achieved economic growth has a positive effect on
reducing poverty and economic gaps is to develop public policies required to improve
social inclusion for the population living in poverty. Under this definition, poverty is
understood as a situation in which people can exercise their rights, having access to quality
public services, and being able to take advantage of the opportunities arising from
economic growth.

16.     In this regard, in recent years the GoP has made significant advances in social
inclusion. Firstly, it created the MIDIS in 2011, which represents a landmark in the social
policy sector. Secondly, it set out the ‘Include to Grow’ (Incluir para Crecer) national
strategy for social inclusion, which defined five strategic pillars as a starting point for the
implementation of its social inclusion policy. This policy is based on a life cycle approach
including infant nutrition, ECD, skills for life, economic inclusion, and care for the elderly.

17.      In this way, the MIDIS takes on the responsibility of designing, coordinating, and
directing the set of government interventions aimed at reducing poverty, inequality,
vulnerability, and social risk. Being the sector responsible for executing targeting and time-
based social programs, it must ensure a coordinated and effective intervention in the
provision of goods and services to the population who most require direct support from the
state. In addition, as the governing sector for the national social policy, it must ensure that
the different sectors and levels of government implementing social programs and policies,
act in a coordinated manner.

18.    From the point of view of the management, the MIDIS has prioritized results in
areas where severe gaps between populations and regions remain. These results include the
reduction of chronic infant malnutrition, improvement in school attendance, joint access to
basic services (water, sewerage, electricity, and telephone), generation of independent
income, and sustainable reduction of extreme poverty and poverty gaps.

19.     In the design phase, target areas were adequately identified. Although this
definition worked for the first operation of the programmatic series, it was not possible to
consolidate these lines of action in the second program. However, the solutions achieved
because of the first loan remain valid and formed a basis for the sector to continue to make
progress with the outstanding agenda.

20.     Given that the intervention addressed a single institutional sector, it was simplified
to achieve the coordination and management of the activities. Meanwhile, a limited number
of conditionalities were observed, which could have simplified the fulfillment stage of the
first phase.

21.    In the design, a number of institutional risks were identified, such as a change in
management, lack of continuity of staff, limited institutional and administrative capacity
given the short time the institution was operating, and coordination problems between the

                                              35
vice-ministries, among others. Despite the fact that changes in management and personnel
in the ministry did occur, the policies and general activities of the MIDIS were not affected.
However, the dependence of the programmatic series on the decisions of a single sector
made it more vulnerable to changes in policy priorities, which impacted the viability of the
second program in the series.

IV.         Evaluation of the Operation in Relation to the Agreed Objectives

22.     The program was structured based on three development objectives. First, it aimed
to support the institutionalization of the guiding role of the MIDIS in the management and
promotion of the social inclusion agenda. At the beginning of the program, there was no
governing sector exercising this guiding role. With the creation of the MIDIS in 2011, and
its entry into operation in 2012, responsibility for the design and guidance of the social
inclusion policy was assigned to the MIDIS, which also took charge of the operation of the
related social programs.

23.     Second, the operation sought to establish the bases for improving the inclusion and
effectiveness capacity of the key MIDIS social programs. The program focused on
improving the effectiveness of three social programs: Juntos, Pensión 65, and the QW.
With regard to the Juntos program, it was expected to strengthen the inclusion and
effectiveness of the program by expanding its coverage and improving the quality of
support for families with the help of local promoters. As a result, in 2014, an increase of
185,079 new households using the program was observed in comparison to the figure for
2012. 20

24.     With regard to the Pensión 65 program, an increase in access to the program by the
elderly living in extreme poverty was expected. In 2012, only 40.1 percent of people
meeting the eligibility criteria took advantage of the program benefits. In 2014, an increase
in coverage was observed, reaching 72.5 percent of the total target population nationwide.

25.     With regard to the QW program, when this program was created in 2012, it
expected to address a significant percentage of the school population who attend public
schools at preschool and primary levels, developing at the same time monitoring
mechanisms for civil society. In this sense, by the end of 2014, after two years in operation,
the QW served 84 percent of children attending public schools at preschool and primary
levels.




20
     617,815 individuals satisfy the eligibility criteria (target population).




                                                          36
26.     Finally, another objective of the program was the preparation of appropriate
systems for identification, monitoring, evaluation, and general coordination. As such, a
review of the SISFOH was expected to secure the precision of the targeting system of the
social programs and services provided by the MIDIS through the preparation of clear rules
and a division of responsibilities between the SISFOH and its user programs. The updating
of databases of the PGH was also expected, along with the revision of quality standards.
Currently, the SISFOH maintains a threefold system for updating the PGH in which the
Local Registry Units participate. The system updates this information by demand, selecting
some areas and targeting them geographically.

27.     In addition, the program sought to develop an M&E system for the social inclusion
policy and programs to promote evidence-based decision making. In line with this, the
MIDIS created the Office for Monitoring of Social Policies (DGSE), which carries out a
series of evaluations and monitors the social programs and policies in the sector. Thus, the
DGSE is responsible for promoting systematic evaluation and monitoring of the
performance of the social policy and programs, communicating the evidence to decision
makers and making the results of the evaluations, evidence, and recommendations for
action available to policymakers and to citizens in general.

28.     To monitor the performance of social programs, the georeferenced information
platform, INFOMIDIS, was used together with the dashboard and the checklist, which are
instruments that facilitate the monitoring of targets established by the ‘Include to Grow’
strategy and the social programs. The verification of fulfillment of protocols and standards
applicable to critical processes in the various programs was also included. In addition, the
DGSE promotes the impact and performance evaluations, systematic reviews, and meta-
analyses, which are programmed as part of the Annual Evaluation Plan. Continuous
improvement plans are also in place, which are tools used by social programs to implement
the recommendations arising from evaluations. Finally, an effort to implement evidence-
based policies was promoted, and to this end the Quipu Commission was set up in 2012,
comprising the MIDIS, MEF, national and international academics, a technical team, and
representatives of the private sector. In addition, in 2013, the Regional Quipu Commission
was set up for the valley formed by the rivers Apurímac, Ene and Mantaro River Valleys.

29.     Additionally, the program expected to achieve the development of a coordinated
strategy to strengthen the effectiveness of interventions aimed at reducing chronic
malnutrition in specific priority regions as part of the first pillar of the ‘Include to Grow’
national strategy. As part of the strategy, the current target is to reduce infant malnutrition
for children below five years of age from 18.1 percent in 2012 to 10 percent in 2016.
Interventions are in place in 1,455 districts in a coordinated manner in the health, sanitation,
education, agriculture, and development and social inclusion sectors, as well as regional
and local governments.

30.     In the light of the facts mentioned, the efforts made by the sector have met the
objectives of the program. In addition, it is expected that the MIDIS will maintain the
continuity of these activities over time, given the established sectoral targets, as well as the
M&E mechanisms in place.


                                              37
V.     Borrower Performance

31.     The participation of the various agencies in the sector is considered to have fostered
the achievement of the objectives set out in the reform, promoting discussion and
alternatives for solutions. Both in the design and execution phases, these agencies have
provided technical support to the program. In general, the participants have displayed
interest in the achievement of the conditionalities, as well as in the results.

32.    During the preparation of the second loan, a change in focus of the policy areas of
the program was observed, which led to the discontinuation of the programmatic series.
However, the actions carried out in the context of the first loan remain relevant, and have
achieved the positive results observed.

Lessons Learned

33.    Political commitment is a key element to be able to develop a policy loan and to
maintain its continuity. In addition, stability at the management level and in the technical
teams helps to avoid changes in institutional priorities and delays in execution.

34.    Defining the principal strategic lines of action of the operation, based on
government priorities and sectoral assessments, helps to maintain commitments in spite of
regulatory and policy changes, and to achieve relevant improvements for the social
programs involved.

35.     It is noted that relying on a single institutional actor makes it harder to take better
advantage of the programmatic series mechanism, especially in relation to the possibility
of solving problems that encompass various sectors. In such cases, provision of support by
means of an instrument other than a policy loan may be evaluated.

36.    To achieve a greater impact for the program and optimize the use of resources
provided by technical assistance, better alignment of the latter with the policy areas of the
program is required, as well as with the programing of activities, to avoid potential
discrepancies in the achievement of results. In this way, the activities carried out using
technical assistance could help to facilitate the continuity of the programmatic series.

37.     Despite the progress shown by the sector in line with the objectives of the program,
it is considered that a second loan could have represented a significant opportunity to
reinforce the results of the programmatic series.

VI.    Performance Evaluation of the Bank

38.      The performance of the Bank for the first loan is considered satisfactory given that
it facilitated the participation of technical experts related to social issues, and undertook
the coordination necessary to incorporate the relevant aspects of the reform into the
program. In addition, the Technical Assistance Program was available as an additional tool
to support the sector, aimed at the implementation and consolidation of the reforms, in
particular for the second loan in the series.


                                              38
39.     In addition, during the preparation of the second loan, the Bank, in the light of the
demands made by the sector, agreed to alter the strategic lines of action of the program,
and for this reason the programmatic series could not be concluded in a satisfactory manner.

Lessons Learned

40.     In general, it is observed that the technical teams in the social inclusion sector give
a positive assessment of the technical assistance provided by the Bank, since it facilitates
the definition and execution of activities in a more streamlined manner, and represents
support where serious limitations exist because of administrative issues.

41.    The involvement of various actors from the sector, encouraged by the Bank team
through the discussion and agreement among multiple related stakeholders, meant that the
principal initiatives set out in the program received significant institutional support.

42.    In the light of the experience of preparing the second loan, the role of the Bank is
considered to be primordial to be able to properly formulate an operation of this character.
As a result, it is necessary to demonstrate leadership during the preparation stage of the
operation and communicate in an appropriate fashion to the target sector the internal
procedures of the Bank in approving this type of loan.

43.    In the light of this experience, depending on a single sector to provide continuity in
the development of the strategic lines of action of the programmatic series, makes the
program more vulnerable to changes in policy priorities and in management.

VII.   Conclusions

44.      According to the analysis, the impact of the first loan is considered to have been
positive throughout its execution. There is evidence that the definition of the main strategic
areas was made on the basis of government priorities, as well as sectoral assessments,
which contributed to the reforms generally remaining in place, notwithstanding subsequent
institutional changes.

45.      The initial design of the series included the participation of a single sector, which
facilitated the preparation and implementation of the first loan. However, for the second
loan, a change in focus of the policy areas was observed, which led to failure to bring the
preparation to a conclusion.

46.     The coordinated work between the Bank and the technical teams involved
contributed to the promotion of the reforms included in the policy matrix, which facilitated
their uptake and their continued use, despite the programmatic series being discontinued.

                                                                    Lima, September 21, 2015




                                              39
Annex 5. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not applicable




                                      40
                 ANNEX 6. LIST OF SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS

Escobal, Javier; Saavedra, Jaime; Vakis, Renos (2012) Está el piso parejo para los niños
      en el Perú? Medición y comprensión de la evolución de las oportunidades,
      Washington DC: World Bank.
IMF (International Monetary Fund). 2015. Article IV – Peru, Country Report No. 15/133.
MIDIS (Ministry of Development and Social Inclusion). 2012a. Annual Report. Peru.
———. 2012b. Guidelines for Inter-sectoral and Inter-governmental Coordination to
   Reduce Chronic Malnutrition. Peru.
———. 2012c. Lineamientos básicos de la política de desarrollo e inclusión social. Peru.
———. 2012d. Una politica para el desarrollo y la inclusion social. Peru.
———. 2013a. Annual Report, Pension 65. Peru.
———. 2013b. National Strategy for Development and Social Inclusion. Peru.
———. 2014. Report of Annual Evaluation. Peru.
———. 2013–2016. Institutional Strategic Plan. Peru.
Perova, Elizaveta, and Renos Vakis.2009. Evaluating the Juntos Program in Peru:
       Evidence from non-experimental estimates. Washington, DC: World Bank.
———. 2013a. 5 years in Juntos: New Evidence on the Program's Short and Long-term
   Impacts. Washington, DC: World Bank.
———. 2013b. Improving Gender and Development Outcomes through Agency: Policy
   Lessons from Three Peruvian Experiences. Washington, DC: World Bank.
Rofman, Rafael, Ignacio Apella, and Evelyn Vezza. 2014. Beyond Contributory Pensions:
      Fourteen Experiences with Coverage Expansion in Latin America. Directions in
      development, human development. Washington, DC: World Bank.
Trivelli, C, and S. Vargas. 2014. Entre Discurso y la Acción. Desafíos, decisiones y dilemas
        en el marco de la creación del Ministerio de Desarrollo Social, Instituto de
        Estudios Peruanos, Documento de Trabajo No 208. Peru.
World Bank. 2008. “Una Mirada a la Evolución Reciente de la Pobreza en Peru: Avances
      y Desafios.” Working Paper 50150.
———. 2012a. Social Inclusion—TAL (Ln. 8222-PE). Back-to-Office Report.
———. 2012b. Social Inclusion—DPL1 (Ln. 8221-PE). Loan Agreement - First Social
   Inclusion DPL.
———. 2012c. Social Inclusion—DPL1 (Ln. 8221-PE). Project Appraisal Document -
   First Social Inclusion DPL.
———. 2012d. Social Inclusion—TAL (Ln. 8222-PE). Project Appraisal Document -
Social Inclusion Technical Assistance Project.
———. 2013. Social Inclusion—DPL1 (Ln. 8221-PE). Implementation Status and Results
   Report.

                                            41
———. 2012–2014. Social Inclusion—DPL1 (Ln. 8221-PE). Statement of Mission
   Objective Reports, Back-to-Office Reports, Aide Memoires.
———. 2014. Social Inclusion—DPL2 (P147216). Corporate Review (ROC/OC) - Second
   Social Inclusion DPL.
———. 2014–2015. Social Inclusion—TAL (Ln. 8222-PE). Implementation Status and
   Results Report.
———. 2015a. Peru Poverty NLTA (P151096). Completion Note.
———. 2015b. Report of Peru. Strengthening MIDIS Capacity to Provide Integrated
   Services at the Subnational Level. Report ACS13699 (P152321).
World Bank Partnership Strategy. 2012–2016. Report 66187-PE.


Interviews conducted
Government

      Carolina Trivelli Avila, Former Minister, MIDIS.
      Ariela Luna, Viceminister of Policy and Social Evaluation, MIDIS.
      Jorge Arrunátegui Gadea, Former Viceminister, Vice ministerio de Prestaciones
       Sociales, MIDIS.
      Silvana Vargas Winstanley, Former Director, Dirección General de Políticas
       Estratégicas, MIDIS.
      Janeth Bouby Cerna, Former Director, Dirección General de Descentralización y
       Coordinación de Prestaciones Sociales, MIDIS.
      Milagros Alvarado, Former Director, Juntos Program, MIDIS.
      Gisele Romero, Former Director, QW Program, MIDIS.
      Ursula Martinez, Former Director of Evaluation of Social Programs, MIDIS.
      Erica Schabauer, Former Specialist in International Cooperation, Office of
       Cooperation and International Affair, MIDIS.
      Marcos Felix, Sub Director, Debt and Public Treasury, MEF.

World Bank

      Alessandra Marini, Senior Economist
      Nelson Gutierrez, Sr. Social Protection Specialist
      Veronica Silva Villalobos, Senior Social Protection Specialist
      Rafael Roffman, Program Leader
      Maria Eugenia Genoni, Economist
      Renos Vakis, Lead Economist
      Alma Kanani, Operations Adviser
      Karina Olivas, Country Officer
      Jose Bacigalupo, Former Consultant



                                           42
                 ANNEX 7. DESCRIPTION OF THE MIDIS MANDATE

1. The MIDIS has the mandate to lead the government's social inclusion strategy,
   exercise stewardship, and coordinate social inclusion policies, and implement
   specific targeted social protection programs. It serves steering and implementation
   functions. On the steering front, the MIDIS aims to implement a SINADIS, and to
   promote closer coordination among the universal social sectors (health and education),
   productive opportunities, and subnational government actions in priority rural areas.
   Collaboration between national and subnational governments is led by the MIDIS’
   General Office of Decentralization and Coordination of Social Programs, and
   facilitated by integrated systems and policies promoted broadly within the MIDIS (for
   example, integrated information platform including data at different levels of
   implementation, strengthening the SISFOH’s local units of targeting, and so on). The
   M&E function of the MIDIS aims at increasing the effectiveness of implementation of
   programs and overall social inclusion strategy by generating a more informed design
   and implementation of programs based on the realities on the ground and promoting
   greater supervision of the programs with regard to their broader policy goals.

2. On the implementation front, it has also assumed the responsibility for coordinating
   five targeted social programs:

     (a)      PRONAA, and now the new program QW.

     (b)     Peruvian Social Fund (Fondo Nacional de Compensación y Desarrollo).

     (c)     The ECD program, Wawa Wasi, now Cuna Ma.s

     (d)     The CCT Program Juntos.

     (e)     The non-contributory pension, Pension 65.21




21
  The first three programs were initially implemented under the MIMDES, and the last two programs were
formerly overseen by the PCM. The creation of the MIDIS and the transfer of the five key social programs
have set the foundations for the institutional framework that will allow the implementation of a new and more
coordinated social protection strategy.

                                                    43
                        ANNEX 8. POLICY MATRIX FOR PERU’S FIRST SOCIAL INCLUSION DPL


Objective/Target at the Baseline                    Assessment as on December 2014                                                  Comments
end of 2014
I. CONSOLIDATION OF THE INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK FOR THE STEWARDSHIP OF THE SOCIAL
INCLUSION AGENDA UNDER THE MIDIS
The MIDIS’ stewardship Lack of single entity        Legal and organizational rules have been established at the central level.      Achieved at central
of the social inclusion  exercising stewardship     Regional coordination is ongoing, Regional Liaison Teams have been              level, partially achieved
agenda is                and oversight of the       created in all regions.                                                         a subnational level
institutionalized, as    social inclusion agenda at
measured by the          central and subnational    Evidence:
establishment of legal   levels                     Legal and Organizational Rules at the Central Level
and organizational rules                                 Law No. 29792, dated October 10, 2011which created the MIDIS
at the central level and                                 Supreme Decree No. 001-2011-MIDIS, dated December, 26, 2011
the operation of                                         Resolution of MIDIS General Secretariat No. 004-201 I-MIDIS,
integrated units at the                                      dated December 31, 2011
sublevel in all regions                                  Supreme Decree No. 011-2012-MIDIS, dated September 4, 2012,
                                                             which approved the MIDIS' rules of organization and operations
                                                         Supreme Decree·No. 001-2012-MIDIS, which approved the
                                                             MIDIS’ organigram
                                                         Resolution of MIDIS No. 124-2013-MIDIS which approved the
                                                             Manual of Organizations and Functions
                                                         Resolution of MIDIS No. 108-2014-MIDIS, which approved
                                                             Manual of Procedures
                                                         Resolution of MIDIS No. 289-2013-MIDIS, No. 242-2012-MIDIS,
                                                             No. 165-2012-MIDIS, No. 152-2012-MIDIS which approved job
                                                             classification
                                                    Integrated Units at the Subnational Level
                                                         Resolution No. 253-2014-MIDIS approved a temporary working
                                                             group to articulate in the territory composed by a president and the
                                                             liaison coordinators—who are functionally reporting to the Vice-
                                                             Ministry Office of Policy and Social Evaluation. Regional liaison
                                                             coordinators have been appointed in all the 24 regions




                                                                         44
                                                          In 2015, Resolution No. 067-2015-MIDIS approved the liaison
                                                           offices (physical offices), the staff serving the offices, and the
                                                           funding. The Regional Liaison Team in each region includes the
                                                           regional liaison coordinator responsible for the five MIDIS
                                                           program coordination and the inter-sectoral and inter-governmental
                                                           coordination, one responsible for the platform for users (Orienta
                                                           MIDIS), one local coordinator for the FED, one local coordinator
                                                           for the Central Targeting Unit, one local coordinator for Economic
                                                           Inclusion Funds in Rural Areas (Fondo para la Inclusión
                                                           Economica en Zonas Rurales, FONIE) and one administrative
                                                           coordinator

II. IMPROVING THE INCLUSIVENESS AND EFFECTIVENESS OF KEY MIDIS SOCIAL PROGRAMS
II.1 JUNTOS: Enhanced Coverage and Support to Users by Local Promoters
At least 150,000 new  Baseline: 0 (as of end   284,357 new users enrolled and receiving payments (December 2014)                 Achieved
users enrolled in     2011)                    Households enrolled and receiving payments: 758,421 (December 2014)
JUNTOS                Households enrolled and
                      receiving payments:
                      474,064 in 1,011
                      districts (December
                      2011)

At least 90% of local    Baseline: 0              Family support methodology was piloted. During the implementation,             Not Achieved
promoters trained in                              Juntos decided to redesign the program and cancelled the training plans on
family support                                    family support in the pilot areas. Only 57.9 % of the promoters received the
methodology                                       training in those areas




II.2. Pension 65: Enhanced Coverage and Broad-based Strategy for the Elderly Living in Extreme Poverty
At least 65% of elderly  Beneficiaries: 247,673 in 79.4%                                                                         Achieved
men and women living     December 2012
in extreme poverty and   (equivalent to 40.1% of
complying with the       eligible elderly)
program’s eligibility




                                                                     45
criteria receive Pension
65
II.3. QW: Establishment of a New QW in Public Schools
At least 70% of children n.a.                     82%                                                                         Achieved
attending public
preschool and schools
are served by the QW
At least 40% of districts   n.a.                      43.5%                                                                   Achieved
where the QW operates
include mechanisms for
transparency and civil
society oversight
III. REFORMING SOCIAL POLICY APPROACHES AND SYSTEMS
III.1 Overhaul of the GoP’s Targeting System (SISFOH) for Social Programs and Policies
At least 90% of poor     n.a.                      91.6%                                                                      Achieved
households as estimated
by the INEI have their
socioeconomic
information (Ficha
Socioeconomica Unica)
updated by the SISFOH
within a period not
exceeding three years

III.2 Foundations for an M&E System for Social Inclusion Policy and Programs
The MIDIS’ programs       n.a.                     61%                                                                        Achieved
have started to
implement at least 40%
of the recommendations
generated through the
M&E system

III.3 Development of Systems and Strategies to Enhance Overall Coordination of Social Inclusion Policies and Programs
Increased coverage of     Detailed baselines by     The MIDIS implemented a pilot in two regions (San Martin and La           Achieved
effective interventions,  districts are provided in Libertad) in 2013 where all relevant agencies worked together (plan and



                                                                        46
as defined in the chronic   the guidelines. Baselines   budget) to implement the interventions. After this pilot, the GoP adopted an
malnutrition guidelines,    for the selected three      integrated approach to Nutrition and ECD and needed to accelerate the
in at least three regions   regions were planned to     reduction in chronic malnutrition. A new instrument called the FED was
                            be systematized in 2013.    created to incentivize regions to reduce malnutrition. The FED is a system
                            The baseline was not        of results-based agreements between the central government and regional
                            updated in the ISRs.        authorities to reduce malnutrition. It has been fully implemented in nine
                                                        regions that were part of phase 1 and is ongoing in the rest of the regions.
                                                        Evidence:
                                                                Supreme Decree No. 001-2014-MIDIS. Regulated FED
                                                                 (Performance Incentives Fund)
                                                                Resolution No. 105-2014-MIDIS. Approved Manual of Operations
                                                                 of FED
                                                                Law No. 30281(December 4, 2014). Budget FY2015. Allocated
                                                                 Budget to FED
                                                                Law No. 30114 (December 2, 2013). Budget FY2014. Creates FED
                                                                FED - Compliance verification reports:
                                                                 http://www.midis.gob.pe/index.php/es/fed-convenio-acta-
                                                                 informe/fed-3ra-fase




                                                                           47
      ANNEX 9. LEVEL OF FULFILLMENT TO DATE OF TRIGGERS FOR DPL2

Indicative Trigger for DPL2                                                            Status as of
                                                                                       December 2014
I.        CONSOLIDATION OF THE INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK                                 Partially met
          FOR THE STEWARDSHIP OF THE SOCIAL INCLUSION
          AGENDA UNDER the MIDIS
         The MIDIS evaluated and adopted integrated operating models in all
          regions. The MIDIS tested different models for coordination at the local
          level but integration at the local level was ongoing by the end of 2014.

II.       IMPROVING THE INCLUSIVENESS AND EFFECTIVENESS OF                             Met
          KEY MIDIS SOCIAL PROGRAMS

      II.1 JUNTOS: Enhanced Coverage and Support to Users by Local
           Promoters

         The GoP adopted the necessary measures to ensure the continued
          expansion of the coverage of Juntos. The GoP has continued the
          expansion of Juntos as evidenced by the executive Direction Resolution
          90-2013-MIDIS-PNADP-DE that created Juntos’ San Martin Territorial
          Unit; and Resolution 006-2014-MIDIS-SG, assigning funding to cover
          770,000 households in Juntos during 2014.

         The MIDIS completed the training of Juntos’ local promoters to provide       Not met
          them the necessary tools for family support to households. The priorities
          on family support changed and the model was only implemented in
          piloting areas.

      II.2 Pension 65: Enhanced Coverage and Broad-based Strategy for the              Met
           Elderly Living in Extreme Poverty

         The MIDIS implemented a strategy to strengthen the provision of
          complementary services for the elderly living in extreme poverty (health).
          In 2012, the MIDIS and MINSA signed an agreement establishing that
          Pension 65 beneficiaries could be enrolled in the SIS, receiving the
          program’s services.

         The MIDIS introduced improvements in the affiliation process and             Met
          payment systems of Pension 65 based on the recommendation of specific
          studies and pilots. The MIDIS established a procedure to access, maintain,
          and exit Pension 65 as evidenced by Supreme Decree 048-2014-MIDIS.
          The MIDIS also piloted different payment modalities. Pension 65 worked
          with Juntos to expand the coverage of payments at a lower cost.

      II.3 Qa1i Warma: Establishment of a New QW in Public Schools                     Met

         The QW developed mechanisms for transparency and civil society
          oversight. The QW developed a procurement mechanism for transparency
          and civil society oversight as evidenced by the Multisectoral Report of
          December 9, 2013 and Procurement Process Oversight (Veeduria del
          Proceso de Compras) of January 3, 2014.




                                                        48
III.       REFORMING SOCIAL POLICY APPROACHES AND SYSTEMS                               Not met

       III.1 Overhaul of the GoP's Targeting System (SISFOH) for Social
            Programs and Policies

          The GoP completed the approval of the legal and institutional framework
           to improve the management of the targeting system. This indicative trigger
           was not met by the end of 2014. The legal framework to regulate the
           operation of the SISFOH and the new methodology for households’
           socioeconomic classification was approved in 2015 (Directive 1-2015-
           MIDIS, RM 23-2015-MIDIS and RM 107-2015-MIDIS).

          The GoP completed the PGH in 24 regions and the MIDIS (through the           Partially met
           SISFOH) designed and implemented quality standards and protocols on the
           confidentiality and security of information. This indicative trigger is
           partially met, because only one of the two components of the triggers was
           met before the end of 2014. The MIDIS completed the PGH with the
           collection of socioeconomic information for 24 million Peruvians in the 24
           regions of the country, as evidenced by the INEI Note 288-2014-
           INEI/DNCE, dated August 21, 2014 where the INEI informed the MIDIS
           that the data collection process had been completed and the information
           was delivered. In 2015, the MIDIS approved the guidelines to access
           information managed by the General Office of User Management (RM 151-
           2015-MIDIS).

III.2 Foundations for an M&E System for Social Inclusion Policy and                     Not met
Programs (Evidencia)
      The MIDIS approved the M&E operational guidelines establishing the
         process for evidence-based Performance Agreements of its social
         programs.

III.3 Development of Systems and Strategies to Enhance Overall Coordination             Met
of Social Inclusion Policies and Programs
      The MIDIS and all relevant agencies completed joint planning and
         budgeting in two pilot regions. The pilot was conducted in San Martin and
         La Libertad.




                                                        49
             ANNEX 10. SELECTED WORLD BANK SUPPORT TO MIDIS

Instrument        Social Inclusion NLTA
Start Date        2011
End Date          2012
Amount (US$)      100,000
                     JUNTOS. (a) Developing an information system on the supply of services and
                      (b) defining and implementing a plan for ongoing training to local managers
                      and a new family support plan.
                     Pension 65. (a) Developing a baseline for evaluating the program's impact on
                      access to health services and annual evaluation; (b) design and implementation
                      of pilots to evaluate alternative payment mechanisms; (c) evaluation of the
                      effectiveness of the targeting system; (d) development of a program of
                      complementary services to the user population, as part of a strategy to promote
                      the improvement of the quality of life of users; (e) developing an information
                      system for Pension 65 and its integration with the MIDIS’ system; (f)
                      characterization of the program users; (g) developing a strategic vision about
                      the role of noncontributory pensions under the various programs of economic
                      protection of the elderly; and (h) creation of an observatory of the elderly and
                      mechanisms of sensitization.
                     PRONAA. (a) Development of an information system; (b) development and
                      implementation of a staff training plan; and (c) development of user information
                      and accountability mechanisms system.
                     Targeting. (a) Protocol development of quality standards, security, and
                      confidentiality of the SISFOH; (b) funding the updating of ‘padrón general de
                      hogares’ and its quality audit; and (c) evaluation of institutional strengthening
                      strategy of the local focalization units.
                     M&E. (a) Development of the process for generating evidence; (b) training
                      program on impact evaluation; (c) strengthen the General Office of Monitoring
Objectives
                      and Evaluation (DGSYE) impact evaluation capacities, PSIA, systematic
                      reviews; (d) design and implementation of mechanisms for the use of evidence
                      and evaluation results; (e) strengthen the DGSYE capacities in the management
                      of evidences and evaluation results; (f) development of performance evaluations
                      of social management strategies for results; (g) strengthening the DGSYE
                      capacities in social policy monitoring systems; (h) strengthening information
                      systems of social programs; (i) training Program on M&E of social programs;
                      and (j) strengthening the implementation of a national system for M&E of
                      social policy.
                     Improved articulation. (a) Support in the development of capacity-building
                      methodologies (developing an elearning system); (b) support the strengthening
                      of management tools for articulating social inclusion policy; (c) support the
                      systematization of learning from the experiences of the articulation pilots in 20
                      provinces; and (d) design and implementation of articulation strategies between
                      the MIDIS’ social programs.
                     Improved management. (a) Recruitment of a company specialized in change
                      management for the reorganization of the MIDIS; (b) continuous training
                      program for HR for the MIDIS including subnational government; and (c)
                      support the MIDIS’ communications office and design of the communications
                      plan for the sector.
                     Transparency. (a) Technical assistance to the DGSYE for the replication of the
                      pilot for establishment of transparency standards and (b) dissemination and
                      awareness of information to users.


                                                50
Instrument     Social Inclusion TAL

Start Date     2013
End Date       2016
Amount (US$)   10 million
                   Quality improvement in the MIDIS’ programs. Technical assistance to
                    design and pilot a series of activities aimed at improving the quality control of
                    programs.
                Improving knowledge management, information, and communication.
                    Technical assistance to strengthen the MIDIS’ information system to collect,
                    process, and produce data to enhance the decision-making processes within the
                    SINADIS.
Objectives
                M&E. Support to the development and implementation of a social M&E system
                     Human resource management and capacity. (a) Development and
                         implementation of a plan of continuous capacity building and training for
                         public officials implementing social policies (b) support the reorganization
                         and organization of human resources in the Juntos and the QW programs,
                         respectively, promoting coordination between different programs at the
                         local level.
Instrument     Social Inclusion DPL
Start Date     2012
End Date       2014
Amount (US$)   45 million
               (a) Improving the inclusiveness and effectiveness of key social programs that the
               MIDIS is mandated to execute, with a specific focus on the rural Conditional Cash
               Transfers (CCT) Program Juntos; the newly created noncontributory pension
Objectives     program Pension 65, and the QW and (b) developing the new social policy approach
               and institutional framework that the MIDIS is mandated to formulate through the
               enhancement and/or establishment of proper systems for targeting; M&E; overall
               coordination; and basic quality standards.
Instrument     P117310 SWAP Results in Nutrition for Juntos
Start Date     2012
End Date       2016
Amount (US$)   25 million
               (a) Increase demand for nutrition services by strengthening the operational
               effectiveness of the Juntos program and (b) improve coverage and quality of the
               supply of basic preventive health and nutrition services in the communities covered
Objectives
               under the PAN including Juntos. Activities to support both objectives include a
               strong emphasis in promoting good governance to monitor the impact of the
               government programs and of the proposed intervention in nutrition outcomes.
Instrument     Peru MIDIS M&E and Information NLTA (P132330)
Start date     2012
End Date       2013
Amount (US$)   317,752
               (a) Assess existing capacities and needs; (b) provide guidance on the institutional
Objectives     and operational frameworks; and (c) offer tools to increase the use and transparency
               of information.
Instrument     P146773 PE Poverty and Social Inclusion NLTA II
Start Date     2013
End Date       2014

                                              51
Amount (US$)   112,626
               (a) Validating and improving poverty measurement conducted by the INEI (b)
Objectives
               strengthening evidence-based decision making in the MIDIS.
Instrument     P151096 PE Poverty NLTA
Start Date     2014
End Date       2015
Amount (US$)   83,385
               (a) Validating and improving poverty measurement with the INEI; (b) supporting
               the elaboration and technical validation of the MIDIS’ new welfare index for
Objectives
               targeting of social programs; (c) generating analytical products on poverty and
               social inclusion to inform Peru’s policy agenda.
Instrument     P152321 - Social Inclusion NLTA
Start Date     2014
End Date       2015
Amount(US$)    122,202
               (a) Design an organizational model for integrated service provision at the
Objectives     subnational level; (b) develop guidelines for the subnational implementation of the
               model; and (c) design a communication strategy to support the rollout of the model.




                                             52
53
