E-322
VOL. 2
SOUTH ASIA SOCIAL DATA SHEET '
This form summarizes the social development issues in the project, and is meant to serve as a planning tool for
team members and managers on social issues. Questions and updates should be addressed to the task team
leader or the regional Social Development unit. This information was last updated on January 21, 2000.2
PROJECT SUMMARY
Region:        3 South Asia Region     FY:             2000
Country:       India                   Status:          Appraisal
Proj ID:       PE-045049-LEN           Type:            SIL
Name:          Andhra Pradesh District Poveny  EA Cat:  B
Iniatives Project
Task Team Leader:  Ashok K. Seth       Managing Unit:  SASRD/SASSD
Sector:        Social & Rural Development    Sec %:     100
1.   Social Development contact persons and type of involvement: 4 Ruth Alsop
((Country Team Leader) and Navin Rai (Indigenous Persons Specialist) are the primary
contact persons in the Bank. The preparation of most of the project, including the
social assessments have been carried out by staff from the Government of Andhra
Pradesh, NGOs and public institutions (Universities and quasi public institutions).
SOCIAL ANALYSIS
2.   Project Social Assessment classification: 5 High Social Content, where the social
and institutional context is important to the development objectives of the project. (Category
(2))
3.   Is a social assessment being undertaken as part of project preparation and
implementation? 6Social Assessments (SAs) have been carried out in each of the six
districts. In addition to identifying the poorest communities, and the poorest groups in
"mixed" communities, the SAs indicated priority areas for social intervention, and the
most effective mechanisms for their involvement in the project activities. The project
would begin in identified poor areas ( village clusters) of a couple of blocks in each
district, and progressively cover additional clusters and then other blocks in the district.
The SAs also initiated a participatory planning process which is intended to be
developed further during the project to ensure that communities access project funds
and utilize them effectively. SAs would be continued during project implementation to
identify "new" poor areas/groups, interventions, and to provide feedback on on-going
project activities.
4.   Summarize key social issues arising out of the project objectives, and the project's
planned social development outcomes. . 7 The project development objective is to
improve opportunities for the poor and vulnerable to meet their own social and
economic development objectives. (Refer to Section C3 of the PAD)
Key social issues that may arise is to ensure that adequate attention is paid to socially
disadvantaged among the economically poor. These are (1) Women: Women are
disproportionately represented among the poor, and female-headed households are amongst
the poorest. In addition, the gender division of labor, gender-based occupations and gender



biases in access to resources and services have implications for the choice of interventions in
the project. Most of the self-help groups that currently exist in the State are women's groups
and it is expected that these groups would form the majority of the Common Interest Groups
(CIGs). Hence, women are mainstreamed into the activities of the project. Attention to
gender issues will continue and will be closely monitored. Monitoring and impact data
include gender dis-aggregated data. A Gender strategy has been agreed to with the
government , which includes a substantial training/capacity building component for women's
groups ( attached) ; (2) Scheduled castes and tribes: The project would cater to other
socially vulnerable groups among the poor including scheduled, castes, backward castes and
scheduled tribes which have been identified in the SAs. Attention would be paid to ensure
that the natural resource base on which the livelihoods many of the poor are founded is
protected and developed. (3) Other vulnerable groups: The approach adopted by the
project also allows identification of, and intervention for, groups such as the disabled,
occupational groups whose livelihoods are threatened, destitute widows etc. While social
disadvantage may be a criteria for the formation of certain groups and actions, it is expected
that all groups formed would be assisted through social and economic interventions. (4)
Child labor: Andhra Pradesh has the largest number of child workers: nearly 20%of them
are fulltime workers and this is reflected in the project districts. To address the twin problems
of child labor and high school drop-out rates with their long-term poverty implications, it is
proposed to finance a package of inter-related activities involving both non-formal and
formal education. Since girls form the majority and do not receive sufficient attention from
other programs, the project's support would be focussed on their needs. Under this
component provision would be made to finance: (i) regular campaigns to sensitize parents,
especially mothers, through CIGs (SHGs) about the importance of education and its long-
term implications for child welfare and poverty; (ii) participation in summer camp schools by
children from poor families in response to demand by parents (CIG members); (iii) in project
districts/mandals with highest concentration of child labor and drop-out rates, establishment
of a maximum of 18 residential "bridge" and 6 regular secondary residential schools for
girls. For the "bridge" school course, the focus will be on older girls from the pool of child
laborers in project villages/Mandals. The "bridge" school would provide long (12 to 15
months) remedial courses for older girls ranging in ages between 11 and 14 who at present
are largely neglected. After completing their remedial courses these girls would be eligible
to take entrance examination for the regular residential school in class VII or go to a day state
school. Places not taken up by girls from the bridge/camp schools would be made available
to scheduled caste children taking entrance examination from other regular schools. GOAP
is preparing a proposal with detailed costs to allow a cost/benefit analysis of the approach
being proposed under the project prior to appraisal. More background information on this
proposal in given in Annex 2 Attachment 13 of the PAD.
Project interventions are expected to result in a range of social benefits through
empowerment, mobilization through better organizations and improved capacity, Some of
the social development outcomes include:-increased incomes, improved security of income
sources, increased assets, changes in the capacity of the poor to access/use resources,
increased enrollment of children in schools increased levels of household participation in
community based organizations ( informal and formal); improved risk management options
and greater involvement in collective action relating to quality of public services.



It~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t 
5.  Participatory Approach: How will key stakeholders participate in the project? 8
The project is predicated on a participatory approach by the poor and vulnerable and
empowering them to take decisions. The locus of the institutional arrangements of the
project would be decentralized community based organizations built around the
Common Interest Group (CIG), including self- help groups and the district level semi-
autonomous unit responding directly to CIGs ..(Refer to Section C4 of the PAD)
6.   Does the project involve consultations and collaboration with NGOs or other civil
society organizations? 9 NGOs are expected to play an active support role in the
project. They would be involved with the process of identifying the poor families,
community mobilization, group formation and participate in the Mandal Community
Support cell. The support cell would assist the CIGs in preparation of sub-project
proposals. NGOs would also play a critical role in supporting the day to day
operations of CIGs.
7.  Do any of the following social safeguard policies apply to the project? 10
Policy                           Applicability
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03) I| []Yes  [X] No   [ ] TBD
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)          [X] Yes  [] No   []TBD
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)    [ ]Yes  [X] No   [ ]TBD
8.  Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable
social safeguard policies. 15 The project area, in the districts of Adilabad,
Vizinagaram and Srikakulam has a sizable tribal population and concentrated pockets
in the other 3 districts. An agreed policy framework for Tribal strategy has been
defined, and a Tribal Development Plan prepared and attached. The strategies are not
new and have been carried out under previous projects.
9.  What institutional arrangements are planned to ensure the project achieves its
social development outcomes? 16 The participation of the poor in CIGs and SHGs
are key to ensuring that the project achieves it social development outcomes. The
productive and equitable role of the Gram Panchayats and Gram Sabhas to the CIGs
are also key to ensuring the development outcomes. Project implementation in tribal
areas would be through the Integrated Tribal Development Agency who would identify
the participants of the program and implement through the Village Tribal-Development
Agencies. (Refer to Section C4 & Annex 2- Attachment 2 of PAD)
10. How will the project monitor project performance in terms of social
development outcomes? 17 Given its objectives, activities, and expected results of the
project, a three-part monitoring and evaluation system comprising: (i) input and output
monitoring; (ii) process monitoring; and (iii) impact evaluation is proposed. The third
part is critical to establishing the net impact of the project. SPMU/DPMUs would be
responsible for input/output monitoring of the project at all levels through a computerized MIS.
The project would appoint an independent agency to carry out process monitoring with
access to project data gathered by the MIS. It would use this information in
conjunction with its own assessments in order to ascertain the quality of project



implementation, particularly in the areas of institutional development at the village
level, client satisfaction with project inputs, and mechanisms to ensure inclusiveness. It
would assess the extent to which the poor have been included in the process of project
selection, design, and implementation, at the individual and community levels,
focussing on the dynamics of CIGs and VOs. This would provide a learning and
feedback mechanism to allow adaptation of DPIP design as necessary, especially in
early stages, thus enhancing probability of achieving the project's development
objectives.
Since a number of interventions proposed under the project would yield outcomes only
over a significant period of time, impact evaluation would be carried out in three stages
using an independent agency. The first stage would involve establishment of the
baseline. Since two of the project districts are also part of the UNDP financed South
Asia Poverty Alleviation Project (SAPAP) and have seen quite a lot of activity in terms
of group formation, the baseline survey design would aim to obtain feedback on
characteristics of sustainable groups and federations and their impact on some
observable outcomes. The second stage evaluation would coincide with the mid-term
evaluation of the project. By this time it would be possible to evaluate the project's
success in building appropriate and sustainable local institutions, including strength
and quality of linkages with local government institutions and banks. The third stage,
coinciding with the end of the project, would evaluate sustainability of the institutions
and the sub-projects supported by project, its impact in reducing poverty as well as
inequality and degree of participation by the poor and vulnerable in decision making
bodies. (Refer to Annex 2 Attachment 8)
Signed and dated: 18
Task leader                             Reviewer, Social Development Unit



Examples of stakeholder groups are: individuals or groups directly affected as beneficiaries, or potentially
adversely affected (such as poverty groups, women, ethnic minorities, and other vulnerable groups), and others
who are affected by or can influence project outcomes, for example local govermnents, NGOs, sector and
central ministries. Levels of involvement can be described as
information dissemination (one way communication)
consultation (two-way flow of communication)
collaboration (shared control over decision making)
empowerment (transfer of control over decisions and resources)
9 Please specify involvement of local or intemational NGOs or other civil society organizations (CSOs). CSOs
include community organizations, trade unions, professional associations, business associations, research
institutes, religious organizations, etc. Collaboration with NGOs or CSOs could involve consultations during
design or implementation; participation in studies; contractual arrangements for service delivery; partnership for
community mobilization / participation; capacity building of stakeholders; and monitoring and evaluation.
Please indicate whether any resources are provided to NGOs / CSOs for direct support costs, or disbursed
through NGOs / CSOs to primary beneficiaries. If possible, indicate amounts budgeted for these purposes.
'° Task leaders who are unsure if the social safeguard policies will apply should mark the relevant policies To
Be Determined (TBD), and are advised to consult with the regional social development team for further
assistance in this matter. Please note that by the PAD stage, this should be determined for most projects.
" Measures to analyze issues and ensure compliance with safeguard policies should be included in the Project
Preparation Plan for all policies marked Yes. Where the issue is still to be determined, please indicate what is
being done to assess the applicability of the safeguard policy in question.
12 The Bank's policy on Cultural Property applies to all projects which pose a risk of damage or destruction to
any form of cultural property. For further guidance, see Web page
http:H/essd.worldbank.org/essd/sdv/sdvhome.nsf/CulturalView?OpenView
"' The Bank's policy on indigenous peoples applies to all projects which are undertaken on the territory
occupied by social groups such as "indigenous peoples", "indigenous ethnic minorities", "tribal groups", and
"scheduled tribes" who have a social and cultural identity distinct from the dominant society, and who are
vulnerable and disadvantaged in the development process. For further information, see Web page
http://essd.worldbank.org/essd/sdv/sdvhome.nsf/IndigenousView?OpenView
"' The Bank's resettlement policy applies to investment projects in which the taking of land or other assets
results in loss of shelter, assets, or loss of income sources or means of livelihood. For further guidance, see
Web page http://essd.worldbank.org/essd/sdv/sdvhome.nsf/Resetview?OpenView
'5 If application of the social safeguard policies is still to be determined, please describe current or planned
efforts to make a determination. If the project involves involuntary resettlement, please give details about
numbers of households and individuals affected, and what kind of resettlement documentation and plans are
prepared. Similarly, please identify key issues and ways of identifying, minimizing and if necessary mitigating
adverse impacts related to the other social safeguard policies. Note that by the end of the appraisal process, the
following elements must be in place: (1) an agreed upon policy framework; (2) a detailed description of the
project and its impacts, including identification of affected population; (3) implementation mechanisms for how
a mitigation plan will be operationalized; (4) evidence of organizational capacity and commnitment. In certain
projects, exact impacts may not be known at the time of appraisal. In such cases, an framework and a generic
action plan must be agreed on as part of the appraisal process, and mechanisms must be built into the project to
update this information during implementation.
16 Institutional arrangements encompass formal (such as organizations and agencies) and informal (such as
kinship and religious networks) institutions at the national and local level, the inter-relationships among those
institutions, and strategies to ensure efficient coordination among them. What formal and informal institutions
at the local, regional and national levels are relevant to the project? What are the inter-relationships between



these institutions? Do proposed organizational arrangements ensure access for and serve the needs of primary
stakeholders? Are there alternative mechanisms for delivery of services or project benefits?
17 Has the project identified explicit indicators and established the means to monitor social outcomes? Have
resources been earmarked for social impact monitoring? Is there a feedback mechanism through which
stakeholders are informed of and contribute to the generation and analysis of social data? Are the
implementation arrangements flexible enough to respond to ongoing monitoring and evaluation findings?
18 The Social Data Sheet should be signed by the person in the Social Development Unit who has reviewed and
commented on the social development issues in the project and reviewed the Social Data Sheet, but this does
not in itself constitute a clearance. In South Asia, the Sector Manager of the Social Development Unit provides
clearance to the project documentation as a whole, including the Social Data Sheet.



'In the South Asia region, the task team completes the Social Data Sheet as part of the PCD and PAD package.
Completed packages are submitted to the Social Development Unit (SASSD) as part of the mandatory review
and clearance process related to social safeguard policies. Please note that this Word template will be replaced
by the Bank-wide PDS system once the Systems Renewal process is implemented. The endnotes are included
here for greater ease of editing; they may be deleted before you print out the form.
2Enter the date when the SDS was filled in.
3 These fields are based on information which should already be in the Bank's information systems. Once the
new SAP process is implemented, these questions will be filled in automatically. In the meantime, please fill in
the blanks.
4 Enter the name of the technical specialist who is the main contact person for social development issues. Types
of involvement are: Task team leadership / Task team membership / Review and screening / Other (please
specify). If a backup contact has been identified, please enter her / his name and type of involvement.
5 Options are: (1) Potential risk of negative social impacts, such as involuntary resettlement or impacts on
indigenous peoples / (2) High social content, where the social and institutional context is important to the
development objectives of the project / (3) The social context is not important to the development objectives of
the project / (4) The importance of the social context is still to be determined.
6 A social assessment can be more or less elaborate depending on the context. Through a social assessment, key
stakeholders and key social and institutional issues are identified; a participation framework for consultation,
collaboration and local capacity building is developed; and monitoring and evaluation mechanisms for
addressing social issues are developed. A central principle of a social assessment process is that it should have
operational relevance and be incorporated into the overall project design and implementation. For further
guidance, see Web page http://essd.worldbank.org/essd/sdv/sdvhome.nsf/SAView?OpenView
7 The analysis should determine what the key social issues are in relation to project objectives; identify the key
stakeholder groups in this context and determine how relationships between stakeholder groups will affect or be
affected by the project; and identify expected social development outcomes and actions proposed to achieve
those outcomes. The results of the social analysis should be described, and how this analysis has informed
project design.
If the project is a phased or sector investment operation (such as a LIL, APL, FIL, social fund, sector loan,
phased investment loan, etc. where the social impact may not be fully known at appraisal, describe how the
social analysis will be completed or updated and coordinated with other project components.
Examples of key social issues are differential access to land and other resources; conflicting demands on the
same resources for conservation and economic development of traditional users; marginalization of women;
religious or ethnic tensions; winners and losers in privatization and reform programs; adequacy of social safety
nets and targeting mechanisms, etc. The risk of adverse social impacts caused by the project are described in the
Bank's social safeguard policies, and should be addressed explicitly. How will the project take vulnerable
social groups into account? ? If there is a potential for child labor being an issue in this project, how is it being
addressed? Give details about how gender dimensions have been incorporated into the social assessment
process. What are the gender-differentiated outcomes and impacts expected through this project? Do any of
these issues pose risks to overall project success and sustainability?
Social development outcomes are the results the project is expected to achieve, such as poverty reduction,
equity and inclusion, strengthening of social capital and social cohesion, and promotion of accountable and
transparent govemance, as well as the mitigation of adverse impacts arising out of the project.
8 How do key stakeholders participate in project design and preparation, and how will they be involved in
implementation, monitoring and evaluation? What mechanisms are proposed for their continued involvement?



