Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3332 IN
Development Credit Agreement
(Andhra Pradesh District Poverty Initiatives Project)
between
INDIA
and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated May 12, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3332 IN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated  May 12, 2000, between INDIA, acting by its President (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association);
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project, described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Project  will be carried out by the State of Andhra Pradesh (Andhra 
Pradesh), Society for Elimination of Rural Poverty (SERP) and Andhra Pradesh Social 
Welfare Residential Educational Institutions Society (APSWREIS) (as hereinafter 
defined) with the Borrower’s assistance, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will 
make available to Andhra Pradesh the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith among the Association, 
Andhra Pradesh,  SERP and APSWREIS (the Project Agreement);
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, as amended through December 2, 
1997, with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement.
(a)
A new paragraph (c) is added to Section 3.04 to read:
“If the Association shall at any time receive less than the full amount 
then due and  payable to it under the Development Credit Agreement, the Association 
shall have the right 
to allocate and apply the amount so received in any manner 
and for such purposes under the 
Development Credit Agreement as the Association shall 
in its sole discretion determine.”
(b)
Section 11.01 is modified by replacing, in the second sentence, the word 
“radiogram” with the word “facsimile” and adding a new sentence at the end of the said 
Section to read:
“Deliveries made by facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by 
mail”.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Andhra Pradesh” means the Borrower’s state of Andhra Pradesh, or any 
successor thereto;
(b)
“APSWREIS” means Andhra Pradesh Social Welfare Residential Educational 
Institutions Society, a society established and registered under the Societies 
Registration Act, 1860, as amended to date, and operating according to its Memorandum 
and Articles of Association, and Bylaws dated October 25, 1986, under the Social 
Welfare Department;
(c)
“Beneficiary Institutions” means the Common Interest Groups, Village 
Organizations, Mandal Samakhyas and village level Panchayati Raj Institutions (as all 
hereinafter defined); 
(d)
“Category” means a category of items set forth in the table in Section 1 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(e)
“Common Interest Group” means a group of poor individuals in any of the 
Project Districts (as hereinafter defined) who agree to organize themselves as a group 
for common socio-economic activities, including new or existing self help groups; 
(f)
“DPMU” means the District Project Management Unit established within SERP 
in each of the Project Districts (as hereinafter defined);
(g)
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1), (2), (3), (4) and (5);
(h)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works and 
services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(i)
“Fiscal Year” means the fiscal year of the Borrower, Andhra Pradesh, SERP 
and APSWREIS, starting April 1, and ending March 31; 
(j)
“ITDA” means Integrated Tribal Development Agency, a society established 
and registered under the Societies Registration Act, 1860, as amended to date, and 
operating according to its Memorandum and Articles of Association, and Bylaws, under 
the Social Welfare Department of Andhra Pradesh;
Page  3
(k)
“Line Departments” means the sectoral service departments of Andhra 
Pradesh or its District administration, including those under the Panchayati Raj 
Institutions (as hereinafter defined);
(l)
“Mandal Samakhyas” means federations of village organizations at all 
levels below the district level; 
(m)
“MOU” means the memorandum of understanding dated March 3, 2000, between 
Andhra Pradesh and SERP, outlining the rights and obligations of each party with 
regards to the carrying out of the Project.
(n)
“Operational Manual” means the operational manual prepared by Andhra 
Pradesh and SERP for carrying out Part B of the Project, dated March 3, 2000, 
outlining community level institutional arrangements, procedures and criteria for 
selection, appraisal and implementation of sub-projects (as hereinafter defined), as 
amended from time to time by agreement between the Association and SERP;
(o)
“Panchayati Raj Institutions” means the local government institutions  
elected under the Andhra Pradesh Panchyat Raj Act, 1994;
(p)
“Project Agreement” means the agreement among the Association, Andhra 
Pradesh, SERP and APSWREIS of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time 
to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the 
Project Agreement;
(q)
“Project Districts” means the districts of Adilabad, Anantapur, Chittoor, 
Mahabubnagar, Srikakulam and Vizianagaram  of Andhra Pradesh, and any successors 
thereto;
(r)
“Project Implementation Plan” means the implementation plan of Andhra 
Pradesh, SERP and APSWREIS for the Project dated March 3, 2000, and, including 
time-bound action plans, procedures and criteria agreed with the Association; 
(s)
“Project Management Report” means each Project Management Report prepared 
in accordance with Section 4.02 of the Project Agreement; 
(t)
“SERP” means Society for Elimination of Rural Poverty, a society 
established and registered under the Societies Registration Act, 1860, as amended to 
date, and operating according to its Memorandum and Articles of Association, and 
Bylaws dated February 11, 2000;
(u)
“SPMU” means the State Project Management Unit established within SERP 
for assisting in carrying out the Project; 
(v)
“Sub-project” means a specific project consisting of one or more of the 
activities described in Part B of the Project which meets the criteria set forth in 
the Operational Manual;
(w)
“Sub-project Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between 
any of the DPMUs and any of the Beneficiary Institutions for carrying out a 
Sub-project; and
(x)
“Village Organizations” means the self-managed organizations of common 
interest groups and self-help groups at the habitation/village level, including the 
Village Tribal Development Agencies.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to eighty-two million nine hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR82,900,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account 
Page  4
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2005, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each April 15 and October 15, commencing April 15, 2010 and ending October 15, 2034. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on October 15, 2019 shall be 
one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment 
thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the abovementioned 
repayment modification.
Page  5
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Development 
Credit Agreement, shall cause Andhra Pradesh, SERP and APSWREIS to perform in 
accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of Andhra 
Pradesh, SERP and APSWREIS therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all 
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, 
necessary or appropriate to enable Andhra Pradesh, SERP and APSWREIS to perform such 
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent 
or interfere with such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit available to Andhra 
Pradesh in accordance with the Borrower’s standard arrangements for developmental 
assistance to the States of India.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the 
Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project  
shall be carried out by Andhra Pradesh, SERP and APSWREIS pursuant to Section 2.03 of 
the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or Statements 
of Expenditures, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting 
practices, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures be 
retained until at least one 
year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the Fiscal Year 
in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section 
and those for the Special Account for each Fiscal Year 
audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
Page  6
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such Fiscal 
Year the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Association 
shall have reasonably requested, 
including a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the Project 
Management Reports or Statements of Expenditure 
submitted 
during such Fiscal Year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the 
Association may from time to time reasonably 
request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Andhra Pradesh, SERP or APSWREIS  shall have failed to perform any of its 
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that Andhra Pradesh, SERP or APSWREIS will be able to perform its 
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c) 
Any change shall have been in the Memorandum and Articles of Association 
of SERP or APSWREIS, or their by-laws, so as to materially and adversely affect the 
ability of SERP or APSWREIS to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
 the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof 
shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower.
(b)
The event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association namely, that the Project Agreement has 
been duly authorized or ratified by Andhra Pradesh, SERP and APSWREIS, and is legally 
binding upon Andhra Pradesh, SERP and APSWREIS in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director, 
Deputy Secretary, and Under Secretary of the Department of Economic Affairs in the 
Ministry of Finance of the Borrower are each designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Page  7
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of India
Department of Economic Affairs
Ministry of Finance
New Delhi, PIN 110001
India
Cable address: 
Telex:
ECOFAIRS
953-3166175
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI)
Washington, D.C.            64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
New Delhi, India, as of the day and year first above written.
INDIA
By /s/ R.S. Sharma
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Edwin Lim
Country Director, India
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
 Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category 
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
Page  8
(1)
Sub-projects under
 
   45,420,000
85% 
Part B of the Project
(2)
Civil Works for 
    9,160,000
80%
Part C of the Project
(3)
Equipment,
    1,340,000
100% of foreign expenditures,
materials and vehicles
100% of local expenditures
(excluding Part B of
(ex-factory cost) and 80%
the Project)
of local expenditures for
other  items procured locally
(4)
Consultants’ services
   16,380,000
100%
(including NGOs’
services), training, 
workshops and study
tours
(5)
Incremental operating
   10,070,000  
80% until March 31, 2002
costs
60% from April 1, 2002
until March 31, 2004;
and 40% thereafter
(6)
Unallocated
             530,000
TOTAL
          82,900,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
(c)
the term “incremental operating costs” means the costs of operation and 
maintenance of additional buildings, equipment and vehicles, office rental and 
expenses, hiring of vehicles, and salaries of additional staff, incurred for the 
purposes of carrying out the Project  after June 1, 1999.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed SDR750,000 may be made 
on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after June 1, 1999.
4.
The Association may require withdrawal from the Credit Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditures for expenditures: for (i) Sub-projects under Part 
B of the Project; (ii) goods under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent, and 
works under contracts not exceeding $200,000 equivalent; (iii) services under 
contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent for employment of consulting firms and 
$50,000 for employment of individual consultants, respectively; (iv) training and 
workshops and study tours; and (v) incremental operating costs, all under such terms 
and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the 
Reserve Bank of India on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
2.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be 
deposited into the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Association shall have received: (i) the first Project 
Management Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of the Project Agreement; and (ii) a 
Page  9
request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, 
withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this 
Schedule 1; and 
(b)
upon receipt by the Association of a Project Management Report pursuant 
to Section 4.02 (b) of the Project Agreement, accompanied by a request from the 
Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further 
withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this 
Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures. For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Association determines at any time that any Project Management 
Report does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 
of the Project Agreement;
(b)
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account or (B) 
the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals 
were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of expenditures.
5.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any 
time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in 
whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account 
pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the 
Association shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the 
Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the 
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Development Credit 
Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Page  10
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals are Not 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount 
of $7,200,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount of $3,600,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit 
Account, plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal or 
exceed SDR10,800,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On 
the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be 
withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under one or more of the Eligible 
Categories. 
3.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow such procedures as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after 
and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from 
the Credit Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each applications for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on the 
Project Management Report accompanying said applications, is required to be deposited 
in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the 
date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to 
Page  11
the amount indicated by said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special 
Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of $14,400,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist Andhra Pradesh in improving 
opportunities for the poor and the vulnerable in the Project Districts to meet their 
own priority social and economic needs through (i) fostering strong self-managed grass 
roots institutions that empower poor rural communities; (ii) building capacity of 
other local institutions, particularly the Gram Sabha/Panchayats, and Andhra Pradesh 
Line Departments to operate in a more inclusive manner to address needs of the poor; 
\0b(iii) supporting investments in small sub-projects proposed by the poor to accelerate 
their entry and expand their involvement in social and economic activities; and\0b(iv) 
improving access to formal and non-formal education for girls from the poor rural 
families to reduce incidence of child labor and school drop-out rates.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objective:
Part A:
Institutional and Human Capacity Building
1.
Formation and development of new, and strengthening of existing common interest 
groups, including self-help groups, and their support organizations through provision 
of consultants’ services, including NGOs’ services, and training, including workshops 
and study tours.
2.
Undertaking of awareness campaigns and demonstrations in village communities on 
socio-economic issues for rural poor, including gender, education, child labor and 
preventive health care.
3.
Improving the capacity of the Gram Sabha/ Panchayats for micro-planning, 
financial management and implementation of sub-projects through provision of 
consultants’ services, including NGOs’ services, and training, including workshops and 
study tours.
4.
Improving the capacity of the Line Departments, ITDA and Gram/Sabha Panchayat 
and their reorientation/sensitization to the needs of rural poor, including technical 
support for implementation of the Sub-projects, through provision of consultants’ 
services, including NGOs’ services, and training, including workshops and study tours.
5.
Facilitation of linkages between common interest groups and lending institutions 
through provision of consultants’ services, including NGOs’ services and training, 
including workshops and study tours.
Part B:
Community Investment Fund
Carrying out of sub-projects covering social, economic and infrastructural 
activities such as (i) improved access to public services, including sanitation, 
health, education and child care (ii) small group based income generating activities 
for improved production and/or marketing of commodities and promotion of micro 
enterprises, and\0b(iii) small infrastructure investments, including multi-purpose 
community halls, expansion/rehabilitation of local schools, expansion/rehabilitation 
of existing minor irrigation sources, community health systems, inter-habitation roads 
and drinking water.
Part C:
Educational Support for Girl Child Laborers and School Drop-outs
1.
Undertaking campaigns to sensitize parents/communities on importance of girls’ 
education.
2.
Provision of  training for preparing girls for entering formal education.
3.
Construction and establishment of about 18 residential bridge schools and about 
6 residential secondary schools, and provision of incremental operating costs for such 
Page  12
schools.
4.
Strengthening APSWREIS through provision of office equipment, vehicles 
consultants’ services, training, and incremental operating costs.
Part D:
Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation and Studies
1
Strengthening SERP through provision of office equipment, vehicles consultants’ 
services, training,  and incremental operating costs.
2.
Carrying out of a program for monitoring and evaluation of the Project 
activities, including base line survey, process monitoring and socio-economic impact 
assessment.
3.
Carrying out of Project related studies, including (i) performance rating of 
common interest and self help groups, and (ii) review of the Project’s effectiveness, 
and its institutional arrangements.
*          *          *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2005.
