Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3332 IN
Project Agreement
(Andhra Pradesh District Poverty Initiatives Project)
among
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
STATE OF ANDHRA PRADESH
and
SOCIETY FOR ELIMINATION OF RURAL POVERTY
and
ANDHRA PRADESH SOCIAL WELFARE RESIDENTIAL 
EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS SOCIETY
Dated May 12, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3332 IN  
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 12, 2000, among INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association) and STATE OF ANDHRA PRADESH acting by its Governor (Andhra Pradesh) and 
SOCIETY FOR ELIMINATION OF RURAL POVERTY (SERP) and ANDHRA PRADESH SOCIAL WELFARE 
RESIDENTIAL EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS SOCIETY (APSWREIS).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between India 
(the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to make available to 
the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to eighty-two million nine 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 82,900,000), on the terms and conditions 
set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that Andhra 
Pradesh SERP and APSWREIS agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association 
as are set forth in the Development Credit Agreement and in this Agreement;
WHEREAS Andhra Pradesh, SERP and APSWREIS, in consideration of the Association’s 
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, have agreed to 
undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined in the 
Development Credit Agreement) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Andhra Pradesh, SERP and APSWREIS declare their commitment to 
the objective of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit 
Agreement, and, to this end  (i) SERP shall carry out Parts A, B and D of the Project, 
and (ii) APSWREIS shall carry out Part C of the Project, both with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, technical and 
environmental practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, Andhra Pradesh, SERP and APSWREIS 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, the Project Implementation Plan and the MOU.
(c)
Andhra Pradesh shall make available to SERP and APSWREIS as a grant and 
in a timely manner (i) the proceeds of the Credit made available to Andhra Pradesh by 
the Borrower, and (ii) additional funds from Andhra Pradesh’s own resources in amounts 
sufficient to cover the amounts required by SERP and APSWREIS for carrying out the 
Project.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) Andhra Pradesh, SERP and APSWREIS shall carry out the 
obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General 
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, 
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the 
Project Agreement.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, and without 
limitations thereto, Andhra Pradesh, SERP and APSWREIS shall:
(i)
prepare and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) 
months after the 
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for 
this purpose between the 
Association, Andhra Pradesh, SERP and 
APSWREIS, a plan satisfactory to the 
Association and for the 
future operation of the Project, and
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
Andhra 
Pradesh, SERP and APSWREIS on said plan.
 Section 2.04. (a) Andhra Pradesh, SERP and APSWREIS shall, at the request of 
the Association exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress of the 
Project, the performance of their obligations under this Agreement and other matters 
relating to the purposes of the Credit.
 (b)
Andhra Pradesh, SERP and APSWREIS shall promptly inform the Association 
of any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the 
Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by 
Andhra Pradesh, SERP or APSWREIS of their obligations under this Agreement.
Page  3
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of SERP and APSWREIS
Section 3.01. SERP and APSWREIS shall carry on their operations and conduct 
their affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial and environmental 
practices, under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by 
competent staff  in adequate numbers.
 Section 3.02. SERP and APSWREIS shall at all times operate and maintain their 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound administrative 
and financial  practices.
 Section 3.03. SERP and APSWREIS shall take out and maintain with responsible 
insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the Association, for insurance 
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate 
practices.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) Andhra Pradesh, SERP and APSWREIS shall maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
a format acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect in accordance with sound 
financial management and accounting practices the operations, resources and 
expenditures in respect of the Project.
(b)
Andhra Pradesh, SERP and APSWREIS shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph 
(a) of this Section for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association and  as soon as available, but in any 
case not 
later than six months after the end of each such 
year, (A) certified copies of 
the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such 
fiscal year as so audited, and 
(B) an opinion on such financial statements, 
records and accounts of 
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the 
Association and shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association and such other information concerning 
said records, 
accounts and financial statements as well as the 
audit thereof, and concerning 
such auditors, as the Association and 
shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, Andhra Pradesh, SERP and APSWREIS shall carry out a time-bound action plan 
acceptable to the Association for the strengthening of the financial management system 
in order to enable each of Andhra Pradesh, SERP and APSWREIS, not later than June 30, 
2002, or such later date as the Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project 
Management Reports, acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i)
(A)
sets forth actual sources and application of funds for the 
Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered 
by said report, and 
projected sources and 
applications of funds for the Project for the 
six-month 
period following the period covered by said report, and
(B)
shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds 
of the 
Credit during the period covered by said 
report and expenditures 
proposed to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit during the 
six-month period following 
the period covered by said report;
Page  4
(ii)
(A)
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by 
said report, and 
(B)
explains variances between the actual and previously 
forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under 
contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, 
as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, Andhra Pradesh, SERP and APSWREIS shall prepare, in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after 
the end of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
Section 4.03. Andhra Pradesh, SERP and APSWREIS shall maintain throughout the 
Project implementation period a satisfactory Financial Management System for the 
Project, including a computerized system, in accordance with the Financial Management 
Manual agreed with the Association.
Section 4.04. SERP and APSWREIS shall employ not later than August 31, 2000, and  
maintain throughout the Project implementation period a chartered accountant as a 
Finance Manager in the SPMU, and accounts officer in each of the DPMUs and APSWREIS to 
manage the financial aspects of the Project, with experience and qualifications agreed 
with the Association.
Section 4.05. SERP and APSWREIS shall employ not later than August 31, 2000, and 
thereafter maintain throughout the Project implementation period a firm of chartered 
accountants with terms of reference and qualifications acceptable to the Association, 
for auditing the records, accounts and financial statements of the Project.
Section 4.06. APSWREIS shall furnish to the Association, not later than\0bAugust 
31, 2000, a report from a firm of chartered accountants agreed with the Association, 
certifying that actions have been taken to address all the qualifications and internal 
control deficiencies indicated in the audit reports for the Fiscal Years 1993-1994 to 
1996-1997, and that the overall internal control and accounting system in APSWREIS is 
satisfactory.
Section 4.07. APSWREIS shall furnish to the Association (i) not later than \0b
August 31, 2000, its audited financial statements for the Fiscal Years 1997-1998 and 
1998-1999, with action plan, satisfactory to the Association, for addressing any 
qualifications in said audit reports, and (ii) not later than December 31, 2000, a 
report from a firm of chartered accountants agreed with the Association, certifying 
that actions have been taken to address all the qualifications and internal control 
deficiencies which may be indicated in the audit reports for the fiscal years 
1997-1998 and 1998-1999.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association, Andhra 
Pradesh, SERP and APSWREIS thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following 
two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement  shall 
terminate in 
accordance with their terms; or
(ii)
the date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
Page  5
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify Andhra Pradesh, SERP and APSWREIS of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI)
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI) 
For Andhra Pradesh:
Chief Secretary
Government of Andhra Pradesh
Secretariat
Hyderabad 500022
Andhra Pradesh, India
For SERP:
Chief Executive Officer
Society for Elimination of Rural Poverty
Finance (PMU) K Block Secretariat
Hyderabad, 500022
Andhra Pradesh, India
For APSWREIS:
Secretary
Andhra Pradesh Social Welfare Residential Educational  
   Institutions Society Social Welfare Office 
Complex Masab Tank
Hyderabad 500028
Andhra Pradesh, India
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Andhra Pradesh 
may be taken or executed by its Chief Secretary or such other person or persons as 
Andhra Pradesh shall designate in writing; and on behalf of SERP and APSWREIS may be 
taken or executed by the managing director, or such person or persons as SERP and 
APSWREIS shall designate in writing, and Andhra Pradesh, SERP and APSWREIS shall 
furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated 
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
Page  6
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
New Delhi, India, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Edwin Lim 
Country Director, India
STATE OF ANDHRA PRADESH
By /s/ Samarajit Ray 
Authorized Representative
SOCIETY FOR ELIMINATION OF RURAL POVERTY
By /s/ K. Raju
Authorized Representative
ANDHRA PRADESH SOCIAL WELFARE RESIDENTIAL 
   EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS SOCIETY
By /s/ Ranjeev Acharya
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1 
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997, and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this 
Schedule.
Part B:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Equipment and materials estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $630,000 equivalent may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised 
nationally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
Page  7
(b)
Works estimated to cost $30,000 equivalent or more per contract, and 
costing up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $16,095,000, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised nationally, in 
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.
National Shopping
(a)
Equipment and materials, excluding vehicles, (other than for Part B of 
the Project) estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $660,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Vehicles estimated to cost the equivalent of up to $100,000 per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $370,000 may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines.
3.
Direct Contracting
(a)
Maps, proprietary equipment and items, spares, medicines, books, 
periodicals, software, semen, livestock, seeds, seedlings, plants and fertilizers 
(other than for Part B of the Project) estimated to cost up to $10,000 equivalent per 
contract, and 
(b)
materials and equipment (other than for Part B of the Project) estimated 
to cost less than $500 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not 
exceeding $500,000 equivalent for both (a) and (b) may be procured in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
4.
Procurement of Works and Goods for Part B of the Project
Works and goods for sub-projects under Part B of the Project estimated to cost 
up to an aggregate amount not exceeding $71,600,000 equivalent, may be procured as 
follows:
(a)
Works estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured either (i) under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of 
quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a 
written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, 
including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The 
award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the 
required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract 
successfully, or (ii) through direct contracting with NGOs or community organizations, 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines, or (iii) through 
community participation procedures in accordance with paragraph 3.15 (iii) of the 
Guidelines, or (iv) as a last resort, and with prior approval of the Association, 
through force account in acco
rdance with the provisions of paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines and procedures 
satisfactory to the Association.
(b)
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines.
(c) 
Goods estimated to cost less than $500 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not exceeding $200,000 may be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for their review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
Page  8
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to any contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $100,000 or more, and  works estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to the first two contracts for goods and the first two 
contracts for works estimated to cost less than $100,000, but more than $30,000, the 
following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier or contractor, Andhra 
Pradesh, SERP and 
APSWREIS  shall provide to the Association a report 
on the comparison and 
evaluation of quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any such contract, Andhra Pradesh, SERP 
and APSWREIS 
shall provide to the Association a copy of the 
specifications and the draft 
contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997, and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 2.13 through 2.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. \0c2. The following provisions shall 
apply to consultants’ services to be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. The short list of consultants for 
services for technical assistance or training under the Project estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for technical assistance or training estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
Consultants’ or NGOs’ services for technical assistance or training which are 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may, with the 
Association’s and prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Page  9
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines and estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $50,000 shall 
be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association and for their review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review 
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms for 
technical assistance or training estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of 
paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms for 
technical assistance or training estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, 
but less than the equivalent of $100,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 
(other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant  Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association and for their prior review and approval. The contract 
shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
1.
SERP and APSWREIS shall not later than December 1 of each year, starting 2000, 
prepare annual action and procurement plans for implementation of the Project 
activities, and taking into account the Association’s recommendations, finalize, not 
later than February 28 of each year, such plans.
2.
SERP shall maintain the SPMU and DPMUs with the staffing and responsibilities 
agreed with the Association.
3.
SERP shall cause the DPMUs to select and appraise the Sub-projects under Part B 
of the Project in accordance with the criteria and procedure specified in the 
Operational Manual.
4.
Sub-projects shall be carried out on the basis of a Sub-project Agreement to be 
entered into between the respective DPMU and the Beneficiary Institution, under terms 
and conditions acceptable to the Association. Such agreements shall, inter alia, 
specify the type of sub-project, as described in Part B of the Project, describe the 
works and goods to be financed, and  the cash or kind contribution of the Sub-project 
beneficiaries.
Page  10
5.
To ensure that the tribal population in the Project Districts benefit fully from 
the activities under the Project, Andhra Pradesh and SERP shall, in collaboration with 
ITDA, implement, in a manner satisfactory to the Association, the tribal development 
plan, agreed with the Association, for the tribal population in the Project Districts.
6.
SERP and APSWREIS shall select the NGOs assisting in the implementation of the 
Project in accordance with criteria and procedures agreed with the Association.
7.
Andhra Pradesh, SERP and APSWREIS shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association the carrying out of the Project  and the achievement of the objective 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than December 31, 2002, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in carrying out of the Project during 
the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended 
to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objective thereof during the period following such date; 
(c)
review with the Association by June 30, 2003, or such later date as the 
Association  shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, 
and thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objective thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said reports and the Association’s views on the matter; and
(d)
complete not later than December 31, 2002, the studies under Part D.3 of 
the Project, and furnish such studies to the Association as an input to the review 
under paragraph (c) above.
8.
Andhra Pradesh and SERP shall: (i) ensure that any private land needed for road 
improvement or other works under Part B of the Project shall be provided by the owner 
of such land in a voluntary manner, and in accordance with a memorandum of 
understanding, agreed with the Association, between the Beneficiary Institution, a 
representative of Andhra Pradesh, and the owner of such land; and (ii) not commence 
upgradation of roads or other works in locations where such land is needed until such 
memorandum of understanding has been concluded.
9.
Andhra Pradesh and APSWREIS shall ensure that schools under Part C of the 
Project shall be constructed only on government or community-owned land.
