                                              Document of
                                             The World Bank




                                                                             Report No:ICR0000000098




                      IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                                (IDA-33320)

                                                 ON A


                                                CREDIT

                              IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 82.9 MILLION
                                 (US$111.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)


                                                TO THE


                                         REPUBLIC OF INDIA


                                                FOR THE


                 ANDHRA PRADESH DISTRICT POVERTY INITIATIVES PROJECT



                                              July 26, 2007




Sustainable Development Sector Unit
India Country Management Unit
South Asia Region


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank
authorization.

                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                  (Exchange Rate Effective December 2006)

                              Currency Unit = Rs.
                                1.00 = US$ 0.022
                                US$ 1.00 = 44.0

                                 FISCAL YEAR
                               April 1 ­ March 31

                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AP       Andhra Pradesh                       LA     Livelihood Associate
APDPIP   Andhra Pradesh District Poverty      LIC    Life Insurance Corporation of
         Initiatives Project                         India
APERP    Andhra Pradesh Economic              MARKF  AP Marketing Federation
         Restructuring Project                ED
APM      Assistant Project Manager            MBK    Master Book Keeper
APP      Antipoverty Program                  M&E    Monitoring and Evaluation
APRPRP   Andhra Pradesh Rural Poverty         MIS    Management Information
         Reduction Project                           System
APSWREIS Andhra Pradesh Social Welfare        MS     Mandal Samakhya
         Residential Educational
         Institutions Society
CAL      Computer Aided Learning              MSP    Minimum Support Price
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy          MTR     Mid-Term Review
CBCS     Community Based Convergent           NDDB   National Dairy Development
         Services                                    Board
CBO      Community Based Organization         NTFP   Non-Timber Forest Product
CC       Community Coordinator                O&M    Operation and Maintenance
CEO      Chief Executive Officer              PAD    Project Appraisal Document
CESS     Center for Economic and Social       PD     Project Director
         Studies
CF       Community Facilitator                PDS    Public Distribution System
CIF      Community Investment Fund            PIP    Participatory Identification of
                                                     Poor
CIGs     Common Interest Groups               POP     Poorest of the Poor
CV       Community Volunteer                  PRIs   Panchayati Raj Institutions
DAP      Differently Abled Persons'           QAG    Quality Assurance Group
DCA      Development Credit Agreement         QER     Quality Enhancement Review
DPIP     District Poverty Initiatives Project SA      Social Activist
DPMU     District Project Management Unit     SAPAP  South Asia Poverty Alleviation
                                                     Project
DRDAs    District Rural Development           SC     Scheduled Caste
         Agencies
DWCRA    Development of Women and             SERP   Society for Elimination of Rural
         Children in Rural Areas                     Poverty
FFW      Food For Work                        SGSY   Swarnajayanti Gram Swarozgar
                                                     Yojana
GCC      Girijan Cooperative Corporation      SHG     Self-Help Group
GOAP     Government of Andhra Pradesh         SPMU   State Project Management Unit

                                        ii

      GOI           Government of India                   ST           Scheduled Tribe
      GSDP          Gross State Domestic Product          SUCHU        Society for Human Rights and
                                                          RSOD         Social Development
      ICDS          Integrated Child Development          TDP          Tribal Development Plan
                    Services
      IRDP          Integrated Rural Development          TPMU         Tribal Project Management Unit
                    Program
      IRR           Internal Rate of Return               UNDP         United Nations Development
                                                                       Program
      ISR           Implementation Status Report          VO           Village Organization
      ITDA          Integrated Tribal Development
                    Agency


Definitions:

Habitation:           Cluster of about 200 households in a distinct geographic area.
Village:              Administrative unit consisting of a collection of habitations.
Gram Sabha:           All adult residents of a village (equivalent to the general assembly of the village;
                      some large habitations in Andhra Pradesh also have Gram Sabhas).
Gram Panchayat:       Elected body representing one or several villages - part of Panchayati Raj
                      Institutions (local government).
Block (Mandal):       Administrative Unit below the district consisting of a group of
                      Villages/Panchayats (in Andhra Pradesh blocks were sub-divided into mandals
                      but retained the administrative and local government functions of blocks).



                    Vice President: Praful C. Patel
                  Country Director: Isabel M. Guerrero
      Senior Manager, India Program Fayez S. Omar
                   Sector Manager: Adolfo Brizzi
               Project Team Leader: Parmesh Shah




                                                   iii

                                                        INDIA
                         ANDHRA PRADESH DISTRICT POVERTY
                                       INITIATIVES PROJECT


                                                   CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 5
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ............................................ 10
 3. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 16
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 24
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 25
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 28
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 32
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 33
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 34
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 45
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 46
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 48
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 50
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 51
 Annex 8. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 68

 MAP IBRD No. 30693




                                                            iv

A. Basic Information

                                                                           ANDHRA PRADESH
Country:                 India                     Project Name:           DISTRICT POVERTY
                                                                           INITIATIVES PROJECT
Project ID:              P045049                   L/C/TF Number(s):       IDA-33320
ICR Date:                07/26/2007                ICR Type:               Intensive Learning ICR
                                                                           GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:      SIL                       Borrower:
                                                                           INDIA
Original Total
                         XDR 82.9M                 Disbursed Amount:       XDR 82.09 M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Society for Elimination of Rural Poverty and Andhra Pradesh Social Welfare Residential Educational
Institutions Society
Co financiers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates

       Process              Date               Process          Original Date     Revised / Actual
                                                                                        Date(s)
Concept Review:          05/05/1999      Effectiveness:           08/07/2000          08/07/2000
Appraisal:               11/25/1999      Restructuring(s):
Approval:                04/11/2000      Mid-term Review:         03/31/2002          11/12/2003
                                         Closing:                 12/31/2005          12/31/2006

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                          Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                       Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                                  Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                              Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
           Bank                   Ratings                  Borrower                  Ratings
Quality at Entry:        Satisfactory              Government:             Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision:  Satisfactory              Implementing
                                                   Agency/Agencies:        Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                       Overall Borrower
Performance:             Satisfactory              Performance:            Satisfactory


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
      Implementation                                QAG Assessments (if
        Performance               Indicators                any)                    Rating

Potential Problem Project  No                      Quality at Entry      None

at any time (Yes/No):                                   (QEA):
Problem Project at any time No                          Quality of Supervision
                                                                               Satisfactory
(Yes/No):                                               (QSA):
DO rating before
                              Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                         Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector                                               20
General education sector                                                  20                   20
General water, sanitation and flood protection sector                     12
Micro- and SME finance                                                                         40
Other social services                                                     27                   20
Roads and highways                                                        20
Sub-national government administration                                    21



Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Education for all                                                       Secondary
Gender                                                                  Secondary            Primary
Other rural development                                                   Primary
Participation and civic engagement                                        Primary

E. Bank Staff
          Positions                           At ICR                              At Approval
Vice President:               Praful C. Patel                          Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:             Isabel M. Guerrero                       Edwin R. Lim
Sector Manager:               Adolfo Brizzi                            Ridwan Ali
Project Team Leader:          Parmesh Shah                             Ashok Seth
ICR Team Leader:              Parmesh Shah
ICR Primary Author:           Sati Achath


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The main objective of the project is to improve opportunities for the rural poor to meet priority social and
economic needs in the six poorest Districts of Andhra Pradesh, namely Chittoor, Srikakulam, Adilabad,
Vizianagaram, Mahabubnagar and Anantapur.

  To achieve this objective the project would : (a) help create self-managed grass-roots institutions; (b)
build the capacity of established local institutions, especially the Gram Sabha/Panchayats and GOAPs line

                                                       2

departments, to operate in a more inclusive manner in addressing the needs of the poor; (c) support
investments in sub-projects proposed by grass root institutions of the poor to accelerate their entry and
expand their involvement in social and economic activities; and (d) improve access to education for girls
to reduce the incidence of child labor among the poor.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                                Original Target      Formally         Actual Value

       Indicator            Baseline Value       Values (from                          Achieved at
                                                   approval           Revised         Completion or
                                                  documents)       Target Values      Target Years
Indicator 1 :           Number of poor women mobilized and organized into SHGs
Value
quantitative or         36,000                930,000                             2,294,215
Qualitative)
Date achieved           08/30/2000            12/31/2005                          12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 :           Number of SHGs formed and strengthened
Value
quantitative or         0                     75,000                              171,618
Qualitative)
Date achieved           08/30/2000            12/31/2005                          12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 :           Number of SHGs linked to Banks
Value
quantitative or         0                     45,000                              155,091
Qualitative)
Date achieved           08/30/2000            12/31/2005                          12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 4 :           Volume of savings generated by the SHGs
Value
quantitative or         0                     US$15 million                       US$113 million
Qualitative)
Date achieved           08/30/2000            12/31/2005                          12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 5 :           Volume of formal sector credit obtained by SHGs through Bank linkages
Value
quantitative or         US$2,222              US$15 million                       US$425 million
Qualitative)
Date achieved           08/30/2000            12/31/2005                          12/31/2006

                                                   3

Comments (incl. %
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target        Formally        Actual Value

       Indicator         Baseline Value         Values (from                          Achieved at
                                                  approval         Revised Target    Completion or
                                                documents)             Values        Target Years
Indicator 1 :        Number of families that have benefited from subproject investment
Value
(quantitative        0                      900,000                               986,860
or Qualitative)
Date achieved        08/30/2000             12/31/2005                            12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 :        Number of girl child laborers enrolled in residential schools
Value
(quantitative        0                      15,000                                21,468
or Qualitative)
Date achieved        08/30/2000             12/31/2005                            12/31/2006
Comments (incl. %
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

 No.       Date ISR                                                              Actual Disbursements
           Archived               DO                             IP                 (USD millions)
   1      09/29/2000           Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                     3.60
   2      01/16/2001           Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                     3.74
   3      06/27/2001           Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                     4.25
   4      11/19/2001           Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                     4.63
   5      12/20/2001           Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                     4.63
   6      03/13/2002           Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                     4.74
   7      08/21/2002           Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                     8.84
   8      02/19/2003           Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                    16.97
   9      04/03/2003           Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                    22.79
  10      11/18/2003           Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                    33.31
  11      02/04/2004           Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                    42.51
  12      08/31/2004           Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                    66.79
  13      05/14/2005           Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                    82.22
  14      03/16/2006           Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                    98.05
  15      11/27/2006           Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                   105.91

H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                                  4

I. Disbursement Profile




                           5

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(This section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)

1.1 Context at Appraisal
(Brief summary of country and sector background, rationale for Bank assistance)
The main sector issue throughout India, including Andhra Pradesh (AP), had been the inability of public
sector anti-poverty programs (APPs) to reduce the number of the rural poor over the years in spite of
significant investments at all levels.

Since the early 1950s, the Government of India (GOI) and most state governments had been
implementing APPs providing wage-employment, productive assets (such as land or animals), credit and
food security to the poor. For the most part, these programs were poorly targeted, inefficiently managed
and highly fragmented. In AP itself, despite concerted efforts at reform, there was a progressive crowding
out of development expenditures by costly and poorly targeted subsidies, a rapidly expanding civil service,
and increasing interest payments. As a result, public spending on social development was falling as a
share of gross state domestic product (GSDP) and was far short of the state's needs. In the late 1990s,
many social indicators in AP were below the national average: 30 percent of the population lived below
the poverty line; malnutrition among children aged 0-6 years was about 30 percent; and female literacy
rate (33 percent) was one of the lowest in India.

The thrust of GOAP's strategy was to support a process of decentralized decision-making in direct APPs,
while continuing to promote a more general fiscal adjustment. The burden of overall fiscal adjustment
and policy reform in primary education, primary health, nutrition, rural roads and irrigation was supported
by the AP Economic Restructuring Project (APERP) (Cr./Ln.49385./IN), which provided resources for
priority needs. However, APERP could not provide effective coverage of all the poor and vulnerable
households, especially those in regions dependent on risk-prone rain-fed agriculture or those who lacked
productive assets and skills or those who suffered from ill health, disability or illiteracy. To meet the
needs of these poor and vulnerable, GOAP recognized the need for new policies, institutions and
processes, linked to direct assistance and designed to empower poor rural communities in the targeting
and use of resources. GOAP wanted to scale up the work done by it on building poor people's institutions
through social mobilization and thrift promotion.

The Andhra Pradesh District Poverty Initiatives Project (APDPIP) was built on United Nations
Development Program (UNDP) supported South Asia Poverty Alleviation Project (SAPAP) and AP
Government's investments in institution building through women Self Help Groups (SHGs). SAPAP was
implemented in about 700 villages in Mahabubnagar, Kurnool and Anantapur districts of AP. The main
focus of SAPAP was on capacity building through social and economic mobilization of women's SHGs
through thrift and credit. The project had also promoted development of self-managed community
organizations, which had resulted in formation of 250 Village Organizations (VOs) and 20 Mandal
Samakhyas (MSs), together rotating own savings, resulting in internal capital accumulation. In the initial
stages, UNDP had provided direct assistance for seed capital. The project had developed the concept of
Community Based Convergent Services (CBCS) approach for securing social and economic
empowerment of women. Development programs like literacy, preventive health care, girl child education,
elimination of child labor etc. were dovetailed to the thrift and credit activities undertaken by SHGs.

An important objective of the Bank Group's assistance to India was to reduce poverty through accelerated
economic growth with equity. The Country Assistance Strategy1 (CAS) (January 15, 1998) and CAS


1Document number:17241-IN



                                                      6

progress report (February 18, 1999) highlighted the need to develop well-targeted programs to assist the
poor. The areas in which investment would be made under the project (strengthening social organization;
human capital development, natural resource management, agriculture and related activities;
infrastructure) were among the priority areas identified in the CAS. The CAS also included a focus on
states with a commitment to economic reform. Under the APERP, the GOAP had already started a radical
program of fiscal and administrative reform with support from the Bank (Loan/Credit Nos. 4360/3103-
IN). It was envisaged that the APDPIP would complement the APERP, and at the same time support
another key CAS objective - decentralization and beneficiary participation in the development process.

Based on wide experience of the poverty reduction projects in other regions and experience with rural
projects in India, the Bank was well placed to add value by facilitating transfer of innovative ideas to
poverty reduction work in India and Andhra Pradesh.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
The main objective of the project is to improve opportunities for the rural poor to meet priority social and
economic needs in the six poorest Districts of Andhra Pradesh, namely Chittoor, Srikakulam, Adilabad,
Vizianagaram, Mahabubnagar and Anantapur. To achieve this objective the project would : (a) help
create self-managed grass-roots institutions; (b) build the capacity of established local institutions,
especially the Gram Sabha/Panchayats and GOAP's line departments, to operate in a more inclusive
manner in addressing the needs of the poor; (c) support investments in sub-projects proposed by grass
root institutions of the poor to accelerate their entry and expand their involvement in social and economic
activities; and (d) improve access to education for girls to reduce the incidence of child labor among the
poor.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

1.4 Main Beneficiaries,
(original and revised, briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD and as captured
in the PDO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected to benefit from the project)

The project's main beneficiaries included:

 ·      About 620,000 poor families were estimated to benefit directly from the project in terms of: (a)
        social empowerment and mobilization through better organization; (b) improved skills to
        undertake productive investment and to increase earning opportunities; and (c) greater access to
        productive assets, infrastructure and social services.
 ·      Girls from poor families especially Scheduled Castes from areas with a high incidence of child
        labor and school drop-outs were expected to receive improved access to primary and secondary
        education.
 ·      Rural poor were expected to benefit from the more inclusive operation, transparency and
        accountability of Gram Sabhas/Panchayats.
 ·      District administrations were expected to improve their ability to respond to the demands of the
        poor, and increase effectiveness, through better targeting and ownership, of other on-going
        development programs.


1.5 Original Components (as approved)
The DPIP program was implemented in six districts of Andhra Pradesh. The project consisted of the
following four components:

Component I Institutional and Human Capacity Building. Project Cost: US$20.34 million

                                                       7

The focus of this component was to develop self-reliant and self-managed community-based
organizations. Specific activities to be financed included:
(a) Formation, strengthening and development of Common Interest Groups (CIGs), including SHGs, and
their support organizations.
(b) Information, education and communications support
(c) Capacity building of Gram Sabhas/Panchayats
(d) Skill enhancement and re-orientation/sensitization of participating line department staff and Non
Governmental Organizations (NGOs)
(e) Introduction of a pilot program on institutional and capacity rating to enable development of linkages
with the banking institutions

Component II Community Investment Fund (CIF). Project Cost: US$76.39million

The activities to be financed under this component included demand-driven sub-projects to be proposed
by CIGs/SHGs either on their own or jointly with communities (Gram Sabha/Panchayat) during
implementation. The participants would have the freedom to prepare sub-project proposals based on their
felt needs, provided these conformed to the agreed criteria. An indicative list of likely demand identified
during the social assessment in the project districts included the following clusters of activities:

(a) Group-based income-generating investment proposals identified by CIGs/SHGs related to: (i)
improved production and/or marketing of commodities (crops, horticulture, pasture, livestock,
sericulture); (ii) provision of support services to facilitate adoption of new skills/activities and
strengthening of backward and forward linkages of micro enterprises owned and managed by the poor,
and (iii) facilitation of improved access to institutional credit for micro enterprise development; and (b)
Small infrastructure.

Component III Educational Support for Girl Child Laborers and School Drop-outs. Project Cost:
US$ 30.42 million

To address the twin problems of child labor and high rate of school drop-out, the project proposed to
finance a package of inter-related activities involving both non-formal and formal education. Since girls
were at a greater disadvantage compared to boys in poor families, the project support focused on their
needs. Under this component provision would be made to finance: regular campaigns to sensitize parents,
especially mothers and other community members about the importance of education and its long-term
implications for child welfare and poverty; and in project districts/mandals with the highest concentration
of child labor and drop-out rates, establishment of a maximum of 18 residential "bridge" and 6 regular
secondary residential schools for girls. Bridge schools would run short-and long-term remedial courses to
prepare child laborers and school drop-outs ranging in ages between 7 to 14 years to enter the formal
education system.

Component IV Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation, and Studies. Project Cost:
US$7.65 million

Provision was to be made to cover the costs of incremental staff, technical assistance/ consultants,
training, workshops and study tours, vehicles, office equipment supplies and other incremental operating
costs. Provision was also made for special studies and preparation of a follow-up project. This component
would include funding for a Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) system.

1.6 Revised Components: N.A.

1.7 Other significant changes

                                                       8

(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding allocations)
There were no changes in the project's core design. However there were changes in the coverage and
scale, activity focus, project schedule and funding allocation as mentioned below:

Coverage and scale. The project's coverage and scale were increased significantly without
compromising on the quality aspects and by ensuring that PDO will be achieved. The project was
expanded to 316 mandals from the initial 180 mandals due to integration of various government resources
and programs with the project. Lessons emerging from the ongoing Andhra Pradesh Rural Poverty
Reduction Project (APRPRP) (Cr 71272/IN) made the project incorporate newer features/elements like
addressing disability, health and nutrition, and social protection issues.

Activity focus. The project's focus moved towards developing associative tiers of village and mandal
level federations of SHGs, and also on assets and livelihoods, and to a lesser extent on investments in
infrastructure than originally envisaged. This was as a result of priorities expressed by the community
and the poor during various participatory needs assessments. Also, AP had numerous other well running
programs on community infrastructure during project implementation. This also led to reduction in work
done with Gram Panchayats. As the response from commercial banks in terms of credit access to the poor
and their institutions was much stronger than anticipated, the project focused on strengthening the thrift
promotion, credit planning and financial management capacities of the community organizations.

Project Schedule. The closing date of the project was extended by one year from December 31, 2005 to
December 31, 2006 in order to: (i) consolidate the two phases of the project activities; (ii) address the
second and third generation institution building issues including higher order capacity building inputs,
sustainability of Community Based Organization (CBOs), human resource management by CBOs; (iii)
enable repeat finance to SHGs from banks and financial institutions; (iv) facilitate the development of
support institutions around livelihoods; (v) enable resource mobilization at federated Village Organization
(VO), Mandal Samakhya (MS) and Zilla Samakhya (ZS) levels; and (vi) develop sustainability and
withdrawal plans.

Funding allocations. An amount of SDR 0.774 million (US$1.0 million) was reallocated across
categories of expenditure, as shown below, in order to meet fund requirements till project closing. The
major    reallocation     was     with   respect     to  Equipments/Vehicles/Materials          and      Consultancy
Services/NGOs/Training. The allocations for Equipments/Vehicles/Materials were increased by 39.55%
and for Consultancy Services/NGOs/Training by 1.47%.

           Category                     Amount of the    Revised allocation (in % of expenditures to be
                                        Credit allocated SDR eq.)               financed
                                        (in SDR eq.)
           1. Sub Projects under Part B     45,420,000.00      45,420,000.00                          85%
           2. Civil Works under Part C       9,160,000.00        9,160,000.00                         80%
           3. Equipment                     1,340,,000.00        1,870,000.00            100% of foreign
           /Vehicles/Materials                                                               expenditures,
            (Excluding Part B of the                                                        100% of local
           Project)                                                                          expenditures,
                                                                                          (ex-factory cost)
                                                                                         and 80% of local
                                                                                     expenditures for other
                                                                                           items procured
           4. Consultant services/          16,380,000.00      16,624,067.38                         100%
           NGO/Trainings
           5. Incremental Operating         10,070,000.00        9,825,932.62        80% until March 31o,
           Cost                                                                   2002, 60% from April 1st
                                                                                2002 until March 2004 and
                                                                                           40% thereafter
           7. Unallocated                     530,000.00                  0.00
           TOTAL                            82,900,000.00      82,900,000.00

                                                         9

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(Including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their mitigations
identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)
During preparation, the project design took into account lessons learned from several ongoing and
completed Bank-financed rural development projects in India. Further, lessons from many large scale
community development programs in South Asia were also learned during the preparatory process. The
design considered the risk factors and appropriate measures were adopted to mitigate them.

Lessons Learned from previous Bank-assisted projects.
The previous rural development projects in India showed the importance of community participation and
ownership in achieving efficiency and sustainability. They also demonstrated how communities can
contribute towards investment and operational costs if they are assured of good service. The Uttar Pradesh
Sodic Lands Reclamation Project showed how the poor can establish their own organizations and can
engage in multiple activities in order to mitigate risks and participate more fully in the development
process. Similarly, the Integrated Watershed Development Project, the Karnataka and UP Rural Water
Supply and Sanitation Projects and the AP Community Forestry Project demonstrated the viability of user
groups and their potential to manage project activities as well as to mobilize community contributions.
These projects also demonstrated the potential value of successful partnerships between community
organizations, NGOs and the government.

An important lesson from the UNDP-funded SAPAP, which included AP, was that it is not enough to
mobilize communities for social action - they also need to have investment opportunities alongside social
mobilization. Hence, APDPIP sought not only to mobilize communities but also included support to
facilitate linkages with the credit institutions to open investment opportunities for the rural poor in
economic activities.         The UNDP project also showed the importance of working with federated
institutions of the poor. Another lesson from the SAPAP was that NGO involvement must be selective
and focused.

At the operational level the main lessons incorporated into the project design were: (a) creation of a
decentralized project management structure with full control over sub-project approval to expedite
decisions and to minimize political interference; (b) inclusion of competitive employment conditions for
project management staff to attract and retain competent and motivated individuals; (c) inclusion of
detailed operational manuals, computerized Management Information System (MIS), standardized
financial management procedures, regular and rigorous auditing, and quantitative and qualitative
monitoring and evaluation; and (d) incorporation of physical and financial sustainability conditions in the
sub-project eligibility criteria to ensure a continued flow of benefits.

Risks and their mitigation

The project faced the following substantial risks and the measures mentioned below were taken to
mitigate them:

                                  Risk                                                  Mitigating measure
     Institutional finance is not readily available at the         Provision for intensive program for capacity
     group/community level                                         building, linked to institutional and performance rating of
                                                                   groups in association with banks and NGOs to enable
                                                                   financial institutions to provide credit to the poor
     Infrastructure put in place, especially those under the       Use of poverty criteria in infrastructure planning and
     control of PRIs, may not benefit the poor significantly       training in participatory approaches and listening to socially
     relative to the rich, and public investments may be more      excluded groups; limitation of infrastructure investment to
     attractive to the relatively better-off groups owning private 30 percent of the CIF.
     assets.

                                                              10

     Existing supply-driven programs with minimal community       In the short to medium term, the project disseminated the
     input may weaken the self-help orientation of this project.  merits of the demand-based, self-help approach through
                                                                  information     campaigns.      It    emphasized     quick
                                                                  implementation for speedy demonstration of the benefits of
                                                                  this approach. In the long term, the Bank engaged in policy
                                                                  dialogue with the government on how the existing programs
                                                                  could be made demand-based and participatory, and thereby
                                                                  more effective in reducing poverty.


In addition, the risks deemed moderate were also taken into account and appropriate measures to mitigate
them were incorporated into the project design.

Adequacy of participatory processes

The project preparation involved active participation by the primary beneficiaries and a broad-based
collaboration with various types of civil society institutions. Consultations were held during project
identification with a broad cross-section of poor communities, a number of apex NGOs and intermediary
NGOs operating in the state. Some of the NGOs also participated in conducting social assessments and
preparation of district plans.

Quality Enhancement Review (QER)

At the request of the South Asia Region, a QER of the project was conducted by the Quality Assurance
Group (QAG) in July 1999. The QAG panelists commented that: (i) "Despite the heavy process focus of
the project, we are comfortable with the project's design; and (ii) The intersectoral collaboration
exemplified in the Participatory Rural Poverty and Development cluster in the India country team is to be
complimented."

In order to enhance its quality, the task team incorporated the recommendations made by QAG, into the
project design. These included simplifying the development credit agreement, using operational manual
as a guiding document for implementation, adjusting project processes to make them simpler and flexible,
focusing on the institutional arrangements and direct transfer of resources to the communities.

2.2 Implementation
(Including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and actions taken,
as applicable)

The project was not restructured and it was never at risk during implementation. The Bank conducted Mid
Term Review (MTR) of the project in October-November 2003. The MTR found that some initial
assumptions made were no longer relevant and institutional arrangements were not adequate to cope with
the challenges posed by this innovative project. Accordingly some of the changes made during the MTR
are mentioned below in brief (details are provided in Annex II).

Organizational arrangements

Merger of the District Rural Development Agency (DRDA) and the Project Administration at the District
level. This convergence helped in improving coordination between the DRDA and the project, dovetailing
of funds and functionaries, and ensuring long term support to the CBOs.

Creation of Tribal Project Management Units (TPMUs). The state project management created TPMUs
in three districts, with the project officer of Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) acting as the
ex-officio Director. This innovative arrangement brought a good degree of convergence between the
ITDA and the project activities.

                                                              11

Changes in Human Resource Deployment. The project introduced a decentralized Area Coordinator
System under which each project district had a sub-district tier comprising seven to ten mandals for
management of project activities including planning and monitoring. The decentralized system resulted in
more effective project implementation.

Institutional arrangements at the community level

Focus on SHGs and reducing emphasis on CIGs : Closely knit and functionally effective SHGs were seen
as prerequisites for fund management, asset promotion, retention and its productive use; which the loosely
organized CIF would not be able to provide, thus affecting sustainability.

Focus on Federations of SHGs as core institutions: The investments on institutional development were
increased by 50% to enable development of good quality institutions which will attract investment from
banks and commercial organizations and also build collective voice to influence public services.

Use of Community Resource Persons (CRPs). The project shifted to a community based capacity building
and learning approach which focused on developing CRPs2 to nurture and build the capacities of the
institutions on a sustainable basis.

Financing

Decentralized Funds Flow Arrangement. Under a decentralized financial management system introduced
in FY 2004-05, the project funds for each mandal were transferred directly to the MSs from the State
Project Management Unit (SPMU) through the ZSs. This financial arrangement system contributed to
empowering the CBOs to plan and implement all project activities.

CIF-related changes. In order to facilitate a larger and more equitable revolution of livelihood funds, the
project found the MS, instead of the VO, as the appropriate CIF management agency. Instead of a grant
approach, the project adopted a revolving fund system to fund sub projects. And finally, CIF was used to
promote demand driven activities such as job promotion for youth which was not originally envisaged.

Micro credit planning as basis for community investment: The project started using micro plans as a basis
for CIF financing as it found that these proved to be a better vehicle for financing as opposed to the sub
project financing.

Targeting approaches

Improved Methods of Targeting. (a) Participatory Identification of Poor (PIP): A state wide revised list
of poorest of the poor (POP) and the poor households was created, using an elaborate and objectively
triangulated participatory and transparent approach; and. (b) Entitlement Based Allocation of Funds: To
ensure a fair flow of project funds to all the mandals (MSs, VOs and SHGs), the project introduced an
entitlement approach to the allocation of project funds.

The following factors affected project implementation:

Factors outside government control or implementation agency




2Community Resource Persons (CRPs) are active community leaders selected by MSs from the members of mature SHGs, VOs
and MSs who have first hand experience of coming out of poverty.


                                                           12

       Positive factor

 The Bank's flexibility: The flexible approach of the Bank was a favorable factor during implementation.
 This enabled the project to use new information and learning to adjust implementation arrangements to
 make them more effective in addressing problems faced by the poor, women, tribal and the marginal
 communities.

       Negative factors

 Droughts, Floods and Tsunami. Recurrent droughts affected implementation as it resulted in destruction
 of livestock and agricultural assets and shortage of fodder and farmers suffering heavy economic losses.
 Similarly, the tsunami that struck coastal villages of Srikakulam district had adversely affected the asset
 base of the fishermen communities and created additional expenditure obligations on the project.

 Factors subject to government control or implementation agency

       Positive factors

 Strong political commitment and support at the highest level in both administrations to continue with the
 project's agenda, and continuity of senior level officials involved with the project, contributed to the
 smooth implementation and success of the project.

       Negative factors

 (i) SERP Organizational Structure. While SERP was able to attract good quality staff in the initial stages
 as numbers were small, it found increasing difficulty to recruit good quality staff at all levels and retain
 them. The project used village immersion programs with good quality VOs to train new staff and PDs.

 (ii) Lack of adequate support for complex portfolio. In some of the districts, the MSs were expanding
 their business volume and ventures. The project introduced a new cadre of fresh MBAs to work with the
 communities as livelihood associates to help them develop market expertise and linkages with various
 market functionaries.

 (iii) There was a delay of about six months in the construction of the bridge and residential schools as there
  was some setback in identification of the mandals and hence the selection of sites, and construction of the
  residential school complexes, which affected the enrolment and retention rates. In addition, as the
  students enrolled were first generation learners, the parents and the community had to be sensitized to
  retain their children in the schools without succumbing to social pressure for early child marriages, which
  is a prevalent practice in these social groups.

  2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

  (a) M&E design and implementation

  A three-part monitoring and evaluation system was incorporated into the project design, with emphasis on
  learning from implementation experience. The three parts were: (i) input and output monitoring; (ii)
  process monitoring; and (iii) impact evaluation. The first two were planned to be conducted continuously
  throughout the project, whereas the third one was scheduled to be carried out in three stages using an
  independent agency.

· Input/output monitoring. The SPMU/DPMUs was responsible for input/output monitoring at all levels
 through a computerized MIS. Activities to be monitored included allocation and use of project funds for

                                                      13

 various inputs and delivery of other targeted inputs and monitoring specific outputs. In addition, the
 monthly video conferencing arrangement between SPMU, DPMU, MSs and community functionaries has
 improved the information exchange and learning processes. This could be considered as on of the best
 practices in terms of experience sharing, learning and use of IT to facilitate concurrent monitoring. Many
 MSs have computerized their MIS performance data and are using it for monitoring financial and group
 performance of SHGs. Participation of target beneficiaries in the Monitoring and Learning (M&L)
 activities is an assurance leading to sustainability of the system even after the project is closed.

· Process monitoring was undertaken by an independent agency with access to data gathered by the MIS. A
  non-profit organization was entrusted with the task of process monitoring which carried out and
  completed more than 12 rounds of process monitoring of the project. The assessments judged the quality
  of project implementation, particularly in institutional development at the village level, community
  satisfaction with project inputs, and mechanisms to ensure inclusiveness. Monitoring assessed the extent
 to which the poor were included in the process of project selection, design, and implementation at the
 individual and community levels and focused on the dynamics of CIGs, SHGs, VOs, and MSs. The
 SPMU and DPMU took into account the observations made and appropriate corrective actions were taken
  to improve quality of implementation. This concurrent monitoring has improved the adaptability and
  efficiency of the project.

· Impact evaluation. External evaluation was carried out by Centre for Economic and Social Studies
  (CESS) at baseline (2001), MTR (2004) and ICR (2006) stages. In addition, several other topical
  evaluations were carried out by independent agencies as well as the project.

  (b) M&E utilization

  The project developed a system of quality assessment of CBOs based on the MIS data collected. MSs
  analyzed the data collected and used it to monitor the progress of VOs, SHGs, and CRPs. This data was
  also used to develop customized training programs for CBOs. The project conducted a comprehensive
  process monitoring and changed many processes and procedures as a result of the feedback received. The
  recommendations and findings of the MTR and various studies carried out, were used to make mid course
  corrections in the project. The project also used M& E data and learning to identify best practices and
  practitioners and developed a process of peer learning among community functionaries based on that.

  Social auditing. The project introduced transparent practices of information display and dissemination at
  all tiers of the CBOs. The transparency in transactions and open information system enabled effective
  monitoring of project inputs and outputs. All VOs in the project formed Asset Verification Committees.

  2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
  (focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable): There were no significant deviations or waivers
  from the Bank safeguards and fiduciary policies and procedures during the implementation of the project.

  2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
  (including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by present
  operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional capacity, and
  next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable):

  (a) Transition arrangements
  Appropriate transition arrangements have been put in place, particularly in the following areas:

  Organizational Sustainability
  More than 76,000 Community Managed Functionaries (Community Resource Persons (CRPs),
  Community Activists (e.g., health activists), Animators, Facilitators, Bookkeepers, Para-botanists etc)

                                                       14

have been identified, trained and deployed in the project villages playing a critical role in the
establishment of self-reliant and self-managed CBOs of the poor. 316 Mandal Training Centers (MVTCs)
have been established at the Mandal level and are managed by MSs. In addition, Master Book Keepers
(MBKs) provide hand holding support to community book-keepers and undertake periodic verification
and auditing of accounts and facilitate SHG ­ bank linkage. The MBKs are also expected to support VOs
and MSs in their transition from being micro finance to livelihood finance institutions.

Community institutions have developed into self managed entities and at each tier have developed well
defined roles and rules of engagement. VOs are acting as a platform for collective knowledge building
and leadership promotion. The VOs are being used by line departments as effective service delivery
agents and by commercial banks as financial intermediaries for SHGs through securing bulk credit for on
lending to and facilitating recovery of loans from SHGs. VOs have also emerged as business and
marketing agents of the poor, engaging in purchase of inputs and raw materials, and marketing of
agricultural commodities. VOs have generated substantial surpluses to meet their recurring costs.

MSs have emerged as apex mandal federation of CBOs and are providing multiple types of support to
SHGs and VOs. They are financing micro credit plans of VOs. MSs are playing a critical role in
facilitating social mobilization and reviving defunct/dormant SHGs. Apart from facilitating procurement
and distribution; MSs are also involved in the recovery of food credit provided to the poor households. In
addition, 150 MSs are engaged in business and collective marketing activities in agricultural commodities
and inputs. They are managing the training centers with their internally generated resources.

ZSs act as forums for discussion and articulation of larger social and developmental issues affecting the
poor. They have emerged as life insurance intermediaries in all project districts, promoting low premium
life insurance cover for the poor in all project districts. ZSs are providing technical guidance and advice to
MSs on market information, procurement and logistical aspects.

Financial Sustainability. The major factors for financial sustainability in the project are the following:

Internal Corpus consists of a) member savings; b) community investment fund (CIF) i.e., project funds;
c) funds/grants from various government sponsored programs; and d) interest income from internal
loaning of member savings. Propelled by the regular member savings, earnings from inter-lending and
receipt of revolving fund, the resource base of the SHGs has expanded to US$127 million at the close of
the project. On an average, the corpus per SHG worked out to US$742 in December 2006.

External Funds are loans from commercial banks which have been leveraged using internal corpus at the
SHG, VO and MS level. Annual credit flow to poor households and their groups has increased ten fold
from US$ 11.6 million in 2000 to US$124 million in December 2006. The total credit flow from
commercial banks to these groups since 2000 has grown to US$425 million. Thus, during the project
period (July 2000 to December 2006), the total revolved fund of the SHGs (including CIF, recycled CIF,
SGSY subsidy, revolving fund/matching grant, interest subsidy, bank loans and internal loans from own
savings and other earnings) amounted to US$919 million, at an average of US$5355 per SHG. Hence,
each US$ 1 of CIF has leveraged an SHG fund turnover of US$12.3. It is expected that SHGs, VOs and
MSs will be able to sustain the recurring costs of managing the organizations and will be able to leverage
significant amount of investments in form of credit and grants after the project investments are over.
Details of the funds leveraged by the CBOs are provided on page 12, in Section 3.2.

Economic Sustainability: The various tiers of institutions have developed business and management
skills, making them viable economic institutions with public, private and cooperative partners. The line
departments/government agencies have come to recognize SHGs and their federations as representatives
of the poor and have established very productive partnerships to facilitate delivery of economic and social
services. Similarly, commercial organizations acknowledge the low cost and efficient distribution and
service delivery channels offered by the CBOs.

                                                       15

Government Policies: The GOAP is implementing Indira Kranthi Patham, which is a statewide rural
poverty eradication program based on social mobilization and empowerment of rural poor women. The
women's empowerment program in AP is the largest in the country and accounts for more than 40 % of the
total SHGs in the country. The project has been instrumental in reformulating the poverty reduction strategy
of GOAP. Many Development Departments in AP are factoring community institutions of the poor in
design of service delivery arrangements.

(b)Follow-up projects

A follow up program scaling up APDPIP in rest of the Districts in AP, Andhra Pradesh Rural Poverty
Reduction Project (APRPRP) became effective on April 1, 2003 and covers 594 backward mandals in 16
districts of the State and covers 5.7 million families. This project's duration is until September 2008. In
the year 2005 the GOAP decided to extend the same approach to all rural areas of AP and leverage the
program with funds from ongoing programs from the State Budget. GOAP is preparing a third project for
rural poverty reduction, to contribute significantly to the state's endeavor of achieving the UN
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) by 2015.

(c) Future impact evaluation. An independent external evaluation by a panel of experts in various fields,
to evaluate the project and its follow up project, APRPRP is scheduled to be conducted in 2008.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(To current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)
The objective of APDPIP is in consonance with AP's social and economic development agenda. The
current poverty reduction strategy of the GOAP is built around empowerment of women SHGs and
increased resources have been allocated in the State Budget to provide financial support to the approach.
In addition, many Government programs envisage an important part for the organizations of the poor in
delivery of services and managing social welfare programs. In many respects, the project design and
implementation has become more relevant in the current policy environment. At the Central level, the
approach used by the project has been described as a national model in the Draft Eleventh Five Year Plan
approach paper released in 2006 and is likely to be a basis for a National Mission on Poverty Elimination.
It is still relevant and appropriate to the needs of the State. The project is also consistent with the Bank's
latest CAS3 (September 15, 2004) for India. According to the CAS, one of the key pillars is investing in
people and empowering Communities. The CAS talks about scaling up support to improved rural
livelihoods through state level interactions and investment operations using a community driven
development approach. Since the project was initiated, six new operations using similar approaches have
been initiated in India and four others are in the pipeline

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on outputs in
Annex 2)

Satisfactory. The project was more than successful in achieving its objective. The following
achievements demonstrate that there is a direct linkage between the project's outputs and outcomes:



3 Document number: 29374-IN




                                                      16

     · The project's interventions have enabled the poor and poorest households to acquire assets
         (especially livestock) and shift from wage employment to self employment.
     · The poor and the poorest households have bought their fallow land under cultivation and have
         started actively participating in the land lease market.
     · There is a reduction in distress and contract migration, especially for women and children and
         decline in incidence of child labor.
     · There is also a reduction in debt burden and dependence on moneylenders.
     · SHGs have become a major credit supply institution with increased access to finance from
         commercial banks. The poor households are now perceived as clients by commercial banks.
     · The increased access to information by women on education, family planning, health care and
         social issues have resulted in higher level of mobilization and action on social issues by women
         and their organizations.
     · There is a substantive increase in all forms of social capital resulting in increased solidarity, peer
         support in crisis, linkage with government programs and other institutions like the Banks and
         collective action against undesirable social practices.

The key investments made by the project were in the area of institutional and human capacity building,
community investment funds, educational support for girl child laborers and school drop outs and
project management including monitoring and evaluation studies. The key outcomes of the project are
described as follows:

1. Thriving organizations of the poor, social mobilization and institution building

The project supported the formation and strengthening of three tiers of institutions of the poor: SHGs of
poor women as the foundation, VOs (as federations of SHGs at village level), MSs (as federations of VOs
at Mandal level) and ZSs (as federations at District Level). All these tiers were promoted and supported
by the project to become self managed, self reliant and sustainable institutions. These institutional
arrangements have enabled the poor to access a range of services, resources and expertise from both
public and private sector. This is the core investment made by the project.

2.29 million rural poor women have been organized into 171,618 SHGs and 9872 VOs at the village level,
316 MSs at the mandal level and 6 ZSs at the district level. The project currently covers 90 percent of all
rural poor households in six project districts of AP. The coverage is much higher than originally
envisaged due to a good response from communities, government agencies and commercial banks.

2. Access to thrift, credit, investments and financial resources
These organizations have leveraged resources and accessed credit and other financial sector services on a
significant scale (details provided in Annex 2). From an IDA investment of US$111 million the following
additional investments have been leveraged by the participating poor households in six years:
(a) Cumulative member savings is in excess of US$113 million. This savings was used to further
    leverage credit from commercial banks.
(b) Cumulative credit from commercial banks in excess of US$425 million with repayment rates higher
    than 95 % indicates a strong relationship with commercial banks as clients. The annual bank credit
    accessed by the members of SHGs has increased from US$11.6 million in 2000 to $ 124 million in
    2006. The number of SHGs linked to banks was 155,091 as against the target of 45,000. The SHGs
    have become valued clients of the banking system.
(c) During the project period, the total revolved fund of SHGs (including CIF, recycled CIF, SGSY
    subsidy, revolving fund, interest subsidy , bank loans and internal loans from own savings and other
    earnings) was estimated to be US$919 million. This worked out to be at an average of US$5355 per
    SHG. The cumulative credit flow is expected to cross $ 1 billion this year.

The project has been able to catalyze the financial sector for the poor as is evident from the rapid progress
being made while scaling up the approach in all Districts in AP.
                                                      17

3. Livelihood Diversification, Assets, Income and Consumption Expenditure

Livelihoods: In six years the livelihood sources for households have undergone transition from below
subsistence wage employment to self employment, increased asset ownership (land, livestock and other
non farm enterprises) and diversified forms of livelihood. Access to CIF and Bank finance has enabled
the poor to upgrade their assets, acquire new assets and diversify their livelihood sources. With the
reduced dependency on money lenders for credit, increased surplus from economic activities and assets
and reduced consumption expenditure, livelihoods of the poor have improved.


Assets: The value of assets at the household level has almost tripled i.e., from US$1032 to US$2974 on
an average during the six year period. There was a significant increase in the ownership of both
immovable and movable assets. A large majority of this investment has been made on purchasing and
leasing dry and wet land, constructing houses, purchase of milch animals and purchasing gold jewelry.
Many households are participating in land lease market. The extent of irrigated land owned by the poor
has also increased. Many women have taken up non farm activities including small manufacturing and
trading including garments, furniture and retail trading in consumption goods. The turnover from assets
has also increased by 177% during this period.

                                                    Increase in Credit, Assets and Income

    Increase in Annual Credit from Commercial Banks        Growth in Assets Per Household for       Increase in Income Per Household
                                                                   Project Participants                  for Project Participants

                                                                                        2974
              150
                                                               3000                                 1500                        1041
              100
   US$ Million                                         Value of2000        1032                     1000          483
               50                                      Assets                                    US$
                                                        (US$)  1000                                  500
                0
                       2000          2006                        0                                     0
             Credit    12.3           124                               2000          2006                    2000           2006




Food Security: The project supported many VOs to undertake bulk procurement of rice and other food
commodities, access public distribution system and access food on credit. Over half a million households
and 5,577 VOs, across the six districts are now under the umbrella of food security. The turnover handled
by the VOs in DPIP districts for the Rice Credit Line (RCL) was US$171 Million. As a result an average
household was able to increase annual income as a result of savings on transaction cost by US$48. Food
assurance has reduced the proportion of indebted households from 21% to 13% and increased the daily
wage rate by 30% due to the enhanced bargaining power of the poor farmer.

Market Access: The project invested significantly in promoting value addition at local level for various
agribusiness activities. This was done through developing market linkages with public, cooperative and
private sectors. These linkages have enabled increase in price realization by more than 30%. Access to the
market has been improved by (i) meeting critical infrastructure gaps (e.g. setting up bulk milk cooling
centers); (ii) promoting wholesale trade by community groups in commodities produced and consumed by
the poor; (iii) developing franchises and partnerships with private sector. There are over 1500 VOs
implementing collective marketing activities, including 695 community managed procurement centers. In
addition, 273 VOs and 42 MS are operating village procurement and bulk milk cooling centers and acting
as franchises for large state and national dairy companies and cooperatives. The cumulative collective
marketing turnover in 2006, including all commodities was US$38.8 million. These investments also
contributed to the increased sustainability and viability of individual economic activities taken up by the
poor households.

Jobs: The project supported rural youth belonging to SHG member households with skill development,
training, market scan and placement support in partnership with many private sector organizations and

                                                                             18

employers. This was done with establishment of Livelihood Advancement Business Schools (LABS) at
District and Mandal Levels. In FY 2005-2006, a total of 11,883 youth belonging to poor households were
offered placement. A post assessment study conducted on youth who were placed in urban areas revealed
that each one on an average was earning annually about US$1000 and sending about US$500 as annual
remittance back to their families.

Household Income: According to CESS impact study based on sample households, the annual income
per household has increased in absolute terms by 115% from US$483 to US$ 1041 over the last five years
as against a 64% increase for non-participants households. January 2007 survey indicates that a
substantial part of increase in income was used for reinvesting in existing and new livelihoods.

Consumption Expenditure: On the whole, the average expenditure has increased per household by
US$196 per annum. A household is spending three times more on education in the family. Interest
payments have significantly reduced from US$104.5 to US$60, indicating access to credit on reasonable
terms from commercial banks and reduction in credit from moneylenders.

Reduction in Vulnerability and Indebtedness: Dependence on high-cost sources of borrowing has
reduced by more than one-third. Small but compulsory savings and inter loaning by SHG members
reduced the dependence of the members on traditional high-cost sources of borrowing, often interlinked
with commodity/labor sales.

Reduction in distress migration: Improved food security through the project interventions and other
livelihood impacts has significantly reduced distress migration which was a common feature in drought
prone areas of Anantpur and Mahbubnagar and parts of Chittoor Districts.

Access to Insurance services: In excess of half a million households have purchased life insurance cover
(death, and disability insurance) on a voluntary basis. This is more than a three-fold (15 percent of poor
households have insurance) increase when compared to the scenario in 2003 (less than 4 percent of poor
household had life insurance coverage).

4. Increase in school enrolment for girl children and their academic performance

The girl child enrolment, which stood at 91.95 percent in 2001-02 steadily increased to full enrolment at
the time of closure of the project. Number of girl child laborers enrolled in residential schools was 21,468
which exceeded the target of 15,000. 78.42% of girls enrolled moved into regular schools from bridge
schools. During, 2002-03, in 7th class the pass percentage was 97% and in 2005-06 it was 100%. The
performance in high school (Senior School Certificate - SSC) examination improved from 76.75% to
93.92% with six schools achieving 100% results in SSC.

5. School completion rates among girls (ever) enrolled in bridge schools

Nearly 209,543 out of school children were enrolled in other public schools. Among girls enrolled in
bridge schools, the completion rate is 78.42%. Residential school infrastructure had a positive impact on
girl child education. Backward linkage created to the GOAP run bridge school, has created high demand
for admissions. Dropout rates have reduced considerably over the years reflecting parents' determination
to keep the girls in school and effort of APSWREIS and school management to retain girls in schools.
Attendance of these girls is regular, and the dropout rate is very low in residential schools. The drop out
rates from the residential schools decreased from 14.8% in 2001 to 4.3% in 2005-06. The project resulted
in motivating parents to withdraw their girls from work and to send them to schools and into hostels.
Academic performance was found to be better compared to other government schools. All round
personality development was also noticed, due to excellent infrastructure and promotion of sports and
cultural activities.

                                                    19

6. Greater inclusiveness in the Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRIs) and Political Empowerment
During the project, SHG members were sensitized to their entitlements and their potential role in local
government institutions including PRIs. There were a large number of poor women willing to stand for
elections out of which 4072 were subsequently elected. These included all tiers of local government from
District, Mandal and ward level and included leadership positions as well. 4072 women members are now
holding offices across the state in local governments. According to CESS, 2.33% of participant members
contested the elections out of whom 1.3% won. While in the case of non-participants, it is 1.54% and
0.7%, respectively. The study concludes that the political empowerment is taking place among the poor
women due to the project. The CESS study also points out an increase in participation of women in gram
sabhas and community level meetings conducted by panchayat bodies.

7. Access to government programs and services and Improvements in household perception of the
quality and quantity of government services
There were a number of factors which contributed to the improvement in service delivery. The
community institutions provide a ready database to channel funds from line departments hence making
targeting for service delivery agents more efficient. In addition, public agencies have outsourced or
franchised some of their services to CBOs. Up to November 2006, a total of 822,602 pensions worth
US$31 million were distributed by VOs. CBOs organized midday meal services, executed watershed
works, mobilized and mainstreamed child labor, increased school enrollment and mobilized immunization
and sanitation campaigns. CBOs have also provided additional teachers to primary schools at their own
cost. Social audit of the Employment Guarantee Scheme was carried out by the CBOs as well.

The external evaluation by CESS indicates that school drop out rates have decreased and enrollment ratio
has increased. 87% of the participant households (as against 80% of non-participants) in Srikakulam and
78% in Adilabad (against 75% of non participants) reported better performance of primary schools. The
study also points out that the project had an impact on health seeking behavior in terms of improved anti-
natal checks, hospital deliveries, and increased participation in immunization campaigns. The study
documented the increased utilization of services provided by Primary Health Centers, ICDS, Employment
Guarantee Scheme and veterinary services available at the village and sub-district levels. Proportion of
households having immunization cards and children receiving BCG vaccination increased from 78% in
the baseline survey to 91% in 2006 among participants. Breast feeding has increased by almost 10%
among participants in comparison to non-participants. By and large, the proportion of households who
access the various government programs is high among participants as compared to the non-participants.

3.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost, and
comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

The PAD assumed: (i) about 620,000 families would directly benefit from the project; (ii) the project
investment of US$86 per household would result in an average annual increase of US$ 11.8 per
household, breaking even with an IRR of 12% i.e., the project assumed an increase of 1 US$ per month in
the household income; (iii) different rates of IRR for generic categories of sub-projects viz., 31% for
cattle feed mix, 19% for cotton beds and cushion production, 31% for brass artisan work, 19% for ghee
making, 48% for training of para-vets, 36% for fish pond construction, and 14 to 17% for physical
infrastructure.

All the studies conducted so far (CESS impact study, May 2006 survey and January 2007 survey) clearly
indicated that the incremental income benefits to the households are much larger than what was assumed
in the PAD. Even more significant is the fact that the project has conferred benefits to a much larger
number of households (986,860 households directly through CIF and a much larger number through other
sources of finance) than what was envisaged in the PAD. To assess the IRR from project investment in

                                                    20

sub-project activities, a study was conducted in February 2007 across six project districts covering 475
sub-projects. As shown in Annex V, despite the variations among project districts, in general, the IRR
estimates for all the activities under consideration are very high. In addition to the high turnover of
income to beneficiary households, it is also possible to conclude that management and operation of the
sub-projects has been efficient. In turn, this would ensure sustainability of the sub-projects and the
potential to be replicated elsewhere. It should also be noted that most SHGs and their clusters at village
levels have become financially viable and credible business entities. They are emerging as important
elements in the economic growth of rural AP.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(Combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)
Rating: Satisfactory

The project has exceeded the performance targets envisaged at appraisal and MTR under most indicators.
It has also covered a significantly larger geographical area and higher number of households, and has
been efficient in delivering outcomes. For details see Sections 3.2, 3.3, and 4.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(If any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development (Poverty impact has been described in
section 3.2)

Gender and Social Development Aspects

Economic Empowerment:
  · Women are undertaking various forms of self-employment and moving their families from
      subsistence livelihoods to more diverse forms of livelihoods. The improved access to resources has
      enabled a large proportion of SHG women to pursue independent economic activities like
      household dairy and micro enterprises.
  · Women are managing most enterprises run by the VOs, MSs and ZSs. This has led to an increase in
      participation of women in the rural market economy as they are negotiating with traders, private
      sector and public sector representatives. Women have demonstrated their leadership ability and
      management skills through the successful management of food security program, collective
      procurement and marketing and supply of different types of inputs including seed, plant material,
      and fertilizers.
  · The CESS study and the May 2006 survey highlighted the improved control of women over
      resources, largely facilitated by the project interventions across all social groups. The study also
      indicated that decisions relating to purchase of food items and savings, subscription of savings,
      marriage of children, purchase of immovable property, health expenditure are jointly made at the
      household level.

Social Empowerment:
  · Key outcomes of social action through SHGs included prevention of 5000 child marriages and
      eradication of the exploitative social practices such as "jogini" (temple concubine) system.
      Successful campaign against trafficking in women and girl children were conducted in parts of
      Anantapur and Chittoor district with the support of police, revenue administration and NGOs. Key
      activities include community based monitoring, developing a para legal cadre, and setting up of
      vigilance cells as well as provision of alternate livelihoods for the rescued women and children.
      The CESS study report indicates that the incidence of child marriages declined compared to the
      baseline among project participants.


                                                    21

   · A study done on a sample of 8,642 SHG members demonstrated that there has been a remarkable
       improvement in the mobility of SHG women members after joining the group. It is observed that
       there is a steep decline in domestic violence after the members joined the SHGs. In addition,
       respect for the SHG women members increased both within the family and within and outside their
       villages.
   · The evaluation by CESS pointed out that SHG members by and large, could bring issues relating
       to number of children to have, spacing between births and family planning to the collective space
       thus indicating significant change in the ability of women to exercise reproductive choice within
       the household.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening (particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity
and institutional development):

The project resulted in a substantial institutional development impact at the community level as
demonstrated by the following:

Development of skills and capacity at the community level: Community Resource Persons at the village
level have taken over a lot of responsibilities from the Community Coordinators (CCs) with respect to
social mobilization, group building and strengthening processes. The project's efforts have resulted in
availability of a cadre of functionaries trained in social mobilization, value addition, business and
enterprise development, logistics management at the village level. The project has created social and
human capital on a large scale.

Development of a three tier system of community organizations: The three tier system of community
organizations has been well established with independent sources of financing and appropriate
management structures. The project has developed self managed institutions which provide support at
each level, negotiate service provision and linkages with external agencies, provide financial management
and auditing services, manage and upgrade skills of various community level functionaries and take up
commercial activities on a demand driven basis. It is expected that this federated structure of community
organizations will sustain and has reached a threshold level of capacity and institutionalization.

Development of Mandal level Training Centers managed by Mandal Samakhyas: Every Mandal is now
equipped with a well equipped multi media training and learning centre and is managed by a Training
Coordinator paid for by Mandal Samakhyas and management committee consisting of community
members. Many external agencies have used these facilities and organized training and learning events.
Each training centre has a curriculum developed through a demand driven process. The Mandal Training
Centre is an important part of institutionalization of capacity building activities.

Development of grass root level social accountability mechanisms. These mechanisms have been a key
factor in ensuring a high loan repayment rate (95%) and greater convertibility of loan into assets. The
federations and their functionaries are operating as franchises for public and private sector institutions due
to high level of trust built between banks and the local functionaries.

Government Policy and Programs: The project helped to evolve GOAP's Rural Poverty Reduction
Strategy and Program which aims to use institutions of the poor at all levels for implementation of
poverty reduction programs being implemented by the Department of Rural Development. The decision
to integrate District Rural development Agency (DRDA) with the project implementation structure at
                                                                 4

District level has helped in integrating key programs for job employment like National Rural Employment



4DRDAs implement various rural development programs financed by State Government and Central Government.


                                                        22

Guarantee Program (NREGP) and self employment programs like Swarnajayanthi Gram Swarojgar
Yojana (SGSY) with the community institutions and has helped in effective implementation and targeting
of these programs. GOAP has doubled the amount of resources compared to what was originally
envisaged in the PAD.

Supporting capacity building of APSWREIS. Teaching abilities and other related skills of teachers have
been strengthened because of their exposure to Computer Aided Learning (CAL) and orientation
programs conducted by DIET and CIEFL. Workshops conducted on management development, stress
management and refresher courses on administrative and accounting procedures have helped the delivery
systems in the educational institutions. Teaching aids, teaching learning materials, library books and lab
equipment have facilitated child centered learning process.

(c) Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive and negative):
Positive

Community Level
(i) High Extent of Community empowerment. Initially it was envisioned that by the time the project closes,
MSs would be generating sufficient income so that they could pay professionals to sustain the project's
outcomes and achievements. But by the end of the project, they have been able to develop sufficient
capacity, especially in terms of human resources, to manage most activities by themselves, without
depending on outside staff, and to ensure post-project sustainability.

(ii) Community Resource Persons (CRPs). The concept of CRPs evolved during the course of the project
and has been perfected in the last three years. The experience and managerial capacities of CRPs are
currently being tapped to enable MSs to run their organizations. This has helped in scaling up of the
program at much lower cost and increased the speed of lateral learning and innovations in the project.

(iii) CIF strategy to empower institutions and as a catalytic fund. The project moved away from a
strategy of using CIF for assetization to a strategy of using CIF for empowering institutions. Under the
original plan CIF was envisioned as a one off activity and it would have been difficult to sustain the
interests of community members in institution building once the activity was over. But the CIF was
treated by community organizations not as a grant, but as a revolving fund leading to increased recycling
and revolution of funds. CIF became a catalytic investment for institution building and demonstrating
creditworthiness of the poor to financial institutions.

Public and Private Sector Policy Level

(iv) Impact on the formal financial sector: The willingness and openness of the banks to finance SHGs
has grown exponentially. This kind of enthusiastic response of the banking system to help SHGs and the
high level of credit flows to the poor was not originally expected. For details see Section 3.2 (C).

(v) Partnership with private sector: The engagement of the project with the private sector has produced
remarkable outputs. The project was able to tap the resources of private sector companies such as Dr.
Reddy's Foundation for providing the salary/self-employment oriented training to the educated
unemployed youth from the poor households and provide them suitable placement. The project also
facilitated training of youth in employment oriented construction activities with the support of National
Academy of Construction in all project districts. Similar partnerships were developed with many private
sector companies for agribusiness, consumption goods and other livelihood activities. Many private sector
companies developed bottom of pyramid markets and products in partnership with the project and
community organizations.



                                                      23

(vi) Adapting the project as a national model in the 11th Five Year Plan. The 11th National Five Year
Plan being currently finalized describes the project approach as a national model which needs to be
replicated. It also envisages reform of the Central Government programs on Self Employment to be
replaced by State Missions on the lines of SERP. A project in the eastern State of Bihar is being designed
based on AP approach with technical assistance from the project. These impacts at a systemic level were
not originally envisaged.

Negative

(i) Covering the poorest of the poor. As the program has expanded beyond the level originally envisioned,
unless the government closely monitors the progress, it is likely that: (a) the resources currently available
may not be sufficient to cover the poorest of the poor; (b) their voices may not be heard; and (c) the
benefits of the project will not reach them. The project in the six districts has been dovetailed with the
APRPRP project covering all the Districts.

(ii) Burden on women. Empowerment of women has indirectly led to putting undue burden on them in
terms of time and energy, as they have to manage their own households and the organizations in which
they are involved. The change in gender roles has begun with men sharing a lot of chores of the women;
however, there is still a lot of ground to be covered.

(b) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes) Provided in Annex V.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Negligible to Low

The project has significantly surpassed all expectations in terms of its outcomes, as demonstrated by the
results presented in Section 3.2 and Annex II. In addition following trends point to high likelihood of
achieving development outcomes:

· The creation of a cadre of trained community activists who are able to do an excellent job of
     community mobilization, organization, and capacity-building as well as articulation of community
     needs and demands is the most visible outcome of the project. The vast reservoir of leadership that
     has been carefully nurtured has a vast potential for the future sustainability of the institutions of the
     poor.
· 75% of the SHGs, VOs and MSs fulfilled standards of both financial and non financial parameters
     related to healthy institutions. About 80% of the SHGs have been linked to Banks and have accessed
     at least one Bank loan. Savings is regular in about 90% of the SHGs and internal lending has been
     accepted and practiced as a non negotiable norm
· VOs have emerged as a critical intermediary organization in the institution building process fostered
     by the project. A vast majority of these institutions are sustainable.
· All the MSs are firmly established. They are fairly self-reliant and largely self managed. They are
     able to meet their normal expenditure from their income.




                                                       24

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank's performance in the identification, preparation, and appraisal of the project was satisfactory.
The project's objective was consistent with the government's development priorities and the Bank's CAS.
During preparation and appraisal, the Bank took into account all major relevant aspects. The project
design reflected lessons learned from several on-going and completed Bank-financed rural development
projects in India. In addition, major risk factors were considered and appropriate mitigating measures
were incorporated into the project design. The Bank worked actively with GOAP and their local
consultants to develop a computerized financial management system which was subsequently piloted in
two DPMUs.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Satisfactory

A Quality of Supervision Assessment was carried out in September 2002 by a QAG panel of reviewers
for the project. The panel rated the supervision of the project as satisfactory overall. QAG noted that:

"Supervision focused systematically on assuring decisions and speeding up contracting of the schools, the
relevant rating was upgraded only after choice of sites and award of contracts. Community awareness,
education, and participation in project activities was encouraged as part of supervision to reduce potential
for conflict through enhanced perceptions of inclusiveness even by the "better-off poor". The team is
aware of progress in the more complex areas and in the panel interview provided meaningful recent
examples of movement towards eventually higher impact.

Supervision has correctly focused on capacity building in communities, and government (district and
state levels) for a truly participative approach relying on community mobilization as against the
traditionally supply-driven anti-poverty government programs of the past. The FMS in the Bank's office
in Delhi was actively involved in project supervision on a continuous basis, reviewing audits and
reviewing the borrowers FM systems and making recommendations for their improvement. PSR ratings
for financial management are appropriate - satisfactory.

Capacity building measures have also been well supervised. Supervision provided good feedback to
adjust implementation so that it was more effective in achieving project objectives. There was excellent
continuity in the field and at HQ. The combination of expertise in specialized fiduciary areas, with in-
depth HD experience and skills, and an experienced Team Leader is optimal. The Country Office has
shown continuous and strong involvement with very significant contributions right through."

The ICR team concurs with the above findings of QAG. According to the ICR team, the Bank's
performance during the implementation of the project was satisfactory. The Bank provided technical
assistance on a variety of activities ­ institution building, development of financial products, facilitating
market linkages, monitoring and evaluation. It played the role of a catalytic investor in partnership with
the GOAP in experimenting and learning from various livelihood interventions such as the Village
Procurement Center; Food Credit Line; Micro insurance, development of innovative products for bottom
of pyramid markets and bought external best practice to the project in these areas.


                                                     25

Adequate resources in terms of budget and staff were allocated. The task team carried out intensive
supervision through a multi sectoral team. The ratings in the Implementation Status Reports (ISRs) on the
performance of the project both in terms of achievement of development objectives and project
implementation were realistic. Selection of consultants was reviewed by the Bank in accordance with the
provisions stipulated in the Credit Agreement and the Bank's Guidelines for Selection and Employment of
Consultants. The task team carried out the MTR in October-November 2003. The Review assessed
progress to date on all project components, the implementation issues and the actions to be taken to
ensure the successful completion of the project.

Procurement under the project mainly consisted of demand-driven community development sub projects
and civil works for school component. Procurement under community driven projects involved more than
8,500 sub projects already approved. The review of procurement of goods was also in accordance with the
provisions stipulated in the Credit Agreement and the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement. For ensuring
fiduciary requirements under the sub projects, the Bank financed a special review, since it was difficult
for the Procurement Specialist to cover such large spread of small projects. The financial management
and accounting functions were considered satisfactory.

The task team constantly strove to improve the quality and impact of its operation on the project by the
innovative approach of process monitoring. This approach helped in strengthening CBOs and facilitating
their access to technical and financial services. All supervision missions were preceded by a "community
supervision mission" carried out by the communities themselves. Project field staff and chairpersons of
MSs jointly presented findings to the task team at the beginning of every mission. Based on these findings,
field visits were strategically planned for two basic purposes: (i) visiting relevant districts to understand
and tackle "problems" as identified by the communities; and (ii) visiting relevant districts to strategize on
scaling up successful (and more importantly demand driven) project innovations or best practices. As a
result of this "auxiliary supervision," the Bank team had a better insight and first-hand knowledge of
project implementation issues and outcomes than would have otherwise been possible in a project of such
size and scope. The task team promoted cross learning activities such as "peer supervision" and sharing of
best practices.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Based on the Bank performance during lending phase and supervision as discussed in Section 5.1, the
overall performance is rated as Satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory.

The government's commitment to the project was initially demonstrated by its persistent request for Bank
assistance for a project focused on poverty reduction and by including all necessary budgetary resources
in its plans and budgets. GOAP was seriously concerned about the high level of poverty, illiteracy and
poor health and had widely promoted participatory approaches to address the needs of the rural poor. The
government supported this commitment by establishing a dedicated team to prepare the project proposal.

The government registered SERP as an autonomous society to implement the project with the Chief
Minister accepting the Chairmanship of its General Body. In addition, a number of actions were taken to
enhance institutional readiness for implementation, including selection of the project mandals, staffing
arrangements for the state, district and mandal units, preparation of various manuals and development and
testing of the computerized financial management system.


                                                     26

The government consistently maintained its commitment throughout the implementation. Its commitment
and approach to rural poverty reduction was demonstrated in the: (a) Andhra Pradesh: Vision 2020
report; (b) draft concept outline for the RPRP prepared by GOAP in November 2000; and (c) draft White
Paper on eradicating poverty and formation of a Poverty Eradication Mission consisting of eminent
experts throughout the country. The government further demonstrated its commitment by: (a) providing
increased resource allocation for rural development and doubling originally planned allocation for the
project; (b) ensuring continuity of senior project management staff, including the Chief Executive Officer
and the Project Director who were retained in their positions during the entire project period; (c)
unwavering support for the project by the government despite the change of administrations and (d)
taking timely corrective measures and making appropriate budget provisions, as a result of which the
project did not suffer from any counterpart funding problems.


(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

SERP designed and implemented various strategies for enhancing the managerial capacities of these
institutions like capacity building through regular facilitation, developing linkages with commercial banks,
developing market linkages, convergence with line departments and establishment of both internal and
external rating systems. The organization's autonomous status enabled it to select highly committed
professionals on fixed-term appointments to implement the project. It was very effective in carrying out
all aspects of project management, such as financial management, procurement arrangements, reporting
activities, and disbursements.

The financial management system including accounting, controls, auditing and reporting was adequate
and satisfied the Bank's financial management requirements. Procurement of all works, goods and
technical services under the project followed the Procurement Guidelines "Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits". The procurement aspects of the project in relation to CIF sub-projects were
managed in a satisfactory manner by SERP. The systems and procedures concerning the procurement
function in CIF projects, including compliance with cost benchmarks and recording of purchases in the
minutes, at the Sub-project Implementing Agency (SPIA) level were adequate to provide a reasonable
degree of fiduciary assurance regarding use of funds. SERP submitted all required quarterly and annual
reports in a timely manner. These reports were informative, and provided valuable feedback on the
project's progress.

APSWREIS was the implementation agency for the component on support to out-of- school children
through residential schools, under APDPIP. APSWREIS, a registered society under the Department of
Social Welfare, was responsible for the construction of residential schools and operating them, and got its
funds through a budget allocation from the social welfare department (not from SERP). Given its
experience of managing a large educational program through residential institutions since 1983, it had both
the expertise and capacity to execute this component. A nodal officer was trained, working with the
Engineering wing of the Scheduled Caste Corporation of the Social Welfare Department. APSWREIS
hired consultants through a competitive process to prepare contract documents, invitation to bid,
finalization of contracts and supervision of the construction work. The main procurement included civil
works for Schools. Initially APSWREIS did not have procurement capacity and the work was carried out
through another GOAP entity. There were certain delays, mainly on account of lack of availability of land
and change in sites for schools. The design was also outsourced to private consultants. To expedite the
process, the Bank agreed to single-source selection of these consultants.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
In light of the government and implementing agencies' performance as discussed in Section 5.2, the
overall performance of the Borrower was satisfactory.

                                                     27

6. Lessons Learned
(Both project-specific and of wide general application)

    Important factors for the success of a project:
· Factors such as strong political commitment and continuity of project leadership are essential for the
   success of a project. (General applicability).
· Promotion of trust and group solidarity based on a common purpose is an important element for
   building inclusive community institutions. (General applicability).

   Project Design:
· A poverty reduction project should focus more on building the capacity of rural communities rather
   than the capacity of the government. This could be done, for example, by designing the project in
   terms of giving more responsibility to community members and community organizations from the
   very beginning.

   Implementation:
· It is not realistic to expect a poverty reduction project such as APDPIP to achieve its objectives within
   a five year time frame. Such projects should rather be implemented over a long-term horizon, say 10-
   15 years, so that the government can adopt a programmatic approach towards planning such programs.
· Autonomous institutions such as SERP will need appropriate institutional arrangements, quite
   different from a normal PIU. This is because such institutions may need to deal with new types of
   products, such as insurance and marketing. These institutions should have the flexibility to recruit
   from the open market.
· In hindsight, it would have been better that the follow-up APRPRP was launched at least a year later
   so that, by that time DPIP could have been more well entrenched and well established without any
   distractions, and the problems associated with a program expanding too rapidly could have been
   avoided.
· Capacity building should be given very high priority. Implementation of sub projects should start
   only after sufficient capacity building is achieved. Any attempt to fast track without proper
   foundation can result in manipulation and diluting project objectives.
· Scaling up can not happen through external teams. These projects need to invest in community to
   community mechanisms of scaling up and mobilization.

   Monitoring:
· Mechanisms for transparency and disclosure, community monitoring and social audit that are
   incorporated into livelihood projects to ensure effective and efficient use of project funds do have
   important spill-over effects. For example, these elements induce communities to amplify their voice
   in making public expenditure work for them by participating in local government processes.
· As compared to normal reviews (post award etc), Social Audit, with a transparency of process and
   participatory process, is a very effective tool for ensuring fiduciary safeguard.

   Procurement:
· In hindsight it appears that the Bank should not have agreed to Single Source Selection of Design
   Consultants for APSWREIS. May be Selection Based on `Consultants' Qualification' could have
   provided greater transparency without sacrificing on time. There should have also been greater
   scrutiny of the work of Design Consultants for ensuring that layout is suitable for the given site.

   Financing:
· Preference for Loans over Grants: CIF given initially as a grant to the MSs and the good micro
   finance practices have led to multiple doses of loans to the SHG members. The lesson is that outright
   grant for financing of the income generating activities taken up by the poor has a limited impact. On
                                                     28

  the contrary, loan financing of livelihood activities has a multiplier impact on the livelihoods of the
  poor through revolution of funds.
· It may be worthwhile to consider the creation of some kind of `Innovation Fund' to try out developing
  specific relevant products for rural communities, such as new insurance and marketing products,
  which may require private sector linkage.

  Community participation, Social mobilization and Institution Building

  Limits to Social Mobilization: The project has mobilized a large proportion of POP and Poor
  households into the SHG fold. However, certain households (migrants, seasonal migrants, households
  with aged persons and the destitute) could not be mobilized into the SHGs. There are inherent
  limitations to social mobilization. A separate strategy would be required to address households and
  individuals who cannot be mobilized into the SHGs.

  Importance of Early Social Mobilization and Capacity Building: The project confirms the lesson
  learnt from other livelihood programs across the region that promotion of trust and group solidarity
  based on a common purpose is an important initial element of building inclusive community
  institutions. The project experience shows that social mobilization and capacity building is process
  oriented, and therefore, takes time to start-up but produce good results when matured. It implies that
  project planning should emphasize social mobilization as early in the project cycle as possible.
  Further, the project management should refrain from expanding the project to other locations in the
  last phases of the project when adequate time for institution and capacity building is not likely to be
  available before the end of the project.

  Need for Homogeneity in CBOs: The project experience shows that SHGs with members from mixed
  socio-economic backgrounds are less likely to be sustainable. A certain degree of homogeneity in the
  member background ensures long-term sustainability of the SHGs and prevents the capture of these
  institutions by the non-poor. This is true of the federations of the SHGs as well.

  SHGs Vs CIGs: The project experience reveals that common interest groups are less likely to survive
  in the absence of SHGs. In the absence of micro-finance activities, there was no cementing factor in
  the CIGs that could ensure their sustainability. Closely knit and functionally effective SHGs are a
  prerequisite for fund management, asset promotion, retention and its productive use.

  Importance of Social Capital: A significant output of the APDPIP is the creation of a vast resource of
  social activists, animators, para-workers and resource persons drawn from the poor and POP
  households. The valuable resource stock could be used for enhancing implementation efficiency of
  development programs of the line departments. The APDPIP has successfully demonstrated that the
  well trained and experienced community resource persons perform the project activities as efficiently
  as the project staff in a cost effective manner.

  Importance of Vision Building and Value Inculcation: The sustainability of CBOs critically hinges
  on the vision of the members and the values they have imbibed. Mere external financial support
  would not contribute to sustainability of the institutions and promotion of livelihoods of the poor.

  Integrated CBO Structure with Suitable Governance and Financial Relationships: The project
  experience suggests that integrated CBO structure (SHGs ­ VOs ­ MSs ­ ZS)            could ensure long
  term sustainability of the institutions, besides facilitating resolution of larger social and livelihood
  issues affecting the poor. The inter-dependent financial relationships (facilitated by CIF and inter
  institutional savings and borrowings) would promote the resource base of the institutions and ease the
  credit constraint faced by the members.


                                                    29

Importance of Bookkeeping: Institution of appropriate book-keeping arrangements (appropriate books,
trained and qualified book-keepers and book-keeping practices) are an essential prerequisite for
successful financial management. Providing hand holding support to the book-keepers, periodic
auditing of accounts, institution of suitable audit arrangements of the project are an integral part of
transparent and accountable financial management for sustainability of the CBOs.

Empowerment of women: This requires dialogue with other sections of the community as well.
Furthermore, the successful addressing of major social issues at both the community and household
levels requires women and men to work in tandem.

Decentralized Planning and Management: The introduction of decentralized management involving
annual works and finance plans (AWFPs) at the mandal level and the transfer of earmarked project
funds directly to the MSs was found to be very effective.

Livelihoods and Service Delivery

The project demonstrates that while the appropriate starting point may be social capital development,
bringing people out of poverty requires an economic purpose and a business rationale for which the
establishment of `forward linkages' is key, along with upgrading of skills and means to access,
negotiate and tie-up with external markets, partners and service industries.

CBOs Provide A Risk Less Credit Market for the Banks: The project experience reveals that the
CBOs provide an elastic and risk free credit market for the banks. The very high SHG loan recovery
ratio (95%) in the project districts is a testimony to the good repayment behavior of the SHGs.

Mature CBOs can Successfully Run Life, Health and Asset Insurance: The ZSs have successfully run
life and asset (livestock) insurance schemes at low premiums in the project districts. They have
successfully adopted quick redemption procedures. Mature VOs and SHGs have successfully
managed health risk fund in the project districts and provided quick financial support for medical
treatment.

Collective Marketing Activities: The project demonstrates that interventions should aim at clustering
of villages in the interests of developing a `critical mass' for marketing and investment purposes. The
CBOs have successfully demonstrated their ability to undertake collective procurement of agricultural
inputs and outputs and market them for the benefit of the small and marginal farmers and NTFP
collectors. These operations have very favorable impact on the over all market prices.

Non-Farm Livelihoods: Due to absence of other viable and feasible livelihood opportunities a large
proportion of the project promoted investment went into livestock and allied activities and petty trade
and service activities, which are relatively low productive areas. The lesson is that the government
and the development projects should focus on promotion of non-farm livelihoods of the poor.

Building New Institutions around Livelihoods: While the SHGs, VOs and MSs have proved to be
very vibrant organizations efficiently handling complex livelihood activities, there are inherent
limitations to their capacities. There is need for developing new institutions around certain
livelihoods viz., Dairy, Agriculture, Non Pesticide Management (NPM), Marketing, Non Timber
Forest Produce (NTFP), etc.

Convergence with Line Departments: Despite the progress in the convergence efforts of the project,
there is great scope for promoting coordination with the PRIs and other line departments such as
health, education, forest and revenue at the Gram Panchayat, mandal and district level.


                                                   30

   CBOs as Effective Service Delivery Arms of the Government: The experience of APDPIP suggests
   that the CBOs are a very efficient, economical and effective means of delivering and monitoring
   government services such as pensions and mid-day meals for school children etc.

   APSWREIS (Residential schools component)

· After the girls have been rehabilitated through bridge schools, it is important to ensure that girls
   continue their education till Class X in residential schools so that they do not revert back to being
   child labor.
· The model of residential schools should be adopted by bridge schools being run under other programs
   such as National Child Labor Program, DPEP and SSA.
· Investment in computer education, vocational courses, supply of teaching aids, library books and
   laboratory equipment and sports infrastructure helps to improve the quality of education provided to
   children and improves overall academic results.
· The excellent performance of the students of APSWREIS both in academic as well as extracurricular
   activities demonstrates that, when the right opportunity is given to these socio-economically
   disadvantaged students, they can excel.
· In the selection of residential school sites, it is important to avoid remote places and choose those
   areas which have better accessibility for medical and other essential facilities for students and
   teachers. In the absence of better accessibility, it is more difficult to recruit teachers in those schools.
· Not only economic factors, but also social and cultural factors, such as the ignorance of parents due to
   illiteracy, tradition, and insensitive administrations (including teachers at large) inhibit children from
   attending school. Evidence from APDPIP suggests that, through the social mobilization approach,
   parents and children can be motivated to withdraw children from work, and parents, regardless of
   their economic condition, are willing to send their children to school.

Lessons Learned from Rural Livelihoods Programs in India

   Emerging lessons learned so far indicate that: (i) promotion of trust and group solidarity based on a
   common purpose is an important initial element of building inclusive community institutions; (ii) the
   use of participatory approaches enhances targeting and inclusion of the poor and disadvantaged,
   including women, tribals and youth; (iii) interventions should aim at clustering of villages in the
   interests of developing a `critical mass' for marketing and investment purposes; (iv) the underlying
   logic of project support should be one of progressive subsidy reduction, while facilitating the set-up
   of mechanisms for capital formation; (v) establishing links with micro-finance service providers and
   with the banking sector in general is one of the key program elements, in the interests of
   sustainability; (vi) while the appropriate starting point may be social capital development, bringing
   people out of poverty requires an economic purpose and a business rationale for which the
   establishment of `forward linkages' is key, along with upgrading of skills and means to access,
   negotiate and tie-up with external markets, partners and service industries; (vii) mechanisms for
   transparency and disclosure, community monitoring and social audit that are incorporated into
   livelihoods projects to ensure effective and efficient use of project funds do have important spill-over
   effects as these elements induce communities to amplify their voice in making public expenditure
   work for them by participating in local government processes; and (viii) there is a need to recognize
   the long term nature of the process of multi-faceted engagement with poor households that is typically
   adopted under livelihoods projects.

   While taking into account these lessons, scaling up rural livelihoods development in view of growing
   demand would also require addressing a number of challenges, including the need for: (i) M&E
   systems that are better tailored to the demand-driven nature of livelihoods interventions; (ii) greater
   leverage by more explicitly seeking convergence between Bank-supported projects and Government


                                                     31

    programs; and (iii) a more systematic interface with micro-finance institutions aimed at better
    tailoring the supply of financial services to the needs of organizations of the poor and their members.


7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
Comments by SERP on the ICR report were received electronically and subsequently incorporated.
Those comments have been provided in annex 7, on page 66.

(b) Co financiers: N.A.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders (E.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                                      32

                              Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                    Appraisal Estimate     Actual/Latest
            Components                                                        Percentage of
                                     (USD millions)       Estimate (USD
                                                             millions)           Appraisal

CAPACITY BUILDING                          19.01               30.21               159
COMMUNITY INVESTMENT
FUNDS                                      70.40               81.41               116

EDUCATIONAL SUPPORT FOR
GIRL                                       28.13               30.44               108

PROJECT MANAGEMENT                          7.20                 8.54              119

              Total Baseline Cost        124.74               150.60

Physical Contingencies                      0.73                 0.00             0.00

Price Contingencies                         9.33                 0.00             0.00
               Total Project Costs       134.80               150.60
Project Preparation Fund                    0.00                 0.00             0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                          0.00                 0.00             0.00
        Total Financing Required         134.80               150.60               112



(b) Financing
                                                       Appraisal    Actual/Latest
            Source of Funds            Type of Co                                Percentage of
                                        financing      Estimate       Estimate
                                                     (USD millions)(USD millions)  Appraisal

Government                                               16.60          32.40         148
International Development Association
(IDA)                                                    111.00        111.00         100

Local Communities                                         7.20          7.20          100




                                               33

                 Annex 2. Outputs by Component and Implementation Arrangements

                                   Summary of Key Outputs and Outcomes
                                  Parameters                   Before (i.e., 2000)         Dec 2006
     Social       Number of poor mobilized and organized                     36,000             2,294,215
 Mobilization     into SHGs
                  Cumulative Savings                                           N/A         US$113 million

   Financial      Annual Credit Flow from Commercial              US$ 11.6 million         US$124 million

 Performance      Banks
                  Insurance Coverage                                      < 20,000               >500,000
                  Food Credit Line (Cumulative Turnover)                       N/A         US$171 million
                  Average Asset Holding per Household                    US$1032                 US$2974
   Economic       Average Income per Household                             US$483                US$1041
                  Average Expenditure per Household                        US$512                 US$708

Component I Institutional and Human Capacity Building

Establishment of Self-Reliant and Self-Managed CBOs. The project was successful in establishing
self-reliant and self-managed CBOs of the rural poor. The overall achievement of targets for the
establishment of CBOs is very satisfactory, based on the following assessment.

Successful Social Mobilization: As against an initial target of 180 mandals in the 6 districts, the project
was progressively scaled up and implemented in 316 mandals encompassing 6,644 GPs and 29,250
habitations. The project has exceeded the coverage of `benefiting' population by several folds. While the
project targeted a total population with `family' impact of 620,000 households (3.05 million population),
the project actually mobilized 2,294,215 poor by December 2006. The total households mobilized into the
project fold accounted for 65% of the total rural households in the project districts. The percentage of
total SC and ST households mobilized into the project fold accounted for 89% and 90%, respectively. A
unique feature of the project was the mobilization of single women, women headed households and the
disabled or their care-givers into the project target. The focus on the POP, the SC and ST, the single
women and the disabled clearly establishes the project's focus on ultra poor and vulnerable groups. The
project had its impact on 10.32 million population in the state which was more than three times the
original target.

Promotion of Self-reliant and Self-managed SHGs: The project exceeded its target of firmly establishing
self-reliant and self-managed CBOs of the poor, including strengthening of the pre-project groups. As
against a target of promoting 18,000 new groups (CIGs) and strengthening 20,000 pre-project groups, the
project was successful in promoting 106,719 new SHGs, besides reviving and strengthening 64,899 SHGs
by December 2006. Equally significant was the sustained facilitation and nurturing support provided by
the project frontline staff to the SHGs spread over 316 mandals, resulting in the institution of democratic
and micro-finance norms in a vast majority of them. The project facilitated promotion of regular audit of
accounts, transparency in bookkeeping and accountability of the SHGs to the members. The sustained
institutional and capacity building efforts of the project resulted in the institutionalization of the SHGs.
The fact that 68% of the SHGs attained `A' grade (on NABARD rating scale which is a pre-requisite for
bank credit to SHGs) by December 2006 is a clear indication of their functional effectiveness in terms of
adhering to democratic norms (regular meetings, high member attendance and participatory decision-
making) and financial norms (regular savings and inter-lending, collective financial decision-making,
need based lending and borrowing, regular bookkeeping etc).

Elastic Resource Base of SHGs: Propelled by the regular member savings, earnings from inter-lending,
receipt of revolving fund and matching grant subsidy from the government, the resource base of the SHGs
has been expanding rapidly. By Dec.'06, the total corpus of the SHGs (excluding project funds) amounted


                                                    34

to US$127 million (Rs.5600 million). On the average, the corpus per SHG worked out to US$742 in
December 2006.

External Finance Leveraged: Another significant indicator of the establishment of the SHGs is their
ability to access external finance. During the project period, a total of 155,091 SHGs were linked with
banks cumulative loan amount of US$425 million. 90% of the total SHGs were able to access bank loans,
and 62% of them more than once. The bank loan repayment was 95%. The bankers now treat the SHG
loans as risk worthy clients.

Total Revolved Funds: The project support in the form of CIF acted as a critical catalyst in facilitating
access to external funds for the SHGs. It has facilitated greater revolution of funds at the SHG level. Thus,
during the project period (July 2000 to December 2006), the total revolved fund of the SHGs (including
CIF, recycled CIF, SGSY subsidy, revolving fund/matching grant, interest subsidy, bank loans and
internal loans from own savings and other earnings) amounted to USUS$919 million, at an average of
US$5355 per SHG. For a total project investment of US$151 million, the total fund turnover in the SHGs
has increased to US$919 million. Similarly, for each US$1 CIF investment, the SHG fund turnover has
increased to US$12.3.

Establishment of Village Organizations (VOs)

As envisaged in the PAD, the project facilitated the formation of VOs of SHGs throughout the project.
Though no target was fixed, the project successfully established 9,872 VOs at the rate of at least 1 VO per
Gram Panchayat (GP). Though the PAD envisages the VOs as unregistered and informal federations the
project provided a statutory basis for the VOs to ensure transparency, downward accountability and long-
term sustainability. By December 2006, the project had facilitated registration of 7,453 VOs (75%) under
the Andhra Pradesh Mutually Aided Cooperative Societies (APMACs) Act and the registration of other
VOs was under progress.

VOs as Viable and Functional Units: A large proportion of the VOs matured into self-reliant and self-
governing institutions under the close support and supervision of the project. Democratic and financial
norms have been instituted in all the VOs (regular monthly/bi-monthly meetings, agenda based
discussions and collective decision-making, regular bookkeeping, micro-plan/priority based lending and
recovery of CIF from the SHGs, identification and articulation of social issues).

The resource base of the VOs has gradually expanded with the CIF support and other receipts from
business activities. A sample survey conducted for 1,718 VOs indicated that the average corpus was more
than US$1727 per VO. Under the entitlement approach, all the 9,872 VOs were provided CIF support to
facilitate implementation of livelihood activities by the poor households. More significantly, 5,092 VOs
were successfully undertaking community based food security program involving need based supply of
food grains and other essential consumer goods to the poor on easy terms of credit. In addition, 1,543
VOs were undertaking collective marketing activities involving procurement and sale of agricultural
commodities, NTFPs and inputs for the benefit of small and marginal farmers.

VOs as Forums for Collective Action: The functioning of the VO reveals that they provided a very useful
forum for the poor to share their experiences, plan and undertake collective action. An important role
played by the VOs was to identify the poor outside the SHGs and mobilize them into new or existing
SHGs. They also provided critical support to the revival and functioning of weak groups. The VOs also
facilitated some useful linkages with the GPs.

Emergence of VOs as Business and Marketing Agents of the Poor: The other major output of the project
was the emergence of VOs as business and marketing agents of the poor. More than 1,500 VOs were
successfully engaged in purchase of inputs and raw materials, agricultural commodities and marketing to

                                                     35

benefit from economies of scale. These operations conferred substantial price and non-price benefits on
the poor, besides the VOs making substantial surpluses.

VOs as Social Service Providers: A considerable number of VOs were engaged in running family
counseling centers, supplementary nutrition centers and other community services. Some of them were
successfully managing emergency health support services, para-teachers and para health workers. In
Vizianagaram, the VOs were supporting the Livestock Insurance run by the ZS. A significant service
delivered by the VOs in all the project districts was the distribution of old age and other pensions on
behalf of the GOAP. The VOs have earned a reputation for timely distribution of Pensions at the door-
step of the pensioners without any leakage. In 2005 ­ 06, the VOs distributed over US$2 million worth of
pensions.

VOs as Financial Service Providers: Towards the end of the project, the VOs were emerging as financial
intermediaries by securing bulk credit from banks for on-lending to SHGs. Right from the
commencement of the project, the allocation and distribution of CIF through the VOs has enhanced their
financial intermediary role. Apart from allocating CIF to SHGs, the VOs were playing an active role in
the recovery and recycling (inter-group lending) of CIF. During the last two years, the SHGs in a few
project mandals started saving with the VOs, under an inter-institutional saving system. Banks used VOs
to facilitate recovery of loans.

Establishment of Mandal Samakhyas (MSs)

As envisaged in the PAD, the project promoted formation of MSs, but earlier than expected. The project
promoted MSs initially as confederation of VOs and gradually strengthened them through continuous
facilitation support and capacity building. Thus, project has promoted 316 MSs in the project mandals, of
which 120 were registered under the APMACs Act up to December 2006. The MSs have gradually
become stronger and emerged as mandal level project planning and management agencies. The
decentralized funds flow arrangement under which the entitlement of funds of each mandal is transferred
to the MS, has made them stronger. The total resource base of the MSs (corpus) at the close of the project
was US$66 million at an average of US$0.2 million per MS. The MSs were also undertaking performance
review and monitoring of the frontline staff, community resource persons and bookkeepers. Thus, the
MSs emerged as strong apex organizations responsible for managing the CIF and carrying forward the
mantle of the project.

MSs Provide a Forum for Social Action: The MSs emerged as apex mandal federation of CBOs and
provided multiple types of support to the SHGs and VOs. The MSs played a critical role in facilitating
social mobilization and reviving defunct/dormant SHGs. The MSs periodically reviewed the performance
of the SHGs and VOs and provided the critical facilitation support. A significant development was the
line department recognition of the MSs as genuine representatives of the poor. The key officials of the
district including the district collectors frequently participated in the MS meetings and resolved a number
of issues affecting the poor. The banks used the services of MSs to facilitate recovery of bank loans. The
MSs provided a larger forum for the poor to articulate social problems and fight against social evils such
as illicit distillation and illegal sale of liquor, trafficking in women and children (Anantapur and Chittoor),
practice of dedicating girls to local goddesses (Chittoor, Anantapur and Mahabubnagar), child marriages
(Chittoor, Vizianagaram and Srikakulam), and child labor in all project districts.

MSs Undertake Collective Marketing and Food Security Activities for the Poor: While all the MSs were
engaged in management of CIF, 295 of them also undertook food security program benefiting a large
number of poor households. In addition, 150 MSs were engaged in business and collective marketing
activities in agri commodities and inputs. The MSs undertook supply of quality seed, fertilizer and plant
material to the poor households.


                                                           36

MSs as Decentralized Project Managers: A significant development during the last 2-year phase of the
project was the emergence of MSs as project managers at the mandal level under the decentralized
management system introduced by the project. The MSs not only received funds directly from the SPMU,
but also undertook planning, implementation and monitoring of project activities. The MSs undertook
preparation of annual works and finance plans and implemented them under the guidance of the DPMU.
The MSs had begun recycling the CIF among the VOs and SHGs.

Establishment of Zilla Samakhyas (ZS)

Apex CBO: The ZS emerged as the apex district level federation of CBOs in the six project districts. The
ZSs facilitated preparation of MS-AWFPs. They provided support for district-wide programs such as
collective marketing including NTFP, insurance, land development, training of youth for jobs and
promotion of NPM. More importantly, the ZSs bring out the community journal in all the districts
(`Navodayam' in Chittoor, Janavikasa in Adilabad Mana Velugu in Mahabubnagar etc.)

Forum for Collective Action: First, the ZSs acted as forums for discussion and articulation of larger social
and developmental issues affecting the poor. Representing all MSs in the district, it provided a useful
platform for discussion of issues relating to service delivery by the line departments, land related issues,
women empowerment, security and well-being of the weaker sections and social security.

ZS as Insurance Intermediary: Second, the ZSs have emerged as life insurance intermediaries in all
project districts. The ZSs have promoted low premium life insurance cover for the poor in all project
districts, with the support of the public sector insurance companies. The efforts of the ZSs resulted in
providing insurance cover for 528,000 women and their spouses in six project districts during 2006-07.
The total premium collected during the last year of the project amounted to US$0.8 million. Apart from
the quick redemption benefits, the insurance initiatives of the ZSs provided immediate relief for the
families of the insured. The benefits also included scholarships for children of the insured studying in
high schools and junior colleges (XI and XII grades).

Performance Monitoring of DPMU Staff: During the last two years of the project, the ZSs undertook
monitoring of the performance of the MSs and guided them to achieving the project objective. As part of
the monitoring, the ZSs also undertook performance review of key DPMU staff. The ZS is eventually
expected to take over the role of the DPMU.

Cross-Learning among ZSs: The quarterly video-conferencing of the SPMU with all the ZSs has not only
facilitated effective cross-learning but also made the dissemination of best practices relatively easier
throughout the project districts.

CRPs and Para-Professionals Functioning (Book-keepers, Activists and Botanists etc):

Community Resource Persons played a critical role in the establishment of self-reliant and self-managed
CBOs of the poor in the project. Trained and nurtured by the project, the multiple cadres of resource
persons (CRPs, Activists, Animators, Facilitators, Bookkeepers, and Para-botanists etc) supported the
project in mobilization of the rural poor; formation, revival, development and strengthening of SHGs and
VOs in the project mandals; capacity building of the SHGs and VOs; bookkeeping of the SHGs and VOs,
and assistance in the preparation of sub-projects/micro-plan for income generating and other activities
undertaken by the SHG members and VOs. About 76,000 resource persons (variously called CRPs,
MBKs, BKs, Para-professionals, CAs/Facilitators, livelihood activists, etc.) were reported to be
supporting the CBOs. This valuable social resource would contribute to the long-term sustainability of the
CBOs.



                                                    37

Promoting Inclusive Approach in Line Departments

The project focused on sensitizing the line departments to the strategy of the project and the needs of the
poor during the early phases of the project. Structured inputs were provided to the district and the mandal
level line department officials. The project also oriented certain key panchayat functionaries to the needs
of the rural poor.

Productive Partnerships Established with Line Departments and Government Agencies: As
envisaged in the PAD, the project has promoted a wide-range of linkages between the CBOs and the line
departments, which have proved to be mutually beneficial. Some of the key partnerships fall under a
micro- franchising model, while others could be categorized under accessing and outsourcing models:

Micro-Franchising Model: Under the franchising model, the CBOs were permitted to act as authorized
procurement and marketing agents by line departments and para state agencies. These included:
· CBOs acting as seed and fertilizers distributors for APMARKFED in all project districts;
· CBOs acting as procurement agents for APMARKFED and APOILFED in all project districts (Maize,
  Soybean, Cotton etc);
· CBOs acting as procurement agencies for milk collection and chilling for National Dairy Development
  Board (NDDB), AP Dairy Development Corporation. The VOs and MSs being permitted by Girijan
  Cooperative Corporation and Forest Department to act as collecting, grading and marketing agents for
  their monopoly forest products; and
· CBOs acting as insurance intermediaries for LIC and other public sector insurance companies (e.g.,
  Janashree Bheema Yojana (JBY)).

Accessing Model: Under this model, the CBOs were facilitated and guided to access services from the line
departments and state agencies. Some of these included:
· CBOs accessing rice from the AP State Civil Supplies Corporation for their rice credit line (RCL), at
  Public Distribution System (PDS) rates;
· Use of Forest Department agencies or its affiliates (KOVEL Foundation etc.) for training botanists and
  Para-Botanists in NTFP collection and management;
· Accessing Agricultural Department services for the supply of Agricultural Inputs including Seed,
  Fertilizer, Gypsum etc. and for promotion of non-pesticide management (NPM) on a fairly large scale
  in all project districts;
· Linking-up with Horticulture Department of GOAP for supply of Sprinklers, Plant Material, Fertilizer
  and technical support (in all TPMUs);
· Accessing the services of the Medical and Health Department for the conduct of health camps and issue
  of certificates after screening and provision of referral services including surgical corrections for the
  poor DAPs mobilized by the CBOs;
· The ICDS staff regularly participating in the `fixed HN days' organized by the VOs in the H-N pilot
  mandals;
· Utilization of the services of the Police and Revenue Departments and the good offices of the Judiciary
  for resolution of disputes brought to the Family Counseling Centers run by the CBOs and prevention of
  child marriages, trafficking in women and children and initiation of girls into Jogini practice;
· CBOs organizing veterinary service camps with the support of veterinary department;
· CBOs facilitating distribution of aids and appliances to the DAPs with the support of the disabled
  welfare department;
· Link with the Andhra Pradesh State AIDS Control Society (APSACS). The trained SHG leaders acted
  as community resource persons for undertaking a massive HIV/AIDS awareness campaign.

 Outsourcing Model: The line departments have outsourced certain services to the CBOs. These included:


                                                     38

· The District Water Management Agencies (DWMA) using the services of CBOs for identifying the
  shelf of works, prioritization of works, support for opening of accounts in post offices and banks for the
  workers and for provision of work-site facilities;
· The Revenue Department using the services of CBOs for identifying suitable land for purchase; and
· The DRDA using the services of MSs and VOs for the distribution of old age and other pensions in the
  six project districts.
The productive linkages promoted between the project and the line departments at the mandal and GP
level have contributed to the livelihoods of the poor and sustainability of the CBOs. At the same time, the
partnerships have empowered the CBOs to demand responsive governance and accountability for the
delivery of essential services. The engagement of the line departments with the CBOs has contributed to
the pro-poor impact of their services.

Engagement with NGOs: The project used the services of the NGOs for capacity building of CBOs as
well as for delivery of certain services. The services of NGOs were used for general CB support, micro
finance development, identification of livelihood promotion activities, micro-planning, promotion of
NPM, health, nutrition and disability related activities.

Component 2. Community Investment Fund

Establishment of CIF: The project was successful in establishing the Community Investment Fund (CIF)
to finance demand-driven individual and collective livelihood activities of the poor in all project mandals.
In line with the project strategy, the project succeeded in establishing mechanisms for demand generation
and utilization of the CIF by the CBOs. On the basis of the learning from the early implementation, sub-
project financing (plan preparation, appraisal, financing and implementation) was given up in preference
to a micro plan approach. The entitlement of each MS is pre-determined based on objective criteria and
the CIF transferred. The entitlement to CIF of each VO and SHG are also determined and inter se
priorities established on the basis of relative wealth ranking. The micro plans are prepared in all SHGs
and the resource needs of each household vis-à-vis the investment activity are identified and documented.
The principles governing inter-institutional CIF flows including recycling procedures are clearly
established. This is a very significant output of the project. The SHG members have been accessing CIF
in conjunction with bank loans and other resources for implementing sub-projects/micro plans.

CIF-SPs/Micro Plans Implemented: The project was successful in facilitating implementation of 36,477
income generating sub-projects/VO level micro plans involving utilization of about US$75 million
(Rs.3,288 million) of community investment fund during the project period. The sub-projects/micro plans
have directly benefited close to one million poor households. Equally significant was the coverage of
vulnerable groups.

Total Investment/Funds Turnover Promoted: Indirectly, the sub-projects/micro plans have contributed to
a much larger investments financed by bank loans, internal loans from SHGs and other funds. Even
assuming that only 50% of bank loans and internal loans from SHGs were utilized for investment, then
the additional cumulative investment (unadjusted for inflation and apart from CIF) works out to US$384
million.

Diversified Portfolio of Income Generating Activities Made Possible by CIF: The establishment of the
CIF and the financing of sub-projects/micro plans of the poor have contributed to the diversification of
the income generating activities pursued by the members. The utilization certificate based data indicates
that a large proportion of the members preferred to invest in agriculture (34%), household dairy (23%),
non-farm trade (19%), and sheep rearing (10%). In terms of the proportion of investment, household dairy
(30%), agriculture (29%), non-farm trade (20%), and sheep rearing (10%) accounted for the bulk of
investment. The sample survey data (May 2006) indicates that during the project period, the beneficiary
households diversified their movable and immovable asset base.

                                                      39

New Business Enterprises Facilitated by CIF (via Training and Investment): The project opened up new
areas of profitable business opportunities for the poor farmers, NTFP collectors and dairy farmers. The
project invested substantial amounts in training, dissemination of market information, liaison support,
infrastructure and working capital to promote new collective business opportunities through the mature
CBOs. First, the project invested in identifying areas of interventions which could improve the livelihood
opportunities of the poor in the areas of agricultural and NTFP marketing. Second, the project hired the
services of livelihood specialists, livelihood associates, community coordinators, botanists, para-workers
and provided them training and cross-learning opportunities. The community also trained and prepared
the CBOs to undertake collective procurement and marketing operations in agricultural commodities,
NTFP and milk.

The CIF supported collective procurement and marketing of Red gram, Green gram, Soya bean, Maize,
Paddy, NTFPs and provided substantial price and non-price benefits (from correct weighing, grading,
timely payment etc.) to the poor. It has contributed to the de-linking of exploitative inter-linked credit and
commodity markets. The procurement and marketing of agricultural commodities and NTFPs was
undertaken through a network of 695 centers (at VO and MS levels) in the project districts. A larger
network of MSs (150), VOs (1,543) and SHGs (14,943) were involved in the procurement and marketing
operations funded by CIF. The collective activities had cumulatively benefited 255,000 poor households
in the project area. The project investment in the procurement centers for creation of infrastructure
(drying platforms, warehouses, weighing and storage equipment) amounted to US$1.8 million.

Household dairy enterprise comprised of a significant portion of the CIF disbursed. To make investment
in household dairy viable, the project promoted investment in dairy infrastructure including the bulk milk
cooling centers and collection infrastructure, besides establishing linkage with bulk milk buyers such as
the AP Dairy Development Corporation, the NDDB and the Vishaka Dairy. The project had invested in
47 bulk milk cooling and collection centers and 1,196 milk collection centers in the project districts. The
total investment in the bulk milk cooling centers amounted to US$1.9 million. The annual turnover of the
bulk milk cooling centers was expected to be close to US$14 million during FY 2006-07. The significant
outputs of the intervention are the improved quality of livestock, access of the dairy farmers to the market,
better prices and quick repayment. Another significant indirect output is the promotion of community
level milk co-operatives in several project mandals, which could emerge as autonomous dairy co-
operatives in future.

CIF Promoted Food Security: The other significant output of CIF is the improved food security of the
poor in the project districts. The project facilitated implementation of a comprehensive community based
food security system under which the poor are provided access to food grains and other essential
commodities on credit basis. The food security program funded by CIF, including recycled funds, covered
550,000 households during the last year of the project. The program was run with the effective
involvement of 295 MSs, 5,092 VOs and 43,220 SHGs. The turnover of the food security program during
the last year of the project was US$15 million. The significant results of the intervention include
improved food security of the poor, supply of food grains and other essential commodities of good quality
at relatively lower prices.

CIF Facilitated Social Development Activities/Services: The CIF was also used to promote delivery of
supplementary social services. An investment of US$6 million was made in the social development
activities/ services. The social development activities taken up included supplementary nutrition centers,
family counseling centers, supply of cycles to girl students to improve attendance in schools, residential
bridge courses for child labor, schools for the disabled children, silt application for degraded lands owned
by SCs, medical camps and pre-examination training centers for students belonging to vulnerable
communities. The project also facilitated construction of houses for DAPs, allotment of house sites, grant
of seed fund for housing and promotion of individual sanitary toilets. CIF was used to promote the well-

                                                       40

being of destitute women including single women, women in difficult circumstances and certain semi-
nomadic communities.

CIF Promoted Jobs for Youth: Promotion of employment, both jobs and self-employment, through
appropriate skill building and placement support was an important post-design innovation of the project.
As the educated youth were not getting absorbed in the rural and urban sectors, the project took up the
task of providing customized training and placement services with the support of private sector
organizations. The market linked rural jobs model was extended to train and secure remunerative
employment for 11,883 educated youth during the project period. While Dr. Reddy's Foundation
provided the technical support for the market scan and training, the project invested a CIF amount of
US$0.5 million towards the training and placement support cost. Remunerative employment was offered
in the service, textiles and construction sectors. The average project investment per person trained was
US$136 for training periods ranging between 15 to 90 days. The average monthly salary of the employed
youth varied between US$45 to US$91. The incremental rate of return on investment for a small sample
of youth trained and placed in different jobs works out to 72%. The employed youth are now providing
sustained livelihood support to their families who are using the additional income to discharge the high
cost debt, finance education of younger children and undertake additional investment in livelihood
activities.

CIF for Land Access to the Poor: The project facilitated resolution of several outstanding land issues
affecting the poor including restoration of assigned lands alienated or under illegal occupation. The
project provided support through para-legals, law Students, Law University (NALSAR) and trained land
surveyors.

CIF for sustainable agriculture activities.       Non- Pesticide Management Practices (NPMP) is an
alternative model of agriculture which replaces chemical and other external inputs with local knowledge
and natural methods of pest management. Moreover, it reduces the cost of cultivation by cutting
expenditure on input supplies. Covering 186,000 acres in 2006-07, this is the largest intervention in the
country. The unique partnership between NGOs and MSs developed as a community managed extension
program covered all major crops. The crop protection from NPMP resulted in a cost savings ranging from
about US$40 to US$120 per acre. Through this intervention, there has been a 75% increase in the income
of a farmer. In addition, this intervention had positive effects on farmers' health status and encouraged
environmentally sustainable production of cotton. Promotion of organic cultivation was also undertaken
in select areas.

CIF for Health Risk Fund: Covering over 21,000 households on a pilot basis, the purpose of the
community managed risk fund is to provide quick financial support to meet health expenditure including
emergency health expenditure. The members of the fund subscribe through additional savings to the fund,
while the project invested US$0.3 million (Rs.14.4 million) of CIF. This intervention has significantly
reduced high cost debt incurred from informal sources for medical emergencies and reduced the financial
constraint that deterred the poor to seek health services of good quality.

Component 3. Educational Support for Girl Child Laborers and School Drop-outs.

The project supported the construction of twenty four residential school complexes across the six districts
to provide quality education to girl child laborers from poor households. The number of girl children
enrolled in residential schools was 21,468. In addition, 209,543 out of school children were mainstreamed
in other public schools. According to an impact evaluation, the residential schools have outperformed
other public schools, in terms of regular attendance, academic results and facilities provided to students.
The drop out rate decreased from 14.8% in 2001 to 4.3% in 2005-2006.



                                                     41

Capacity building workshops in development and stress management for principals, computer aided
learning and training programs for teachers and additional study material for students were funded
through the project. Also, social mobilization and awareness programs were conducted to sensitize
parents and community leaders about the need for education of girls.

Component 4. Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation and Studies.

Under this component, State Project Management Unit was established at the State level with six District
Project Management Units in six of the project districts. In addition, three Tribal Management Units were
operating successfully in three districts of Srikakulam, Vizianagaram and Adilabad where there is
considerable concentration of tribal population.

Under this component, a comprehensive Monitoring and Evaluation system was established. This has
been described in the section 2.3 on M&E on page 10. In addition, SERP commissioned various other
topical studies and surveys.

Project Implementation and mid course changes and factors affecting implementation

The project was not restructured and it was never at risk during implementation. The Bank conducted
MTR of the project in October-November 2003. The objectives of the MTR included: (i) reviewing the
project progress to date and assess the need for restructuring or reallocation of resources; (ii) reviewing
the proposed institutional approach for federated organizations, their organizational and business models
and their emergence as deliverers of financial and commercial services; (iii) examining the mechanisms
through which federations could work on social empowerment and intermediation issues including social
and legal services for the poor; (iv) reviewing the progress made by project management for developing
linkages with private sector and other market based organizations for livelihood enhancement; (v)
reviewing the progress made in the schools construction component being implemented by Andhra
Pradesh Social Welfare Residential Educational Institutions Society (APSWERIS); and (vi) reviewing the
human resources and performance of project management systems of Society for Elimination of Rural
Poverty (SERP) to handle scaling up throughout the State. The MTR found that some initial assumptions
made were no longer relevant and institutional arrangements were not adequate to cope with the
challenges posed by this innovative project. Accordingly some changes as mentioned below were made
during the mid term review of the project:

Organizational arrangements

Merger of the District Rural Development Agency (DRDA) and the Project Administration at the District
level. During 2003-04, the project was brought under the fold of DRDA, with only one Project Director
(PD) for both the DRDA and the project. This convergence helped in improving coordination between the
DRDA and the project, dovetailing of funds and functionaries, and ensuring long term support to the
CBOs.

Creation of Tribal Project Management Units (TPMUs). The state project management created TPMUs
in the predominantly tribal areas of Adilabad, Srikakulam and Vizianagaram districts, with the project
officer of Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) acting as the ex-officio Director. This
innovative arrangement brought a good degree of convergence between the ITDA and the project
activities in the three districts.

Changes in Human Resource Deployment. The project introduced a decentralized Area Coordinator
System under which each project district had a sub-district tier comprising seven to ten mandals for
management of project activities including planning and monitoring. The decentralized system resulted in
more effective project implementation. Furthermore, the project hired the services of livelihood associates

                                                    42

(LAs), botanists and other livelihood specialists depending on the livelihood activities promoted in the
mandal.

Institutional arrangements at the community level

Focus on SHGs and reducing emphasis on CIGs:                    The concept of CIG, envisaged by the Project
Appraisal Document (PAD) as the chief vehicle of livelihood promotion was not found appropriate due to
operational hurdles. For example: (a) the CIG concept was not acceptable to the commercial bankers who
were keen to provide credit to SHGs because of their track record of thrift and internal repayment; (b) the
CIGs were not likely to be sustainable beyond the CIF sub-project implementation; (c) the CIG approach
was found inappropriate for recovering CIF and its recycling. As a result, the concept of CIG was
temporarily jettisoned. However, the project continued to work on establishment of dairy cooperatives,
commodity cooperatives and such other common interest groups.

Focus on Federations of SHGs as core institutions: The project focused on promoting and strengthening
good quality federations of community organizations to ensure scaling up of livelihood development and
credit activities and ensure sustainability of community organizations. The investments on institutional
development were increased by 50% to enable development of good quality institutions which will attract
investment from banks and commercial organizations and also build collective voice to influence public
services.

Use of Community Resource Persons (CRPs). The project shifted to a community based capacity building
and learning approach which focused on developing community resource persons5 to nurture and build
the capacities of the institutions on a sustainable basis.

Financing

Decentralized Funds Flow Arrangement. Under a decentralized financial management introduced in FY
2004-05, the project funds for each mandal were transferred directly to the MSs (from the State Project
Management Unit (SPMU) through the ZSs. Each MS was trained to prepare annual works and financial
plan (AWFP), and empowered to undertake sanction and distribution of financial resources for different
activities including CIF transfers to VOs and SHGs. This financial arrangement contributed to
empowering the CBOs to plan and implement all project activities.

CIF-related changes. (a) Changes at sub project level: In the interest of long term sustainability of all the
CBOs in a mandal and to facilitate larger and equitable revolution of livelihood funds, the project found
MS, instead of VO as the appropriate CIF management agency. The adoption of micro plan approach to
CIF further reinforced the need for a higher level institution to act as the CIF manager. (b) Grant to loan
financing of sub-projects/activities: The project adopted a revolving fund approach to financing, instead
of a grant approach, to the financing of sub-projects/income generating activities. This approach was
necessitated to ensure financial discipline within the SHG and to facilitate larger coverage of the poor.
The emergence of bank loan as a major co-financing instrument of sub-projects/income generating
activities also necessitated the shift from grant to loan approach. This approach enabled community
institutions to achieve financial sustainability and proved catalytic to accessing credit from commercial
banks. (c) CIF for promoting skills and jobs: CIF was used for expanding job opportunities in the private
corporate sector, by investing in training the rural educated youth in appropriate skills and providing them
placement support.



5 Community Resource Persons (CRPs) are active community leaders selected by MSs from the members of mature SHGs, VOs
and MSs who have first hand experience of coming out of poverty.


                                                           43

Micro credit planning as basis for community investment: The project promoted use of micro credit
planning by SHGs and VOs and found that it proved to be a better vehicle for financing as opposed to the
sub project financing. The project started using micro plans as basis for CIF financing. This lead to
significant reduction in transaction costs for the community, project and commercial banks. It also
ensured that SHGs developed independent capacity to negotiate with commercial banks and reduced
dependence on project resources.

Targeting approaches

Improved Methods of Targeting. (a) Participatory Identification of Poor (PIP): In order to improve the
equity impact of the project, a state wide revised list of poorest of the poor (POP) and the poor
households was created, using an elaborate and objectively triangulated participatory and transparent
approach. The list of the POP and poor households, placed in the public domain, formed the basis not
only for project targeting but also for the selection of beneficiaries by the line departments. (b)
Entitlement Based Allocation of Funds: To ensure a fair flow of project funds to all the mandals (MSs,
VOs and SHGs), the project introduced an entitlement approach to the allocation of project funds. Within
the mandal, the allocation to VOs and SHGs was determined on the criterion of the extent of poverty.
Within CIF, specific allocations were made for POP and vulnerable households.




                                                  44

                               Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
                                   (Including assumptions in the analysis)

To assess the IRR of sub-projects, a study was conducted in February 2007 across 6 project districts
covering 475 sub-projects. The sub-projects selected constitute about 1.3 percent of the total sub-projects
(36,477) implemented by the project up to December 2006 for the IRR study. The selection of different
categories of sub-projects was in proportion to the population proportion. The sample sub-projects for
which IRR is calculated is furnished below. The study brought out that the IRR was much larger than
what was envisaged in PAD for almost all activities.

                             Table 3. IRR for Select Sub-Projects: APDPIP

     Sl.No.   Sub-Project Category                Number of         IRR Range Across     Average IRR
                                                 Sub-Projects         Districts (%)           (%)
        1     Household Dairy                         202               36 ­ 210              103
        2     Plough Bullocks                          8                   42                 42
        3     Sheep & Goat Farming                    124                38 ­ 73              48
        4     Petty Trade                              91               25 ­ 110              76
        5     Pot Making                               5                  123                 123
        6     Fish vending                             7                  100                 100
        7     Coconut Garden Lease                     5                  174                 174
        8     Land Purchase                            5                 39 ­ 40              40
        9     Agricultural Inputs                      20                  44                 44
       10     Irrigation & Horticulture                8                   50                 50

Source: SERP-IRR Study, Feb 07

Inferences: The high IRR estimates for a fairly large sample of sub-projects across project districts vis-à-
vis the estimated in the PAD indicates that there would be a steady flow of income from the assets created
with the catalytic support of CIF. This implies that a great proportion of the activities taken up with the
project support are viable and sustainable. A feasibility analysis carried out for the 475 sample sub-
projects indicated that 95% of them are feasible. The higher observed propensity to invest from additional
income is another significant factor that would sustain the outcomes of the project. The regular
subscription of member savings, the responsible repayment behavior and need-based borrowing are
strong indicators of the potential sustainability of the project outcomes.




                                                       45

             Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

              Names                              Title                 Unit       Responsibility/
                                                                                     Specialty
Lending
Ashok K. Seth                 Agriculturist                          SASAR  Agriculture
Jeeva A. Perumalpillai-Essex  Economist                              SASAR  Economic
T. K. Balakrishnan            Financial Analyst                      SASAR  Finance
Tara Vishvanath               Economist                                     Economic
Ghazala Mansuri               Economist                                     Economic
Stephen Howes                 Economist                                     Economic
Salman Salman                 Lawyer                                 LEGMS  Legal
Paul Martin                   Environment Specialist                        Environment
Meera Chatterjee              Social Development Specialist                 Social Development
Rajat Narula                  Financial Analyst                             Finance
C. S. Nawathe                 Rural Engineer                                Engineering
D. J. Baxi                    Procurement Specialist                 SASPR  Procurement
Achim Fock                    Agricultural Economist                        Economic
William Marke                 Loan Officer                           LOAG2  Disbursement
Josef Emstberger              Economist                                     Economic
Parmesh Shah                  Community Development Specialist       SASAR  Community Development
John Joyce                    Agricultural Economist                        Agriculture
P. Kotaiah                    Community Banking Specialist                  Community Banking
Theodosia Karmiris            Staff Assistant                        SASAR  Administrative

Supervision/ICR

Parmesh Shah                  Lead Rural Development Specialist       SASSD Task Team Leader

Varalashmi Vemuru             Senior Social Development Specialist    SASSD Co-Task Team Leader

Jeeva A. Perumalpillai-Essex  Lead Operations Officer                 SASRD Task Team Leader (2000-
                                                                            2003)

Vijaysekar Kalavakonda        Financial Analyst                       FPDSN Health and Private Sector
                                                                            Development Specialist
Assaye Legesse                Senior Agricultural Specialist          AFTS2 Monitoring and Evaluation
Sati Achath                   Consultant                              SASSD ICR Report
Shweta Banerjee               Junior Professional Associate           SASSD Monitoring and Evaluation
Atul B. Deshpande             Financial Management Specialist         SARFM Financial Management
Ivor Beazeley                 Senior Financial Management Specialist  OPCFM Financial Management
Christine H. Allison          Lead Human Development Specialist       SASHD Human Development
Manvinder Mamak               Senior Financial Management Specialist  SARFM Financial Management
Dhimant J. Baxi               Senior Procurement Specialist           SARPS Procurement
Deepal Fernando               Procurement Specialist                  SARPS Procurement
Gandham N. V. Ramana          Senior Public Health Specialist         SASHD Health
Venita Kaul                   Senior Education Specialist             SASHD Education
Vinayak Ghatate               E T Consultant                          SASSD Livelihoods

Renate Kloeppinger-Todd       Rural Finance Advisor                    ARD  Credit and Financial
                                                                            Services
Subramaniam Janakiram         Consultant                              SASSD Communications

Madhavi M. Pillai             Senior Natural Resource Management
                              Specialist                              SASSD Natural Resources

                                                  46

Keith McLean               Senior Social Development Economist      ECSSD Panchayats
Sankaran Vaideeshwaran     Consultant                               SASES Environment
Philip Beauregard          Senior Counsel                           LEGMS Legal
Sandra Ursula Sousa        Program Assistant (NDO)                  SASSD Administrative
Deborah Lee Ricks          Program Assistant (HQ)                   SASSD Administrative
Donna Thompson             Senior Financial Management Specialist   SARFM Financial Management
Anne Ritchie               Micro-Finance Specialist                 AFTH1 Micro-Finance
Ajai Nair                  Consultant                                ARD    Micro-Finance
Paul Martin                Senior Environmental Specialist          AFTSD Environment
Julian Barr                Consultant
Mike Felton                Consultant                                       Monitoring and Evaluation
Suryanarayan Satish        Senior Social Development Specialist     SASES Social Development

Manish Bapna               Senior Economist                         SASRD   Co-Task Team Leader
                                                                            (2000-2003)
A. K. Seth                 Agriculturist                                    Agriculture
T. K. Balakrishnan         Lead Financial Management Specialist     AFTFM Financial Management



(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                               Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                          No. of staff weeks       USD Thousands (including travel
                                                                        and consultant costs)
Lending
   FY98                                                                         0.88
   FY99                                                                       137.85
   FY00                                         72                           245.33
   FY01                                                                         0.00
   FY02                                                                         0.00
   FY03                                                                         0.00
   FY04                                                                         1.36
   FY05                                                                         0.00
   FY06                                                                         0.00
   FY07                                                                         0.00

                           Total:               72                           385.42
Supervision/ICR
   FY98                                                                         0.00
   FY99                                                                         0.14
   FY00                                          1                              2.57
   FY01                                         19                             74.25
   FY02                                         15                             51.31
   FY03                                         20                             92.42
   FY04                                         31                           190.36
   FY05                                         22                           102.47
   FY06                                         17                             61.17
   FY07                                         22                             92.16

                           Total:              147                           666.85




                                              47

                                  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

The project conducted three types of beneficiary surveys and a range of other qualitative assessments.
These included (i) impact assessment survey covering 2641 households across six project districts
conducted by CESS, an independent research organization, over a six year project period, (ii) a sample
survey of 2545 households across 6 project districts in May 2006 and (iii) sample survey of 1885
beneficiary households across six project districts conducted in January 2007. Most results have been
described in the preceding sections on Outcomes and Impact. Some key results not covered earlier are
described below:

APDPIP Impact Evaluation by Center for Economic and Social Studies (CESS)

   1. Assets: Proportion of households owning land has increased across all Districts. The program
        has contributed to the participation of the poor in land lease market and improvement in getting
        clear entitlement of the land. The proportion of households possessing different consumer
        durables increased among the project participants.

   2. Access to credit and savings: The amount of credit accessed per household was nearly US$ 2000
        per household during the project period. The composition of credit sources showed a reduction in
        dependence on high interest informal institutions and increased reliance on commercial banks and
        CBOs.

   3. Livelihood Sources and Income: The overall income per household showed an increase of 115%
        over a project period. There is substantial decrease in proportion of income flowing from wage
        labor and migration. Dependency on migration and agriculture labor as a source of livelihood
        declined among all households. The level and quality of income has been enhanced.

   4. Consumption: The composition of consumption basket among the participants has undergone
        change. There is clear shift from food to non food items, and among food items, shift towards non
        cereals. A substantial increase was noticed in consumption of sugar, jaggery, fruit and vegetables,
        milk and milk products, edible oil and eggs indicating improvement in nutritional status. The per
        capita consumption expenditure and quality of consumption basket has improved. Among non
        food items, there was significant increase in expenditure on clothes, education and health.

Other Impact studies

Table 1 summarizes the key impact data not presented earlier about access to credit and financial
resources, assetization and consumption expenditure.

                            Table 1 Per Household Assets, Income and Expenditure

    S.                                         Mid 2000              Dec 2006           Absolute

    No.              Category
                                             Rs.       US $        Rs.        US $      Increase
                                                                                           %
      1. Total Income                       21260         483      45792        1041         115
      2. Average Investment on
           Assets                           32808         746      88061        2001         168
      3. Average Assets Turnover            20853         474      57737        1312         177
      4. Average Assets Income *              9676        220      25936         589         168
      5. Value of Assets
       a. Value of Movable Assets             6331        144      18928         430         189
      b. Value of Immovable Assets          43376         986      76614        1741          77
       c. Value of Total Assets             49707       1130       95541        2171          92

                                                    48

       6. Total Expenditure                 22533        512       31174         708           38
       A Expenditure on Food                 9899        225       14032         319           42
       B Expenditure on Health               2988         68        3412           78          14
       C Expenditure on Education            1828         42        5549         126          204
       D Other Household
            Expenditure**                    3201         73        5532         126           73
        E Interest Payments                  4617        105        2648           60         -43
  Notes: * income here does not include wage income, subsidies and other transfer payments
        ** other household expenditure includes subscription to SHG savings and loan repayments

Participation rate in PRIs and other social committees. Prior to joining of the SHGs, the participation
rate in PRIs and other social committees for poor women was more or less uniform across all social
categories with minimum being 18% for minorities and maximum being 18.9% for Other Castes
(OCs). This has drastically changed after the members joined the SHGs. The overall participation rate
has improved from 18.7% prior to joining the SHGs to 40.3% as of May 2006. The lowest
participation rate after the SHG movement was 38.7% from Backward Caste community and the
highest participation rate is from Scheduled Tribe community at 45%. Thus, not only is there
improvement in participation rate in PRIs and other social activities but there is also an improvement
in participation rate from SC, ST and Minority communities after joining the SHG movement. SHG
members across all well being categories have improved their participation rate in PRIs and other
social committees. For example, the participation rate by SHG members from rich households
increased from 17.1 percent to 48.8% and the participation rates form SHG members of POP families
have also improved from 18.7% to 43.3% after joining SHG.

Intra-household relations. The members have reported significant improvement in the involvement
of men in household work in the last five years. The results show that decision making has changed
from being primarily male dominated to greater joint decision making in the family. Around 90
percent of the members reported low level of mobility prior to becoming members of SHGs. At
present a vast majority of the members report increased mobility. It is observed that there is a steep
decline in domestic violence after the members have joined the SHGs while there is an increase in
respect given to the members in the family, in the village, outside village, and also in the community
as a whole. Around 90 percent of the respondents reported increase in the respect given to them in
terms of all the issues mentioned above.




                                                   49

                          Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

At the ICR workshop organized in Hyderabad on January 23, 2007, the stakeholders present were
hundred and fifty community representatives and functionaries, district project teams, state project teams,
representatives from the Ministry of Rural Development, GOAP, and the World Bank. Following is a
brief summary of the remarks and testimonies of stakeholders present, that complements the quantitative
data provided earlier with a qualitative account of their perceptions regarding the impact of the project.

Chenchu Tribal Leader, Mahabubnagar District
"I used to survive on head loading when in 2004, I joined a few others to go and learn from the women in
Ananthapur district. After returning, we started weekly savings and received small loans. Initially a lot of
people migrated and it was difficult for us to repay the loans. But after starting the food security line, it
became much easier. I want to convey, on behalf of my community that there have been a lot of changes
for the better. The incidence of Tuberculosis has greatly been reduced, women are using the hospitals for
deliveries and more of our children are going to schools".

Community Activist, Mahabubnagar District
"I was made a jogini when I was eleven years old by my parents. Joining the SHG gave me confidence
and I got married despite opposition, to lead a normal life. There are still thousands of joginis still
operating in and around my community, whom we are trying to rehabilitate. We are going to conduct
DNA tests for four thousand children of these jogini mothers who are considered illegitimate by the
village, to determine the fathers and ask them for support. We want to ensure that the children are proud
of their mothers and live a normal life".

Project Officer, Integrated Tribal Development Agency, Utnoor, Adilabad District
"Earlier only the big people would come to me, now anybody can call me ­ so many SHG group
members have cell phones and access to my numbers. They voice their issues and ask for advice on a
regular basis".

Project Director, District Rural Development Agency, Srikakulam District
"The list derived from the participatory identification of the poor conducted by the project is the list used
by every government department for efficient targeting of the poor".

Chetna Organic Project, Solidaridad-ETC Organic Cotton Program India
ETC Consultants India (www.etc-india.org) is a non-profit firm working on building capacity of small
organic farmers in Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Orissa and linking them to the
international and domestic market.       "Our work in Adilabad District, Andhra Pradesh, has been very
successful due to the institutional networks of Indira Kranthi Patham. These networks of VOs and MSs
are helping us scale up effectively and manage financial transactions as they already have an in built
capacity".

Managing Director, AP Civil Supplies Corporation, GOAP
"The procurement centers managed by these SHG members provide us with access that we never had
before. We appreciate the skills and management capacity of these women that allow us to procure from
small farmers in a cost effective manner. We will be using this model to reform our decentralization
strategy".

Commercial Banks
The commercial banks indicated that this project has helped them expand the work of their rural branches
and made many of their rural branches viable. They would like the project to continue work on
developing micro enterprises and business of SHG members. The private sector representatives indicated
that there is a huge potential for building market based skills for SHG members and their organizations.

                                                     50

               Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

I. ICR (Borrower's) Report By SERP

Rural Poverty in Andhra Pradesh presented a grim picture during 1990-2000. The slow growth rate in
agriculture, inelastic non-farm livelihood opportunities and stagnant real wage rates slowed down the
decline the poverty during the decade. The state had relatively less favorable human development
indicators (IMR, MMR, female literacy rate and girl child enrolment ratio). A more distressing feature of
poverty in AP was its concentration in Adilabad, Anantapur, Chittoor, Mahabubnagar, Srikakulam and
Vizianagaram districts. The GOAP launched the APDPIP to improve the livelihoods of the rural poor in
180 poorest mandals of these districts in June 2000. The project was progressively scaled-up to cover all
the 316 rural mandals in the 6 project districts. The financial pattern of the project cost is IDA Credit US
$ 111.00 M and GOAP share of US$16.60 M and the community contribution equivalent to US$ 7.20 M.
The project period was extended by one year and it actually closed on Dec. 31, 2006. The project was
managed by SERP, an autonomous society specially created for this purpose by the GOAP. The SERP-
SPMU headed by the CEO and the 6 DPMUs supported by multi-functional units facilitated
implementation of the project with CBOs of the poor playing a key role in planning, implementation and
monitoring.

Built on the experience of UNDP-SAPAP and the on-going SHG movement in AP, the main project
development objective (PDO) was to improve the opportunities for the rural poor and vulnerable to meet
their own social and economic development needs in the 6 poorest districts. The project investment
components include: (i) Institutional and Human Capital Building; (ii) CIF; (iii) Educational support for
Girl Child Laborers and School Dropouts; and (iv) Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation and
Studies.

The PDO was relevant to the project area, which were among the poorest in the state, was in consonance
with the development priorities of the GOAP's Ninth and Tenth Five Year Plans (1997-2008) as well as
the Bank's CAS. The project adopted a realistic three fold system of targeting (districts-mandals, SHGs
and households) and had made appropriate institutional arrangements for implementing a CDD approach.
The project components were organically linked to the PDO. The PDO and the components were not
revised at MTR, although several innovative strategic mid-course corrections were made. The quality at
entry was very high. The project area was fully prepared for implementing community centered
participatory strategy built in APDPIP. The project reached out to about 90% of the poor and POP rural
households in the six districts (60% of total rural households) and supported mobilization of 2.371 M
rural poor women into 1,71,618 SHGs and 9,872 VOs at the village level, 316 MSs at the mandal level
and six ZSs.

The project interventions individually attained their specific outcomes and thus, helped in the overall
achievement of the PDO. The impact assessment studies (CESS studies, May '06 survey, Jan. '07 survey
and the Feb.'07 IRR study) clearly indicate that the PDO is fully achieved. In about six years, the
livelihoods of the poor in the 6 districts had undergone a transition in terms of employment, asset base,
income, household consumption expenditure and investment behavior.

    Asset: The average household asset value for project beneficiaries increased from US$746 (Rs.32808)
    in mid-2000 to US$2001(Rs.88061/-) in December 2006 (both at current prices), recording an annual
    growth of 31%. There was a significant increase in the livestock, land, housing, gold jewelry and
    other non-farm assets.

    Employment: The dependence on wage labor and distress migration declined significantly while the
    reliance on self-employment and non-farm sources increased.


                                                    51

Income: The CESS study indicates that the average household income of the project beneficiaries
increased from US$483 (Jan-Dec 2001) to US$1041 (Jan-Dec.2006), registering an absolute increase
of 92% at current prices. Whereas for the non-project beneficiaries, the household income increased
by about 48% during the same period from US$568 to US$929.
Poverty: Though no estimate of the incidence of poverty was made, the Jan.'07 survey indicates a
significant decline in the incidence of poverty among SHG members from 70.8% to 51.4% during the
project period.
Household Consumption Expenditure: The expanding asset base and rising incomes of the poor had
their impact on the household consumption. The average household expenditure recorded 38%
increase, while the expenditure on food increased by 42%. The household expenditure on education
recorded a steep increase of 204%. Equally significant was the decline in the proportion of household
expenditure on interest payments (- 43%).
Financial Resources Leveraged: The transition in the livelihood economy of the poor was brought
about by the substantial increase in financial resources made available to the poor by the project
investments in CIF and CBOs. The total revolved fund turnover of the SHGs rose from US$69 M in
mid-2000 to US$919 M by December 2006. On the average, each SHG had a turnover of US$ 5355
(Rs.235616) or US$388 (Rs.17052/-) per member. The sharp increase in formal credit to the SHGs,
the CIF support and institutional strengthening had contributed to the whopping increase in the fund
turnover. For each Rupee of CIF invested, the CBOs had a revolved fund turnover of Rs. 12.3. The
total project cost and the revolved fund ratio works out to 1:6.1.
Investment Promoted: The CIF strategy succeeded in triggering investment in livelihood activities.
The bank credit linkage of CIF investments and the compulsory beneficiary contribution resulted in
the poor investing a much larger amount than the CIF. The CIF investment multiplier worked out to
1:2.9, suggesting that each dollar of CIF triggered a total investment of US$0.07 (Rs.2.9) in
livelihood activities. This implies that the total CIF amount of US$75 M would have catalyzed a total
investment worth US$217 M during the project period. A substantial number of households which
were primarily dependent on wage labor were enabled to invest in household dairy, sheep-rearing,
non-farm enterprises, land and housing.
Livelihood Asset Turnover: Along with the investments, the turnover from the livelihood assets of
the poor recorded a significant increase during the project. The total investment on livelihood assets
increased from US$746 (Rs. 32808/-) per household to US$2001 (Rs. 88061) during the project. The
asset turnover per household increased from US$474 to US$1312, while the income from the
livelihood assets increased by from US$220 to US$589. While the average household investment
value has increased by 34% per annum, the income increased by 35%.
Enlarged Community Asset Base: The project has also contributed to the community's stock of
physical infrastructure (bulk milk cooling centers, procurement and marketing infrastructure etc.)
which in turn made several new enterprises of the CBOs viable and feasible (collective procurement
and marketing in agri commodities, food grains, NTFPs etc.).
Impact on Consumption: The project had beneficial impact on Food consumption pattern of the
household. The average annual household expenditure on Food increased from US$ 280 to US$ 311
showing an increase of 11.2 percent in 2 years and 6 months. More clearly the average annual
household consumption expenditure on non-food showed a 20 percent increase from US$174 to
US$ 203 during the span of 2 years and 6 months.
Impact on Health, Education and other expenses: Not only the expenditure on consumption but
also expenditure on health and education has also increased by 59 percent and 69 percent respectively
during the last 2 years and 6 months (CESS Study). The Survey conducted by SERP in January 2007
also reinforced the impact on Food, Health and Education during the project period. As per this
survey, expenditure on Food Health and Education increased by 42 percent, 14 percent and 20 percent
respectively over the last 5 years. The low increase in health is a reflection of the impact of the
project on the member household in avoiding the preventive medical facilities as well as consumption
of qualitative food grains because of the Food Security program of the project. The increase in
expenditure on education is very impressive and standing testimony to the fact that the SHG members

                                                   52

want to send their children to higher studies and further, to better Schools, Colleges and Universities.
January 2007 Survey also brought out the fact that the expenditure on account of interest payments
have gone down by as much as 43 percent during the period of the project.
Working with PRIs and Line Departments: The project interventions had catalytic effect on
promoting the inclusiveness in the PRIs in the sense that a large number of women have become
aware of the importance of the political processes and the percentage of women contesting for Village
Elections has dramatically gone up from 13 percent in July 2002 to 23 percent in May 2006. The
CBOs have also taken up various activities in association with line departments such as AP Marketing
Federation, National Dairy Development Board, Department of Rural Development, Girijan
Cooperative Corporation, etc., to facilitate the effective access of the services of those departments to
SHG members. Collective Marketing practices in the project have really helped many poor to obtain
better price for their agricultural produce and NTFP produce. Further, the CBOs are collectively
involved in Employment Guarantee Scheme, distribution of Pensions, spreading the awareness of
AIDS and providing food security through lower prices and better quality Food grains. The activities
of CBOs along with line departments have helped in providing the practices of dedicated women to
quit child marriages, women and children trafficking, etc., in many cases.
Women Empowerment: After joining the SHGs, the women members have become aware of their
rights and duties with regard to their mobility, exposure and access to information. In addition,
almost all the women members are taking up independent economic activities to supplement the
income of their families. Further, the domestic violence and abuse has considerably gone down
compared to pre-project situation. Because of the active role of women members in and around
various village activities, the villages have recognized the usefulness of these SHG members as a
force to recon with and, therefore, there is a lot of demand for the services of the poor to solve the
problems at the village level, household level and individual level.
Self-reliant and self-managed CBOs: The project has been able to mobilize 2.37 Million women
into 0.172 Million SHGs in 316 Mandals and 29250 Habitations in the 6 project districts. Further, a
total of 9872 Village Organizations are formed along with 316 Mandal Samakhyas and 6 Zilla
Samakhyas.      The Project has been very inclusive in terms of mobilizing SHG members from
vulnerable communities STs, SCs, disabled persons. With the formation of these CBOs, the project
has been able to mobilize huge external resources in the form of Bank Loans to the SHGs and to the
CBOs. A Total of US$ 425 M was mobilized as bank loans during the last 6 years. Also the CBOs
have been able to mobilize total funds of US$ 919 M from various resources during the project period.
That is, each US$ 1 invested in the form of Community Investment Fund generated US$ 12.3 in
terms of funds available to the SHG members.
Power Relations in Larger Perspective: A vast majority of SHG transcended from mere thrift and
credit activities, to taking various activities like social agenda, working with PRIs, working with line
departments, etc. Village Organizations are planning to take up multiple roles in collective marketing,
food security, insurance, employment guarantee schemes, distribution of pensions, helping the banks
in recovery of loans, effective use of community resource persons etc. Similarly, the Mandal
Samakhyas play a very important role in taking up social action, collective marketing, Project
Management and Annual Works Finance to plan budget and monitor the expenditure in relation to the
budget. The Zilla Samakhyas play a crucial role in activities such as Annual Works and Financial
Plans, Insurance, Jobs, Food Security and monitoring of the other community based organizations to
ensure effective management at all levels. All these activities had a favorable impact on power
relations and the poor, in a vast number of project villages, are freed from exploitative inter-linked
credit-commodity trade agencies.
Project management, Monitoring and Learning: The project has successfully managed 6 Zilla
Samakhyas, 316 Mandal Samakhyas in addition to extending a helping hand to 9872 Village
Organizations, 171618 Self Help Groups and 2371393 SHG members. A comprehensive Monitoring
and Evaluation system is established in the form of (a) Input and Output Monitoring System, (b)
Process Monitoring and (c) Impact Evaluation and Review Systems. A simple and manual MIS
system is introduced in the Project Districts wherein information on key indicators of the project was

                                                   53

    collected from the districts. Monthly review reports are being submitted by the SHGs to the VOS, by
    the VOS to the MSs and by the MSs to the ZSs. District Project Management Units and State Project
    Management Unit analyze these reports regularly. The development of MIS also included Financial
    Management System which is fully developed and is in operation in the Project Districts.       Process
    Monitoring has been undertaken regularly. In addition, Base Line Survey, Follow up Survey ­I
    (FUS-I) and Follow up Survey ­II reports are submitted as part of evaluation.

Factors Facilitating the Implementation of APDPIP

Continued Support of GOAP to the Project:              The creation of SERP as a fairly autonomous
organization has facilitated smooth management of the project. The project enjoyed continued support of
the GOAP, despite the change of the government in 2004. The introduction of the subsidized interest rate
policy of the GOAP, the GOAP's support to upscale the project to all rural mandals in the project districts,
the bringing of the project under the DRDA set up and decision to introduce decentralized planning,
management and funds flow arrangement in the project were important policy initiatives of the
government, that have ensured continued support to the CBOs even beyond the project period. In
addition, the GOAP's support to the top management of the project facilitated the smooth implementation
of the project.

Dynamism of Banking Sector: The banking sector in general and commercial banks in particular,
responded very positively in increasing the not only the quantum of loan but also the average loan amount
to the SHG members.

SAPAP Experience and Learning: The SAPAP experience and learning have been great catalysts in the
implementation of the project. A significant contribution made by SAPAP is the supply of experienced
and trained community resource persons to different project districts for institution building and training
of internal activists and resource persons.

Support from Line Departments: The line departments not only recognized the CBOs as representative
collectives of the poor, but also used them to deliver certain services and activities and to identify
beneficiaries for some programs.

Costs and Financing: Project costs at appraisal were SDR 82.90 million or US US$134.80 million. In
Rupee terms it was equal to 5931.24 million. However, following the change in SDR-USUS$ rate, the
cost were revised to US US$143.74 million after the MTR (2003). In addition, because of changes in $-
Rupee rate, the costs were finally fixed at Rs.6540.00 million although there was no change in the budget
in terms of SDRs. The actual expenditure was Rs. 6625.92 and, thus, there was no funds constraint in the
project.

Factors Adversely Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

Droughts, Floods and Tsunami: The Tsunami had adversely affected the asset base of the fishermen
communities and created additional expenditure obligations on the project and had also adversely affected
project outcomes in parts of Srikakulam, Adilabad and Anantapur districts.

Elections: The conduct of elections to the Union Parliament, the State Assembly and later to the PRIs
resulted in temporary suspension of certain key project activities including funding of income generating
activities.

Lack of Adequate Viable Livelihood Opportunities Outside Agriculture and Livestock: The other factor
which had the effect of limiting the livelihood outcomes of the project was the relative lack of livelihood
opportunities outside agriculture and livestock development in the rural areas.

                                                    54

Factors Generally Subject to Government Control: Frequent transfer of Project Directors of some
district project units and tribal project units affected the pace of project implementation for sometime.

Institutional Sustainability

Self reliant and Self Managed CBOs: The project has fostered representative and empowered
organizations at the village (SHG and VO), mandal (MS) and the district (ZS) levels, which, in course of
project implementation, have acquired self-management and self-governing skills required of grassroots
democratic institutions. These institutions have also emerged as fairly efficient micro-finance institutions
and fund managers with reasonable degree of book keeping skills. Some of them have acquired the
business management skills, having implemented collective economic, food security and marketing
activities very efficiently. More importantly, most of the CBOs, having participated in livelihood
assessment and micro-planning exercises, acquired generic skills of planning, demand representation and
monitoring. A vast majority of these institutions are adhering to statutory audit and other micro finance
norms providing a governance mechanism for maintaining own and borrowed funds including livelihood
funds are likely to sustain. In addition to SHG bank linkages, the emerging VO ­ bank linkage could also
promote the sustainability of the institution. The substantial amount of CIF provided to the MSs is an
important factor contributing to their sustainability. The organic democratic relationship between the MS
and the ZS is another factor which would contribute to the sustainability of the MS.

Corpus of CBOs: The expanding corpus of the SHGs facilitated by regular savings, internal lending,
matching grant/revolving fund assistance etc., and the transparent financial management and
accountability systems promoted through regular bookkeeping, identification and training of bookkeepers
and collective financial decision making is yet another factor that contributes to the sustainability of the
SHGs.

Strong Financial and Governance Linkages between SHGs, VOs, MSs and ZSs: A strong financial
inter-relationship has been established between the SHGs, VOs, MSs and ZSs through CIF and savings.
This system has worked well and is most likely to sustain the integrated relationships.

Expanding SHG and VO Bank Linkage and Reduced Credit Constraint of the Poor: The high
proportion of SHGs linked to the banks (90% of SHGs;), the high repayment ratio of bank loans, the
fairly high average volume of savings US$656 (Rs.28,854) and total funds available with the SHGs
US$5355 (Rs. 235,616 per SHG) and the high volume of revolved funds of the SHGs US$919 M
(Rs.40,436 million) clearly point to the long-term sustainability of the SHGs. The emerging VO-bank
linkage is another potential sustainability factor. The VO bank linkage could transform the VO into a real
micro finance institution.

Recognition of CBOs by Line Departments, Banks and other Agencies as Representative Institutions of
the Poor: The recognition of the SHGs, VOs and the MSs as representative institutions of the poor by the
line departments, banks and PRIs is another factor that would contribute to their sustainability.

Community Recognizing CBOs as Socially and Economically Useful Institutions: Because of their role
in the delivery of certain line department services and identification of beneficiaries, the SHGs and their
federations are viewed as very useful, pro-poor and women-friendly institutions. The poor in all the
project districts look up to the CBOs as social guides and livelihood advisers

Expanding Knowledge, Skills and Competencies of the CBO Functionaries for Self- Management,
Business Management, Dispute Resolution and Intermediation: The sustained capacity building efforts
of the project through training, exposure/cross-learning, nurturing support of the frontline staff and
resource persons and activists on the one hand and the democratic and financial systems instituted on the
other have contributed to the knowledge, skills and capabilities of the leaders. A large number of leaders

                                                       55

have successfully handled micro finance management, dispute resolution and intermediation, procurement
and marketing management and bookkeeping. It is the vast reservoir of the trained leaders and activists
and community resource persons that are most likely to sustain the institutions.

IRR for Select Sub-Projects: The high IRR estimates for a fairly large sample of sub-projects across
project districts indicates that there would be a steady flow of income from the assets created with the
catalytic support of CIF. This implies that a great proportion of the activities taken up with the project
support are viable and sustainable. A feasibility analysis carried out for the 411 sample sub-projects
indicated that 95% of them are feasible in terms of the availability of backward and forward linkages.

Bank Performance

The Bank: The Bank provided valuable inputs in developing the community demand driven strategy
which is central to the project. The Bank had a productive dialogue with the GOAP in the areas of social
mobilization, development of CBOs, establishing CIF and project implementation arrangements.

The Supervision Missions: The Bank Supervision Missions worked closely and intensively with SERP
to implement the project. The successive Supervision Missions provided very useful technical inputs and
international best practices on social mobilization, institution building, development of financial services
and establishment of CIF. The Missions spent lot of time with all the stakeholders in the project and
provided useful inputs in each mission.
The Missions facilitated some of the such as the move from CIG, Sub-project mode to V.O
implementation mode and from there to a Seed Capital support to Miss to fund the micro plans of the
VOs, decentralized institutional arrangements for devolving project funds to MSs; etc. The Missions also
facilitated several private sector partnerships and forays into new areas of collective marketing. The
international workshop organized around MTR provided a very useful forum for cross learning and
reevaluation of the strategies.

The Borrower: The GOAP appropriately designed the project on the basis of the learning from UNDP-
SAPAP and on the strength of the SHG movement in the State. The GOAP has consistently provided
strong support for the project.       The Department of Rural Development provided the necessary
coordination and support for the project. The Department harmonized the interests of the pro poor and
social mobilization strategy of the project with the approach of the DRDA and the district line agencies.
The GOAP encouraged other line departments to adopt institutions and practices promoted by the project
for delivering their services. A key support provided by the State Government to the project was to
ensure continuity in the top project management during the entire project implementation.

SERP: The SERP has been extremely dedicated and innovative in the implementation of the project. A
remarkable aspect of the implementation is the extent which the project top management internalized the
values, approach and methods of community demand driven development. The attitudes and behavior of
the project staff at all levels was a key factor in the success of the project, especially in promoting
institution development and community participation in planning and implementation of the project
activities. The top project management provided very effective over sight, guidance and sustained
support to the District project units. The DPMUs enjoyed excellent working relationships with the front
line staff, facilitators, resource persons and activists.    The PDs and DPMs provided close support
supervision to the project functionaries and CBOs.

Lessons Learned from APDPIP

In terms of pro-poor innovative design, diversity of interventions, vast outreach and sustainable impact on
the livelihoods of the poor and vulnerable, there is no rival to APDPIP in the contemporary history of
rural development in India. The six year long project provides a number of lessons for development

                                                     56

projects in general and poverty alleviation initiatives in particular. Some of the key lessons emerging
from the project are briefly summarized in the following:

Autonomous Project Management: The implementation arrangements made for the project mark a
watershed in the management of rural development projects in India. An autonomous Society for
Elimination of Rural Poverty (SERP) has been created with the Chief Minister as the President, with a
good number of members drawn from non-governmental agencies as well as community based
organizations. The organizational structure (SERP, Executive Committee, CEO, SPMU, DPMU, etc.,)
provided for necessary flexibility, innovation and effective management. The CBOs were effectively
involved in planning, implementation and monitoring of the project. The innovative model has several
replicable features.

Limits to Social Mobilization: The project has mobilized a large proportion of POP and Poor households
into the SHG fold. However, certain households (migrants, seasonal migrants, households with aged
persons and the destitute) could not be mobilized into the SHGs. There are inherent limitations to social
mobilization. A separate strategy would be required to address households and individuals who cannot be
mobilized into the SHGs.

Importance of Early Social Mobilization and Capacity Building: The project experience shows that
social mobilization and capacity building is process oriented, and therefore, takes time to start-up but
produce good results when matured. It implies that project planning should emphasize social mobilization
as early in the project cycle as possible. Further, the project management should refrain from expanding
the project to other locations in the last phases of the project when adequate time for institution and
capacity building is not likely to be available before the end of the project.

Need for Homogeneity in CBOs: The project experience shows that SHGs with members from mixed
socio-economic backgrounds are less likely to be sustainable. A certain degree of homogeneity in the
member background ensures long-term sustainability of the SHGs prevents the capture of these
institutions by the non-poor. This is true of the federations of the SHGs as well.

SHGs Vs CIGs: The project experience reveals that common interest groups are less likely to survive in
the absence of SHGs. The CIGs provided no additional economies to scale as envisaged. In the absence
of micro-finance activities, there was no cementing factor in the CIGs that could ensure their
sustainability. Closely knit and functionally effective SHGs are a prerequisite for fund management, asset
promotion, retention and its productive use.

Importance of Facilitation and Capacity Building: Facilitation and capacity building support to the
CBOs is a critical input that helps community sustainably address their livelihood concerns.

Importance of Social Capital: A significant output of the APDPIP is the creation of a vast resource of
Social Activists, Animators, Para-Workers and Resource Persons drawn from the poor and POP
households. The valuable resource stock could be used for enhancing implementation efficiency of
development programs of the line departments. The APDPIP has successfully demonstrated that the well
trained and experienced community resource persons perform the project activities as efficiently as the
project staff at economical rates.

Importance of Vision Building and Value Inculcation: The sustainability of CBOs critically hinges on
the vision of the members and the values they have imbibed. Mere external financial support would not
contribute to sustainability of the institutions and promotion of livelihoods of the poor.

Integrated CBO Structure with Suitable Governance and Financial Relationships: The project
experience suggests that integrated CBO structure (SHGs ­ VOs ­ MSs ­ ZS) could ensure long term

                                                       57

sustainability of the institutions, besides facilitating resolution of larger social and livelihood issues
affecting the poor. The inter-dependent financial relationships (facilitated by CIF and inter institutional
savings and borrowings) would promote the resource base of the institutions and ease the credit constraint
faced by the members.

Importance of Bookkeeping and Surplus Sharing Arrangements: Institution of appropriate book-
keeping arrangements (appropriate books, trained and qualified book-keepers and book-keeping
practices) are an essential prerequisite for successful financial management. Providing hand holding
support to the book-keepers, periodic auditing of accounts, institution of suitable audit arrangements of
the project are an integral part of transparent and accountable financial management for sustainability of
the CBOs.

CBOs as Effective IEC Medium: CBOs are an effective IEC medium to reach out to million of
households. Information on any line department program affecting the poor can be disseminated
effectively and economically through the CBOs. In particular, video conferencing with the CBOs has
been found to be very effective in disseminating best practices and other information and for generating a
feed back on programs implemented.

CBOs as Effective Service Delivery Arms of the Government: The experience of APDPIP suggests that
the CBOs are a very efficient, economical and effective means of delivering and monitoring government
services such as pensions and mid-day meals for school children, provision of work site facilities for
women employed in public works programs, identification of beneficiaries for various programs,
execution of works in the place of contractors, etc.

CBOs Provide A Risk Less Credit Market for the Banks: The project experience reveals that the CBOs
provide an elastic and risk free credit market for the banks. The very high SHG loan recovery ratio (95%)
in the project districts is a testimony to the good repayment behavior of the SHGs.

Mature CBOs can Successfully Run Life, Health and Asset Insurance: The ZSs have successfully run
life and asset (livestock) insurance schemes at low premiums in the project districts. They have
successfully adopted quick redemption procedures. Mature VOs and SHGs have successfully managed
health risk fund in the project districts and provided quick financial support for medical treatment.

Community Based Food Security: A significant outcome of this project is the institution of a community
based food security system under which the CBOs assess the food grains requirement of each poor
household and provide assured supply of the required amount of commodities at cheaper than market
rates.

Collective Marketing Activities: The CBOs have successfully demonstrated their ability to undertake
collective procurement of agricultural inputs, agri-output and market them for the benefit of the small and
marginal farmers and NTFP collectors. These operations very favorable impact on the over all market
prices.

CBOs as Effective Social Change Agents: The CBOs were very effective agents to bring about desirable
social changes in systems such as Jogini in Mahabubnagar, women trafficking in Anantapur and child
marriages in Chittoor districts and illicit distillation and sale of illegal liquors in many of the project
districts.

Multiplier Effect of Skill Development Intervention: The training of youth from poor households and
placing them in decent salary employment demonstrated the importance of the private partnerships
fostered by the project.


                                                      58

Decentralized Planning and Management: The introduction of decentralized management involving
annual works and finance plans (AWFPs) at the mandal level and the transfer of earmarked project funds
directly to the MSs was found to be very effective.

Preference for Loans Over Grants: CIF given initially as a grant to the MSs and the good micro finance
practices has led to multiple doses of loans to the SHG members. The lesson is that outright grant for
financing of the income generating activities taken up by the poor has a limited impact. On the contrary,
loan financing of livelihood activities has a multiplier impact on the livelihoods of the poor through
revolution of livelihood funds.

Non-Farm Livelihoods: Due to absence of other viable and feasible livelihood opportunities a large
proportion of the project promoted investment went into livestock and allied activities and petty trade and
service activities, which are relatively low productive areas. The lesson is that the government and the
development projects should focus on promotion of non-farm livelihoods of the poor.

Building New Institutions Around Livelihoods: While the SHGs, VOs and MSs have proved to be very
vibrant organizations efficiently handling complex livelihood activities, there are inherent limitations to
their capacities. There is need for developing new institutions around certain livelihoods viz., Dairy,
Agriculture, NPM, Marketing, NTFP, etc.

Convergence with Line Departments: Despite the progress in the convergence efforts of the project, there
is great scope for promoting coordination with the PRIs and other line departments such as health,
education, forest and revenue at the GP, mandal and district level.

Tasks Ahead and Future Plans

SHG Book-keeping: The SHGs do not have adequate number of trained book-keepers. Low honorarium,
reluctance of some SHGs to pay honorarium and over burdening appeared to be the main reasons for high
turn over of book-keepers. The project management is alive to this problem and has taken up
identification and training of SHG members in a big way to overcome the problem.

VO and MS Bookkeeping: The project has facilitated identification and training of accountants to
manage the complex financial transactions of the VOs and MSs. As some of the accountants are recently
identified and trained, they need further training and handholding support.

Second Line Leadership Development: Sustained capacity building has improved the managerial
capabilities of their leaders. However, second line leadership needs to be developed and nurtured in these
organizations to ensure sustained governance and financial management. The project's focus on
institution of good practices including leadership rotation is catalyzing the desired change.

Statutory Basis for all MSs and VOs: The resource base of the VOs and MSs has been expanding rapidly
due to CIF, recycled funds and service payments for discharging a few line department activities/services.
However, not all MSs and VOs are registered. Provision of a statutory basis for the CBOs would leave no
scope for irregularities and mismanagement of funds.

Institution of Mechanisms for Surplus Sharing: With many profit making community level
interventions being undertaken clear mechanisms on profit/loss sharing, membership rights, utilization of
surplus, dividends, penalties, insurance etc., need to be devised and instituted. While some institutions
have already devised mechanisms, others need to follow suit.

Social Audit of VOs and MSs: The project has recently introduced a system of annual report publication,
conduct of frequent right to information meetings, social audit along with internal audit mechanisms to

                                                     59

promote transparency and downward accountability in the VOs and MSs. These areas need to be pursued
further.

II. ICR Report by AP RESIDENTIAL SCHOOL SOCIETY, APSWREIS, the implementing
agency for the Residential and Bridge Course School Component.

1. Assessment of Development Objective & Design and Quality at Entry

1.1 Original Objective:

The main Project development objective is to improve opportunities for rural poor to meet social &
economic needs in the six poorest district of Andhra Pradesh. Under the Educational Support to Girl
Child Labor and School Drop-outs, the Project seeks to improve access to education for girls to reduce
incidence of child labor among the poor. Six district covering 180 mandals (Adilabad, Mahabubnagar,
Anathapur, Chittoor, Srikakulam, Vizianagaram) covering the three socio-political regions (Coastal
Andhra, Rayalaseema & Telangana) are selected for project implementation on the basis of the following
weighted socio-economic criteria.

         Percentage of population below the poverty line;
         Infant mortality rate and hospital beds;
         Female literacy and female school dropout rate;
         Ratio of SC/ST population to the total population

Based on the weightings assigned, the two poorest districts in each region were selected. The project
envisages greater access to productive assets, infrastructure and social services thereby enabling improved
access to secondary education for girls from poor families, as support for formal education through
residential schools as well as informal interventions to prepare working children and school dropouts to
enter the formal education system greatly reduce future dropout rates and enables most vulnerable and
disadvantaged groups in the society for better future.

The key components of project design were (i) construction of (24) residential schools complexes & (ii)
mainstreaming of girl child labor. Towards these goals, the project financed (3) bridge & (1) regular
residential school per district for classes 6th to 12th and other inputs in the project included strengthening
of leadership and educational modules, improvement of educational facilities, recruitment and training of
teachers and strengthening of management functions at APSWREIS.

Assessment:
In the initial years, against the target of running of 18 bridge course schools, only 9 bridge course schools
were started with an intake of 2790 students. After review by the Mission, the bridge school component
was deleted and a decision was taken in consultation with the Bank for running the 18 bridge course
residential schools also as regular residential schools from the year 2002-2003 as the bridge school
component was being taken care of through RBCs/NRBCs run by the District Primary Education Project
(DPEP), Sarva Siksha Abhiyan (SSA) and National Child Labour Project (NCLP) The objectives were
realistic involving intervention by Education Department & SSA, whose human resource was utilized for
institutional capacity building in areas like providing training to teachers & supplementing project effort
in providing learning material and teaching aids to the school.

1.2 Revised Objective:

Except the deletion of the bridge school component, in view of the preponderant role by DPEP, NCLP&
SSA in running RBCs/NRBCs, there is no major revision of objective during the course of the Project.
Entry level of admissions in Project schools was in class 5 instead of class 6 as originally envisaged in the
Project Design, to strengthen core competencies of the bridge school students to cope with the regular
syllabus of formal schooling, which is highly competitive.

                                                       60

1.3 Components Of The Project:

The implementation of Educational Support of Girl Child Labor has the following components:

     Construction of 24 residential school complexes;
     Establishment and Maintenance of 24 residential schools;
     Other inputs in the project would be strengthening of leadership and educational modules,
     improvement of educational facilities, recruitment and training of teachers and strengthening of
     management functions at APSWREIS.
Assessment:

(i) The construction of 24 residential school complexes in the 6 districts was completed by 2005
     satisfactorily.
(ii) However, on account of deletion of the bridge course school component and their conversion into
     regular residential schools in 18 locations in the newly constructed school complexes also, number of
     classrooms, number of laboratories and dormitory rooms are insufficient for upgrading the school to
     intermediate level.
(iii)Moreover, keeping in view the poor core competencies of the girl children enrolled from
     RBCs/NRBCs the schooling component was revised to include class-V, which was not envisaged in
     the original schooling pattern. This also placed enormous stress on project resources and added to the
     accommodation problem. The project while revising its goal did not increase the financial outlay
     commensurate to meet the teaching needs for running classes up to 12th class and these deficiencies
     will have to be addressed in the post project period.
(iv) 14157 girl children have been successfully mainstreamed into formal education within the project
     period.
(v) To strengthen human resource functions the following activities were taken-up:
         Workshops in Management Development program for Principals were organized to promote
         Leadership Qualities in the Principals as Heads of Institutions.
         Refresher courses on Administrative & Counting procedures were conducted for Principals.
         At the district level teaching staff were provided Orientation Training Program by DIET.
         Workshop on Stress Management was imparted to Principals.
         10th class study material was prepared by the State Resource Persons for supplementing
         classroom teaching.
         All teachers have been given exposure to Computer Aided Learning (CAL) through Microsoft &
         Azim Premji Foundation
         Vocational courses have been introduced at High School level.
         To create community awareness and social mobilization in the community, balavelugu and
         chinnarula saddassu was conducted to sensitize the parents, and community leaders on
         importance of education to the girl child and the evils of early child marriage.
1.4 Revised Components:

         There was no formal revision of components at Mid Term Review (MTR) although some
reallocations across sub-components were made within project outlay.

1.5 Quality at Entry:

Un-Satisfactory: Although project design & preparation had positive features, quality of entry is
unsatisfactory for the following reasons;

         Lack of community awareness on importance of girl child education & the prevalent practice of
         early girl child marriages in rural communities;
         Non-availability of girl children in the age group relevant for entry into class-VI in the bridge
         camps, whereby the entry level was reduced to class-V;
         Schools were opened at the 24 locations in rented houses which were highly congested & lacked
         the ideal setup for running a residential school with poor infrastructure;
         There was high attrition ranging from 19% to 25%, in the initial years;

                                                      61

        Slow progress in identification and handing over of sites for taking up the construction of
        permanent residential school complexes.

On the positive side, the project objectives were consistent with national goals of universalization of
secondary education with special emphasis on providing free education to the girl child and gender
sensitization.

2. Achievement of Objective and Outputs:

2.1 Outcome/ Achievement of Objectives:

        Satisfactory: The project interventions individually attained their specific outcomes. The girl
        child enrolment, which stood at 91.95% in 2001-02, has steadily increased to 112.99% at the time
        of closure of the project in 2006-07. The academic achievements have also been impressive.
        During, 2002-03 in 7th class the pass percentage was 97% & in 2005-06 it is 100%.

        The performance in SSC has improved from 76.75% to 93.92% with 6 schools at Puttur, Gooty,
        Hindupur, Sirpur, Jam & Gattu achieving 100% results in SSC.
        However, the results in intermediate have not been very encouraging on account of non-
        availability of qualified part time Junior Lecturers in the schools situated in remote areas.
        Residential school infrastructure had a positive impact on girl child education. Backward linkage
        created to the bridge school has created high demand for admissions with 5446 girls competing
        for 1920 seats in DPIP schools.
        Dropout rates have reduced considerably over the years reflecting parent's determination to keep
        the girls in school and effort of APSWREIS and school management to retain girls in schools.
        Profiles of (64) girls were selected randomly from Class-V to Class-X in (2) Project Schools.
        Of the (64) girls, (14) girls worked as Agriculture labor, (20) girls were working at home and
        looking after younger sibling and (30) girls had done variety of jobs such as grazing animals,
        brick kilns and the few had studied and were dropouts before they were located by teachers and
        activists and brought back to bridge schools.
        Most of the girls come from economically disadvantaged families and are first generation learners.
        Without admission into the Residential Schools the girls would have been denied education.

2.2 Enrollment & Retention Initiatives:
        Identification of genuine child labor;
        Motivation of parents of child labor enrolled in RBC's to make the children appear for ability test
        and enroll their children in Residential Schools;
        Class to class dropouts monitoring;
        Loss of instructional classes to students on account of over stay at their homes after mid term
        vacations has been reduced;
        School induction procedure have become more transparent;
        Norms were changed to allow girls from neighboring districts to be enrolled in the Residential
        Schools when vacancies were available.
        Genuine girl child labor were identified and permitted admission without taking ability tests in
        sensitive cases.

2.3 Main Impact:

        Enrolment of girls from extremely deprived environment is an achievement.
        Girls in these schools are role models to not only other children but also parents who other wise
        may not have considered sending their daughters to schools.
        Schools located in backward mandals are prone to trafficking of girls, early marriage and high
        incidence of child labor and these schools have acted as change agents in the community.
        Many parents now preferred to send their girls to schools rather then get them married or send
        them to work.

                                                     62

2.4 Institutional Strengthening:

         Institutional capacity building by conduct of workshops on management development, stress
         management & refresher courses on administrative & accounting procedures has enhanced the
         delivery systems in the project institutions. Exposure to Computer Aided Learning (CAL) and
         orientation programs conducted by DIET, CIEFL has enhanced the teaching abilities in the
         classroom. These programs have generated a high range of skills, and knowledge capital in
         project schools among teaching personnel enhancing sustainability of interventions in the ground
         thereby increasing the implementation potential of the Government development machinery.
         The supply of teaching aids, teaching learning materials, library books and lab equipment has
         facilitated child centered learning process. Supply of SSC study material & workbooks has
         quantitatively & qualitatively improved the results in the public examination going classes.
         Setting up of play fields & supply of sports equipment & games material has promoted all round
         development of the child. Co-curricular & extra curricular activities are encouraged in a big way
         and students of these schools have won many medals at district, state & national level.

2.5 Financial Impact:

The project is in a package of remedial and conventional education through residential regular schools
and is relatively more costly than regular day school education. From a simplified cost/benefit analysis it
is estimated that after full development of the 24 residential schools to be established under the project,
about 3650 girls would reach grade 10 and about 1600 would finish grade 12 each year. Assuming a
modest annual incremental economic productivity of an educated girl with grade 10 (US$285) and with
grade 12 (US$357) the cash flow analysis results in an IRR of 16 percent. Over and above this education
would generate incremental home productivity in the form of personal welfare in the life of the affected
women. Educated girls as grown up women and mothers would contribute to the welfare of their families
and to their own children. In this context an IRR of 16 percent is a very conservative estimate of the long
run economic impact of this component.

The direct costs of the component include investment in the buildings and other facilities, the annual
operation costs (teachers, meals, books, etc.), and the maintenance and repair cost for the buildings and
facilities. Indirect costs are considered as foregone earnings of the working girls estimated at US$71 per
year. This wage loss is partly off-set by savings in child support costs estimated at US$23 per year for
such items as food and housing, when girls attend boarding schools instead of staying at home or at a
work place.

2.5 Assessment:

So far, 2601 students have successfully completed their SSC till 2005-06 and they are pursuing further
studies in Government Colleges by and large. As such the derivatives in terms of real income could not be
measured but the fruits of education would definitely be reflected in the quality of life of their families
and the community at large. Student tracking requires to be taken up as a post project exercise to assess
the actual gainful employment or entrepreneurial, leadership activities taken up by girl children enrolled
in the project financed residential institutions.

3. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

3.1 Bank and institutional support enabled the project to achieve the targets within the project period.

3.2 Factors generally subject to Government Control:




                                                     63

Government supported the project consistently creating operating environment with no significant
adverse factor affecting project implementation. The Government supported up scaling of policies and
practices adopted under the project and issues relating to release of funds and staffing of project


3.3 Factors generally subject to Implementing Agency Control:

There were some difficulties and delays in the initial years of the project in selection of sites and
construction of the permanent residential school complexes, which affected the enrolment and retention
rates. As, the students enrolled were first generation learners, the parents and the community had to be
sensitized to retain their children in the schools without succumbing to social pressure for early child
marriages, which is a prevalent practice in these social groups.


4. Costs and Financing:

The project cost at appraisal was USUS$30.42 million or Rs.133.82 crores. Out of project cost Rs.133.82
crores, the Bank share is 98.67 crores. The reimbursement claimed by APSWREIS up to 8/06 is Rs.88.23
crores. The balance amount of Rs.10.44 crores is to be reimbursed from the bank from 9/06 to 12/06.

At the closure, 100% of the project funds have been spent amounting to Rs.133.82 crores. Further, the
Bank share has been increased to Rs.99.88 crores, instead of 98.67 crores as per reallocation if credit.
These changes appear to be a consequence of the projects demand driven implementation mode as per
mid term review.

5. Sustainability:

5.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

(i) The overall rating for sustainability ­ Highly Likely based on the following considerations:
     The project has invested substantially in construction of 24 permanent residential schools complexes
     to create a congenial school environment to promote the learning process and facilitate all round
     personality development of the girl child;
     APDPIP will result in some increase in recurring expenditures during the post project period, which
     will relate to the cost of teachers, boarding & other incremental operational costs of the residential
     schools. The incremental requirement would be about USUS$2.6 million equivalent per year. It is
     estimated that, GOAP would be able to support this level of increased expenditure, since it is only a
     small percentage of the total budget for the residential schools (AP currently has about 173 such
     schools) being financed by the Social Welfare Department.

ii) Environmental: As the school complexes are located in spacious campus, there is scope for tree
plantation and kitchen gardening. From 2005-06 environmental education has also been included in the
academic module of schools & junior colleges, hence this will positively impact the school environment.

(iii) Institutional: The APSWREIS will further enhance the core competencies of the Principals,
Teaching & Non-teaching staff manning the project institutions to create a core of committed teachers
working for the overall development of the girl child, by strengthening the training component and further
exposure to computer aided learning (CAL).

5.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations

APSWREIS is running 276 residential educational institutions at present. No problems are envisaged for
transition of the 24 project schools to regular residential school, while retaining the goal of mainstreaming
girl child labor & school dropouts, as necessary expertise in managing residential schools is available.


                                                      64

6. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank

6.1 Lending:

Satisfactory:    The Bank has provided valuable assistance in developing the project objectives, project
designs and the project components to make them consistent with national educational goals.

6.2 Supervision:

Satisfactory:    Despite a slow start to the project, Bank supervision teams worked closely and
intensively with the SPMU to achieve the objectives of the project. The Bank provided useful inputs and
cleared all proposals especially after Mid Term Review (MTR) and was flexible in implementation goals
to encourage and support innovation as per local needs. The project was never at risk during
implementation. To consolidate project achievements and help ensure sustainability the project was
extended by one year. Finally, the project dispersed 100% of its funds, which is remarkable.

6.3 Overall Bank Performance:
Satisfactory:    Bank involvement & support was noteworthy and has contributed significantly to project
success.

Borrower

6.4 Preparation:

Satisfactory:    The borrower has appropriately designed the project, while roping in the support of
Government agencies like SSA, DPEP & NCLP who are active partners in running of residential & non-
residential bridge course schools (RBCs/NRBCs) to prepare the girl child who is either child labor or
school dropout to enter formal education provided by the project funded residential schools. Learning
from the ground situation, the borrower pragmatically modified the project design to delete the bridge
school component and instead took up establishment of regular residential schools at 18 locations to
provide formal education to the learners from the bridge schools, which is commendable.

6.5 Government Implementation Performance:
Satisfactory:    The flow of funds from the Government has been satisfactory. The State Government
responded favorably to the funding requests of the project, occasioned by rupee dollar exchange rate
movements.


6.6 Implementing Agency:
Highly Satisfactory: Overall, the implementing agency has been dedicated, diligent & innovative in
project implementation. Initially, there was designed capacity and process related ambiguities. But,
implementation effort has been regular and consistent. The project personnel largely project school
departmental staff have internalized the spirit and the approach to make the goal of providing educational
support to girl child labor & school dropouts.

Success:
The Project Management structure provided effective monitoring guidance & support and kept the ground
staff highly motivated to achieve the project objectives.


6.7 Overall borrower's performance:
Satisfactory

7. Lessons Learned:

                                                     65

· Pro poor interventions to mainstream girl child labor and school dropouts are helpful in improving the
     quality of life of the stakeholder families creating an articulate and resourceful youth in the local
     communities.
· The goal of providing quality education to girl child labor & school dropouts requires intensive
     interventions at entry level to measure core competencies i.e., reading, writing and arithmetic skills,
     graded child monitoring and child centered learning in the initial years to enable the child to cope
     with the syllabus and be equal partner with other students in formal schools.
· Project experience showed that social mobilization through conduct of sensitization camps for the
     community particularly mothers facilitated the achievement of targets for school enrolment retention
     and reducing the dropout rate.
· Involving the Mandal Mahila Samakhyas (MMS) in the admission process has also enabled genuine
     child labor & school dropouts to access the formal education through project schools.
· Certification from multiple agencies for admission to project schools resulted in long delays in
     completing admission process. Hence, to facilitate smooth transition from bridge camp to residential
     school, certification by PD, NCLP is insisted. MEO certification is dispensed with.
· In the initial years of the project there were shortfalls in achieving enrolment and retention targets, but
     by mid term there was growing demand for admissions and ability tests were conducted to select the
     students from the bridge schools, improving the quality of intake at entry level, which impacted the
     results in the public exam going classes.
· A significant output of the project is the up gradation of skills/ capacities of projects staff whose
     valuable resource stock can be used to enhance implementation efficiency of development programs.
· Accounting & reporting systems in project administrations should be well designed and made feasible
     for implementation under a computerized financial management system.
· Greater uniformity in recording and reporting system is needed to facilitate comparison as self-project
     appraisal.

8. Comments by Borrower (SERP) on the ICR Report

With regard to negative factors affecting the project, there were many changes in the internal and external
environment including inability to get good quality staff, orienting and retaining them. SERP used the
following strategies to overcome the problem:

(i) Empowering the VOs and MSs to take up more and more management responsibilities. We realized
that scale cannot be achieved if the entire work has to be done by the staff. The women groups and their
leaders have to be empowered and power has to be devolved to them. They have to take the leadership
role. S.P.M.U and D.P.M.U roles changed from `doers' to `facilitators'. It is an ongoing process and each
year more and more work is done by the VOs and MSs themselves.

(ii) Extensive use of CRPs obviated the need for staff, it was more effective, sustainable and a low cost
strategy. The project became a project by the people. The beauty of this process was that all investments
in institution building done through the CRPs achieved two goals ­ the quality and speed were much
better, and, the money spent on CRPs meant that the training and capacity building funds were going to
the poor people themselves.

(iii) Standardizing interventions, institution building processes were simplified so that the VOs and MSs
could do it by themselves without needing significant external technical assistance.

(iv) All Project Directors went through a four week immersion into the project's fundamental processes.

With regard to the point made in the ICR about covering the poorest of the poor, the concern raised in
ICR is quite important and SPMU and all DPMUs need to come out with a clear strategy to ensure that
adequate care is taken to provide exclusive support to PoP groups.

                                                      66

Please note to date that no comments received from Ministry of Rural Development, Government
of India.




                                                67

                             Annex 8. List of Supporting Documents


   · Project Implementation Plan

   · Project Appraisal Document for India: Andhra Pradesh District Poverty Initiative Project
       (APDPIP) dated March 20, 2000 (Report No: 20089-IN)

   · Aide Memoirs, Back-to-Office Reports, and Implementation Status Reports.

   · Project Progress Reports.

   · Project Appraisal Document for India: Andhra Pradesh District Rural Poverty Reduction Project
       (APRPRP) dated January 14, 2003 (Report No: 24771-IN)

   · Borrower's Evaluation Report dated February 2007


*including electronic files




                                               68

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     IBRD 30693
                                                                   To Wardha

                                                                                  To Wardha

                                                                Adilabad

          To Jalna


                                                               ADILABAD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              To Bhubaneshwar

                                                                       R.
                                                               Godavari



                                               Nizamabad         KARIMNAGAR                                                                                                           To Raipur
                                                                                                                                                                                                 VIZIANAGARAM
                                             NIZAMABAD                                                                                                                   To Koraput
                                                                               Karimnagar                                To Jagdalpur                                                                                   SRIKAKULAM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Srikakulam

                                                                                         Warangal
                       To Parbhani              MEDAK                                       WARANGAL                                                                                                          Vizianagaram


                                                  Sangareddi                                                                                             VISHAKHAPATNAM
To Solapur                                                     HYDERABAD                                                      Godavari                                                                       Vishakhapatnam

                                                                                                           KHAMMAM                    R.
                                  RANGAREDDY                                                                                                      EAST

                                                                                                          Khammam                              GODAVARI

                                                                                Nalgonda                                          WEST                                                                             Bay of
                                                                                                                              GODAVARI                            Kakinada
                                Mahbubnagar                              NALGONDA                                                                                                                                  Bengal
                                                                                                               KRISHNA          Eluru
                                          MAHBUBNAGAR
                                                                                            GUNTUR
                                                                                                         Guntur     Krishna

                                                             R.
                                                      Krishna                                                              R.     Machilipatnam

                                                                                                                                                                      I N D I A

                                                Kurnool                          PRAKASAM                                                      ANDHRA PRADESH
           To Goa                                                                           Ongole
                                               KURNOOL                                                                                         DISTRICT POVERTY
                                                                                                                                              INITIATIVES PROJECT
                               Penneru       R.

                                                                                                                                                                        PROJECT DISTRICTS
                      Anantapur
                                                                                     NELLORE
                      ANANTAPUR                                     Cuddapah
                                                                                      Kandleru                                                                          NATIONAL HIGHWAYS
 wad                                                                                            R.
                                                                                                                                                                        SELECTED STATE ROADS
    Dhar                                                                                          Nellore
        oT                              R.                     CUDDAPAH                                                                                                 RAILROADS

                                                                                                                                                                        DISTRICT CAPITALS
                                 Papagni
                                                                                                                                                                        STATE CAPITALS

                                                                                                                                                                        DISTRICT BOUNDARIES

                                                                 CHITTOOR                                                                                               STATE BOUNDARY



To Hassan                                                                 Chittoor                          CHENNAI
                                                                                                           (MADRAS)                                       0                   50                   100
                  BANGALORE
                                                                                                                                                                         KILOMETERS

                                                                                                                                                  This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                  The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                  shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                  Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                  To Dindgul                                                      endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.


                                                To Coimbatore


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       MARCH 2000

