RESTRICTED
FILE      COPY                    Report No. p-744
This report was prepared for use within the Barnk and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
September 25, -1969



INTERTATIONAL BA1KTX FOR RLECONSTRUCTIO  A1\ID DEVELOPIMNT
SEPORT AND RECOii?BKDATION OF THE PRi MDlIT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORLS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
FEDLEI4L REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FOR A ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the folloirring report and recommendation on a proposed
loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to $10.6 million to
the Federal Republic of Nigeria.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        In 1965, twio Bank loans amounting to $32.0 million and an IDA credit
for $15.5 million -wiere extended to Nigeria for highwrays in thlee areas - Lagos,
the West and the North.  These tlhree operations represent about 20 per
cent of Bank/IDA lending in Nigeria. Construction work on the Western
and lNorthern road projects is virtually completed but design changes have
resulted in substantial delay in the construction of the four-lane elevated
Apapa Road project in the Lagos area.
3.        Over the last twJo years there has been severe damage to the
Lagos-Jebba road, the main artery for export crops from the liorth, due
to poor maintenance, increased traffic generated by the closing of Port
Harcourt and its connecting roads and railway in Eastern Nigeria, and
record breaking rains during the 1968 rainy season.  The rehabilitation
of this road has become urgent.
4.        Followring a Bank Economic Hission at th1e end of 1968 and at the
request of Nigeria the project was appraised in early 1969.  The appraisal
was confined to the Lagos-Ilorin section of the road since Nigeria had
decided to proceed with reHabilitation of the Ilorin-Jebba section on an
emergency basis under its own arrangements.
5.       INegotiations, based on the recommendations of the Appraisal
M4ission, wiere conducted in IWashington in August 1969.  The Government
was represented by Mr. P.O. Ahimie, Deputy Permanent Secretary, Federal
Ministry of Finance and i@. V.H.A. Aneke, Assistant Director (Engineering),
Federal Ministry of WIorks and Housing.
6.        The following is a summary statement of Bank Loans and IDA Cre-
dits to Nigeria as of August 31, 1969:



-2-
Loan or                                                      Amount (US $ million)
Credit No. Year   Borrower               P=ose              Bank     IDA  Undisbursed
*193 UNI    1958  Federation of Nigeria  Railways            28.0
326 UNI    1962  IJigerian Ports Auth.  Apapa W-fharf        13.5
372 11I    1964  Electricity Corp. cf    Transmission        30.0
Nigeria
383 UNII   1964  Niger Dams Authority   Kainji Multi-
purpose Project    82.0
426 UNI    1965  Republic of Nigeria    Apapa Road           17.5          10.4
427 UNI    1965  Republic of Nigeria    Wlestern Roads       14.5           7.3
572 UII    1968  Niger Dams Authority    Kainji. Multi-
purpose Project
Supplementary      14.5          12.3
588 UNI    1969  Nigerian Industrial
Development Bank       Industry             6.0           6.o
72 UNI    1965  Republic of Nigeria    Education                  20.0    19.1
73 UNI    1965  Republic of Nigeria    Northern Roads             15.5     1.6
Total (less cancellations)                             206.0  35.5    56.7
of which has been repaid to Bank and others            14.9
Total nowr outstanding                                 191.1
Amount sold                                    13.6
of which has been repaid                     10.3       3.3
Total nowT held by Bank and IDA                        187.8  35.5
Total undisbursed                                       36.0 20.7     56.7
Guaranteed by the United Kingdom.
7.        The closing date for Credit 73 UII was recently extended to
June 30, 1970 because payment of retention money is being withheld pending
settlement of claims against the contractor in respect of certain pavement
failures. Withdraw-als against Credit 72 ITiI are far behind schedule. Ini-
tial design work was prolonged and jurisdictional problems arising from the
reorganization of the country into 12 States have delayed contracting.
Tenders have now been invited for the construction of a large number of
schools and contracts are scheduled to be awarded before the end of the
year.  Thereafter disbursements should increase rapidly.   The $2.3 million
allocated to school construction in Eastern Nigeria, the area of the pre-
sent hostilities, has been frozen by action of the Federal Government. Dis-
bursements against Loan 426 UNI were delayed until design changes were un-
dertaken but construction is now proceeding and the rate of disbursement
has improved. ALmost half of Loan 427 UNI remains undisbursed notwithstand-
ing- the fact that the road construction is almost completed. The undis-
bursed balance represents maintenance equipment still to be delivered, re-
imbursements to be made of payments to contractors for works performed
since March 1969, retention money and contingencies. Although no withdrawals



- 3 -
have been made against Loan 588 UNI, two investment projects have been
approved and amounts credited to the Loan account; substantial withdraw-
als are expected shortly.
8.        Projects in agriculture, power and transportation (roads) as
well as a second loan to NIDB have been identified, and the order of
priority and timing of appraisals will be determined in the light of
the course of events in Nigeria.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAi
Borrower              Federal Republic of Nigeria.
Amount                $10.6 million equivalent in various currencies.
Purpose               To meet the foreign exchange cost of rehabilitat-
ing the Lagos-Ilorin and Lagos-Ewekoro roads and
the services of consultants for supervision, for
detailed engineering of a new Lagos-Ibadan road
and for feasibility studies.
Amortization          In 15 years including a 3-year period of grace,
through semi-annual installments beginning
December 15, 1972 and ending December 15, 1984.
Interest rate         7 per cent per annum.
Commitment charge     3/4 of 1 per cent.
PART III - THE PROJECT
9.       An appraisal report entitled "Highway Rehabilitation Project"
(PTR-27a) is attached.
10.      The Project, which will be the responsibility of the Federal
Iinistry of Works and Housing, consists of the reconstruction of the
Lagos-Ilorin section of Federal Trunk Road (FTR) Al (175 miles) and the
Lagos-Ewekoro section of FTR A9 (29 miles). In addition, consultants'
services are provided for supervision, detailed engineering of a new
Lagos-Ibadan road and for feasibility studies for future road projects.
11.      The cost of the road rehabilitation, including contingencies,
is estimated at $14.3 million. The proposed loan would cover the esti-
mated foreign exchange component which is $8.6 million equivalent.
Construction will be carried out by qualified contractors selected on
the basis of international competitive bidding and will be supervised by
consultants acceptable to the Bank. The foreign exchange portions of the
Consultants' fees are included in the loan.



- 4 -
12.       The final design work for the rehabilitation of FTPR Al and FTR
A9 wras started in April 1969 and it is proposed that retroactive financing
be permitted in respect of foreign excliange payments made to consultants
prior to signature of the proposed loan. It is estimated that the amount
involved we,ill not exceed $40,000.
13.       The closing of Port Harcourt and the north-south railwJay line
which passes through the area of the civil iwar hias made the FTR Al from
Lagos to the North the main artery, even more than previously, for the
evacuation of export crops, especially groundnuts. In addition, due to
the reduced capacity of the railways, the road has had to carry additional
quantities of petroleum products destined for Ibadan and the urban centers
in the North. This large increase in both the quantity and the size of
vehicles using the road, coupled with the record breaking rains of 1968,
resulted in the almost complete disintegration of the road in some parts.
The economic rate of return of the Lagos-Ilorin (FTR Al) part of the pro-
ject, based upon even the least favorable of several hypotheses, is
between 9 and 15 per cent in the various sectors and is satisfactory.
14.       Even before the increased traffic, heavy rains and lack of
maintenance, traffic had already almost reached the capacity of the rather
low design standards of the road. A feasibility study of a neu. road from
Lagos to Ibadan financed under Loan 426 UNI disclosed the importance of
such a new road and the need for a s-tudy of the remainder of FTR Al to
the Niger border.   The study indicated that a road along a new alignment
from Lagos to Ibadan would yield an economic rate of return of 26 per cent
and the Government has accorded high priority to the construction of such
a road. Although funds to cover the foreign exchange cost of the final
engineering of a new Lagos-Ibadan road and the feasibility study are in-
cluded in the loan now proposed, it wfill be several years before the pro-
posed roads can be in service and the immediate rehabilitation of the most
heavily trafficked and damaged section (Lagos-Ilorin) is rightly regarded
by the Government as one of its most urgent tasks.
15.       FTR A9 connects Lagos -vith a large cement works at Ewiekoro and
to the coastal road connecting Nigeria with Dahomey, Togo and Ghana and
also serves as an alternative route, through a heavily populated area, to
Ibadan. The Lagos-Ewekoro section has deteriorated badly causing speed
restrictions, congestion and high vehicle operating costs. On the basis
of the least favorable of several hypotheses the rehabilitation of this
road section would provide an economic return of 12 per cent.
PART IV - LEGAL I1STRUEETTS ASW AUTHORITY
16.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Federal Republic of Nigeria
and th-e Bank, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Sec-
tion l; (iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and the text of a
draft Resolution approving the proposed loan are being distributed to the



Executive Directors separately. The draft Loan Agreement follows the
general pattern of and contains provisions normally used for other Bank
highway projects.
PART V - THE ECONOMY
17.       A document entitled "Interim Report on Nigeriats Eco1rmic Posi-
tion and'Prospects" (AWJ-10a) was circulated to the Executive Directors
on 15 September 1969 (R69-193). It concludes that, although the i'igerian
economy outside "Biafra" has so far shown remarkable resilience in absorb-
ing the real and financial strains of the civil war, economic prospects
are clouded by a number of uncertainties, many of them non-economic, vrith
the duration and intensity of the civil war at the head of the list. These
uncertainties concern not so much the longer-run f'low of resources - since
Nigeria's productive endowiment has not as yet suffered serious or lasting
damage - as the use of resources. Fortunately, the prospects for rising
foreign exchange and government revenues appear bright, at least over the
medium-term, thanks in large measure to the prospect for rising revenues
from petroleum.  This, together wsith the present low and favorably struc-
tured external public debt service, provides the basis for substantial
long-term borrowing even on conventional terms.
PART VI - COIMPLIACEC IWITHI ARTICLES OF AGREEiT
18.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply wTith the Ar-
ticles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII - RECOHMATIDATION
19.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. I'cWanara
President
by J. Burke Knapp
Attachment
Wlashington, D.C.
SepteMber 25, 1969



