OFPICIAL      LOAN NUMBER 2013 MA
Project Agreement
(FELCRA I Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
THE FEDERAL LAND CONSOLIDATION AND
REHABILITATION AUTHORITY
Dated                             , 1981


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2013 MA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                              , 1981, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR   CON  UCTION AND D1 '-LOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) and THE FEDERAL LAND CONSOLIDATION AND REHABILI-
TATION AUTHORITY (hereinafter called FELCRA).
WHEREAS by t'e Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
Malaysia (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Bank, the
Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in
various currencies equivalent to thirty-seven million dollars
($37,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only on condition that FELCRA agrees to undertake
such obligations toward the Bank as are hereinafter set forth;
and
WHEREAS FELCRA, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. FELCRA shall carry out the Project, described
in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, engineering and agricultural practices.
Section 2.02. In order to assist FELCRA in carrying out the
Project, FELCRA shall employ engineering, financial, and manage-
ment consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank and the
Borrower.


﻿-2-
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) FELCRA undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan made available
to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisi-
tion, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be
payable in a currency freely usable by FELCRA to replace or repair
such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, FELCRA shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan made available to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively
for the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) FELCRA shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,
contract documents and work and procurement schedules for the
Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) FELCRA: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it),
to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii)
shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeus of the Loan and any
relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Bank at regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by FELCRA of any contract for goods,
works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name and
nationality of the party to whom the contract was a arded and
the contract price.


﻿-3-
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between FELCRA
and the Bank, FELCRA shall prepare and furnish to the Bank
a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of
the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived
from it, the performance by FELCRA and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligations under the Project Agreement and the accomplish-
ment of the purposes of the Loan.
(e) FELCRA shall enable the Bank's representatives to
examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of FELCRA and any relevant records and
documents.
Section 2.06. (a) FELCRA shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of the
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement,
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) FELCRA shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or
the performance by FELCRA of its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 2.07. FELCRA shall, by June 30, 1982, carry out a
review of its existing settler selection criteria and promptly
furnish a report detailing proposals for modifying such criteria
to the Borrower and the Bank for their agreement.
Section 2.08. FELCRA shall: (a) prepare feasibility reports
for individual schemes to be developed under Part A of the Pro-
ject; (b) furnish to the Bank for its prior review such feasi-
bility reports covering schemes of 1,500 acres (about 607 ha) and
over; and (c) ensure that all schemes under the Project will yield
an economic rate of return of 10% or more.
Section 2.09. In order to carry out Part D of the Project,
FELCRA shall: (a) by March 31, 1982, prepare a plan acceptable to
the Bank and the Borrower for strengthening and expansion of its
organizational structure, such plan will include inter alia the
creation of new staff positions as detailed in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement; and (b) implement such plan in consultation with the
Borrower and the Bank.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of FELCRA
Section 3.01. (a) FELCRA shall at all times conduct its
operations under competent and experienced management, in accord-
ance with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and
agricultural practices.
(b) FELCRA shall at all times operate, maintain, renew and
repair its facilities, plant, equipment and machinery in accor-
dance with appropriate engineering and management practices.
Section 3.02. FELCRA shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactoir to the Bank
for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.03. FELCRA shall, by December 31, 1982 appoint:
(a) a Director of Program Development and Evaluation; and (b) four
Regional Controllers whose qualifications and experiences are
acceptable to the Bank and the Borrower.
Section 3.04. FELCRA shall, by June 30, 1983, appoint a
Deputy Director General (Administration) whose qualifications and
experience are acceptable to the Bank and the Borrower.
Section 3.05. FELCRA shall, by December 31, 1981, appoint a
senior planning advisor and a training and staff development
advisor whose qualifications and experiences are acceptable to the
Bank and the Borrower.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. FELCRA shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices acceptable to the Bank, its operations and
financial condition.
Section 4.02. In o.der to carry out Part D of the Project,
FELCRA shall: (a) not later than June 30, 1982, prepare proposals
for implementation of a system of financial management and report-
ing acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank; and (b) not later


﻿-5-
than December 31, 1982, prepare a five-year financial projection
detailing its expected revenues, expenditures and financial
position, such projection will be reviewed and updated annually.
Section 4.03. FELCRA shall: (i) have its accounts and finan-
cial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accor-
dance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank;
(ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than nine months after the end of each such year, (A)
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of FELCRA and the
audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of FELCRA thereunder shall terminate on the date on which
the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms,
and the Bank shall promptly so notify FELCRA thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such r.otice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or


﻿-6-
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
For FELCRA:
The Federal Land Consolidation
and Rehabilitation Authority
First Floor MISC Building
JALAN CONLAY
P.O. Box 2254
Kuala Lumpur
Malaysia
Cable address:
FELCRA
Kuala Lumpur
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of FELCRA may be taken or executed by
the Director General or such other person or persons as the
Director General shall designate in writing, and FELCRA shall
furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.


﻿- 7 -
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
THE FEDERAL LAND CONSOLIDATION AND
REHABILITATION AUTHORITY
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 8 -
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, FELCRA shall prepare and forward
to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not later than
60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of the
first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto,
as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and
detail and containing such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request; the Bank will arrange for the publication of such
notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and works in
question. FELCRA shall provide the necessary information to update
such notice annually so long as any goods or works remain to be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Malaysia ma. be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:


﻿-9-
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Malaysia if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Dank that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in Malaysia equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest evalu-
ated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from Group A or Group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from Group C, all Group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
Group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each Group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
Group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the Group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from Group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.


﻿- 10 -
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Land clearing, agricultural development and maintenance,
and civil works for staff housing and related infrastructure may
be procured in accordance with competitive bidding procedures
satisfactory to the Bank after local advertisement.
2.   Items of equipment estimated to cost not more than the
equivalent of $800,000 in the aggregate may be procured in accor-
dance with the normal procedures of the Borrower.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $2,500,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, FELCRA shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, FELCRA
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsiste-t with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform FELCRA and state the reasons
for such determination.
'c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
vIthout the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
CL 7'ilch bids were asked or prequalification invited.


﻿- 11 -
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the sub-
mission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, FELCRA shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform FELCRA and state the reasons for
such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, FELCRA shall inform the Bank
and the Borrower of the proposed modification, waiver, extension
or change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it deter-
mines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions
of this Agreement, shall promptly inform FELCRA and state the
reasons for its determination.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Section 2.09
Senior Staff Positions to be Included in the Plan
Deputy Director - General (Administration)
Directors - Agriculture
- Program Development and Evaluation
- Settler Development
- Personnel and Training
- Data Processing
- Marketing and Processing
Regional Controllers (4)


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this %        day of       , 198L/-.
FOR SECRETARY


