Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 7033 LV
Project Agreement
(Liepaja Region Solid Waste Management Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
LIEPAJAS RAS, LTD.
Dated December 19, 2000 
LOAN NUMBER 7033 LV
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 19, 2000, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and Liepajas RAS, Ltd., (LRL).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between Republic of 
Latvia (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the 
Borrower an amount of two million two hundred twenty thousand dollars ($2,220,000) for 
Part A.1 and 2 of the Project, on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan 
Agreement, but only on condition LRL agree to undertake such obligations toward the 
Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and LRL, the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be made 
available to LRL on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS LRL, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as 
so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. LRL declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as 
set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering and environmental practices, and shall provide, 
or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project.
Section 2.02. LRL shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about March 15, 2003, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, by May 15, 2003, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
Section 2.03. LRL shall carry out the EMP with due diligence and efficiency and 
in accordance with appropriate environmental and social practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds and other resources required therefor.
Section 2.04. LRL shall carry out the PIP in a timely manner, satisfactory to 
the Bank.
Section 2.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and works required for Part A.1 and 2 of the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.06. (a)  LRL shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
Page  3
limitation thereto,  LRL shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) 
months 
after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for 
this purpose between the Bank and 
LRL, a plan for design to 
ensure the sustainability 
of the Project; and
(ii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with LRL on said plan.
Section 2.07. LRL shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, LRL shall not take or concur 
in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or 
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.08. (a)  LRL shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with 
the Bank with regard to progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations 
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and other matters 
relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
LRL shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Loan, or the performance by LRL of its obligations under this 
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of the LRL 
Section 3.01. LRL shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering and environmental 
practices, in accordance with the BDP, under the supervision of qualified and 
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. LRL shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, 
financial and environmental practices.
Section 3.03. LRL shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers 
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with 
appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) LRL shall cause PIU to maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in accordance 
with accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, adequate to 
reflect its operations and financial condition and to register separately the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
LRL shall cause PIU to:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements 
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses 
and 
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, 
in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to 
the Bank, consistently applied, 
Page  4
by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six months after the end of each 
such 
year, (A) certified copies of the financial 
statements referred 
to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, for such year as so 
audited, and (B) an 
opinion on such statements and reports 
of such audit 
by said auditors of such scope and in such 
detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning 
such records, accounts and financial statements, and 
the 
audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, as 
the Bank may 
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, LRL shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Bank for the 
strengthening of the financial management system referred to in paragraph (a) of said 
Section 4.01 in order to enable LRL, not later than June 30, 2001, or such later date 
as the Bank shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project Management Reports, acceptable 
to the Bank, each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of 
funds for the Project, both cumulatively and for the 
period 
covered by said report, and projected sources 
and applications of 
funds for the Project for the 
six-month period following the 
period covered by said 
report, and (B) shows separately expenditures 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan during the 
period covered by said report and expenditures 
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan during 
the six-month period following the period 
covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project 
implementation, both cumulatively and for the period 
covered by said report, and (B) explains variances 
between the 
actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; 
and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the 
Project and expenditures under contracts financed out 
of the 
proceeds of the Loan, as at the end of the 
period covered by 
said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the LRL shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the 
Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar 
quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, LRL shall not incur 
any debt unless a reasonable forecast of the revenues and expenditures of LRL shows 
that the estimated net revenues of LRL for each fiscal year during the term of the 
debt to be incurred shall be at least 1.0 times the estimated debt service 
requirements of LRL in such year on all debt of LRL including the debt to be incurred.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
the term “debt” means any indebtedness of LRL 
maturing by its terms more than one year after the 
date 
on which it is originally incurred.
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan 
contract or agreement or other instrument providing 
for 
Page  5
such debt or for the modification of its terms of 
payment on the date 
of such contract, agreement or 
instrument; and (B) under a 
guarantee agreement, on 
the date of the agreement providing for 
such 
guarantee has been entered into.
(iii)
The term “debt service requirements” means the 
aggregate amount of repayments (including sinking 
fund 
payments, if any) of, and interest and other 
charges on, debt.
(iv)
The term “reasonable forecast” means a forecast 
prepared by LRL not earlier than twelve months prior 
to the 
incurrence of the debt in question, which both 
the Bank and LRL 
accept as reasonable and as to which 
the Bank has notified LRL of its 
acceptability, 
provided that no event has occurred since such 
notification which has, or may reasonably be expected 
in the future to have, a material adverse effect on 
the financial condition or future operating results 
of LRL.
(v)
Whenever for the purposes of these Sections it shall 
be necessary to value, in terms of the currency of 
the 
Borrower, debt payable in another currency, such 
valuation 
shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful 
rate of exchange at which such 
other currency is, at the time of 
such valuation, 
obtainable for the purposes of servicing such 
debt, 
or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis of a 
rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of LRL 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify LRL thereof.
Section 5.03. All this provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Page  6
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Fax:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
202 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For LRL:
Liepajas RAS, Ltd.
Rozu iela 6
LV-3400, Liepaja
Republic of Latvia 
Fax:
371 34 07298
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of LRL may be 
taken or executed by LRL or such other person or persons as LRL shall designate in 
writing, and LRL shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and 
the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Riga, Republic of Latvia, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Basil G. Kavalsky
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
LIEPAJAS RAS, LTD.
By /s/ Indulis Ozolins
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this 
Schedule.
Page  7
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $350,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $400,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to all contracts for Parts B and C, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
