Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 7033 LV
Loan Agreement
(Liepaja Region Solid Waste Management Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF LATVIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated December 19, 2000
LOAN NUMBER 7033 LV
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 19, 2000, between REPUBLIC OF LATVIA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Project will be carried out by Liepajas RAS, Ltd. (LRL), with the 
Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make the 
proceeds of the loan provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Loan) available 
to the LRL, as set forth in this Agreement; 
(C)
the Borrower intends to contract from the Canadian International 
Development Agency (CIDA) a grant (the CIDA Grant) in an amount equivalent to $470,000 
to assist in financing Part B of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in 
an agreement (the CIDA Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and 
CIDA; 
(D)
the Borrower intends to contract from the European Union (EU) a grant 
(the EU Grant) in an amount equivalent to $4,860,000 to assist in financing Part A.1, 
2, 3, 4 and 5 of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement 
Page  2
(the EU Financing Memorandum) to be entered into between the Borrower and EU;
(E)
the Borrower intends to contract from the Swedish International 
Development Agency (Sida) a grant (the Sida Grant) in an amount equivalent to 
approximately $1,180,000 to assist in financing Part A.6 of the Project on the terms 
and conditions set forth in an agreement (the Sida Grant Agreement) to be entered into 
between the Borrower and Sida; 
(F)
the Borrower intends to contract from the Prototype Carbon Fund (PCF) to 
purchase greenhouse gas emission reductions achieved from the Project in an amount of 
$2,477,000 on terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the PCF Emission 
Reduction Purchase Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and the Bank, as 
Trustee of the PCF;
(G)
the Borrower intends to contract from the Nordic Investment Bank (NIB) a 
loan in an amount equivalent to $1,500,000 (the NIB Loan) to assist in financing Part 
A.2 and 7 of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement to be 
entered into between the Borrower and NIB (the NIB Loan Agreement); and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower for Part A.1 and 2 of the Project, upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the agreement of even date herewith 
between the Bank and LRL (the Project Agreement);
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank, dated September 1, 1999 (the General 
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“BDP” means the Business Development Plan of LRL, adopted by LRL, as the 
same may be amended from time to time;
(b)
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1) and (2), set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(c) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works and 
services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(d)
“EMP” means the Environmental Management Plan, adopted by the Borrower, 
describing the control and monitoring of the project’s environmental impact as well as 
the responsibilities for its execution;
(e)
“LRL” means the Liepajas RAS, Ltd., a non-profit limited liability 
company established on February 24, 2000.
(f)
“MEPRD” means Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional 
Development of the Borrower;
(g)
“National Solid Waste Management Strategy” means the solid waste 
Page  3
management strategy of the Borrower, covering the period from 1998 to 2010, adopted by 
the Cabinet of Ministers of the Borrower on June 30, 1998;
(h)
“PSC” means the Project Steering Committee, consisting of members of the 
Liepaja City Council, the Liepaja Regional Council, Managing Director of LRL, Liepaja 
Regional Environmental Board, EC Delegation, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Economy, 
Representative of the Minister for Special Assignment for Cooperation with 
International Financing Agencies and MEPRD, established by the Liepaja City Council 
for the purpose of Project implementation.
(i)
“PIP” means the manual for the carrying out of the Project prepared and 
adopted by the Borrower, as the same may be amended from time to time with the 
agreement of the Bank;
(j)
“PIU” means the Project Implementation Unit, preparing reports to the 
PSC, and implementing procurement and disbursement activities of Part A of the Project 
pursuant to the Project Agreement;
(k)
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and LRL, of even 
date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes 
all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(l)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(m)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; and
(n)
“Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and LRL, pursuant to Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and “Subsidiary Loan” means the loan to be made pursuant to 
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to two million 
two hundred twenty thousand Dollars ($2,220,000), as such amount may be converted from 
time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 2.09 of this Agreement.
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan and in respect of interest and other charges in respect of the 
Loan, the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement and any premium 
in respect of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar payable by the Borrower in 
accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions.
Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2007, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to twenty-two thousand two hundred Dollars ($22,200). The Borrower agrees that 
on or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
Page  4
withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one percent (0.85%) from the date on which such charge 
commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of the General 
Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (ii) seventy 
five one-hundredths of one percent (0.75%) thereafter.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of 
the principal amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, 
pay interest on such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV 
of the General Conditions.
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.08.  The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i)
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or 
unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency;
(ii)
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all 
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
from a 
Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; 
and
(iii)
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable 
to all or any portion of the principal amount of the 
Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment 
of an 
Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on 
said Variable Rate.
(b)
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 
2.01(7) of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
(c)
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium 
be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any 
premium payable in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to 
the amount allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall cause LRL to perform in accordance with 
the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of LRL therein set forth, 
shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, 
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable LRL to 
Page  5
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which 
would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan to LRL under a 
subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and LRL under terms 
and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank which shall include the 
provisions set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and 
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement 
or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and works required for Part A.1 and 2 of the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by the 
LRL pursuant to Section 2.05 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall cause the proceeds of the PCF Emission 
Reduction Purchase Agreement to be used exclusively for the purposes of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall cause the PIU to:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with 
sound accounting practices, records and separate 
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures are retained until at least one year 
after the 
Bank has received the audit report for the 
fiscal year in which 
the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such 
records.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause the PIU to:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in 
paragraph (a)(i) of this Section and those for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six months after the end of each 
such 
year the report of such audit by said auditors, 
of such scope 
and in such detail as the Bank shall 
have reasonably requested, 
including a separate 
opinion by said auditors as to whether 
the Project 
Management reports or statements of expenditure 
Page  6
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related 
withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning 
said records and accounts and the audit thereof as 
the 
Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause the PIU to carry out a time-bound action plan 
acceptable to the Bank for the strengthening of the financial management system 
referred to in paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not 
later than June 30, 2001, or such later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare 
quarterly Project management reports, acceptable to the Bank, each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of 
funds for the Project, both cumulatively and for the 
period 
covered by said report, and projected sources 
and applications of 
funds for the Project for the 
six-month period following the 
period covered by said 
report, and (B) shows separately expenditures 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan during the 
period covered by said report and expenditures 
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan during 
the six-month period following the period 
covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project 
implementation, both cumulatively and for the period 
covered by said report, and (B) explains variances 
between the 
actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; 
and
(iii)  sets forth the status of procurement under the 
Project and expenditures under contracts financed out 
of the 
proceeds of the Loan, as at the end of the 
period covered by 
said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each 
calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
The LRL shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that the LRL will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c) 
National Solid Waste Management Strategy shall have been amended so as to 
affect materially and adversely the ability of LRL to perform any of its obligations 
under the Project Agreement.
(d)
EU Financing Memorandum shall have failed to become effective by November 
1, 2000, or such later date as the Bank may agree; provided, however, that the 
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the 
Page  7
satisfaction of the Bank that adequate funds for the Project are available to the 
Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of 
the Borrower under this Agreement.
(e)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the 
right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of  
any 
grant or loan made to the Borrower for the 
financing of the 
Project shall have been suspended, 
canceled or terminated in 
whole or in part, pursuant 
to the terms thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if 
the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the 
Bank 
that: (A) such suspension, cancellation, 
termination 
or prematuring is not caused by the 
failure of the Borrower to 
perform any of its 
obligations under such agreement; and 
(B) adequate 
funds for the Project are available to the Borrower 
from other sources on terms and conditions consistent 
with the obligations of the Borrower under this 
Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any of the events specified in 
Section 5.01 (a) through (c) of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower 
and LRL; and
(b)
the Sida Grant, NIB Loan, and PCF Carbon Purchase Agreements have been 
executed and delivered and all conditions precedent to the effectiveness thereof or to 
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals thereunder, except only the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement have been fulfilled.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized by LRL, and is 
legally binding upon LRL in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized by the 
Borrower and LRL, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and LRL in accordance with 
its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.10, the Minister of Finance of the 
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 
Page  8
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
1 Smilsu Street
Riga, LV-1919
Republic of Latvia
Telex:
Facsimile:
871 161 299
371 7095 503
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
202 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Riga, Republic of Latvia, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF LATVIA
By /s/ Edmunds Krastins
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Basil G. Kavalsky
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia 
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
A. General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Page  9
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed
Expenditures
Category
in US Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Works for Parts A.1   1,687,800
100% of foreign 
and 2
expenditures,
80% of local 
expenditures
(2)
Goods for Parts A.1     510,000
100% of foreign
and 2
expenditures, 
100% of local
expenditures 
(ex-factory cost)
and 84% of local 
expenditures for other
items procured locally
(3)
Fee
     22,200
Amount due under
Section 2.04 of this
Agreement
(4)
Premia for Interest
0
Amount due under
Rate Caps
Section 2.09 (c) of this
and Interest Rate Collars
Agreement
TOTAL
  2,220,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or works supplied from the territory 
of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or works supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for contracts for goods and works 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent each, all under such terms and conditions as the 
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account, in a 
commercial Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.
2.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Bank shall have received: (i) the first Project Management 
Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement; and (ii) a request from the 
Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Bank of a Project Management Report pursuant to 
Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for 
Page  10
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures. For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project Management Report 
does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of this 
Agreement;
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account, or (B) the records 
and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on 
the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part 
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the Bank shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account 
may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the 
Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment. Unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of 
this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are Not 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
Page  11
1.
For the purposes of this Annex:
The term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of US$200,000 to be withdrawn 
from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 
of this Annex.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis 
of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank 
shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn 
by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to 
the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such 
deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account 
under one or more of the Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and 
(b) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the Project Management Report 
accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order to finance 
Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such report; 
provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount indicated by 
said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special Account, shall not 
exceed the equivalent of $400,000.
Page  12
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to improve municipal solid waste management 
system through maximum collection and utilization of landfill gas in Liepaja City and 
Liepaja Region.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Investment Component
1.
Remediation and closure of selected existing dump sites through separation of 
surface water coverage and/or re-vegetation, according to the condition of each site. 
2.
Improvement of site operation through establishment of: (a) a reception station 
for separation of recyclable materials; (b) separate storage areas for recyclable and 
hazardous materials; (c) treatment plant for collected leachate; and (d) automated 
transportation system between cells and special equipment to treat sludge. 
3.
Shredding equipment for pretreatment of waste before transport to the energy 
cells, installation of energy cells and a landfill gas collection system.
4.
Installation of a power generator, running on landfill gas, of about 1 megawatt 
capacity at Grobina and of about 0.3 megawatt capacity at Skede.
5.
Establishment of waste collection points in each municipality in Liepaja Region 
to assure the efficient transport of waste to the regional disposal site, and 
provision of vehicles for transportation.
6.
Capacity building of LRL with regard to company management and site operation 
through technical assistance.
7.
Provision of the detailed design, including technical specifications, bill of 
quantities and all necessary drawings for project implementation, and bidding 
documents.
Part B:
Technical Assistance Component
Provision of training to waste management utilities in municipal governments, 
municipal authorities and private sector companies involved in the implementation of 
the National Solid Waste Management Strategy.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2006.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Installment Share
Date Payment Due
(Expressed as a %)   
Page  13
On each March 15 and September 15 
beginning September 15, 2005
through September 15, 2016
4.17%
On March 15, 2017
4.09%
SCHEDULE 4
Principal Terms of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
The Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall include the following principal terms and 
conditions:
1.
The obligation of the Borrower to relend the proceeds of the Loan to the LRL.
2.
The obligation of LRL:
(a)
to repay the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding 10 days before the days specified for the amortization of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; such principal amount 
to be the equivalent in terms of the currency of the Borrower, determined as of the 
respective dates of repayment, of amounts withdrawn from the Loan Account;
(b)
to pay, on the dates specified in Section 2.06 of the Agreement: (i) a 
commitment charge on the unwithdrawn amount of the Subsidiary Loan at the rate 
specified in Section 2.05 of this Agreement, minus any waiver thereof as may be 
determined from time to time by the Bank; (ii) interest on the amount of the 
Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and outstanding at the annual rate determined in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 2.06 of this Agreement; and (iii) a fee including the 
amount of the Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and outstanding at the annual rate of 0.5% to 
cover the Borrower’s administrative cost in connection with the Loan and potential 
onlending risks; and
(c)
to perform all of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
