                                        Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                                 Report No: ICR0000504




          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                      (IBRD-70330)




                                           ON A

                                           LOAN

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 2.22 MILLION

                                          TO THE

                                REPUBLIC OF LATVIA

                                           FOR A

          LIEPAJA REGION SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PROJECT




                                  DECEMBER 21, 2007




Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization

                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

               (Exchange Rate Effective October 25, 2007)

                   Currency Unit = Latvian Lats (LVL)
                          LVL 1.00 = US$ 2.0284
                          US$ 1.00 = LVL 0.4930

                              FISCAL YEAR
                        January 1 to December 31

                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AMs     Aide-Memoires
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CIDA    Canadian International Development Agency
DEPA    Danish Environmental Protection Agency
EA      Environmental Assessment
EL      Energy Law
EMP     Environmental Management Plan
ERPA    Emission Reductions Purchase Agreement
ERR     Economic Rate of Return
EU      European Union
ERs     Emissions Reductions
FIRR    Financial Internal Rate of Return
GHG     Green House Gases
GoL     Government of Latvia
IBRD    International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ISPA    Instrument for Structural Policies for Pre-Accession
JCI     Japan Consulting Institute
LCC     Liepaja City Council
LEP     Liepaja Environment Project
LFG     Landfill Gas
LoSWM   Law on Solid Waste Management
L-RAS   Liepajas Ras Ltd
LREPB   Liepaja Region Environmental Protection Board
LVL     Latvian Lats
LWWTP   Liepaja Waste Water Treatment Plant
MERs    Minimum Emissions Reductions
MoE     Ministry of Environment, former Ministry of Environmental Protection
        and Regional Development (MOEPRD)
MoEc    Ministry of Economy
MoF     Ministry of Finance
MVP     Monitoring Verification Protocol
NEPP    National Environmental Policy Plan
NES     National Energy Strategy



                                     ii

NIB    Nordic Investment Bank
NMSWMS National Municipal Solid Waste Management Strategy
PAD    Project Appraisal Document
PCF    Prototype Carbon Fund
PIU    Project Implementation Unit
RMSWMP Riga Municipal Solid Waste Management Project
ROP    Reverse Osmosis Plant
SIDA   Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency
TA     Twinning Arrangements
ToR    Terms of Reference
WB     World Bank




                     Vice President: Shigeo Katsu
             Acting Country Director: Sergiy V. Kulik
                    Sector Manager: Juergen Voegele
                Project Team Leader: Barbara Letachowicz
                  ICR Team Leader: Barbara Letachowicz




                                    iii

                                                LATVIA
                  Liepaja Region Solid Waste Management Project




                                             CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 7
 3. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 11
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 18
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 18
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 20
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 21
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 22
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 24
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 25
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 43
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 45
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 46
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 47
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 56
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 57
 MAP




                                                      iv

A. Basic Information

                                                                     Liepaja Region Solid
Country:                Latvia                 Project Name:         Waste Management
                                                                     Project
Project ID:             P058476                L/C/TF Number(s):     IBRD-70330
ICR Date:               12/28/2007             ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                     GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                    Borrower:
                                                                     LATVIA
Original Total
                        USD 2.2M               Disbursed Amount:     USD 2.2M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: A
Implementing Agencies:
Liepajas RAS
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency (SIDA)
Nordic Investment Bank (NIB)


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date             Process         Original Date  Revised / Actual
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review:        12/21/1998     Effectiveness:        08/10/2001       08/10/2001
Appraisal:             01/17/2000     Restructuring(s):
Approval:              09/14/2000     Mid-term Review:                       06/14/2004
                                      Closing:              06/30/2007       06/30/2007


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   High
Bank Performance:                              Highly Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                          Highly Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                  Ratings                Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Highly Satisfactory    Government:           Highly Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Highly Satisfactory    Implementing
                                               Agency/Agencies:      Highly Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                   Overall Borrower
Performance:            Highly Satisfactory    Performance:          Highly Satisfactory




                                               i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                             QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators           (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project No                  Quality at Entry
                                                                    None
at any time (Yes/No):                         (QEA):
Problem Project at any                        Quality of
                          No                                        None
time (Yes/No):                                Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                             Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Other industry                                                  6                 6
Solid waste management                                         88                88
Sub-national government administration                          6                 6


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Administrative and civil service reform                       Primary         Primary
Climate change                                                Primary         Primary
Municipal governance and institution building                 Primary
Pollution management and environmental health                 Primary         Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                     At ICR                        At Approval
Vice President:           Shigeo Katsu                     Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:         Suman Mehra                      Basil G. Kavalsky
Sector Manager:           Motoo Konishi                    Kevin M. Cleaver
Project Team Leader:      Barbara Letachowicz              Anders O. Halldin
ICR Team Leader:          Barbara Letachowicz
ICR Primary Author:       Anders O. Halldin
                          Barbara Letachowicz
                          Stubenitsky Frank




                                             ii

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The purpose of this project is to demonstrate self-sustaining, modern management of
municipal solid waste through maximum collection and utilization of landfill gas (LFG)
in the city and district of Liepaja. Other objectives include:

  a) Demonstrating modern sanitary landfill techniques on a regional basis;
  b) Strengthening institutional capacity at the local/regional levels on issues related to
municipal solid waste management;
  c) Arresting the on-going contamination of groundwater;
  d) Reducing environmental disamenities for neighbors of existing disposal sites that
would be closed;
  e) Facilitating the separation of recyclable material; and
  f) Reducing greenhouse gas emissions through an emission reduction agreement with
the Prototype Carbon Fund (PCF).

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
Project Development Objectives were not revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target      Formally     Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value           Values (from        Revised       Achieved at
                                                 approval         Target       Completion or
                                                documents)        Values       Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions

Value                                       13,000 tonnes

quantitative or 0 tonnes Carbon             Carbon equivalent               4,994 tonnes carbon

Qualitative)    equivalent                  (in amended                     equivalent
                                            version of ERPA)
Date achieved 05/01/2004                    06/30/2007                      06/30/2007

Comments        The most recent analyses made by independent experts, as well as some analysis

(incl. %        made by the PCF staff resulted in the opinion that MER amount has been

achievement)    oversetimated due to use of Tier 1 model which use resulted in overestimation in
                other projects as well.

Indicator 2 :   Reduced environmental disamenities for neighbours through closure and
                remediation of small dump sites in Liepaja region
Value                                       15 dump sites in                26 dump sites in
quantitative or 0 dump sites in Liepaja     Liepaja region                  Liepaja region
Qualitative)    region closed               closed                          closed
Date achieved 08/01/2002                    01/31/2007                      06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 :   Facilitating the separation of recyclable material
Value           no separation is taking     Was not set in                  Some 263.5 tons of
quantitative or place                       numerical values.               waste were sorted


                                                 iii

Qualitative)                                                                  out in year 2006
                                                                              against 1,605 tons
                                                                              in 2005. A total of
                                                                              125,784 tons of
                                                                              waste werte stored
                                                                              in the energy cells,
                                                                              of which 97,065
                                                                              tons of household
                                                                              waste and 2,863
                                                                              tons of garden
                                                                              waste.
Date achieved 05/01/2004                  01/31/2007                          06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target        Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator        Baseline Value          Values (from                          Achieved at
                                              approval            Revised        Completion or
                                             documents)       Target Values       Target Years

Indicator 1 :  Strengthening institutional capacity at the local/regional levels on issues related
               to municipal solid waste management
                                                                              Public awareness
                                                                              campaign on
                                                                              functioning of
                                                                              modern waste
                                                                              disposal site has

               no basic knowledge on                                          been successful.
Value                                                                         The increase in
(quantitative  functioning of a modern no numeric values                      tariff in late 2005
or Qualitative)solid waste management have been set
               system                                                         has not increased
                                                                              illegal dumping.
                                                                              The modern
                                                                              sanitary landfill
                                                                              techniques are
                                                                              implemented in the
                                                                              Liepaja Region.
Date achieved 08/01/2002                  07/31/2006                          06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)




                                              iv

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                               Actual
No.    Date ISR
       Archived              DO                  IP         Disbursements
                                                            (USD millions)
 1    11/02/2000         Satisfactory        Satisfactory             0.00
 2    11/08/2000         Satisfactory        Satisfactory             0.00
 3    04/11/2001         Satisfactory        Satisfactory             0.00
 4    07/14/2001         Satisfactory        Satisfactory             0.00
 5    12/10/2001         Satisfactory        Satisfactory             0.02
 6    06/28/2002         Satisfactory        Satisfactory             0.02
 7    12/18/2002         Satisfactory        Satisfactory             0.18
 8    04/16/2003         Satisfactory        Satisfactory             0.18
 9    09/22/2003         Satisfactory        Satisfactory             0.45
10    12/15/2003         Satisfactory        Satisfactory             0.50
11    03/11/2004         Satisfactory        Satisfactory             0.84
12    07/07/2004         Satisfactory        Satisfactory             0.86
13    12/01/2004      Highly Satisfactory    Satisfactory             1.49
14    06/28/2005         Satisfactory        Satisfactory             1.77
15    06/12/2006         Satisfactory        Satisfactory             1.86
16    08/10/2006         Satisfactory        Satisfactory             1.86
17    02/14/2007         Satisfactory        Satisfactory             2.04



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                         v

I. Disbursement Profile




                           vi

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
The development of institutional capacity at the local and regional levels to manage
programs for local infrastructure and environmental clean-up was one of five key areas of
World Bank assistance highlighted in the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)1 for the
Republic of Latvia approved in 1998. Despite the progress made by Latvia until early
1998 in preparing a National Environmental Policy Plan (NEPP) and reaching some
reduction in land and water pollution, Latvia's national and local environmental
management capacity was below the levels required for European Union accession. The
proposed Project was designed to contribute to an improvement of this situation, by
strengthening institutional capacity and demonstrating self-sustaining provision of waste
management services. The Project was also to respond to the need to extend the World
Bank assistance provided to the municipality of Riga to other municipalities that need
better delivery of urban services. In addition to directly benefiting the Liepaja region, the
Project is expected to spur interest for similar projects in other regions.

The CAS specifically called for an operation to, inter alia, promote private sector
participation in wastewater and waste management. Even if the operating company
Liepajas RAS (L-RAS) is owned by the municipalities in the Liepaja region, it is
operating on commercial terms.

1.1 Context at Appraisal
Improved waste management cited in a National Environmental Policy Plan (NEPP)
completed by Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development
(MOEPRD) in 1995, was one of the top five priorities for Latvia within the time frame up
to 2025.      Pursuant to the NEPP, the Government of Latvia (GoL) initiated
implementation of a program of upgrading or closing all existing waste disposal sites,
many of which posed a risk to local groundwater resources. To support this program
institutionally, a National Municipal Solid Waste Management Strategy (NMSWMS)              2

has been prepared, supported by the Danish Environmental Protection Agency (DEPA).

The NMSWMS emphasized regional solutions as a key strategic element to improved
and cost effective waste management. It was estimated that upon completion of the
NMSWMS only 10-12 major sites would remain to serve the waste disposal needs of
Latvia. At the same time, the National Energy Strategy (NES)3 stated that due to the
country's few natural resources and the need to import all of its natural gas and oil
products and half of its electricity, the use of indigenous energy resources and the
diversification of energy sources are of high priority.         The Energy Law (EL) was
amended in early 2000 to grant a preferential status to electricity produced from landfill
gas (LFG). Provisions for LFG capture were also included in the 1996 Law on Solid
Waste Management (LoSWM).




1Report No 17706-LV as of 05/19/98
21997
31997


                                              1

Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions resulting from improper landfill operations are
recognized as a serious environmental concern. MOEPRD declared that the reduction
and collection of methane from municipal solid waste disposal sites was one of the
Government's priorities for the reduction of GHG emissions. Under the proposed Project,
the resulting GHG abatement benefits have been shared between the GoL and the
Prototype Carbon Fund (PCF) under an Emissions Reduction Purchase Agreement
(ERPA) signed in December 2000.

Both the Liepaja City Council (LCC) and the MOEPRD requested the World Bank's
support at the end of 1995 in designing and preparing a project for improved waste
management in Liepaja City. Due to preparation of the Riga Waste Management project4
which was ongoing at that time, the World Bank had to delay its positive response to
mid-1998. However, the Bank raised several conditions for engaging in a new waste
management operation in Latvia: (i) Project compliance with the NMSWMS; (ii) clear
consensus among all involved municipalities within the Liepaja region on their
participation in Project development and implementation; (iii) active participation of
MOEPRD and LCC staff in Project preparation, including staff responsible for providing
information to the public and mass media. In addition a request was formulated and
addressed to Swedish International Cooperation Development Agency (SIDA) for active
participation in Project preparation.       When the conditions had been met, Project
preparation started in June 1998.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
The purpose of the Project was to demonstrate self-sustaining, modern management of
municipal solid waste in the city and region of Liepaja through maximum collection and
utilization of LFG. Other objectives included:
a) Demonstrating modern sanitary landfill techniques developed on a regional basis;
b) Strengthening institutional capacity at the local/regional levels on issues related to
municipal solid waste management;
c) Arresting the on-going contamination of groundwater;
d) Reducing environmental disamenities for neighbors of existing waste disposal sites;
e) Facilitating the separation of recyclable material; and
f) Reducing GHG emissions through an ERPA with the PCF.

It should be emphasized that at start of the Project preparation the overarching main
objective was to establish a modern waste management facility for the Liepaja Region
including the capture and destruction of LFG. Based on this main objective the PDOs a)
to e) were formulated. During the preparation phase PCF became interested in participate
in the financing of the Project by offering the procurement of Emission Reductions (ERs)
formalized through the ERPA. Consequently, this agreement resulted in an additional
PDO as mentioned under f) above.

The following key outcome indicators were agreed to assess achievement of PDOs:



4Municipal Solid Waste Management Project (Loan LV4286)


                                               2

· The efficiency of waste management: technical performance, consumer satisfaction,
amount of recyclable materials,
· Local environmental pollution: water quality, reduced complaints from neighbors,
· Financial sustainability: financial performance of waste management company, tariffs,
tariffs as percentage of expenditures,
· Local government capacity: establishment and sustainable operation of regional waste
management system and accomplishment of training workshops,
· LFG captured and energy production: volume of gas, energy output,
· Greenhouse gas abatement: decrease in and eventual elimination of methane emissions,
amount of fossil fuel based power replaced by LFG.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
The Project objectives were not revised during implementation.

At an early stage of implementation the Bank agreed with the Borrower to aggregate
outcome indicators into three PDO indicators and one intermediary outcome indicator.
These aggregated indicators were found more relevant and were easy accessible through
reports developed by Environmental Board, MOEPRD data and reports, national
statistics, audited financial statements, and surveys. At the same time, these indicators
were adequate to illustrate achievement of PDOs. The PDO indicators are:

    · Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions,
    · Reduced environmental disamenities for neighbors through closure and
    remediation of small dump sites in Liepaja region,
    · Facilitating the separation of recyclable material.

For the indicator one and two numerical target values were set to be achieved at the end
of the Project implementation, and for all indicators baseline values were defined.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
The final beneficiary of the Project is the non-profit oriented municipal solid waste
management company Liepajas RAS Co Ltd. (L-RAS). The L-RAS was incorporated in
early 2000 and it is owned by the City of Liepaja and the municipalities and villages of
the Liepaja region jointly associated in a limited liability company RAS-30.        The
exposure to international expertise through participation in Twinning Arrangements (TA)
provided L-RAS management and staff with sound knowledge and understanding of
modern solid waste management techniques and management of such municipal service.
L-RAS received hands-on training during operation of Skede and Grobina sites. L-RAS
was actively involved in search for solution to operational issues through cooperation
with local waste management experts, participation in international workshops on waste
management and visits to modern waste management facilities outside Latvia.

Moreover, L-RAS benefited from implementation support provided by consultants of
ELSE Ltd., a company representing extensive experience acquired under the World Bank
co-financed Liepaja Environmental Project (LEP), specifically in areas of procurement



                                             3

and financial management. ELSE has been contracted by LCC to serve as the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) of the Project.          Experience gained by L-RAS during
preparation and processing the application to the Instrument for Structural Policies for
Pre Accession (ISPA) has a potential to be utilized in further application for EU structural
funds, for which L-RAS is eligible.

In addition, the population of the Liepaja region municipalities can be recognized as a
multiple beneficiary of the Project. The benefits to this group come first, from the fact of
the closure or remediation of the local dump sites being a source of continued pollution
of soil, water and air. Second, the activities undertaken by the Project resulted in an
improvement of ground water quality. The Liepaja Region population benefited, through
participation in a public awareness-raising campaign, and enhanced understanding of
modern solid waste management. The effectiveness of the campaign was proved in late
2005, when a substantial increase of disposal tariffs did not result in increased illegal
dumping.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)
The proposed Project consisted of two components, one investment component for
implementing a modern waste management solution for Liepaja Region, and a technical
assistance component supporting the Government's efforts to implement its NMSWMS.

Project Component I - US$13.77 million5

Remediation of Existing Dump Sites - US$ 2.81 million (World Bank: US$ 1.24 million):
Under this subcomponent existing dump sites were to be closed and subsequently
remediated. The requirements for remediation were expected to be specified by the
Liepaja Region Environmental Protection Board (LREPB). Scope of remediation actions
required covering, collection and treatment of leachate, groundwater and surface runoff,
etc.

Technical and Operational Improvements - US$ 5.72 million (World Bank: US$ 0.69
million): This activity was designed to establish a state-of-the-art solid waste
management system to meet international sanitary landfill standards therefore to
strengthening institutional capacity at the local/regional level. It was foreseen to include
the establishment of a sorting line for separation of recyclable materials and arranging
separate areas for storing of separated material as well as of hazardous waste, which
would be transported to another site. The Project considered the site to be covered with
thick clay in compliance with EU regulations. All leachate and polluted run-off water
would be collected.

Installation of Energy Cells and Landfill Gas Collection System - US $1.07 million.
Energy cells were planned to be installed for the enhanced degradation of easily
biodegradable waste and the accelerated production of LFG, in line with modern sanitary



5Component costs include contingencies and VAT


                                              4

techniques and to reduce GHG emissions. LFG would be extracted both from energy
cells at Grobina and from the remediated dump site in Skede. The resulting GHG
emission reductions would be partly sold to the PCF under an ERPA. Emission
reductions were to be monitored and subject to periodic verification by a third party.

Installation of a Power Generator - US$ 0.72 million. An energy conversion unit (gas
engine) of about 1 MW capacity using LFG was to be installed at Grobina, and one of
about 0.3 MW to be installed at Skede. Both units would be connected to the power grid,
and the power would be sold to Latvenergo under a power purchase agreement to be
negotiated as part of the Project. Most of the energy content in LFG would be utilized for
electricity generation, while a small part of the remaining heat energy was to be used for
pre-heating the leachate and heating the buildings. Incineration of LFG was to contribute
to reduction of GHG emissions.

Vehicles and Waste Collection Points - US$ 0.78 million. This activity was designed to
establish a system of waste collection points of recyclable materials to ensure the
efficient transport of waste to the regional disposal site. Implementation of this activity
was to contribute to meeting the objective of establishment of modern sanitary landfill
techniques and to facilitate the separation.

Managerial Support through Twinning Arrangements - US$ 0.48 million. Under this
activity a new solid waste management company was to be established being responsible
for the management of the landfill, the waste collection points, and the transport of waste
between them, therefore to strengthen local capacity on municipal solid waste
management.      The activity was to finance provision of technical and managerial
assistance to the new company through a twinning arrangement, for which SIDA,
expressed a strong interest.

Detailed Design - US$ 1.18 million. This activity was intended to provide the detailed
design, and all necessary drawings for Project implementation, and to include the
necessary construction supervision during Project implementation.

Implementation Support - US$ 0.56 million. This activity would provide services from
the PIU in order to handle all procurement and disbursement issues related to the Project,
maintain Project accounts and prepare Project progress reports. In addition, this activity
would support the continuation of the public information and participation activities,
which have been an integral part of the Project since its inception.

Project Component II - US$0.47 million6

Technical assistance on the NMSWMS - US$0.47 million. Design of this component
involved training and capacity building at the local/regional level for solid waste
management utilities, municipal authorities and private sector companies involved in the
implementation of the NMSWMS. The activity was expected to be implemented during


6Component costs include contingencies and VAT


                                              5

2001-2002, and would include a number of seminars and workshops demonstrating the
use of different managerial systems to better control the handling of solid waste and the
operation of the sites.      The activity was planned to be financed by the Canadian
International Development Agency (CIDA) through a grant.

1.6 Revised Components
Component 1 was not revised, however Component 2, Technical assistance on the
NMSWMS was dropped. This component was designed to provide training and capacity
building at the local/regional level for solid waste management utilities, municipal
authorities and private sector companies involved in the implementation of the
NMSWMS. Unfortunately, CIDA (the financier of the component) withdrew from their
original plans. Dropping this component did not affect achievement of the PDO because
training for implementation of the NMSWMS has been carried out by L-RAS with other-
than-Project funding. In addition satisfactory achievement of the PDO is confirmed by
formal communication from MoE, as of December 17, 20077.

1.7 Other significant changes
Under the subcomponents described under section 1.5 (Original Components) the
following deviations, not related to the scope of work rather to technical solution, can be
noticed.

Technical and Operational Improvements. During the detailed design of the Project it
was decided that instead of building a separate biological plant for leachate treatment, the
leachate should be trucked to the Liepaja Waste Water Treatment Plant (LWWTP). This
solution was in place to September 2004.

The largest contributor to Project financing was the EU through the funds of Instrument
for Structural Policies for Pre-Accession (ISPA). At end of 2005, additional funds from
ISPA became available to L-RAS, and therefore decision was made to use these proceeds
for procurement of a Reverse Osmosis Plant (ROP), which has been in operation since
end of 2006, with a very high reduction of pollutants in the leachate. Moreover, the
mixer for mixing the waste with sludge was never procured and mixing is done by a
bulldozer.

Furthermore, at the stage of detailed design, the shape of the land for implementation was
changed and narrowed, resulting in difficulties to meet the logistic requirements for
establishing a picking belt for manual waste separation, shredding the waste, and
transporting the waste on conveyer belts directly to the energy cells. Therefore these
items were consequently dropped, and freed funds for other investments, like the ROP
and making up for shortfalls in the Project budget.




7 see Annex 7: Borrower's comments on Draft ICR




                                               6

Installation of Energy Cells and LFG Collection System. Cost for this sub-component
includes additional costs for a poly-ethylene liner neither foreseen nor required at
appraisal and all the buildings for administration and separation, which actually were
included in the operational improvements at appraisal.

Vehicle and Waste Collection Points. The waste collection points were never procured
under the Project financing scheme, but implemented by use of other funds.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
Ownership demonstrated by the local community and the Project stakeholders was
recognized indispensable to achieve of the Project outcomes. The first step during the
preparation phase was to evaluate five proposed locations in different municipalities,
which were all interested to provide land for the location of a regional waste management
facility. Quite an unusual situation, as there is normally strong opposition against the
creation of disposal sites. Two of the originally chosen sites, Skede and Grobina, were
selected for further technical and environmental investigation.

Rationale for Bank intervention was found as the extension of the assistance provided to
the city of Riga. The MOEPRD had declared that it wanted to close nearly all existing
disposal sites and focus on the development of about 12 regional sites. Therefore the
Bank accepted MOEPRDs request to establish another regional site in Latvia besides
already ongoing implementation of the Getlini site servicing the Riga region.

Possibility to take advantage of existing learning experience from preparation and
implementation of the Riga Municipal Solid Waste Management project (the Riga
project) appeared to be indispensable8. The Project team responsible for the Project
preparation utilized the unique opportunity of learning from experience because of its
involvement in the preparation and implementation of the Riga project. Lessons learned
during implementation of the Riga project were therefore reflected in the design of the
Liepaja Project. For example, the importance of reaching a political consensus was
translated into the requirement that all Liepaja region municipalities, future beneficiaries
of the Project, were to establish a common regional facility. Such facility has been
established to implement the Project and it has been funded through contributions of
beneficiary municipalities (pagasts). To secure good publicity regarding the Project,
residents of the Liepaja region have been duly and regularly informed, not only about the
Liepaja Project developments, but also on modern solid waste management systems. The
LCC established a special office to maintain contacts with the public and MoE secured
active participation of one of its officials in the preparation.

2.2 Implementation
Proactive and practical approach of the L-RAS to Project implementation demonstrated
to utilize all grant funding available to the Project - as mentioned under 1.7 the original


8Loan LV4286


                                                7

plan of treating the leachate in a biological plant was never implemented; instead the
leachate was trucked to the municipal waste water treatment plant. This solution was
abandoned end of 2006, when a Reverse Osmosis Plant was put in operation, financed by
ISPA and L-RAS.

The only problem the Project encountered in its initial phase of implementation is a
considerable delay in obtaining ISPA financing due to lengthy procedures. However,
thanks to a diversified financing plan it was possible to proceed with activities financed
through funding from WB, NIB, PCF, Sida, GOL, LCC, and LRC. As soon as the ISPA
grant became fully available the Project picked up speed, and was able to finish within
the planned period for implementation without any extension of the closing date.

Actions taken to remedy the shortage of ERs - reducing GHG emissions through ERPA
with the PCF has been set as one of the Project objectives. Implementation of ERPA
requires achievement of certain amount of emissions reduction, MERs, by the Project
within the agreed time frame 9 .     These reductions can be achieving through LFG
collection and utilization ­ by flaring or electricity generation.      MERs have been
estimated based on projections of LFG output. The gas collection at Skede and Grobina
is below projections, and the issue has been constantly discussed in Aide-Memoires from
all supervision missions during the last years. The team is of the opinion that the
installed gas wells are not appropriate; they are too large and too few. The design
company has been contacted by L-RAS, but no actions have been taken in order to rectify
the problem. Currently, a local consultant team including technical expertise from the
Getlini plant is involved, but their report is not expected to be presented until end of
December 2007, so its outcome can not be included in this ICR Report. It should
immediately be stated that even without expected revenues from sale of electricity
generated from the LFG, L-RAS has a solid financial situation. The detailed design of
the energy cells and construction of the energy cells was financed by the ISPA grant.
During the detailed design phase, the Bank raised its concern in regard to the well design,
but the consultant responsible for the detailed design confirmed that the amount of gas
would be in line with the volumes calculated in the preliminary design.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
M&E Design - Project design covers the set of indicators which was listed in Annex 1 to
the PAD. The indicators, which were identified to monitor progress towards achievement
of the introduction of modern sanitary landfill techniques at regional level, were selected
in a way to allow for rapid evaluation at relatively low cost at each stage of Project
implementation. Aggregating the performance indicators into three PDO indicators only,
allowed avoiding a trap of proposing a system with too many underutilized indicators,
however remained focused on quantifiable information to demonstrate accurately
achievement of DO with no compromise on quality of information. Actual result of the
separation of recyclable material depends on efficiency of waste management, including
establishment and operation of waste collection system. The efficiency of management
system can usually benefit from the economy of scale because of its regional dimension,


9Until year 2012


                                            8

and consumers' attitude and satisfaction shaped by information campaigns and tariffs
decided by local government decisions, depending on local government capacity. For all
such indicators baseline values were available and known. The reduction of GHG
emissions indicated how much of emission was avoided through LFG collection and
utilization at the Project sites either by flaring or by producing electricity; the number of
closed and/or remediated dumpsites reflected reductions of environmental hazards; while
amounts of sorted waste showed that separation of recyclable materials has been ongoing.
All three indicators together provided L-RAS, MoE, other local Project stakeholders and
the Bank with an accurate picture of the results of modern waste management.

M&E Implementation - the indicators illustrating progress of Project implementation have
been presented in numerous reports produced by L-RAS, which collected information
serving as M&E indicators on a day-to-day basis. Statistics on waste amounts delivered
to the site, quantities of separated recyclable materials, control of LFG collection and
generation of electricity were collected as part of the regular operational cycle.
Monitoring of ground water quality conducted by some of beneficiary municipalities was
part of the Environmental Management Plan, the implementation of which was agreed by
Project stakeholders during project preparation. Monitoring of leachate amounts and its
quality were performed by L-RAS as part of the leachate treatment arrangements. Waste
was weighted upon reception at the Grobina site, or after being sorted; ground water
analysis was performed by certified laboratories; leachate amounts were measured first
upon discharge to the LWWTP and later by treatment through the ROP. Calculations of
carbon emission reductions were made in line with MVP using monthly worksheets
developed for the two Project sites Grobina and Skede, while the amount of electricity
produced, which is subject to a purchase agreement with Latvenergo, resulted in
payments to L-RAS.

M&E utilization - the most important issues recognized through the analysis of M&E data
were (1) the declining trend in LFG production, and (2) a risk of non-delivery of
contractual amount of MERs.            L-RAS initiated consultations with a number of
specialised companies ­ starting from a local consultant on biogas and then, the
consultant responsible for the detailed Grobina plant design, to investigate the reasons of
the reduced gas collection. This investigation was followed by an inventory of corrective
measures designed to improve LFG collection and hence the production of electricity.
Low LFG output and the shortfall in delivery of contractual MERs led to the following
actions: first, L-RAS undertook to clear the legal status of the Grobina site and to apply
for a revised operational permit, thus ensuring that all emissions reduction reached by the
closing date for ERPA implementation could be recognized by PCF and accounted for.
Second, MoE explored the legal and fiscal consequences of non-delivery of MERs in
order to negotiate an amendment to ERPA. Lack of ground water monitoring which are
to be financed by the beneficiary municipalities mobilized MoE and LREPB into the
enforcement of these agreed environmental monitoring activities.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
Environment - the environmental assessment (EA) developed at the time of Project
preparation evaluated two candidate locations for the regional disposal site. The EA
identified a number of endangered species at the Skede location and therefore the final


                                                9

choice was made to establish energy cells at the Grobina site. Establishment of only one
disposal site for the whole region, based on state-of-the-art technology and taking all
necessary measures to prohibit groundwater contamination, odor problems, noise and
litter around the site resulted in significant environmental benefits. These benefits were
achieved through remediation and closure of all existing small local dump sites and
discontinued leachate discharge from the Skede site into lake Tosmare. Finally, the
selected energy cell technology for waste management resulted in a considerable
reduction of GHG emissions.

EMP defined mechanisms to monitor and evaluate the impact of the Project on the
environment. A comprehensive monitoring program was developed in order to follow
the quality of surface water and groundwater on a regular basis at the Skede and the
Grobina sites. In addition, background measurements of ground water quality were made
at the small dump sites and monitoring program for these sites was prepared. Results of
laboratory tests were envisaged to assess Project impact on the environment and to
quantify changes in ground water quality resulting from remediation of dump sites
implemented under the Project. Also, a register of received amounts and types of waste
was maintained at the Grobina site, as well as of collected gas from the energy cells and
the old landfill in Skede.

Social - no social risks due to the Project arose during implementation. No complaints
from the public have surfaced during the Project implementation, despite the fact that fee
has been increased several times. The team believes that this is a result of extensive
information about the Project from its early preparation phase, and the careful
implementation of the Action Plan for Public Information, which was prepared during
Project preparation and up-dated every year.

Procurement - multiple sources used to finance different Project components forced use
of different procurement procedures by the Project, for example: WB procurement
guidelines, Swedish Public Procurement Law and procurement procedures observed by
the European Union, which was quite challenging for the PIU and L-RAS. The most
significant changes into procurement plan originally included in the PAD resulted from
ISPA financing. ISPA required limited number of procurement packages, and also that
each package should be of a considerable size. Therefore it was necessary to rearrange
the original procurement plan in early 2002; the number of procurement packages has
been reduced from planned 17 to 9 leading to redistribution of allocated funds from the
different financiers.   The PIU and L-RAS staff greatly expanded their professional
knowledge on project management and including procurement, therefore procurement
activities were implemented timely and completed by the PIU prior to Project completion
date.

Financial Management - overall financial management rating for the Project was
satisfactory after completion of the action plan to strengthen the Project financial
management system. The financial statements of the Project and implementing entities
were subject to annual audit by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank who issued
unqualified audit opinions. Project Financial Monitoring Reports were submitted on



                                              10

timely basis and were acceptable. During Project implementation financial management
supervision missions issued moderately satisfactory ratings.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
The Project is expected to be in operation for at least an additional 30 years, and continue
to be operated by L-RAS. L-RAS has already acquired additional land which will
guarantee the continued operation even further in the future. Provisions for continued
investments are included in the cashflow projections.

L-RAS has currently a well-trained staff, which is regarded as fully competent to
maintain and continue the operation. Furthermore, L-RAS has established a very good
contact and exchange of technical information with staff at Getlini, which has a longer
experience of operating energy cells. The L-RAS management and the GoL seem fully
competent and resourced to handle the situation, as well as any future unknown
complications.

The ambition of current officials at the GoL is to further enhance the collection of LFG
and sale of "green energy", which strongly benefits the Project's financial viability.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
The NMSWMS emphasizes regional solutions as a key strategic element to improved and
cost effective waste management. One of the main objectives is to demonstrate a modern
waste management solution at the regional level and this objective has been reached.
Once the strategy is fully implemented it is estimated that only 10-12 major sites will
remain to serve the waste disposal needs of Latvia. The MoE recognized contribution of
the Project to establishment of modern system of municipal solid waste management in
the Liepaja region, and the Liepaja region could serve as an example to those regions
which still lack such a system. In relation to waste management issues, the National
Energy Strategy states that due to the country's few natural resources and the need to
import all of its natural gas and oil products and half of its electricity, the use of
indigenous energy resources and the diversification of energy sources are of high priority.
Consequently, the Energy Law has recently been amended to grant a preferential status to
electricity produced from LFG which can now be sold at 1.5 times the price of imported
electricity. Provisions for LFG capture are also included in the 1996 Law on Solid Waste
Management. LFG collection and utilization system implemented at the both Project
sites fully meets the current requirements of the Latvian Law harmonized with the EU
legislation in the area of municipal waste management. In addition, operation of LFG
incineration by electricity generators and the possibility to sell it to national grid makes
L-RAS a beneficiary of the most recent amendments to the Energy Law.

Greenhouse gas emissions resulting from improper landfill operations are recognized as a
serious environmental concern. MOEPRD has declared that the reduction and collection
of methane from solid waste disposal sites is one of the Government's priorities for the




                                            11

reduction of greenhouse gases. This priority remains valid for MoE nowadays as solid
waste disposal on land contributed to total 2004 GHG emissions in Latvia by 5%.10



3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
The development of institutional capacity at the local/regional levels to manage programs
for local infrastructure and environmental clean-up was one of five key areas of Bank
assistance which were highlighted in the CAS. The CAS noted that despite progress in
preparing a national environmental policy plan and some reduction in land and water
pollution, Latvia's national and local environmental management capacity was below the
levels required for EU accession and the country still faced unsatisfactory levels of land,
water, and air pollution. The Project contributes to an improvement of this situation,
which was included under two of the objectives. It also responded to the need to spread
Bank assistance from Riga to other municipalities that need better delivery of urban
services. In addition to directly benefiting the Liepaja region, the Project was expected to
spur investments for similar projects in other regions.

In 1995, MOEPRD completed a National Environmental Policy Plan (NEPP). Improved
waste management is cited in the NEPP as one of the top five priorities for Latvia.
Pursuant to the NEPP, the Government started a program of upgrading or closing all
existing waste disposal sites, many of which pose a risk to local groundwater resources.
To support this program institutionally, a National Solid Waste Management Strategy
(NMSWMS) was prepared, supported by the Danish EPA. The Project has through its
implementation managed to close 26 old dumps, which was one of the objectives.

Collaboration with the PCF allowed for the implementation of a more modern and
efficient waste management system than would otherwise have been possible.

The PCF involvement enabled to complete the design of the waste management system in
line with EU requirements for the control of LFG emissions. The design of the Grobina
and Skede plants included an installation to collect and utilize LFG through flaring or
through electricity generation even before LFG control requirement became binding for
Latvia. This design contributed therefore to a reduced negative impact of the both plants
on the environment.

The ERPA agreement concluded between Government of Latvia and the PCF for the
Liepaja Project was the first such agreement made ever with a EU candidate country;
hence there was no experience of implementing such agreements. Implementation of the
ERPA agreement was therefore a hands-on testing operation of this innovative approach
for GHG emission reduction. In addition, no experience of international emissions
trading operations existed and the European Trading Scheme (ETS) for GHG emission
allowances was envisaged to be introduced after EU accession. Implementation of this
ERPA agreement provided the GoL, L-RAS, the PCF and the Bank with a unique


10UNCFF 2006


                                             12

experience of cooperation which required utmost focus and flexibility within the existing
legal framework, in order to address implementation issues.

Therefore it is fair to state that all Project objectives have been met:
a)      Demonstrating modern sanitary landfill techniques developed on a regional
basis. This objective has been met: the waste processing plant at Grobina, established by
the Project, serves not only the Liepaja region as originally planned but also
municipalities of Kuldiga and Saldus districts, as well as Skrunda municipality. All
leachate at the Grobina plant is collected, controlled and treated in an environmentally
sound way, and impact of the waste treatment process run at the Grobina plant on
groundwater is controlled on a regular basis in accordance with requirements from the
LREPB and following the Environmental Management Plan (EMP).
b) Strengthening institutional capacity at the local/regional levels on issues related to
municipal solid waste management through establishment and provision of hands-on
training to L-RAS. . This objective has been met. The L-RAS company, operating both
Grobina plant and Skede closed dump site has complete control of the amount of waste
received and is able to plan for future extension of their activity. The TA provided a
management system giving L-RAS the opportunity to use information from the quantity
and different types of waste received to calculate both environmental benefits as well as
financial income in addition to a lot of training both in Latvia and Sweden.
c) Arresting the on-going contamination of groundwater through implementation of
EMP. This objective has been met. Implementation of EMP was a condition for the
Liepaja region municipalities to join the Project. As the result of this participation the
municipalities benefited because of remediation of local dump sites and because of
improvement of ground water quality. During the Project implementation course LREPB
strengthened its control activities on ground water monitoring, supported by the Liepaja
local authorities. In addition, L-RAS voluntarily contributed through covering the cost
of some laboratory analyses of ground water.
d) Reducing environmental disamenities for neighbors of existing waste disposal sites
through closure and subsequent remediation of small dump sites. This objective has been
met through closure and subsequent remediation of the Skede dump site and 26 other
small dump sites in the Liepaja region; evidenced by the results of ground water testing.
e) Facilitating the separation of recyclable material at the Grobina site. This objective
has been met; separation of recyclab;le materials has been ongoing and is evidenced by
L-RAS.
f)      Reducing GHG emissions through an ERPA with the PCF by 4, 994 tonnes
Carbon equivalent until the Project closing date. . This objective has not been fully met.
The waste is collected and treated with a modern technology resulting in the collection of
LFG including Methane. LFG is burned and Methane content is converted into Carbon
Dioxide. The collection of LFG is below expectations. The MoE has established a
special working group to look further into a solution to increase the collection of LFG,
and thereby enable the Project to meet both legal and financial obligations according to




                                                13

ERPA. In addition, MoE has hired local consultants11 to develop an assessment of
financial and judicial aspects of the Liepaja Regional Waste Management Project. The
report is expected by the end of 2007.


3.3 Efficiency
Economic rate of return (details are in Annex 3)
At appraisal the ERR, including PCF disbursements as a proxy for local environmental
benefits, was estimated at 10.1%. By adding in the proxy for international environmental
benefits -- the disbursement of grants offered by the European Union and Sweden -- this
base case ERR increased to 21.2%. These calculations were made over 20 years (5 years
implementation and 15 years of operation), with a waste disposal fee that would rise over
5 years to around LVL 4.95/ton and an import parity price for electricity of LVL
14.73/MWh.      The benefit stream included, as the major component (around 60%),
electricity production to be generated from LFG extraction, both from the old Skede
dump site and from the energy cells at the modern waste handling site to be established at
Grobina.

The modern landfill has been established as planned, but LFG extraction and electricity
sales are lagging far behind appraisal estimates. These problems are now being tackled,
but it seems already clear that neither gas extraction, nor the related electricity production
and sales will ever reach the projected levels. Under normal circumstances, this negative
development would have seriously reduced the financial and economic viability of the
Project.   However, several external factors not foreseen at appraisal are more than
counterbalancing the negative impact of reduced LFG extraction. One factor is the much
higher than projected quantity of waste delivered to the site, both from Liepaja city and
its region and from two neighbouring regions Saldus and Kuldiga, which are sending
some of their waste to the Grobina waste handling facility to save on transportation costs.
The second external factor is the very rapid increase in international energy prices, which
so far has led to a doubling of the import parity price for electricity.

A third factor is the substantial increase of the waste deposit fee, which has been
approved by the local authorities. At appraisal it seemed evident that this fee could not
be raised beyond the level that was then proposed, for reasons of affordability: salaries
were low and unemployment was high and the waste deposit fee was considered to
represent a substantial expense item for an average household. In fact, and no doubt
related to the rapid increase in prosperity in Latvia and Liepaja, household incomes have
risen to such a degree that the actual waste deposit fee of LVL 10.63/ton ­ compared to
LVL 4.95/ton at appraisal ­ does not seem to pose a problem. And the latest fee proposal,
already approved by City authorities, would lead to a further increase of 54 % to LVL




11SIA "Geo Consultants"



                                             14

16.42 in 2008. This fee would then have increased more than three-fold compared to
appraisal estimates.

As a result of these three external developments, the ERR of the completed Project has
only marginal decreased from 10.1% estimated at appraisal to 8.91% at present,
calculated over 20 years and taking into account only the local environmental benefits.
The NPV at 10% shows a negative value of LVL 427,100. When the international
environmental benefits are added into the equation, the ERR is at 20.12% almost equal to
that estimated at appraisal; the NPV becomes largely positive at LVL 2.2 million.

It now seems that the economic life of the Project will be closer to 25 years rather than
the 15 years used at appraisal. On this basis (30 years projection) the ERR would
improve further, to 10.97% with local environmental benefits and to 20.96% when
international environmental benefits are added in as well. These results indicate that the
Project, at present prices, will be as economically viable as estimated at appraisal.
The sensitivity analysis has been carried out solely for the case where all environmental
benefits, local and international, are included in the equation. The period for the analysis
is 20 years, as at appraisal; extension to 30 years would of course improve the results
(details are in Annex 3). The variations used are: an increase in the organic content of
waste, from an assumed 16% now to a likely 25%; a complete failure to produce
electricity; and a 25% increase in operating and administrative costs. The results are
shown in the following table and indicate that the ERR is quite insensitive to the assumed
changes in benefits or costs.

Table 1. ERR analysis, over 20 years
                               base case      25% organic zero electricity    25% increase
                                              content                         recurrent costs
base case                         20.12%
25% organic content                              20.79%
zero electricity                                                 18.54%
25% increase recurrent costs                                                      18.59%

Financial Analysis (details are in Annex 3)
1. The cash flow projection
At appraisal a set of profit and loss projections, as well as the overall cash flow for the
company L-RAS were made over 20 years. As a result of the very favourable funding of
the Project from grant finance; the electricity sales at subsidized "green" prices; and a
doubling of the then quite low waste deposit rates, the financial situation of the company
was considered acceptable. There would be a small but positive cash flow and the loan
repayment would be assured. However, these results were quite sensitive to decreases of
revenues and/or increases of cost.

Seven years later operating costs have indeed increased quite rapidly, in line with the
economic development of the country and the very sizeable increases in wages and
salaries since 2000. And revenues have decreased due to the difficulties with LFG
extraction and thus with production of electricity. These developments would have
seriously affected the financial situation of the company and the Project, were it not for


                                             15

the three external factors already mentioned before: the higher waste quantities, the
higher international energy prices and the substantial increases in waste deposit fees.

The projections show that after a small loss in 2007 the company would be profitable
throughout and the cash flows after loan repayment would remain largely positive; all the
ratios are also favourable throughout. In addition, it would seem that the risks of
unfavourable developments have already been largely discounted: electricity sales
represent only 25% of revenues, compared to over 60% at appraisal, and any increases in
operating costs would not doubt be covered by increases in waste deposit fees.

However, this favourable scenario assumes that a solution will be found with PCF and
GoL for the shortfall in delivery of carbon emission units; otherwise the company may
have to repay the PCF grant and this would of course put a considerable strain on its
finances.

2. The financial internal rate of return (FIRR)
Even if the cash flow of the company appeared acceptable at appraisal, the FIRR for the
Project, calculated over 20 years and including the local environmental benefits, showed
a very low return of only 3.0%. Normally such a low FIRR would condemn a Project;
however, in this case the ERR was considered to give the correct signal for the
investment in the protection of the environment of Liepaja City and its region. And an
important consideration was the fact that waste disposal as practised at the Skede dump
site could not continue to be an acceptable solution in the longer run. A calculation at
appraisal where only the loan amounts were included in Project costs, i.e. by including
the international environmental benefits, showed in fact a high FIRR of 18.8%.

The FIRR for the completed Project is also calculated over 20 years, using the cash flow
projections as a basis and including only the local environmental benefits.            This
calculation gives a quite acceptable figure of 9.2 %, which compares favourably with the
base case FIRR at appraisal of only 3%. An extension of the period to 30 years, which
now appears more reasonable that the 20 years assumed at appraisal, increases the FIRR
to 11.2%.

The sensitivity analysis with the same parameters as used for the ERR, gives the
following results over 20 years.

Table 2. FIRR analysis, over 20 years
                               base case     25% organic zero electricity    25% increase
                                             content                         recurrent costs
base case                        9.20%
25% organic content                             10.63%
zero electricity                                                 5.36%
25% increase recurrent costs                                                      7.91%

The results show that the increase in electricity sales from a higher organic content of the
waste would have a relatively small positive impact on the FIRR. On the contrary, the
25% increase in recurrent costs would reduce the ERR by about 14%, while the case of


                                             16

"zero electricity sales" would reduce the FIRR substantially to 5.36%; however, this
latter event is considered to have a low probability. The extension of the operational
period of the Project to 25 years would of course improve all these results.

The foregoing analysis leads to the conclusion that the financial outlook for the company
is quite positive; the cash flows and the FIRR are robust and would be negatively affected
in a serious way only in the unlikely case that the company does not succeed to re-
establish electricity production from the energy cells.

Sustainability
The analysis of the Project's economic and financial prospects shows that the Project is
sustainable, even in the event of adverse developments. The technology of modern waste
management has been largely acquired by the company, even though improvements,
notably in waste separation and management of the energy cells can and should be
realised. Overall therefore the outlook for the Project and the company appear to be
favourable.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory
The overall outcome rating is based on a combination of the achievement of objectives,
relevance and efficiency.

The Project has achieved its objectives since it has contributed to the demonstration of
self-sustaining, modern management of municipal solid waste through maximum
collection and utilization of LFG in the city and region of Liepaja. The Project has been
completed within the foreseen timeframe during which: (i) 26 dump sites in the Liepaja
region have been closed, (ii) GHG emissions are being reduced and registered, (iii)
ground water quality is being monitored, (iv) separation of recyclable materials has been
achieved since early 2006, and (v) modern sanitary landfill techniques have been
demonstrated at both project sites ­ Grobina and Skede.

The company L-RAS has continued to undertake efforts to improve LFG collection.
Disposal from additional waste from municipalities of Kuldiga, Saldus districts and
Skrunde municipality is expected to have a positive effect on increased LFG output.

It is likely that the Project will not be able to generate the quantity of MERs necessary to
satisfy ERPA requirements by the year 2012. In this respect MoE has been actively
looking for solutions which could be acceptable to PCF.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
These aspects were never addressed in the PAD, and it is unlikely that the Project has had
any impact on these aspects, besides that the waste management in the Region has now
been much improved, and so reduced the disamenities for inhabitants living close to the
now remediated old dump sites.




                                               17

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
The Project has been of large value for the MOE to continue with its ambition to close
and remediate old dumps and reorganize Latvian waste management by establishing a
limited number of regional waste management facilities. The MoE supported and closely
monitored the Project during the entire implementation process. The Project created
unique opportunity to test a mechanism available through PCF financing.              It also
sensitized officials and staff, not only of MoE, but also MoF and the Treasury that
implementation of innovative mechanisms like ERPA and projects of a pilot nature
require a lot of careful attention, close monitoring and cooperation with project
implementing agencies to address implementation issues effectively.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
Not applicable

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
Not applicable

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: High
Risk: Project is unable to deliver contractual ERs within amended ERPA schedules. The
ERPA is based on a delivery schedule ending 2012. However, EU has now in its latest
directive 1999/31/EC12 required that all landfills from 2009 onwards should be equipped
with a LFG collection system. If that directive would be applied retroactively to Grobina,
it is clear that even with LFG generation as projected at appraisal, the Project would not
be able deliver ERs in accordance with the ERPA agreement.

However, the directive is referring to landfills, while the Grobina site is a waste
management facility, as confirmed by MOE. Therefore, MOE has requested EU to
provide clarifications if the Landfill directive also should be applied to the Grobina site.

Current generation of MERs by Grobina and Skede is insufficient to satisfy ERPA
requirements within the 2012 horizon. It has been proposed to find a compensation for
the amount of MERs, which cannot be delivered up to 2012. This solution, which is fully
supported by MOE, is pending a written request to PCF by the GoL and would depend on
the reaction of PCF to the proposed solution.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Highly Satisfactory
Before even starting the Project the team decided that the following criteria should be
fulfilled:




12 of April 26, 1999


                                              18

(a) a signed agreement between Liepaja City and municipalities to establish a regional
waste management facility; (b) establishment of an office at Liepaja City Council serving
as a information center to the public about Project activities; and (c) agreement that the
Ministry of Environment should appoint an official to participate in all preparation
missions.

The Project was reviewed in regard to Quality at Entry by Mr. John Kendall. In the
opinion of June 2, 2001 QER noted that the Project was an excellent demonstration
operation that introduced valuable new practices to Latvia to, among other things,
reduced groundwater contamination from solid waste deposits and collected and utilized
methane from solid waste sites to generate electricity at reasonable cost. In addition, the
fruitful efforts of the task team leader to obtain cooperation of several co-financiers to
participate in the demonstration project, including Canada's CIDA, the European Union,
the Nordic Investment Bank, SIDA and the PCF, were recognized.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Highly Satisfactory
The Bank allocated sufficient budget and staff resources to supervise the Project
adequately and monitor closely. The team has put a substantial effort in covering all
aspects of the Project, which are fully reflected in the Aide-Memoires (AMs) which were
regularly prepared and transmitted.       The Project Status Reports (PSRs) and then,
Implementation Status Reports (ISRs) realistically rated achievement of development
objectives and implementation progress. Whatever problem encountered has been fully
reflected in the A-Ms, mitigation measures have been suggested, and actions for both, the
Borrower agencies and the Bank have been thoroughly discussed, agreed and set in the
exact timeframes. Implementation status of those actions has been followed during
periods between subsequent missions and their completion recognized during the
following supervision missions and reflected in A-Ms. Representatives of other donors
participated in most of supervision missions.

The team has been responsive to justified requests for re-allocation of loan proceeds
among different expenditure categories to enable full use of the loan.

Two changes on the position of project task team leader were done smoothly and quality
supervision was maintained. The access to the project institutional memory was secured
through involvement of the first team leader until closure of the Project.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Highly Satisfactory
As the rating for both Quality at Entry and Quality of Supervision is the same the
outcome of the Overall Bank Performance should be as follows:

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Highly Satisfactory
The Governmental agencies such as Ministry of Environment (MoE), Ministry of Finance
(MoF), and Treasury have been extremely helpful in moving the Project forward, and


                                             19

taken actions in critical situations to solve bureaucratic problems in record time to the
benefit of the Project.          In order to deal with ERPA implementation issues GoL
established a working group to examine solutions and actions to be taken to satisfy the
requirement of emission reductions delivery to the PCF by GoL to compensate possible
shortage in MERs delivered by the Project and gathered representatives of MoE, MoF,
the State Treasury (ST), L-RAS and the PIU into the group. In addition, MoE supported
L-RAS efforts towards improvement of LFG collection systems operation through
financing of local consultants.13

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Highly Satisfactory
The implementing agency is Liepajas-RAS (L-RAS) supported by the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU). Both, L-RAS and PIU worked effectively to satisfy the
Bank's requirements on disbursement, procurement and proper maintenance of project
records. L-RAS has accomplished all the required actions as recorded in the A-Ms, and
provided an excellent documentation for every mission. L-RAS and PIU were proactive
during the whole project implementation and initiated several actions to address
implementation issues, inter alia: requested allocation among expenditure categories,
applied for an updated operational permit for the Grobina site to clarify legal status of the
site 14 i.e. waste processing plant and inert and actively cooperated with local and
international consultants to address problems of LFG collection effectiveness including
participation and sharing own experience at municipal solid waste management during
international workshops         15 . Moreover, Project implementation benefited from the
excellent and continuous support of Liepaja City Council (LCC) and also of RAS-30.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Highly Satisfactory
As can be seen from above both the Government and the Implementing Agency have
performed in an excellent way during Project implementation.

6. Lessons Learned
Implementation of innovative arrangements, like those under the ERPA agreement,
requires thorough and closely coordinated project supervision involving all project parties
to react/address implementation issues, and dedicated monitoring and support of the
project implementing entity by state institutions (MoE, MoF).

EU accession and related harmonization of local legislation with the EU acquis required
additional efforts of cooperation of all parties involved in project implementation,
monitoring and supervision to establish univocal understanding of law changes which
may impact on achievement of project outputs.


13Including a contract on assessment of financial and Judicial aspects [of implementation of ERPA] with
SIA "Geo Consultants, Latvian consulting company, dated September 28, 2007
14Cabinet Regulation No. 15, Adopted 3 on January 2002; Regulations regarding Requirements for
Construction of Landfill Sites, as well as Management, Closure and Re-cultivation of Landfill Sites and
Dumps and Waste Management Law adopted on December 29, 2000 with amendments
15http://www.intranet.worldbank.org/WBSITE/INTRANET/INTCOUNTRIES/INTECA/INT...08/13/2007


                                                    20

Availability of ISPA financing resulted in a considerable delay in project implementation
due to lengthy procedure, and required rearrangements of the original procurement plan
as well as the redistribution of funds from the different financiers. This lessons shows
that all possible project financing sources should be identified at the earliest stage of
project preparation in order to coordinate requirements of multiple financiers to reflect
them in financing plans and implementation schedules appropriately.

Preparation of LRSWM project benefited from lessons learned under the Riga Solid
Waste Management project notably the need for all stake holders to cooperate and the
value of a public awareness campaign.

The PIU should be integrated into the management structure of the project rather than
operate as a separate unit. In this way its competence will be retained within the project
and not lost at the end of contract period.

The Business Plan for the company, drawn up by foreign consultants, proved to be too
complicated for management.          Establishment of such long-term company strategies
would make sense only for already well-established entities, and not for start-up
companies as L-RAS. The same comment applies to the technical assistance on the
financial models developed by a Swedish consultant.

The language barrier was often a problem in getting ideas across; the project should have
included an intensive English language course for key members of management.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
Comments to the draft ICR were submitted by Ministry of Environment on December 17,
2007, and a letter from Ms. Vija Geme, Deputy State Secretary, is included in Annex 7
along with "Project Assessment" developed by the Liepajas RAS Ltd. in October 2007,
which is presented in exact wording of L-RAS.

L-RAS commented the draft ICR on December 6, 2007.                  Neither Ministry of
Environment, representing the Borrower, nor L-RAS, the implementing agency, have
raised issues on substance. The comments were focused on providing clarifications.

No comments from Ministry of Finance were received by December 21, 2007.

(b) Cofinanciers
Not applicable

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                              21

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

              Components                         Appraisal Estimate Actual/Latest Estimate Percentage of
                                                     (USD millions)                   (USD millions)                   Appraisal
REMEDIATION OF EXISTING
DISPOSAL SITES                                                 2.18                           0.92                          42.2

TECHNICAL AND
OPERATIONAL IMPROVEMENTS                                       4.60                           2.69                          58.5
16

INSTALLATION OF ENERGY
CELLS AND LANDFILL GAS                                         0.88                           8.53                         969.3
COLLECTION SYSTEM                17

INSTALLTION OF A POWER
GENERATOR                                                      0.59                           1.33                         225.4

VEHICLE AND WASTE
COLLECTION POINTS               18                             0.64

MANAGERIAL SUPPORT
THROUGH TWINNING                                               0.42                           0.51                         121.4

DETAILED DESIGN                                                0.88                           0.78                          88.6

IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT                                         0.47                           0.60                         127.7

TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE ON
THE NMSWMS           19                                        0.42


                  Total Baseline Cost                        11.08                           15.39                         138.6
Interest during Construction                                   0.9
Operation and Maintenance during
Implementation                                                 2.04                            0.08                           3.9

Physical Contingencies                                         0.53

Price Contingencies                                            1.06
VAT                                                            1.11                            1.12                        100.9
Total Project Costs                                          16.72                           16.59                          99.0
Project Preparation Fund                                       0.00                            0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                                             0.03                            0.022                          .00
Total Financing Required                                     16.75                           16.61                          99.0



16
   The need for additional equipment had been developed during the implementation phase, and a major procured using remaining
ISPA-funds is the equipment for leachate treatment through investment in a Reverse Osmosis Plant. Installation of a line for waste
separation through a picking belt, shredding of the waste and transport of the waste by conveyer belts were excluded already under the
detailed design phase. Furthermore, the mixer for mixing the waste with sludge was never procured.
17
   Cost for this sub-component includes additional costs for a poly-ethylene liner neither foreseen nor required at appraisal and all the
buildings for administration and separation, which actually were included in the operational improvements at appraisal.
18
   The waste collection points were never procured under the project financing scheme, but implemented by use of other funds.
19
   The technical assistance for training of staff from other municipal waste management companies by use of the CIDA funds, was
unfortunately cancelled, as no funds were made available.



                                                                 22

The largest contributor to Project financing is the EU through the ISPA funds. At the end
of the final procurement planning, EU required to have large packages for its financing
which resulted in substantial revisions of the original PAD procurement plan. It is
therefore nearly impossible to make a fair comparison between PAD and realization of
the costs for different subcomponents, as can be seen above. Furthermore, some of the
sub-components were dropped and some other activities included (see comments on
section 1.7). The footnotes below Table in Annex 1 subsection (a) provide explanations
for the differences.

(b) Financing
                                                     Appraisal Actual/Latest

          Source of Funds               Type of      Estimate    Estimate   Percentage of
                                       Cofinancing     (USD         (USD      Appraisal
                                                     millions)    millions)
EC: European Commission                  Grant     4.86        5.48             .113
International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development                           Loan     2.22        2.22             100

Local Govts. (Prov., District, City) of  Local
Borrowing Country                      contribution3.94        4.53             115

Nordic Investment Bank (NIB)              Loan     1.49        1.49             100
FOREIGN SOURCES
(UNIDENTIFIED)                           Grant     0.47        0.00               0

SWEDEN: Swedish Intl. Dev.
Cooperation Agency (SIDA)                Grant     1.18        1.18             100




                                              23

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

The outputs described below are related to (a) the investment component for improved
waste management on a regional basis, and (b) the technical assistance component.

Investment Component

The Project has resulted in an efficient closure of Skede and 26 other old dump sites, at
the benefit of all people living in the small municipalities in Liepaja region, as well as
those close the major dump site Skede. Besides the environmental benefits of closing
Skede, owners of houses in the neighborhood have realized a clear increase in property
value.

The waste is now collected and treated with a modern technology resulting also in the
collection of the detrimental green-house gas Methane, which is burned and converted
into Carbon Dioxide. However, the collection of LFG is (about 20%) below expectations.
One major reason is that the types of gas wells as used in accordance with the detailed
design are both too large and too few compared with the initial design. A special
working group has been established by the MOEPRD to look further into a solution to
increase the collection of LFG, and thereby enable the Project to meet both legal and
financial obligations according to ERPA. The report is expected by the end of 2007.

The operating company L-RAS, now has complete control of the amount of waste
received and is able to plan for future extension of their activity.

All leachate is controlled and treated in an environmentally sound way, and impact on
groundwater is controlled on a regular basis in accordance with requirements from the
LREPB following the Environmental Management Plan (EMP) as included in the PAD.

Technical Assistance Component

The SIDA financed TA provided a management system giving L-RAS the opportunity to
use information from the quantity and different types of waste received to calculate both
environmental benefits as well as financial income. However, the model prepared has
not yet been used, despite the fact the L-RAS staff was provided with a lot of training
both in Latvia and Sweden. Finally, the model was modified by L-RAS to meet the
company needs, and is being used in this modified version.
CIDA was from the beginning of Project preparation interested in providing TA for
training of waste management staff at other regional disposal sites. Unfortunately, CIDA
withdrew from their original plans, so that part of expected Project outcomes was never
accomplished.




                                             24

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis             20


Introduction and assumptions

The results of the financial and economic analysis of the LRSWM Project are presented
in three sections: in the first section the financial cash flows of the company, Liepajas-
RAS (L-RAS) are developed; the financial internal rate of return (FIRR) of the Project is
analyzed in the second section; while in the final section the economic rate of return ERR
is estimated. Detail of the relevant assumptions is given both in the text below and more
concisely in Attachment 1.

The waste management project in Liepaja was carried out without major delays and
Project costs were close to appraisal estimates, which are quite positive factors. However,
on the production side the achievements are mixed; reduction of greenhouse gases, has
not been fully met. While most organic waste is now stored in energy cells, as foreseen
under the Project, extraction of LFG and generation of electricity, both from the old
landfill site at Skede and from the new energy cells at Grobina are falling far short of
appraisal estimates. This situation is possibly linked to errors in the implementation and
operation of the Project and this factor risks to compromise both the reduction of carbon
emissions as agreed to with PCF and the production of electricity for sale to Latvenergo.

Bank supervision missions, as well as consultants engaged to deal with the problem of
low LFG extraction, seem to have identified several factors that could explain this lower
than expected extraction rate. One factor is the quality of the waste going to the energy
cells, which is not sorted and contains a lot of inert material, which is useless for methane
gas production. Another is the height of the energy cells; the presence of water in the gas
extraction wells; and finally the pattern and size of extraction wells, basically too few and
of a too large diameter. The German consultant company SEF has suggested various
corrective measures which would, if successfully implemented, raise LFG extraction and
the resulting electricity production, and consequently the revenues to about half of what
was calculated at appraisal. The financial and economic projections for the Project are
based on the SEF projections, which assume that L-RAS will carry out the corrective
measures and that they will have the desired result. These technical factors represent
therefore a real risk to the ultimate success of the Project.

The shortfall in electricity production and its negative impact on the company's financial
situation is reduced by the very rapid and recent increases in the international energy
prices. The latter phenomenon has led to a doubling of import parity prices for electricity
and would, according to a recently approved regulation on electricity generation from




20Prepared by Frank M Stubenitsky, Consultant : 5 supporting tables are attached




                                                  25

renewable energy sources21, result in a nearly four-fold increase in the sales price of
"green electricity" to Latvenergo compared to appraisal figures.

A further positive external factor is that waste quantities delivered to the site are higher
than estimated at appraisal, in spite of a falling population both in the city of Liepaja and
in the Liepaja region. It now appears that waste generation per capita is higher than
foreseen, a development which is probably linked to the higher prosperity in the city and
the region. In addition, waste from parts of two neighboring regions, Saldus and Kuldiga,
will in future be transported to the Grobina site; it concerns a total of around 15,000 tons.
Last but not least, local authorities have approved substantial increases of the waste
deposit fee; as a result, revenues from waste now represent the bulk of the company's
income.

The main assumptions used in the projections are detailed below (see also Attachment 1).
The projections of the PAD were carried out 20 years, which in retrospect appears a too
short period. Therefore, the ICR projections have been carried out over a period of 30
years (5 years of implementation and 25 years of operation) and in constant 2007 prices,
but the respective 20-year figures are given to allow a correct comparison with the
appraisal estimates. The figures for 2001 to 2006 are drawn from the audited accounts of
L-RAS; those for 2007 have been estimated on the basis of 9-months company actual and
the figures for 2008 are based on the recently approved budget of the company.

Waste quantities. During 2007 some waste from parts of the neighboring Saldus region
has being directed to the Grobina landfill; the quantity is estimated at around 5,000
tons/year and partly explains the increase in waste delivered to the site from 61,000 tons
in 2006 to an estimated 69,000 tons in 2007. From 2008 neighboring Kuldiga region will
also send part of its waste to L-RAS; it concerns an estimated 10,000 tons/year. All this
waste is mostly of the degradable type suitable for use in the energy cells and will thus
contribute to the production of LFG. This additional waste has been phased in over 2007
to 2009, after which overall deliveries of waste to Grobina are assumed to increase by 1%
per year.

Disposal fee. This fee was expressed per m3 of waste until the change-over by the
introduction of a weighbridge in 2004, when it was converted to a fee per ton. It has been
increased substantially since appraisal, from the equivalent of around LVL 2.00/m3 in
2000 and LVL 3.24 at change-over to the weight based system, to LVL 10.63/ton at
present. A further raise to LVL 16.42/ton is now before the Public Sector Regulator of
Liepaja City, and is expected to be approved for introduction by mid-2008.

Electricity output. Extraction of LFG at the Skede closed landfill and at the energy cells
of Grobina was to be converted to electricity for sale to Latvenergo. So far only the
Skede site produces electricity, but at far lower quantities than estimated at appraisal. At
Grobina several energy cells have been covered and LFG extraction is taking place.



21« Regulation on Electricity Generation from Renewable Energy Sources » adopted on July 24, 2007 by
the Cabinet of Ministers.


                                                26

However, the gas quantities are too low and the methane content not high enough to
permit production of electricity; the extracted gas is therefore flared. The LFG extraction
problem is being addressed by L-RAS management, but it is already clear that appraisal
estimates will not be realized. The most recent re-evaluation of likely LFG extraction
and related electricity production at Grobina has been produced by consultant company
SEF in July 200722.

Their projection is conditional on certain improvements to be realized at the energy cells;
it uses an organic content of the waste of 16.06% (at appraisal this content was estimated
at over 30%) and assumes that 2/3 of all waste coming to the landfill will be stored in
energy cells. This SEF calculation is based on a constant stream of waste of 40,000 tons
per year going to the energy cells. It has been corrected for waste coming from Saldus
and Kuldiga regions and total quantities are assumed to increase annually after 2009 with
1% per year. These quantities are the basis for the recalculated electricity production
figures used in the financial analysis. To allow for a certain delay in LFG production
following corrective measures, actual electricity output is assumed at 25% of SEF
corrected figures for 2008, 50% in 2009 and 75% in 2010, and at the full 100% thereafter.

Organic waste content however, is likely to be higher than the 16% estimated by SEF,
which is used in the financial cash flow projections and in the "base case" calculations of
the FIRR and the ERR. In the sensitivity analysis an increase of the organic waste
content to 25% will be analyzed for its positive impact on the rates of return.

Electricity price. The price at which Latvenergo was to purchase electricity generated
from LFG has been set by GoL at a substantial margin over assumed import parity prices
in order to stimulate locally based renewable energy production. At appraisal these
prices were respectively LVL 22.10/MWh and LVL 14.73/MWh respectively, while the
sales price subsequently rose to LVL 34.35/MWh in the early years of Project
implementation. The recent regulation approved by the Cabinet of Ministers contains a
formula for the calculation of the new subsidized electricity prices23: at present import
prices for natural gas this new price for supplies from L-RAS is at a level of LVL
88.45/MWh, an increase of over 150% of the previous level. However, the regulation
also stipulates that only production of the first 7,000 hours will receive this higher price,
with the balance at the much lower price of LVL 34,35/MWh24. The assumed import
parity price is at present double that taken at appraisal, LVL 29.46/MWh, a figure that
will be used in the economic analysis.




22 SEF-Energietechnik GmbH, July 13, 2007: report prepared by Dr-Ing. A Seyfert.
23  The formula for the calculation of the subsidized price for renewable electricity = Tg x k/9,2 x 4,45,
where Tg is the import price of natural gas, currently LVL 176,68/'000m3 and k a coefficient linked to the
installed power : in the case of L-RAS this coefficient is 1,035. The other numbers are coefficients given in
the formula. Source : annex to the government regulation of July 24, 2007.
24 The theoretical number of operating hours of a turbine is 8,760 per year. However, some 760 hours
have been assumed for maintenance, leaving 8,000 hours of effective operation. Of these 8,000 hours some
7,000 will be sold at the high subsidized price of LVL 88,45/MWh, with the remainder sold at the present
price of LVL 34,35/MWh.


                                                     27

Operation, maintenance and administration. These costs are based on the 2008 budget
and have been kept constant after a modest increase in 2009. Other costs include
repayment of NRT, a provision for landfill closure (LVL 30,000 per year) and an annual
investment of an assumed LVL 100,000 per year to cover expansion of the site, drilling
of wells, increasing leachate treatment capacity, etc.

Loan repayment WB and NIB. These loans have grace periods of 5 years and 10 years,
and repayment over 12 years and 15 years respectively for the Bank and for NIB. The
calculation has been based on an effective interest rate of 6.55%, using to-days LIBOR
plus various mark-ups; details are in Attachment 3.

Write-down of grants. The grants received by the Project from ISPA and SIDA are
treated in the accounts on an income-basis and written down in line with the assets they
financed. As a result an amount of LVL 245,100 is shown under inflows and this adds to
the positive outcome of the analysis.

Residual value. The financial cash flow of the company has been projected on a "going
concern" basis. But for the FIRR and ERR calculations a residual value of the Project
investment has been added to the benefit stream in year 30; for the ERR this investment
is net of VAT. For the calculation over twenty years, the residual value has been added
to the costs/benefits in year 2020.

1. The financial cash flow analysis of L-RAS

The calculations are in Attachment 2. Under outflows are operating and administrative
costs, depreciation, a provision to cover the cost for closure of the site in 25 years' time
and the annual investment in waste treatment facilities of LVL 100,000 per year from
2008 onwards. The table shows that profits after company taxes are negative in 2007
(LVL 42,600); thereafter the situation improves rapidly due to the combined effect of
higher waste quantities and the 65% increase of waste disposal fees. The profitability
index, after tax profits as a percent of revenues, increases from 37% in 2008 to 48% in
2010 and to an estimated 62% in 2030.

After adding back depreciation and allowing for loan repayment and the annual
investment in the waste treatment facilities, the cash flow which is estimated at LVL
377,400 in 2007 remains positive throughout, to reach just over LVL 1.7 m (USD 3.4 m
at current exchange rates) in 2030. The cumulative cash flow in year 2030 would then
reach LVL 31.1 million (USD 62.2 m). Obviously, with such good profit and cash flow
figures all the ratios are very satisfactory from 2008 onwards.

Compared to the PAD, the current financial projections are much more favorable than
estimated at the time of appraisal, in spite of the problems with LFG extraction and
electricity generation and higher operational and administrative costs. The main factors
responsible for this positive outcome are the much higher than expected waste deliveries
and the very significantly higher waste deposit fees. The recently approved substantial




                                               28

increase in electricity tariffs for "green" energy produced by the company also helps to
mitigate the effects of reduced electricity production.

Sensitivity analysis   The financial outlook is so robust that the company would continue
to generate profits even if it did not succeed in re-establishing electricity production from
the Grobina energy cells. In fact, electricity revenues are currently estimated to represent
only 25% of total revenues, against just over 57% at appraisal.             Profits in a zero
electricity production scenario would fall by between 40% and 45%, depending on the
year; but there would be no losses.

A 25% increase in operating and administrative costs, some LVL 100,000, would have a
much lesser impact on profits, varying between 7% and 11% depending on the year. The
conclusion from this sensitivity analysis is therefore that L-RAS' financial future appears
quite positive and that the financial flows are so robust as to be able to withstand possible
negative developments in revenues and costs.

2. The financial internal rate of return (FIRR) of the LRSWM Project

The detailed FIRR calculations, based on the data presented in the cash flow projections,
are in Attachment 4. For the costs, the analysis includes the investments in the Project
during implementation, post-project investments of LVL 100,000/year and the provision
of closure cost of the site in 25 years (LVL 30,000/year). Regarding benefits, in addition
to the waste deposit fee and sales of electricity, the sale of carbon emission reduction
units to PCF is brought in. The actual PCF disbursements under the Project are taken as a
proxy for these sales; the residual value of 15% of total Project investment has been
added to benefits in benefits in years 20 and 30 respectively.

The "base case" FIRR calculated with these cost and benefit streams, over 20 years, gives
a rate of 9.20%, more than three times the PAD estimates of 3.01%. The NPV at 10%
gives a small negative rest value of LVL 365,300, as against a very large negative value
at appraisal. The reasons for this much better performance have already been mentioned:
higher revenues from the waste management activity due to higher quantities of waste
and substantially higher waste deposit fees, which more than compensate for increased
operation and administrative costs. The much lower than expected electricity production
is more than off-set by the very substantial increases in the price of "green electricity"
recently decided by Government.

An extension of the operational period to the year 2030 improves the FIRR to 11.18%,
while the NPV gives a positive value of LVL 715,200. As a longer exploitation period
appears more realistic, the financial performance of the Project is likely to be much better
than that estimated for the twenty year period.

Sensitivity analysis. In order to test the robustness of the FIRR three variations of the
"base case" cost and revenue projections have been carried out: the calculations are in
Attachment 5.




                                              29

The first case incorporates the assumption that organic content of waste going to the
energy cells is 25%, instead of the 16% on which SEF consultants have based their
projection of electricity production. The increase in revenues related to this higher
organic content drives the FIRR up by about 15%, from 9.20% to 10.63% over 20 years
(from 11.18% to 12.68% over 30 years).

The second variation assumes that L-RAS does not succeed to re-establish normal LFG
extraction. The "zero electricity production" scenario would reduce the FIRR by about
40% from the base value of 9.20% to 5.36% over 20 years; the NPV at 10% gives a
negative value of LVL 1.8 million. Over 30 years the figures are respectively 7.87% and
a negative NPV of LVL 1.1 million.

The third variation scenario assumes a 25% increase in the operating and administrative
costs; in this event the FIRR over 20 years would drop by about 14% from 9.20% to
7.91%. An extension of the period to 30 years gives a FIRR of 10.27%.

These scenarios show that the FIRR is more sensitive to a drop in revenues compared to
an increase in costs. However, the "zero electricity production" scenario has the worst
impact, but the probability of this event materializing appears in fact to be quite low,
while the likelihood of improvements of LFG extraction and thus of electricity
production over and above the SEF estimates is quite high. The financial outlook for the
Project remains therefore largely positive.

Summary of FIRR estimates
                                         20 years                     30 years

Base case                                  9.20%                      11.18%

25% organic content                       10.63%                      12.68%
zero electricity production                5.36%                       7.87%
25% increase recurrent costs               7.91%                      10.27%

3. The economic internal rate of return (ERR) of the LRSWM Project

The ERR analysis is also shown in Attachment 4. The "base case" calculation of the
ERR uses the cash flow projections of attachment 2, with several adjustments: VAT has
been deducted from Project investments and the tax element of recurrent expenditures
(social security taxes of 24% on salaries and 18% VAT on purchases) has also been
deducted. Benefits include the waste deposit revenues; electricity production at import
parity prices; the sale of carbon emission reduction units to PCF as a proxy for local
environmental benefits; and a proxy for international environmental benefits in the form
of disbursements of the ISPA and SIDA grants.

The resulting ERR when taking account only of local environmental benefits over 20
years is 8.91%, compared to an appraisal estimate of 10.1%.         When international
environmental benefits are factored in the ERR rises to 20.12%, which is very close to
the 21.2% calculated at appraisal. And when the calculation is extended over a 30-year


                                            30

period the ERR improves to respectively 10.97% (local environmental benefits) and
20.96% (including also international environmental benefits). The NPV at 10% gives a
negative value for the worst case, and is largely positive for all other scenarios.

Sensitivity analysis. The same revenue and cost scenarios as used for the FIRR have
been applied to the ERR calculation; the analysis over 20 years; respectively 30 years has
only been carried out for the case which includes both local and international
environmental benefits.

A 25% organic content of waste compared to the 16% assumed by SEF consultants
would lead to a 56% increase in electricity production; this would marginally increase the
ERR from 20.12% to 20.79% over 20 years (from 20.96% to 21.70% over 30 years).
These small increases indicate that electricity revenues at import parity prices are much
less important in the overall economic benefit picture than waste deposit revenues. The
NPV at 10% remains largely positive.

The second case, zero electricity sales, also underscores this relative unimportance of
electricity revenues. The ERR would lose 2.5% from 20.12% to 18.54% over 20 years,
with a similar drop over 30 years; these are still very favorable levels.

In the third case, a 25% increase in recurrent costs would have about the same impact on
the ERR as the "zero electricity production" scenario.

Summary of ERR estimates (local and international environmental benefits)
                                           20 years                        30 years

Base case                                  20.12%                          20.96%

25% organic content                        20.79%                          21.70%
zero electricity production                18.54%                          19.54%
25% increase recurrent costs               18.59%                          19.64%

The results of the sensitivity scenarios are summarized in the table: the figures show that
the ERR is quite robust and that the economic justification of the Project would remain at
acceptable levels even in the face of unfavorable developments.

4. Conclusion

The waste management project for Liepaja was designed, through the energy cell concept,
to pay for modern waste management with the revenues from electricity production. This
source of income would then allow the company to keep the waste deposit fees, and thus
the individual household collection charges, down to low levels. The affordability of the
Project for individual households would thus be guaranteed and this was an important
issue at the time of appraisal in view of the low levels of income.

Because of the problems with LFG extraction and electricity production the LCC has had
to approve rather large increases in the waste deposit fee in order to guarantee the


                                              31

financial viability of the company. These increases have been approved based on the fact
that the population now can afford them.

The Project will also have a problem in meeting the contractual requirements with PCF
relative to emission reduction, but this will hopefully not have any financial
consequences for the company. However, the cash-flew calculations clearly indicates,
that in case PCF would request repayment for already invested money (pre-payment for
MERs) L-RAS would be able repay these amounts, without requesting financial support
from its owners LCC and LRC.

Paradoxically, the Project's financial outlook and its economic justification remain solid,
thanks to higher than estimated waste quantities; substantially higher waste deposit fees;
and much increased electricity prices. The rapid economic development of the country
has led to greater prosperity than thought possible at appraisal; as a result, the
affordability of modern waste treatment, even at very much higher household charges
than foreseen at appraisal, does not appear to pose a significant problem to the inhabitants
of Liepaja city and region.




                                            32

LATVIA - LIEPAJA REGION SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PROJECT                                               ICR- Annex 3, attachment 1 (page 1/2)                    FMS, october 2007

Financial cashflow analysis                                                          based on audited accounts for 2001 to 2006, projections of L-RAS thereafter (in '000 LVL)



Attachment N° 1: assumptions used in the projection.



waste quantities to the landfill site                                               actuals 2001 to 2004 in '000m3, then in '000tons; 2007 based on 9-months figures.      From 2010 assumed growth rate(1% pa)                    1.01
                                                                                     waste from parts of Saldus region (estimated at 5,000t/year from 2007 onwards) and Kuldigas region (estimated at 10,000t/year from 2008
                                                                                     onwards) have been added; most of this waste will go to the energy cells. From 2010 onwards 1% growth rate applied
                                                                                              2001           2002          2003           2004         2005            2006         2007              2008          2009          2010            2011          2012         2013
                                                           Bank estimates (in tons)        76,497         88,410        108,350 72000/18700          61,033        61,614        69,000            74,000         79,000       79,790          80,588         81,394        82,208
                                                        of which energy cells (tons)                                                                                             40,000            45,000         50,000       50,500          51,005         51,515        52,030

disposal fee                                                                    9.24 fee level increased from 1,00/m3 in 2001 to 1,65/m3 in 2002; rate fixed at 3,42/ton with change-over to weighbridge in 2004.
                                                                              10.63 from July 2005 fee increased to 9,24/ton, from 1st March 2007 to 10,63/ton. Proposed increase for 2008 is 16,42/ton, if approved by Public Sector Regulator.
                                                                              16.42 For 2007: 1/4 at 9,24 and 3/4 at 10,63: for 2008, 50% at 10,63 and 50% at 16,42. Thereafter at 16,42/ton.
natural resource tax - payment and provision from 2007                              rate of LVL 0,25/m3, then 0,75/ton is included in the disposal fee        0.75         Only 40% is paid directly to GOL, with the balance retained until after energy cells are emptied.

                                                                                     start of sales from the Skede site in 2005: Grobina production to start in 2008; ICR estimates are based on calculations of SEF consultants, corrected for higher waste
electricity production (notes 1 and 2)                                               quantities and organic matter content.
                                                                                              2001           2002          2003           2004         2005            2006         2007              2008          2009          2010            2011          2012         2013
               production(MWh)         SEF estimates, in kWh, on basis of 40,000t                na            na            na             na           na             na            na             279.2         323.0         361.0          394.2          423.0        448.1
                                             kWh per '000 ton waste to energy cell calculation SEF based on fixed 40,000 ton/year to energy cell                        40            na                7.0          8.1           9.0             9.9          10.6         11.2
                                           kWh calculated on waste to energy cells estimated waste to energy cells                                                      na            na             314.1         403.7         455.8          502.6          544.8         582.8
                                                   MWh production @ 7,000 hours production based on 7,000 hours                              0            0          7,000            na           2,198.8       2,825.8       3,190.6        3,518.2        3,813.3       4,079.9
                                                   MWh production @ 1,000 hours production based on 1,000 hours (8,760-7,000-760 for maintenance)                    1,000                           314.1         403.7         455.8          502.6          544.8         582.8

                                                       total MWh from energy cells               na            na            na             na           577            26           490           2,512.9       3,229.5       3,646.4        4,020.8        4,358.1       4,662.7

electricity price                                                             34.35 average sales price of LVL 30,281/MWh, increased to 32,27/MWh as off 1st January 2004, and 34,35 as off 1st January 2005
                                                                                     a further substantial sales price increase of "green energy" to LVL 88,45 has been approved by the Cabinet of Ministers. Sales at
                                                                              88.45 this price are limited to 7,000 hours of operation; the remaining theoretical 1760 hours are priced at LVL 34,35/MWh.
                                                                              29.46 average import price was LVL 14,73/MWh, increased to be double at LVL 29,46/MWh in 2007(information from MoE)

operational & maintenance costs                                                     covers Skede and Grobina sites: actuals for 2001 to 2006, estimates of L-RAS thereafter
administration costs                                                                 actuals for 2001-2006, estimates thereafter
depreciation                                                                        from 2007 amount capped at LVL 500,000/year
provision for landfill closure                                                      total costs were estimated by CarlBro Consultants: LVL 750,000 over 25 years, for annual charge of LVL 30,000/year
interest rate WB and NIB loans                                                       at assumed at 5,5% rate; see sheet 3
repayment                                                                            see sheet N° 3 for details: WB loan 5 yrs grace, 12 yrs repament; NIB 10 yrs grace and 15 yrs repayment
annual investments                                                                  investment in energy cells, wells, leachate treatment, etc of LVL 100,000/year from 2008
write-down of ISPA and SIDA grants                                                  an annual amount of LVL 245,100 takes account of this write-down
residual value                                                                      15% of project costs, excluding VAT when applied to the ERR



Notes:
(1) SEF consultants projected LFG extraction and electricity production on the basis of 40,000 tons of waste going to the
energy cells, with an organic content of only 16% (over 30% estimated at appraisal). Waste to the energy cells will increase
with deliveries from Saldus and Kuldiga regions.


(2) Electricity production from Grobina is conditional on L-RAS taking corrective measures to enhace LFG extraction, as
suggested by SEF consultants. Assuming these measures will be succesful, it is assumed that electricity production in 2008
will be at 25% of the SEF estimate; at 50% in 2009, 75% in 2010 and at 100% of SEF estimates thereafter.




                                                                                                                                         33

       LATVIA - LIEPAJA REGION SOLID WAICR- Annex 3, attachment 1 (page 2/2)




  2014       2015       2016       2017       2018         2019         2020     2021     2022     2023     2024     2025     2026     2027     2028     2029     2030
83,030     83,860      84,699    85,546     86,401       87,265      88,138    89,019    89,909   90,808   91,717   92,634   93,560   94,496   95,441   96,395   97,359
52,551     53,076      53,607    54,143     54,684       55,231      55,783    56,341    56,905   57,474   58,048   58,629   59,215   59,807   60,405   61,010   61,620




  2014       2015       2016       2017       2018         2019         2020     2021     2022     2023     2024     2025     2026     2027     2028     2029     2030
  469.9     488.9       505.4     519.8       532.4        545.2       556.5     556.5    556.5    556.5    556.5    556.5    556.5    556.5    556.5    556.5    556.5
  11.7       12.2        12.6      13.0       13.3         13.6         13.9     13.9     13.9     13.9     13.9     13.9     13.9     13.9      13.9    13.9      13.9
  617.4     648.7       677.4     703.6       727.8        752.9       776.0     783.8    791.6    799.5    807.5    815.6    823.8    832.0    840.3    848.7    857.2
4,321.5   4,541.1     4,741.6   4,925.4     5,094.6      5,270.0     5,432.2   5,486.5  5,541.4  5,596.8  5,652.8  5,709.3  5,766.4  5,824.1  5,882.3  5,941.1  6,000.5
  617.4     648.7       677.4     703.6       727.8        752.9       776.0     783.8    791.6    799.5    807.5    815.6    823.8    832.0    840.3    848.7    857.2

4,938.8   5,189.9     5,419.0   5,629.0     5,822.3      6,022.8     6,208.2   6,270.3  6,333.0  6,396.4  6,460.3  6,524.9  6,590.2  6,656.1  6,722.6  6,789.9  6,857.8




                                                                                       34

LATVIA - LIEPAJA REGION SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PROJECT                                           ICR - Annex 3, attachment 2 (page 1/2)

Financial cashflow analysis                 based on audited accounts for 2001 to 2006, projections of L-RAS thereafter (in '000 LVL)        in constant 2007 prices



Attachment N° 2, calculations
                                                                                                        actuals      actuals        actuals   actuals       actuals   actuals           >> estimates >>>>>>>>>
Profit & Loss Statement                     description                                                   2001          2002          2003       2004         2005       2006      2007        2008       2009     2010     2011     2012     2013     2014     2015     2016

revenues                                    waste, '000 m3 until sept 2004 , then in '000 ton            76.50        88.41         108.35    72/18,7          61.0      61.6      69.0         74.0       79.0     79.8     80.6    81.4     82.2      83.0     83.9    84.7
Reception of waste at the site              at disposal fee, excluding NRT                                 75.0          92.0        126.3      143.8         337.2     499.4     550.1     1,000.9     1,297.2  1,310.2  1,323.3  1,336.5  1,349.9  1,363.3  1,377.0  1,390.8
Receipts of natural resource tax (NRT)      0,25/m3 and 0,75/ton                                           15.3          16.8          25.4       25.5         21.4       26.3      51.8        55.5       59.3     59.8     60.4     61.0     61.7     62.3     62.9     63.5
Sale of electricity to Latvenergo           7,000 hours at LVL 88,45/MWh                                   0.0            0.0          0.0        0.0           0.0       0.0       0.0         48.6      125.0    211.7    311.2    385.5    412.4    436.8    459.0   479.3
                                            1,000 hours at LVL 34,35/MWh                                   0.0            0.0          0.0        0.0          19.8        0.9      16.8        10.8       13.9     15.7     17.3     18.7    20.0      21.2     22.3    23.3
Total electricity sales                                                                                     0.0            0.0          0.0        0.0         19.8        0.9      16.8        59.4      138.8    227.3    328.5    404.2    432.4    458.0    481.3    502.6
               total revenues                                                                              90.3        108.8         151.7      169.3         378.4     526.5     618.7     1,115.8     1,495.3  1,597.3  1,712.1  1,801.7  1,843.9  1,883.7  1,921.2  1,956.9

costs
Operation & maintenance                                                                                    27.9          36.7          39.3       68.5        124.7     249.9     250.0        265.0      265.0    265.0    265.0    265.0    265.0    265.0    265.0    265.0
Administration                                                                                             39.4          46.8          55.7       72.6        106.0       91.6    115.0        135.0      135.0    135.0    135.0    135.0    135.0    135.0    135.0    135.0
NRT, direct payments                        40% waste to landfill; balance in provision                    15.3          16.8          25.4       25.5         21.4       26.3      20.7        55.5       59.3     59.8     60.4     61.0     61.7     62.3     62.9     63.5
            total costs, incl NRT                                                                          82.6        100.3         120.5      166.7         252.1     367.9     385.7        455.5      459.3    459.8    460.4    461.0    461.7    462.3    462.9    463.5
           Gross operating margin           revenues minus costs                                           7.7            8.5         31.2        2.6        126.3      158.6     233.0        660.3    1,036.0  1,137.5  1,251.7  1,340.7  1,382.3  1,421.4  1,458.3  1,493.3

Depreciation                                                                                               -3.3           -4.4       -10.0       -31.0       -129.5    -474.4    -500.0       -500.0     -500.0   -500.0   -500.0   -500.0   -500.0   -500.0   -500.0   -500.0
Provision for landfill closure                                                                              0.0            0.0          0.0        0.0           0.0       0.0    -30.0        -30.0      -30.0    -30.0    -30.0    -30.0    -30.0    -30.0    -30.0    -30.0
            Net operating margin                                                                           4.4            4.1         21.3      -28.4          -3.2    -315.7    -297.0        130.3      506.0    607.5    721.7    810.7    852.3    891.4    928.3   963.3

Interest:IBRD/NIB and other loans                                                                        -26.0          -12.6        -14.4       -21.9        -64.9     -83.4    -124.6       -119.5     -114.1   -108.2   -102.1    -93.2    -83.8    -73.8    -63.1    -51.8
Foreign exchange losses/profits                                                                            -0.1         -12.4          -3.0       20.8       -212.8     186.4        0.0         0.0        0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Other operating income/expenditures         incl write-down of grants until 2030                            0.1          12.9           2.9       11.3         95.4     271.1     245.1        245.1      245.1    245.1    245.1    245.1    245.1    245.1    245.1    245.1
Profits/losses before taxation                                                                           -21.6            -8.0          6.8      -18.1       -185.4       58.4   -176.6        255.8      637.1    744.3    864.8    962.5  1,013.6  1,062.7  1,110.3  1,156.7
Company taxes 15%                           from 2009 after write-down losses                               0.0           0.0           0.0        0.0           0.0       0.0       0.0         0.0      -95.6   -111.6   -129.7   -144.4   -152.0   -159.4   -166.5   -173.5
                Profits/losses                                     base case                             -21.6            -8.0          6.8      -18.1       -185.4       58.4   -176.6        255.8      541.5    632.7    735.0    818.2    861.5    903.3    943.7    983.2

                 profits/losses                              without electricity sales                      na             na           na         na            na        na        na        167.0      423.5    439.5   455.9     474.6    494.0    513.9    534.6   556.0
                 profits/losses              with 25% higher operation and administration costs             na             na           na         na            na        na        na        132.5      456.5    547.7   650.0    733.2    776.5    818.3     858.7   898.2

Cash flow adjustments
Depreciation                                see above                                                       3.3           4.4          10.0       31.0        129.5     474.4     500.0        500.0      500.0    500.0    500.0    500.0    500.0    500.0    500.0    500.0
Cash flow before loan repayment             after tax profit + depreciation                              -18.3            -3.6         16.7       12.9        -55.9     532.8     323.4        755.8    1,041.5  1,132.7  1,235.0  1,318.2  1,361.5  1,403.3  1,443.7  1,483.2
Repayment WB/NIB loans                      after 6, resp 10 yrs grace period, see sheet 3                  0.0           0.0           0.0        0.0        -52.2    -201.1     -80.0        -78.2      -83.3    -88.8   -128.5   -134.7   -143.5   -152.9   -162.9   -173.6
Cash flow after loan repayment                                                                           -18.3            -3.6         16.7       12.9       -108.1     331.7     243.4        677.6      958.2  1,043.9  1,106.5  1,183.5  1,218.0  1,250.4  1,280.8  1,309.5
Annual investment in facilities             100,000 per year, from 2008 onwards                             0.0           0.0           0.0        0.0           0.0       0.0       0.0      -100.0     -100.0   -100.0   -100.0   -100.0   -100.0   -100.0   -100.0   -100.0

             Cash flow, overall                                                                          -18.3            -3.6         16.7       12.9       -108.1     331.7     243.4        577.6      858.2    943.9  1,006.5  1,083.5  1,118.0  1,150.4  1,180.8  1,209.5

               cash flow overall                             without electricity sales                      na             na           na         na            na        na        na        488.7      740.1    750.7   727.4     739.9    750.4    761.0    771.7   782.4
               cash flow overall             with 25% higher operation and administration costs             na             na           na         na            na        na        na        454.2      773.2    858.9   921.5     998.5  1,033.0  1,065.4  1,095.8  1,124.5

           Cumulative cash flow             after loan repayment and annual investment                    -18.3         -21.9          -5.1        7.8       -100.3     231.4     474.8     1,052.5     1,910.6  2,854.5  3,861.0  4,944.5  6,062.5  7,212.8  8,393.6  9,603.2

Ratios                                      na = not applicable

profitability ratio
after tax profits/losses, as percent of revenues                                                       -23.89%       -7.33%          4.46%    -10.67%      -49.00%     11.09%   -28.54%     22.93%      36.21%   39.61%   42.93%   45.41%   46.72%   47.95%   49.12%   50.24%

cash flow indicators
cash flow before loan repayment, as percent of revenues                                                    neg            neg      11.03%       7.63%           neg   101.20%   52.28%      67.74%      69.65%   70.91%   72.13%   73.16%   73.84%   74.50%   75.15%   75.79%
cash flow after loan repayment, as percent of revenues                                                     neg            neg      11.03%       7.63%           neg    63.00%   39.34%      60.73%      64.08%   65.35%   64.63%   65.69%   66.05%   66.38%   66.67%   66.92%
depreciation as percent of cash flow before loan repayment                                                 neg            neg      59.52%    239.71%            neg    89.04%   154.60%     66.15%      48.01%   44.14%   40.48%   37.93%   36.72%   35.63%   34.63%   33.71%

debt service indicators
* debt service coverage ratio (gross operating margin over total debt service payments)                     na            na            na         na          2.42       0.79      2.91        8.44      12.43    12.81     9.74     9.95     9.63     9.29     8.95     8.60
** interest payment as percent of cash flow, before debt service payments                                  neg            neg      85.83%    169.13%            neg    15.65%   38.54%      15.81%      10.95%    9.56%    8.26%    7.07%    6.16%    5.26%    4.37%    3.49%
*** loan repayment as percent of cash flow, before debt service payments                                     na            na            na        na           neg   37.74%    24.74%      10.35%       8.00%    7.84%   10.40%   10.22%   10.54%   10.90%   11.29%   11.71%

efficiency indicators
break-even ratio (revenues/operating costs+debt service-depreciation)                                      1.12          1.43          1.59       1.41         1.55       0.47      0.57        0.97       1.29     1.38     1.44     1.52     1.55     1.58     1.62     1.65
gross margin as percent of revenues                                                                      8.52%        7.78%        20.59%          0.0      33.38%    30.13%    37.65%      59.18%      69.29%   71.21%   73.11%   74.41%   74.96%   75.46%   75.91%   76.31%
working ratio (operating costs as percent of revenues)                                                 30.91%        33.74%        25.93%          0.4      32.95%    47.47%    40.41%      23.75%      17.72%   16.59%   15.48%   14.71%   14.37%   14.07%   13.79%   13.54%
operating ratio (operating costs+depreciation+interest as percent of revenues)                         63.33%        49.32%        41.96%     71.69%        84.32%    153.40%   141.38%     79.28%      58.79%   54.67%   50.64%   47.63%   46.03%   44.53%   43.11%   41.74%




                                                                                                                                                           35

                  ICR - Annex 3, attachment 2 (page 2/2)




   2017      2018        2019          2020        2021      2022     2023      2024      2025      2026      2027      2028      2029      2030    description

   85.5      86.4        87.3          88.1        89.0      89.9     90.8      91.7      92.6      93.6      94.5      95.4      96.4      97.4    waste collected
1,404.7   1,418.7      1,432.9       1,447.2     1,461.7   1,476.3  1,491.1  1,506.0   1,521.0   1,536.3   1,551.6   1,567.1   1,582.8   1,598.6    waste disposal fee, net
    64.2      64.8        65.4          66.1        66.8      67.4     68.1     68.8      69.5      70.2      70.9      71.6      72.3       73.0   NRT
  497.9     515.0        532.7        549.1       554.6     560.2     565.8    571.4     577.1     582.9     588.7     594.6     600.6     606.6    electricity sales revenues
   24.2      25.0        25.9          26.7        26.9      27.2     27.5      27.7      28.0      28.3      28.6      28.9      29.2      29.4    electricity sales revenues
   522.1     540.0       558.6         575.8       581.5     587.3    593.2     599.2     605.1     611.2     617.3     623.5     629.7     636.0   total electricity sales
1,990.9   2,023.5      2,056.9       2,089.1     2,110.0  2,131.1   2,152.4  2,173.9   2,195.7   2,217.6   2,239.8   2,262.2   2,284.8   2,307.7    total revenues



   265.0     265.0       265.0         265.0       265.0     265.0    265.0     265.0     265.0     265.0     265.0     265.0     265.0     265.0   operational and maintenance
   135.0     135.0       135.0         135.0       135.0     135.0    135.0     135.0     135.0     135.0     135.0     135.0     135.0     135.0   administrative costs
    64.2      64.8        65.4          66.1        66.8      67.4     68.1     68.8      69.5      70.2      70.9      71.6      72.3       73.0   NRT payments
   464.2     464.8       465.4         466.1       466.8     467.4    468.1     468.8     469.5     470.2     470.9     471.6     472.3     473.0   total costs
1,526.7   1,558.7      1,591.5      1,623.0     1,643.2   1,663.7   1,684.3  1,705.1   1,726.2   1,747.5   1,768.9   1,790.6   1,812.5   1,834.6    gross margin

 -500.0    -500.0       -500.0       -500.0      -500.0    -500.0    -500.0   -500.0    -500.0    -500.0    -500.0    -500.0    -500.0    -500.0    depreciation
   -30.0     -30.0       -30.0         -30.0       -30.0     -30.0    -30.0     -30.0     -30.0     -30.0     -30.0     -30.0     -30.0     -30.0   provision landfill closure
  996.7   1,028.7      1,061.5      1,093.0     1,113.2   1,133.7   1,154.3  1,175.1   1,196.2   1,217.5   1,238.9   1,260.6   1,282.5   1,304.6    net margin

   -42.6     -35.0       -31.5         -27.8       -23.9     -19.7    -15.2     -10.5      -5.4      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0    interest payments World Bank+NIB loans
    0.0       0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0    foreign exchange losses/profits
   245.1     245.1       245.1         245.1       245.1     245.1    245.1     245.1     245.1     245.1     245.1     245.1     245.1     245.1   write-down grants
1,199.2   1,238.8      1,275.1       1,310.3     1,334.5   1,359.1  1,384.2  1,409.8   1,435.9   1,462.6   1,484.0   1,505.7   1,527.6   1,549.7    profits/losses before taxation
 -179.9    -185.8       -191.3       -196.5      -200.2    -203.9    -207.6   -211.5    -215.4    -219.4    -222.6    -225.9    -229.1    -232.5    company taxes
1,019.3   1,053.0      1,083.8       1,113.7     1,134.3  1,155.2   1,176.5  1,198.3   1,220.5   1,243.2   1,261.4   1,279.9   1,298.5   1,317.3    profits/losses

  575.6     594.0        609.0        624.3       640.0     656.0     672.3    689.0     706.1     723.7     736.7     749.9     763.2     776.7    profits/losses, without electricity sales
  934.3     968.0        998.8      1,028.7     1,049.3   1,070.2   1,091.5  1,113.3   1,135.5   1,158.2   1,176.4   1,194.9   1,213.5   1,232.3    profits/losses, with 25% higher costs



   500.0     500.0       500.0         500.0       500.0     500.0    500.0     500.0     500.0     500.0     500.0     500.0     500.0     500.0   depreciation
1,519.3   1,553.0      1,583.8       1,613.7     1,634.3   1,655.2  1,676.5  1,698.3   1,720.5   1,743.2   1,761.4   1,779.9   1,798.5   1,817.3    cash flow before loan repayment
 -139.5    -116.6        -52.8         -56.3       -60.0     -63.9    -68.1     -72.6     -77.3     -82.4      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0    World Bank+NIB loan repayment
1,379.8   1,436.4      1,531.0       1,557.4     1,574.3   1,591.3  1,608.4  1,625.7   1,643.2   1,660.8   1,761.4   1,779.9   1,798.5   1,817.3    net cash flow after loan repayment
 -100.0    -100.0       -100.0       -100.0      -100.0    -100.0    -100.0   -100.0    -100.0    -100.0    -100.0    -100.0    -100.0    -100.0    periodic investment

1,279.8   1,336.4      1,431.0       1,457.4     1,474.3   1,491.3  1,508.4  1,525.7   1,543.2   1,560.8   1,661.4   1,679.9   1,698.5   1,717.3    cash flow, overall

  836.0     877.4        956.2        968.0       980.0     992.0   1,004.2  1,016.4   1,028.8   1,041.3   1,136.7   1,149.9   1,163.2   1,176.7    cash flow overall, without electricity sales
1,194.8   1,251.4      1,346.0      1,372.4     1,389.3   1,406.3   1,423.4  1,440.7   1,458.2   1,475.8   1,576.4   1,594.9   1,613.5   1,632.3    cash flow overall, with 25% higher costs

10,883.0  12,219.4    13,650.3      15,107.8    16,582.1  18,073.4 19,581.8  21,107.5  22,650.7  24,211.5  25,872.9  27,552.8  29,251.2  30,968.5  cumulative net cash flow after loan repayment




51.20%    52.04%       52.69%       53.31%       53.76%   54.21%    54.66%   55.12%    55.59%    56.06%    56.32%    56.58%    56.83%    57.08%     after tax profits/revenues, as a percentage



76.31%    76.75%       77.00%       77.25%       77.45%   77.67%    77.89%   78.12%    78.36%    78.61%    78.64%    78.68%    78.71%    78.75%     cash flow as percent of revenues
69.30%    70.99%       74.43%       74.55%       74.61%   74.67%    74.73%   74.78%    74.84%    74.89%    78.64%    78.68%    78.71%    78.75%     cash flow after loan repayment, as % of revenues
32.91%    32.20%       31.57%       30.98%       30.59%   30.21%    29.82%   29.44%    29.06%    28.68%    28.39%    28.09%    27.80%    27.51%     depreciation as % cash flow, before loan repayment

                                                                                                                                                    debt service ratios
   10.94     13.37       30.12         28.83       27.39     26.03    24.73      na        na        na        na        na        na        na     * ratio of gom over total debt service payments
 2.81%     2.25%        1.99%        1.72%       1.46%     1.19%     0.91%       na        na        na        na        na        na        na     ** interest % of cash flow, before debt service
 9.18%     7.51%        3.34%        3.49%       3.67%     3.86%     4.06%       na        na        na        na        na        na        na     *** loan repayment over cash flow, before debt service



    1.74      1.81        1.96          1.99        2.01      2.03     2.05     2.07      2.09      2.11      2.31      2.33      2.35       2.37   break-even ratio
76.69%    77.03%       77.37%       77.69%       77.88%   78.07%    78.25%   78.44%    78.62%    78.80%    78.98%    79.15%    79.33%    79.50%     gross margin as percent of revenues
13.31%    13.10%       12.88%       12.68%       12.56%   12.43%    12.31%   12.19%    12.07%    11.95%    11.83%    11.71%    11.60%    11.48%     working ratio (operating costs as percent of evenues)
40.57%    39.53%       38.72%       37.95%       37.39%   36.82%    36.25%   35.67%    35.09%    34.50%    34.15%    33.82%    33.48%    33.15%     op ratio (op costs+depr+interest as % of revenues)




                                                                                                              36

LATVIA - LIEPAJA REGION SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PROJECT ICR - Annex 3, attachment 3 (page 1/2)

Financial cashflow analysis



Attachment N° 3: loan repayment                    Details on payment of commitment fees and interest, WB and NIB loans

                                                                                                                                        7.80%           6.55%
                                                                              Front-end fee of 1% paid in 2001                          rate at          rate         difference
interest rate, both loans                          7,80% based on LIBOR of 6,25% appraisal                                            appraisal      assumed ICR
                                                   6,55% ICR estimate, LIBOR one year 4,9875% (oct 2007)

WB, 5 years grace, 12 years repayment: fixed annuity of LVL 144,044, based on loan of LVL 1,212,000                                 -159,163.75 F     -148,954.36 F   -10,209.39 F amounts is LVL
NIB, 10 years grace, 15 years repayment: fixed annuity of LVL 83,764, based on loan of LVL 823,000                                    -94,979.74 F     -87,809.70 F    -7,170.04 F amounts is LVL

                                                           2002         2003          2004         2005          2006         2007            2008             2009            2010        2011    2012   2013   2014
WB loan
disbursement schedule, PIU of November 2005                  98          176           608           241           89
commitment fee at 0,25% on undisbursed                        3            2              1             0

total disbursed and outstanding, at 7,8%                     98          274           882        1,123         1,160        1,092           1,018              939             853        760      661    553    437
interest at 7,8% on net outstanding                           4           15            45            78           91          85               79               73              67         59       52     43     34
payment of annuity                                                                                                159          159             159              159             159        159      159    159    159
repayment of principal                                                                                52           68           74              80               86              92        100      107    116    125

total disbursed and outstanding, at 6,55%                    98          274           882        1,123         1,160        1,080           1,002              918             830        735      634    527    412
interest at 6,55% on net outstanding                          3           10            32            56           62          71               66               60              54         48       42     35     27
payment of annuity                                            0            0              0             0         149          149             149              149             149        149      149    149    149
repayment of principal                                                                                52           80           78              83               89              95        101      107    114    122

NIB loan
disbursement schedule, PIU of July 2005                       0            0           562           261
commitment fee at 0,25% on undisbursed                        0            1              1

total disbursed and outstanding, at 7,8%                      0            0           562           823          823          823             823              823             823        823      792    759    723
interest at 7,8% on net outstanding                           0            0            44            64           64          64              64                64              64         64       62     59     56
payment of annuity                                                                                                                                                               95         95       95     95     95
repayment of principal                                                                                                                                                           31         31       33     36     39

total disbursed and outstanding, at 6,55%                     0            0           562           823          823          823             823              823             823        823      789    753    715
interest at 6,55% on net outstanding                          0            0            16            46           46          54              54                54              54         54       52     49     47
payment of annuity                                            0            0              0             0           0            0               0                0              88         88       88     88     88
repayment of principal                                        0            0              0             0           0            0               0                0              34         34       36     38     41



totals
commitment fees                                               3            4              1             0           0            0               0                0               0           0       0      0      0

interest charges at 7,8%                                      4           15            89           142          155          149             144              137             131        124      113    102     91
loan repayment at 7,8%                                        0            0              0           52           68          74              80                86             123        130      141    152    163

interest charges at 6,55%                                     3           10            48           101          108          125             120              114             108        102      93      84     74
loan repayment at 6,55%                                       0            0              0           52           80          78              83                89             129        135      144    153    163

Note: the projection has been carried out on loans expressed in LVL: however, the contractual amounts are in USD and annual payments in LVL may differ due to exchange rate fluctuations.




                                                                                                                   37

    ICR - Annex 3, attachment 3 (page 2/2)




2015       2016          2017         2018    2019   2020   2021   2022   2023   2024   2025




313         178            33
 24          14             3
159         159            36
135         145            33

290         160            67
 19          11             4
149         149            71
130          93            67




685         643           598           550    498    442    381    316    246    170    88
 53          50            47            43    39     34     30     25     19     13      7
 95          95            95            95    95     95     95     95     95     95     95
 42          45            48            52    56     61     65     70     76     82     88

674         630           583           534    481    425    365    301    233    160    83
 44          41            38            35    31     28     24     20     15     10      5
 88          88            88            88    88     88     88     88     88     88     88
 44          47            50            53    56     60     64     68     73     77     82




  0           0             0             0     0      0      0      0      0      0      0

 78          64            49            43    39     34     30     25     19     13      7
176         190            82            52    56     61     65     70     76     82     88

 63          52            43            35    31     28     24     20     15     10      5
174         140           117            53    56     60     64     68     73     77     82




                                                                       38

LATVIA - LIEPAJA REGION SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PROJECT                                                                      ICR - Annex 3, attachment 4 (page 1/2)

Attachment N° 4: FIRR and ERR calculations                                   base cases

FIRR calculation (in '000 LVL)                                                                                        2001           2002         2003       2004      2005      2006      2007      2008      2009      2010      2011      2012      2013     2014     2015
30 years and in 2007 constant prices

COSTS
project investments                                      from ICR cost table (total = 9,183,700)                     201.9          814.9       1,118.5    3,280.1   2,837.3     931.0
post-project investments                                 estimated amounts                                                                                                                           100.0     100.0     100.0     100.0     100.0     100.0    100.0    100.0
operation and maintenance costs                         from cash flow table                                          27.9           36.7          39.3       68.5     124.7     249.9     250.0     265.0     265.0     265.0     265.0     265.0     265.0    265.0    265.0
administrative costs                                    from cash flow table                                          39.4           46.8          55.7       72.6     106.0     91.6     115.0     135.0     135.0     135.0     135.0     135.0     135.0    135.0    135.0
provision landfill closure                               CarlBro estimate                                                                                                                  30.0      30.0      30.0      30.0      30.0      30.0      30.0     30.0     30.0

                    total financial costs                                                                            269.2          898.4       1,213.6    3,421.3   3,068.0   1,272.6     365.0     500.0     500.0     500.0     500.0     500.0     500.0    500.0    500.0

BENEFITS
waste deposit fee, net                                   from cash flow table                                         75.0           92.0         126.3      143.8     337.2     499.4     550.1   1,000.9   1,297.2   1,310.2   1,323.3   1,336.5   1,349.9  1,363.3  1,377.0
sales of electricity                                     from cash flow table                                           0.0           0.0           0.0        0.0     19.8        0.9     16.8      59.4      138.8     227.3     328.5     404.2     432.4    458.0    481.3
sale of carbon emission units                           PCF disbursements as proxy (1)                               351.0            0.0           0.0      525.0     230.7     50.8
residual value of the investment (15%)                   9,183,700

                  total financial benefits                                                                           426.0           92.0         126.3      668.8     587.8     551.0     566.9   1,060.3   1,436.0   1,537.5   1,651.7   1,740.7   1,782.3  1,821.4  1,858.3

Net financial costs/benefits per year                                                                                156.8         -806.4      -1,087.2   -2,752.5  -2,480.2   -721.5      201.9     560.3     936.0   1,037.5   1,151.7   1,240.7   1,282.3  1,321.4  1,358.3

Cumulative financial costs/benefits                                                                                  156.8         -649.6      -1,736.9   -4,489.4  -6,969.6  -7,691.1  -7,489.2  -6,928.9  -5,992.9  -4,955.5  -3,803.8  -2,563.1  -1,280.8    40.6   1,398.9

                                                                                                  30 years FIRR                   11.18%       20 years     9.20%
(1) from amendment ERPA dated May 31, 2004                                                                  NPV at 10%              715.2                  -365.3



ERR calculation (in '000 LVL)
30 years and in constant prices                                                                                       2001           2002         2003       2004      2005      2006      2007      2008      2009      2010      2011      2012      2013     2014     2015

COSTS
total financial costs                                    from FIRR calculation                                       269.2          898.4       1,213.6    3,421.3   3,068.0  1,272.6      365.0     500.0     500.0     500.0     500.0     500.0     500.0    500.0    500.0
VAT on project costs                                     from ICR project cost table                                   -7.9          -64.7        -49.5      -95.2   -342.2      -60.8
taxes on recurrent costs                                 average of 21%                                               -14.1          -17.5        -20.0      -29.6     -48.4     -71.7     -76.7     -84.0     -84.0     -84.0     -84.0     -84.0     -84.0    -84.0    -84.0

                   total economic costs                 net of taxes                                                 247.1          816.2       1,144.1    3,296.4   2,677.3   1,140.0     288.4     416.0     416.0     416.0     416.0     416.0     416.0    416.0    416.0

BENEFITS                                                 only local environmental benefits
financial benefits, excl electricity                     from FIRR calculation                                       426.0           92.0         126.3      668.8     567.9     550.2     550.1  1,000.9   1,297.2    1,310.2   1,323.3   1,336.5   1,349.9  1,363.3  1,377.0
electricity sales at import parity price (2)                                                                              0              0            0          0       9.2       0.4       9.8     18.5      47.6      80.6      118.5     128.4     137.4    145.5    152.9
residual value of the investment, net of VAT:15%         8,563,400

                total economic benefits                  only local environmental benefits                           426.0           92.0         126.3      668.8     577.2     550.6     559.9   1,019.4   1,344.8   1,390.7   1,441.7   1,464.9   1,487.2  1,508.8  1,529.9

Net economic costs/benefits                             only local environmental benefits                            178.8         -724.2      -1,017.8   -2,627.6  -2,100.2   -589.5      271.6     603.4     928.8     974.7   1,025.7   1,048.9   1,071.2  1,092.8  1,113.9

                                                                                                  30 years            ERR         10.97%       20 years     8.91%
                                                                                                            NPV at 10%              512.8                  -427.1

BENEFITS                                                 local and international economic benefits
financial benefits, excl electricity                     from FIRR calculation                                       426.0           92.0         126.3      668.8     567.9     550.2     550.1  1,000.9   1,297.2    1,310.2   1,323.3   1,336.5   1,349.9  1,363.3  1,377.0
electricity sales at import parity price (2)                                                                              0              0            0          0       9.2       0.4       9.8     18.5      47.6      80.6      118.5     128.4     137.4    145.5    152.9
proxy for environmental benefits                        ISPA and SIDA grant disbursements (3)                         60.0          384.0         613.0    1,145.0   1,150.0     657.0
residual value of the investment, net of VAT             8,563,400

                total economic benefits                  local and international economic benefits                   486.0          476.0         739.3    1,813.8   1,727.2   1,207.6     559.9   1,019.4   1,344.8   1,390.7   1,441.7   1,464.9   1,487.2  1,508.8  1,529.9

Net economic costs/benefits per year                     local and international economic benefits                   238.8         -340.2        -404.8   -1,482.6   -950.2      67.5     271.6     603.4     928.8      974.7  1,025.7   1,048.9   1,071.2   1,092.8  1,113.9

                                                                                                  30 years ERR                    20.96%       20 years    20.12%
                                                                                                            NPV at 10%            3,212.3                  2,272.4

(2) - import parity prices: for 2005 and 2006 at LVL 16/MWh; at LVL 20/MWh in 2007 and at LVL 29,46/MWh from 2008 onwards
(3) - PIU disbursement table
(4) - figures in italics in year 2020 are net costs/benefits including the residual value of 15% used in the rate of return calculations over 20 years




                                                                                                                                                             39

       ICR - Annex 3, attachment 4 (page 2/2)




  2016        2017          2018         2019     2020      2021      2022      2023      2024      2025      2026      2027      2028      2029       2030




 100.0        100.0         100.0        100.0    100.0     100.0     100.0     100.0     100.0     100.0     100.0     100.0     100.0     100.0      100.0
 265.0        265.0         265.0        265.0    265.0     265.0     265.0     265.0     265.0     265.0     265.0     265.0     265.0     265.0      265.0
 135.0        135.0         135.0        135.0    135.0     135.0     135.0     135.0     135.0     135.0     135.0     135.0     135.0     135.0      135.0
  30.0         30.0          30.0         30.0     30.0      30.0     30.0       30.0     30.0       30.0      30.0     30.0       30.0     30.0        30.0

 500.0        500.0         500.0        500.0    500.0     500.0     500.0     500.0     500.0     500.0     500.0     500.0     500.0     500.0      500.0



1,390.8     1,404.7       1,418.7      1,432.9  1,447.2  1,461.7   1,476.3   1,491.1   1,506.0   1,521.0   1,536.3   1,551.6    1,567.1  1,582.8     1,598.6
 502.6        522.1         540.0        558.6    575.8     581.5     587.3     593.2     599.2     605.1     611.2     617.3     623.5     629.7      636.0

                                                1,377.6                                                                                              1,377.6

1,893.3     1,926.7       1,958.7      1,991.5  2,023.0  2,043.2   2,063.7   2,084.3   2,105.1   2,126.2   2,147.5   2,168.9    2,190.6  2,212.5     3,612.2

1,393.3     1,426.7       1,458.7      1,491.5  1,523.0  1,543.2   1,563.7   1,584.3   1,605.1   1,626.2   1,647.5   1,668.9    1,690.6  1,712.5     3,112.2
                                                3,546.0
2,792.2     4,219.0       5,677.6      7,169.1  8,692.1  10,235.3  11,799.0  13,383.3  14,988.4  16,614.6  18,262.1  19,931.0  21,621.6  23,334.2   26,446.4




  2016        2017          2018         2019     2020      2021      2022      2023      2024      2025      2026      2027      2028      2029       2030



 500.0        500.0         500.0        500.0    500.0     500.0     500.0     500.0     500.0     500.0     500.0     500.0     500.0     500.0      500.0

  -84.0       -84.0         -84.0        -84.0    -84.0     -84.0     -84.0     -84.0     -84.0     -84.0     -84.0     -84.0     -84.0     -84.0      -84.0

 416.0        416.0         416.0        416.0    416.0     416.0     416.0     416.0     416.0     416.0     416.0     416.0     416.0     416.0      416.0



1,390.8     1,404.7       1,418.7      1,432.9  1,447.2  1,461.7   1,476.3   1,491.1   1,506.0   1,521.0   1,536.3   1,551.6    1,567.1  1,582.8     2,976.2
 159.6        165.8         171.5        177.4    182.9     184.7     186.6     188.4     190.3     192.2     194.1     196.1     198.0     200.0      202.0
                                                1,284.5                                                                                              1,284.5

1,550.4     1,570.5       1,590.2      1,610.3  1,630.1  1,646.4   1,662.9   1,679.5   1,696.3   1,713.3   1,730.4   1,747.7    1,765.2  1,782.8     4,462.7

1,134.4     1,154.5       1,174.2      1,194.3  1,214.1  1,230.4   1,246.9   1,263.5   1,280.3   1,297.3   1,314.4   1,331.7    1,349.2  1,366.8     4,046.7
                                                2,914.6




1,390.8     1,404.7       1,418.7      1,432.9  1,447.2  1,461.7   1,476.3   1,491.1   1,506.0   1,521.0   1,536.3   1,551.6    1,567.1  1,582.8     2,976.2
 159.6        165.8         171.5        177.4    182.9     184.7     186.6     188.4     190.3     192.2     194.1     196.1     198.0     200.0      202.0
                                                1,284.5                                                                                              1,284.5



1,550.4     1,570.5       1,590.2      1,610.3  1,630.1  1,646.4   1,662.9   1,679.5   1,696.3   1,713.3   1,730.4   1,747.7    1,765.2  1,782.8     4,462.7

1,134.4     1,154.5       1,174.2      1,194.3  1,214.1  1,230.4   1,246.9   1,263.5   1,280.3   1,297.3   1,314.4   1,331.7    1,349.2  1,366.8     4,046.7
                                                2,914.6




                                                                                                         40

LATVIA - LIEPAJA REGION SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PROJECT                                                                      ICR, Annex 3, attachment 5 (page 1/2)



Attachment N° 5: FIRR and ERR analysis                               sensitivity analysis




FIRR calculation (in '000 LVL)                                                                                        2001           2002          2003      2004         2005     2006    2007    2008     2009     2010     2011     2012     2013
30 years and in 2007 constant prices

Net financial costs/benefits per year                             from base case (sheet 4)                            156.8         -806.4      -1,087.2  -2,752.5     -2,480.2   -721.5   201.9   560.3    936.0  1,037.5  1,151.7  1,240.7  1,282.3

                 sensitivity case 1
electricity sales at 25% organic waste content       increase base sales by factor 9/16 (1)                             0.0            0.0          0.0        0.0          0.0     0.0     0.0     33.4    78.1     127.9    184.8    227.4    243.2
net financial costs/benefits                         higher organic waste content, 25%                                156.8         -806.4      -1,087.2  -2,752.5     -2,480.2   -721.5   201.9   593.7  1,014.1  1,165.3  1,336.5  1,468.0  1,525.5

                                                                                      FIRR - 30 years               12.68%       20 years        10.63%
                                                                                           NPV @ 10%              1,737.46                        303.31
                 sensitivity case 2
no electricity sales                                                                                                    0.0            0.0          0.0        0.0          0.0     0.0     0.0    -59.4   -138.8   -227.3   -328.5   -404.2   -432.4
net financial costs/benefits                         zero electricity sales after 2008                                156.8         -806.4      -1,087.2  -2,752.5     -2,480.2   -721.5   201.9   500.9    797.2    810.2    823.3    836.5    849.9

                                                                                      FIRR - 30 years                7.87%       20 years         5.36%
                                                                                           NPV @ 10%              -1,102.18                    -1,796.30
                 sensitivity case 3
operating and administrative costs, + 25%                                                                                              0.0          0.0        0.0          0.0     0.0     0.0    -91.3   -125.0   -125.0   -125.0   -125.0   -125.0
net financial costs/benefits                         25% higher financial costs                                       156.8         -806.4      -1,087.2  -2,752.5     -2,480.2   -721.5   201.9   469.0    811.0    912.5  1,026.7  1,115.7  1,157.3

                                                                                      FIRR - 30 years               10.27%       20 years         7.91%
                                                                                           NPV @ 10%                 161.12                     -909.34




ERR calculation (in '000 LVL)                                                                                             0              0             0         0            0        0       0       0        0        0        0        0        0
30 years and in constant prices

Net economic costs/benefits per year                              from base case (sheet 4)                            238.8         -340.2        -404.8  -1,482.6      -950.2     67.5    271.6   603.4    928.8    974.7  1,025.7  1,048.9  1,071.2

                 sensitivity case 1
electricity sales at 25% organic waste content       increase base sales by factor 9/16                                 0.0            0.0          0.0        0.0          0.0     0.0     0.0     10.4    26.8     45.3     66.6     72.2     77.3
net economic costs/benefits                          higher organic waste content, 25%                                238.8         -340.2        -404.8  -1,482.6      -950.2     67.5    271.6   613.8    955.5  1,020.0  1,092.3  1,121.1  1,148.5

                                                                                        ERR - 30 years              21.70%       20 years        20.79%
                                                                                           NPV @ 10%              3,542.32                     2,461.57
                 sensitivity case 2
no electricity sales                                                                                                    0.0            0.0          0.0        0.0          0.0     0.0     0.0    -18.5    -47.6    -80.6   -118.5   -128.4   -137.4
net economic costs/benefits                          zero electricity sales after 2008                                238.8         -340.2        -404.8  -1,482.6      -950.2     67.5    271.6   584.9    881.2    894.2    907.3    920.5    933.9

                                                                                        ERR - 30 years              19.54%       20 years        18.54%
                                                                                           NPV @ 10%              2,625.50                     1,779.82
                 sensitivity case 3
operating and administrative costs, + 25%                                                                               0.0            0.0          0.0        0.0          0.0     0.0     0.0    -72.1   -104.0   -104.0   -104.0   -104.0   -104.0
net economic costs/benefits                          25% higher financial costs                                       238.8         -340.2        -404.8  -1,482.6      -950.2     67.5    271.6   531.3    824.8    870.7    921.7    944.9    967.2

                                                                                        ERR - 30 years              19.64%       20 years        18.59%
                                                                                           NPV @ 10%              2,753.07                     1,837.88



Note (1): increased organic content at 25% will add a factor of 9/16 to the LFG extraction and thus to electricity production compared to the base case at 16% organic content.

(2) figures in italics in year 2020 are net cost/benefits including the 15% residual value used in the rate of return calculations over twenty years




                                                                                                                                                    41

                ICR, Annex 3, attachment 5 (page 2/2)




  2014     2015        2016         2017         2018     2019     2020     2021     2022     2023     2024     2025     2026     2027     2028     2029     2030



1,321.4  1,358.3     1,393.3      1,426.7     1,458.7   1,491.5  1,523.0  1,543.2  1,563.7  1,584.3  1,605.1  1,626.2  1,647.5  1,668.9  1,690.6  1,712.5  3,112.2



  257.6    270.7       282.7        293.7       303.7     314.2    323.9    327.1    330.4    333.7    337.0    340.4    343.8    347.2    350.7    354.2    357.8 organic content of 25%, not 16%
1,579.0  1,629.1     1,676.0      1,720.4     1,762.4   1,805.7  1,846.9  1,870.3  1,894.0  1,918.0  1,942.2  1,966.6  1,991.3  2,016.2  2,041.3  2,066.7  3,470.0
                                                                 3,224.4




-458.0    -481.3      -502.6       -522.1      -540.0    -558.6   -575.8   -581.5   -587.3   -593.2   -599.2   -605.1   -611.2   -617.3   -623.5   -629.7   -636.0 zero electricity sales
  863.3    877.0       890.8        904.7       918.7     932.9    947.2    961.7    976.3    991.1  1,006.0  1,021.0  1,036.3  1,051.6  1,067.1  1,082.8  2,476.2
                                                                 2,324.8




-125.0    -125.0      -125.0       -125.0      -125.0    -125.0   -125.0   -125.0   -125.0   -125.0   -125.0   -125.0   -125.0   -125.0   -125.0   -125.0   -125.0 25% higher financial costs
1,196.4  1,233.3     1,268.3      1,301.7     1,333.7   1,366.5  1,398.0  1,418.2  1,438.7  1,459.3  1,480.1  1,501.2  1,522.5  1,543.9  1,565.6  1,587.5  2,987.2
                                                                 2,775.6




      0        0           0            0            0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0



1,092.8  1,113.9     1,134.4      1,154.5     1,174.2   1,194.3  1,214.1  1,230.4  1,246.9  1,263.5  1,280.3  1,297.3  1,314.4  1,331.7  1,349.2  1,366.8  4,046.7



   81.8    86.0        89.8          93.3        96.5     99.8     102.9    103.9    104.9    106.0    107.1    108.1    109.2    110.3    111.4    112.5    113.6 organic content of 25%, not 16%
1,174.7  1,199.9     1,224.2      1,247.8     1,270.7   1,294.1  1,317.0  1,334.3  1,351.8  1,369.5  1,387.4  1,405.4  1,423.6  1,442.0  1,460.6  1,479.4  4,160.4
                                                                 2,601.5




-145.5    -152.9      -159.6       -165.8      -171.5    -177.4   -182.9   -184.7   -186.6   -188.4   -190.3   -192.2   -194.1   -196.1   -198.0   -200.0   -202.0 zero electricity sales
  947.3    961.0       974.8        988.7     1,002.7   1,016.9  1,031.2  1,045.7  1,060.3  1,075.1  1,090.0  1,105.0  1,120.3  1,135.6  1,151.1  1,166.8  3,844.7
                                                                 2,315.7




-104.0    -104.0      -104.0       -104.0      -104.0    -104.0   -104.0   -104.0   -104.0   -104.0   -104.0   -104.0   -104.0   -104.0   -104.0   -104.0   -104.0 25% higher financial costs
  988.8  1,009.9     1,030.4      1,050.5     1,070.2   1,090.3  1,110.1  1,126.4  1,142.9  1,159.5  1,176.3  1,193.3  1,210.4  1,227.7  1,245.2  1,262.8  3,942.7
                                                                 2,394.6




                                                                                                42

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

           Names                         Title                Unit       Responsibility/
                                                                             Specialty
Lending
Anders O. Halldin         Sr. Environmental Specialist       ECSSD Task Manager

Kari Johansson            Municipal Services Specialist      ECSSD   Participating from the
                                                                     Riga office
Samuel Fankhauser         Economist                           ENV    Economic Calculations
Chandra Sheckar Sinha     Economist                           ENV    Economic Calculations
Junko Funahashi           Counselor                          LEGEC Legal Documents
Nicholay Cistayakov       Disbursement Officer               LOAG1 Disbursement Issues
David Freese              Disbursement Officer               LOAG1 Disbursement Issues
Jose Martinez             Procurement Specialist             ECSSD Procurement Issues
Frank M. Stubenitsky      Consultant                         ECSSD Financial Analyst
Alan Hancock              Consultant                         ECSSD Social Issues Specialist


Supervision/ICR

Anders O. Halldin         Sr. Environmental Spec./Consultant ECSSD   Task Manager up to Dec
                                                                     2004

Dina Grube                Operations Officer                 ECCU7   Task Manager from Dec
                                                                     2004 to Jun 2006

Barbara Letachowicz       Environmental Specialist           ECSSD   Task Manager from July
                                                                     2006 to Dec 2007

Kari Johansson            Municipal Services Specialist      ECSSD   Participating from the
                                                                     Riga office
Chandra Sheckar Sinha     Economist                           ENV    Economic Calculations
Naushad Khan              Sr. Procurement Specialist         ECSSD Procurement Issues
Jose Martinez             Procurement Specialist             ECSSD Procurement Issues
Elzbieta Sieminska        Procurement Specialist             ECCU9 Procurement Issues
Salim Benouniche          Sr. Procurement Spec.              ECSPS Procurement Issues
Junko Funahashi           Counselor                          LEGEC Legal Documents
Nightingale Rukuba-Ngaiza Counselor                          LEGEC Legal Documents
David Freese              Disbursement Officer               LOAG1 Disbursement Issues
Iwona Warzecha            Sr. Financial Management Spec.     ECSPS Financial Management
Frank M. Stubenitsky      Consultant                         ECSSD Financial Analyst
Alan Hancock              Consultant                         ECSSD Social Issues Specialist

Note: Table below doesn't reflect the actual time spent in preparation and supervision
of the Project




                                          43

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                 Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                No. of staff weeks   USD Thousands (including
                                                     travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY98                                                           15.25
  FY99                                                           27.35
  FY00                                 13                        35.59
  FY01                                   5                       17.38
                        Total:         18                        95.57
Supervision/ICR
  FY01                                   4                       25.75
  FY02                                   4                       48.50
  FY03                                   1                       34.58
  FY04                                   5                       39.56
  FY05                                   4                       31.80
  FY06                                   6                       38.40
  FY07                                   7                       34.05
                        Total:         31                       252.64




                                    44

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
Not applicable

The beneficiaries of the Project are the population in Liepaja Region, and the operating
company Liepajas-RAS. No specific survey was made, but it became clear during the
frequent contacts through the action plan for public information, that the implementation
of the Project was highly appreciated. In particular this was the case in regard to closure
of 26 old dumps in the region and the old Liepaja city dump at Skede including the major
site at Skede.




                                           45

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
Not applicable

No workshop was held




                                     46

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




                                    47

48

49

The text below is Project assessment of the Liepajas RAS Ltd., the Project implementing
agency, in exact wording of L-RAS.

October 2007

To       The World Bank

From Liepajas RAS Ltd

                                    Project overall assessment

Historically there were dump sites of various sizes both in the City of Liepaja and the Region
polluting the environment - ground, water and air.

The Project objectives include arresting the contamination and reducing the environmental
disamenities. Under the Project the ways were found how to continue waste management and
disposal meeting the environmental protection requirements. Moreover, sustainable landfill
development was secured with the energy cell technology and effective LFG use was applied.

During the Project implementation, the main deviation from the initial schedule concerned the
implementation time schedule due to the EU ISPA time consuming requirements. The deviation
impacted timeliness of MERs delivery to the PCF.

Alongside with the Project implementation, the community's perception of waste disposal and
management changed ­ a fruitful cooperation of municipalities, hauling companies and the
landfill operator is in place.

                                         Lessons learned

One of the Project aims was to establish a new waste management company owned by all the
municipalities involved in the Project. The newly established company Liepajas RAS Ltd had a
limited staff with no technical experience. The consulting companies contracted for the detailed
design, institutional strengthening, construction supervision and others differed in opinions, and
for Liepajas RAS Ltd it was difficult to properly assess recommendations to undertake the most
appropriate decisions to the benefit of project implementation. A better result could have been
achieved with strong technical in-house experience.

The Project total preparation and implementation period, starting from 1998 when the Feasibility
Study was initiated, to the end of the full completion of the Project components in 2007, was too
long - such a Project should have been scheduled in a shorter time span to be able to rely on the
initial basic data further on in the implementation stages of the Project. For example, the waste
composition, which is a basic parameter for LFG calculations, has changed considerably over a
10 year period.




                                                50

Assessment of the operation's objective, design, implementation, and operational experience

The following activities were addressed and completed under the Project:

Investment Component

a)      Remediation. All disposal sites were closed by the Liepaja Region Environment Board
(the LREB) and remediated under the Project. At the Skede site, which was in operation for
nearly 40 years, the landfill gas (LFG) is being collected and used for electricity generation.
Assessment:
· The remediation of the small dumps was carried out stepwise, according to the schedule and
    requirements by the LREB, and within the estimated budget.
· Monitoring of the ground water quality demonstrated that the remediation contributed to the
    improved environmental conditions.
· To quantify the improvement of the environmental conditions, the ground water testing will
    be continued according to the Latvian legislation.
· The LFG collection at the Skede site is lower than estimated.

b)      Technical and Operational Improvements. A state-of-the-art solid waste management
system, which meets international sanitary landfill standards, has been established. It includes a
new disposal site in accordance with EU requirements, establishment of a line for reception of
waste already partly separated at the household level and arranging separate areas for the storing
of separated material as well as hazardous waste, which is being transported to another site. The
tip face is protected by regular (once in 6 months) coverage of soil, and other measures are
occasionally undertaken in order to prevent birds from feeding from the newly disposed and fresh
garbage. Equipment enabling the utilization of sludge from the Liepaja Waste Water Treatment
Plant (as an additional gas generation source), has also been included.
Assessment:
· All the equipment and machinery required for the operation of a waste processing plant with
    energy cell technology has been procured and is in place and is being used to secure the
    proper operation of the facility.
· The leachate treatment is ensured with reverse osmosis method. The reverse osmosis plant
    has been procured in addition to the original design. The reverse osmosis equipment has been
    included to improve overall results of the treatment, and to protect heavy metal contents
    release to the environment.
· The leachate treatment is independent of third parties.
· The waste accepted at the new disposal site (Grobina Poligons) will become more
    homogeneous after waste separation at the household level is fully introduced.
· The coverage of the tip face is only possible when an energy cell is fully completed.

c)      Installation of Energy Cells and a Landfill Gas Collection System. Energy cells have
been installed for the enhanced degradation of easily biodegradable waste and the accelerated
production of landfill gas, containing about 50% methane. The resulting greenhouse gas emission
reductions reached through flaring or electricity production are sold to the PCF under an emission
reduction agreement. Emission reductions are monitored and subject to periodic verification by a
third party.
Assessment:
· The energy cell is small in size and vulnerable to weather conditions.
· The waste amount in one energy cell is too small for efficient LFG collection.
· The LFG collection from energy cells is lower than estimated.



                                                 51

· The existing energy cell technology requires further improvements, such as enlargement in
    size, leachate recirculation, moisture content.

d)      Installation of Power Generators. Two energy conversion units (gas engines) of 0.52
MW capacity each and which run on landfill gas have been installed at Grobina, and one of 0.45
MW has been installed at Skede. The units at both sites are connected to the power grid, and
power is sold using "green energy" price to Latvenergo under a power purchase agreement
negotiated as part of the Project.
Assessment:
· The CHP unit at Skede is oversized and cannot be run on continuous basis.
· The CH4 content in the LFG at Skede is lower than estimated.
· The CHP units at Grobina are oversized and cannot be run with the waste volume disposed
    less than 200 000 t.
· LFG production requires careful monitoring to estimate and measure the actual amount of
    LFG being produced. Besides day-to-day operation of the Project facilities, L-RAS will
    continue its active approach to improve operation of the LFG collection and utilization, and
    look for solutions in- and outside the country.

e)      Establishment of Waste Collection Points. A system of waste collection (for areas with
small waste volumes) has been established to ensure the efficient transport of waste to the
regional disposal site. The system is operated by private waste transportation companies
contracted by each municipality individually. The transportation companies gradually introduce
collection points equipped with separate containers for different types of recyclable materials.
Assessment:
· The waste collection and transportation system fully meets the needs of the waste producers.
· The private waste transportation companies initiate and further develop collection of
    separated waste alongside with the development of the market for recyclables.
· The private waste transportation companies service the municipalities and private/individual
    waste producers on contractual basis with no need for further development of special
    collection points.

f)      Managerial Support through Twinning. The Project established a new waste
management company that is responsible for the management of the landfill. This activity has
provided technical and managerial assistance to the new company through a twinning
arrangement.
Assessment:
· The twinning arrangement contributed to institutional development of the new waste
    management company established in February 2000.

g)      Detailed Design. This activity provided the detailed design, technical specifications, bill
of quantities and all necessary drawings for project implementation.
Assessment:
· The detailed design was fully compliant with the preliminary design concept, such as
    capacity of one energy cell, sizes of the CHP units, leachate transportation to the municipal
    waste water treatment plant.
· The detailed design confirmed the LFG volume to be captured and delivered under the PCF
    agreement; however the actual amount of LFG being collected is lower than the detail design
    estimates which were based on and fully in line with the Feasibility Study.




                                                52

h)      Implementation Support. This activity financed the PIU in order to handle all
procurement and disbursement issues related to the Project, maintain Project accounts and
prepare Project Progress Reports. In addition, the PIU also coordinated the continuation of public
information and participation activities, which have been an integral part of the project since its
inception.
Assessment:
· The PIU handled all the procurements needed for the implementation of the Project in
    accordance with the requirements of the various financiers. The contracts signed in the result
    of the procurements are presented in the Project Financial Report.
· The PIU provided assistance in contract supervision and administration.
· The disbursement requests were prepared in accordance with the contract conditions and
    submitted to the financiers for payment.
· The overall financial management was provided.
· The public awareness program was implemented as advised by the consultants contracted by
    the World Bank.


Technical Assistance Component

i)      Technical Assistance on the National Solid Waste Management Strategy. This
activity should have involved training and capacity building at the local/regional level for waste
management utilities, municipal authorities and private sector companies involved in the
implementation of the NMSWMS.
Assessment:
· This activity has not been implemented due to lack of funding from CIDA as originally
    assumed in the PAD.
· Training for implementation of the NMSWMS has been carried out by L-RAS with other-
    than-Project funding.


                                               ***




                                                53

Evaluation of Implementing Agency / Liepajas RAS Ltd (LRAS) own performance


1. Overall

The Implementing Agency / Liepajas RAS Ltd (LRAS) played a very positive role throughout the
whole Project with an extensive support from the PIU with sufficient experience from the
previous international projects, including the World Bank Liepaja Environment Project, the
implementation of which was assessed highly satisfactory.

2. During the Project preparation

The performance of LRAS during the Project preparation stage was limited to the few staff
members and the lack of experience. However, LRAS was always willing to discuss and
understand the Project issues in order to start the Project implementation immediately upon
signing the financing agreements. LRAS was supported by the PIU on procurement, financial and
contract management issues, as well as in the public awareness program; all activities were in
accordance with, but not limited to, the Terms of Reference drawn by the Bank.

The performance of LRAS was highly satisfactory as none of the Project preparation documents
was delayed due to LRAS ignorance.

3. During the Project implementation

During the Project implementation stage, LRAS got extensive support from the consultants
contracted under the Twinning Arrangement, for the Detailed Design development, for the Civil
Works supervision and for the PIU activities. With all the external support, LRAS had sufficient
expertise to implement all the original Project components and also some additional activities,
such as, for example, the installation of the on-site leachate treatment plant with reverse osmosis
method.

Facing a situation of LFG amounts being lower than estimated, L-RAS has undertaken an active
approach to address this issue, and cooperates with MoE and external consultants to identify the
ways how to improve the LFG production. L-RAS will continue this approach in order to
increase the collected amount of LFG.

The performance of LRAS was highly satisfactory as the project physical scope was extended and
was implemented within the Project budget, with all the Project objectives reached, regardless the
complicated Project financing scheme with differing requirements by each of the financiers.




                                                54

                Evaluation of the performance of the Bank and other partners


The performance of the Bank and other partners is evaluated highly satisfactory by Liepajas RAS
Ltd (LRAS) due to the following considerations:

1. Overall

The Bank and other partners were very supportive throughout the whole Project with deep
understanding of the problematic situations and highly flexible in joint decision making. The
Bank team consisted of experienced experts with perfect cooperation abilities.

2. During the Project preparation

The Bank and other partners got effectively involved in the Feasibility Study stage and were
highly cooperative during the preparation of the financing agreements. The Project financing
scheme was successfully approved only with a slight delay due to the new experience in
purchasing emission reduction units to be produced under a waste management project.

Lesson Learned
It was very important that a newly established company (LRAS) was supported by experienced
experts from the financiers' side.

3. During the Project implementation

The Bank and other partners gave a great contribution for the Project implementation on time,
namely before the Project closing date and within the budget. This was possible to achieve thanks
to the short response time to the issues addressed, the flexibility to the extent it was needed, the
full understanding of the local situation.


                                               ***

NOTE: No comments were received from the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Latvia and
from other co-financiers: Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency (SIDA) and
Nordic Investment Bank (NIB) until the date of December 17, 2007.




                                               55

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not applicable




                                    56

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Project Appraisal Document, Report No. No: 20718-LV, August 18, 2000 based on the
following documents prepared during preparation of the Project:

Siting study including five selected locations for a Regional Disposal Facility

Feasibility Study for a Regional Disposal Facility in the Liepaja Region

Environmental Assessment

Study of the Possibility to mix in saw dust with the received waste
Business Plan for Development of the operating company Liepajas-RAS

Aide-Memoires

Prototype Carbon Fund Emission Reductions Purchase Agreement (Liepaja Solid Waste
Management Project) (TF02104) by and between Republic of Latvia and International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development, as a trustee of the Prototype Carbon Fund,
December 19, 2000;

Amendment to Emission Reductions Purchase Agreement (Liepaja Solid Waste
Management Project) (TF02104) (31.05.2005);

The Prototype Carbon Fund Baseline Study for the Greenhouse Gas Component of the
Liepaja Regional Solid Waste Management Project Revision May 15, 2000;

Liepaja Regional Solid Waste Management Project Monitoring and Verification Protocol.
Final Project Document. Prepared by ICF Consulting, May 2000;

Subsidiary Agreement Nr. 130­A001 Prototype Carbon Fund Emission Reductions
Purchase Agreement between Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Latvia and Liepjas
RAS Ltd. (01.08.2001);

Project Audits




                                            57

