Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 10778
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THE REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
SECOND BANJUL PORT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1266-GM)
JUNE 22, 1992
M IC(JU FICHE COPY
Repirt No. :10'778 GM         Type: (PCR)
Author: DE WEILLE,   CIOEJD3
Ext. :31708 RoorTO   02  ept  :OD9
Infrastructure Operations Division
Sahelian Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit             =            Dalasis (D)
US$1.00                   =            D 2.12 (1982)
US$1.00                   =            D 2.64 (1983)
US$1.00                                D 3.58 (1984)
US$1.00                   =            D 3.89 (1985)
US$1.00                   =            D 6.94 (1986)
US$1.00                                D 7.07 (1987)
US$1.00                   -            D 6.70 (198C)
US$1.00                   =            D 7.58 (1989)
US$1.00                   =            D 7.88 (1990)
US$1.00                   =            D 9.22 (1991)*
* as of August 1991
CLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AfDB         -     African Development Bank
dwt          -      dead weight ton
ERR          -      Economic Rate of Return
GPA          -     Gambia Ports Authority
grt          -     gross registered ton
GUC          -      Gambia Utilities Corporation
IDA          -     International Development Association
KfW          -      German Aid Agency (Kreditanstalt fufr Wiederaufbau)
MWC          -      Ministry of Works and Communications
NIB          -     National Investment Board
nrt          -      net registered ton
ODA          -      Overseas Development Administration (UK)
PPF          -     Project Preparation Facility
PWD          -     Public Works Department
SAR          -     Staff Appraisal Report
TEU          -      Twenty-foot equivalent units (containers)
TOR          -     Terms of Reference
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



THE WORLD BANK                FOR OmCIL USE ONLY
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
f ace of Director-General
Operatks Evakuatrn
June 22, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on the Republic of Gambia Second Banjul
Port Project (Credit 1266-GM)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on the Republic of Gambia Second Banjul Port Project
(Credit 1266-GM)" Prepared by the Africa Regional Office. No audit of this
project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
SECOND BANJUL PORT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1266-GM)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE.
PEVALUTONSMMR    ............................................. H, 
EVALUATION SUMMARY.ii
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE                            .I
A. Project Identity     .....................1....................... 
B. Project Background       ..................................                      I
C. Project Objectives and Description ............................... .            2
D. Project Design and Organization ..................................  4
E. ?roject Implementation ......................5 
F. Major Results of the Project ....................................   9
G. Project Sustainability  ....... ............         .....................  13
H. Association Performance ...... ............            ....................  13
I. Borrower's Performance .......................................  14
J. Project Relationships .........................................   14
K. Consulting and Contracting Services ...............................    15
L. Project Documentation  .......................................  16
PART H. PROJECT REVEEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE .17
PART m. STATISTICAL INFORMATION    ..20
A. Related Bank Loans and Credits .20
B. Project Timetable .21
C. Credit Data .22
(i)  Credit Disbursements .22
(ii)  Allocation of Credit Proceeds .23
D. Project Costs .24
(i) Project Costs .24
(ii) Project Financing .24
E. Financial Statements.                                                          25
(i)  Balance Sheets, 1982-90.                                              25
(ii)  Income Statements, 1982-90 .26
(iii)   Source and Application of Funds, 1982-90 .27
F. Economic Data ...........                                                      28
(i)    Projected and Actual Import and Export Traffic, FY82-90 .28
(ii)    Reevaluation of the Port Investment .29
G. Use of Bank Resources .30
(i)    Staff Inputs by Stage of Project Cycle in Staff Weeks .30
(ii) Mission Data .31
H. Compliance with Credit and Project Agreement Covenants .32
Maps IBRD 15945R1
15946R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performancs
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



i
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
SECOND BANJUL PORT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1266-GM)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second Banjul Port Project for which
Credit 1266-GM in the amount of SDR 5.9 million was approved on June 17, 1982. The Credit was
fully disbursed except for a remaining balance of SDR 89.39 which was canceled. The last disbursement
was made on March 29, 1991 and the credit was closed effective March 31, 1991.
The PCR was prepared by the Sahelian Department of the Africa Regional Office. It is
based on the Staff Appraisal Report, supervision reports, the correspondence files and interviews with
IDA staff. The Government's comments are included in Part II of the PCR.
Co-fltanciers included the African Development Bank and the German Aid Agency. The
Overseas Development Administration (UK) financed two key components of the Project, but it was not
a formal participant in the Project.



ii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
SECOND BANJUL PORT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1266-GM)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
The objectives of the Project were: a) to provide urgently needed emergency rehabilitation
of existing port infrastructure; b) to provide additional port capacity: c) to improve navigational safety;
d) to improve port operations; and e) to improve productivity and financial viability of the dockyard
operated by GPA. (para. 6)
ImDlementation Experience
Project preparation and credit processing up to credit signing proceeded smoothly. The
timely processing of the long list of requirements of the three co-donors to meet the conditions of
effectiveness, and especially the preparation of an acceptable legal opinion, proved difficult for the
Borrower (para. 17).
The Project was completed slightly over five years after the completion date scheduled
at appraisal. The main cause of the delay was a soil slip behin.- the revetment wall which retained fill
for storage space for the port. However, the slip in the port storage area did not hinder the opening of
the new wharf, which took place in October 1984. After trying several methods to correct the slip, it
was finally decided to drive a steel sheet pile wall, which prevented further settlement. Other delays
involved further training of GPA personnel and the procurement of additional equipment for both the port
and dockyard (paras. ;8-23).
Following a 10 year effort on the part of IDA, the Government finally relieved GPA of
responsibility for the dockyard and is preparing to relieve it of the ferry services (paras. 24 and 25).
After a prolonged dispute between IDA and the Government, the latter finally agreed to
make lanu available for port storage in a nearby area. However, this space is not as suitable as the land
adjacent to the port whicli was called for in Sections 3.04 and 3.05 of the Credit Agreement (paras. 26-
27).
Results
The Project took a decade to execute from appraisal to credit closing. Despite a number
of major problems encountered during execution, the Project was eventually completed in a most
satisfactory manner. Once the problems arising from the difficult soil conditions were overcome, new
paved storage areas became available, which, together with the additional storage areas made available
outside the port, enabled the port to improve its operations considerably (para. 33).



iii
GPA's financial performance from 1988 onward was highly commendable, and was due
to revenues increasing much faster than costs. Working and operating ratios also improved substantially
over the last two years (paras. 35 and 36).
The re-evaluated ERR of the Project is 24.5 %, compared to 29.5% es .imated at appraisal.
The decrvase is mainly accounted for by lower than estimated traffic (para. 50).
Sustainability
The Project is fully sustainable, given the increase in revenues which have taken place
over the Iest decade, the excellent financial performance of GPA, and the development of its competent
management. The main risk is political interference with GPA personnel and port operations (para. 51).
Findings. Recommendations and Lessons Learned
The decision of the cofinanciers to finance the Project on a joint, rather than parallel
basis, simplified procurement and expedited execution (para. 10).
The visit to The Gambia of an IDA legal or country officer to assist the Government in
meeting co-donor requirements would have been useful in the fall of 1982 in expediting credit
effectiveness (para. 17).
IDA should not have acquiesced in the Government's disregard for the covenants
regarding the provision of land adjacent to the port for future expansion. By so doing IDA brought on
a protracted dispute with the Government over storage at a nearby site which could have oeen otherwise
avoided. Furthermore, GPA is still without land for future expansion of port facilities (paras. 26 and 27).
The Project files provide a textbook czse as to how to properly prepare a multi-component
port project for appraisal (para. 52).
The use of a PPF advance to finance emergency works was a sound innovation. It should
be used in the future under similar circumstances where such works cannot be postponed until a project
is prepared and lending becomes effective (para. 53).
The Project demonstrated the importance of frequent, thorough and competent supervision
on the part of IDA (para. 55).
Following the updating of the port master plan now underway, the Government should
be approached to expropriate the space needed adjacent to the port to permit its future expansion (para.
57).
The specialized training of GPA personnel abroad by port experts was a particularly
successful aspect of the Project (para. 58).
GPA should be requested by the Association to carry out promptly all needed repairs to
the new wharf (para. 58).



iv
With certain exceptions noted in the report, relations between the co-donors, the GPA
and the Government were good (para. 59).
The Project is a gocd example of excellent coordination among the three co-donors and
ODA which financed a training and cargo handling equipment package, which was not part of the project
(para. 60).
Ie very satisfactory execution of feasibility studies, design and supervision of civil works
by the same consultant confirms that this is a sensible approach under most circumstances (para. 62).



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
SECOND BANJUL PORT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1266-GM)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.           Project Identity
Project Name:              Second Banjul Port Project
Credit No.:               Credit 1266-GM
RVP Unit:                 Africa, Sahelian Department,
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country:                  Republic of The Gambia
Sector:                   Transportation
B.           Proiect Background
1.          In 1980, the economr  of The Gambia was tied to the production of groundnuts, its major
foreign exchange earner, and the base of its only significant processing industry, groundnut milling.
Apart from groundnuts, cereals and livestock represented the principal products of the agricultural sector.
However, trade and transjort actively, along with tourism, were growing at a fastek rate than the
traditional agricu,tural sector. During the First Five Year Plan period (FY77-81), the Government gave
high priority to the improvement and expansion of the transport network. The Second Plan (FY82-86)
aimed, among other objectives, at consolidating and preserving the existing transport infrastructure, and
to relieve bottlenecks, such as at the Port of Banjul.
2.           The Gambia Port Authority (GPA) is a financially and operationally autonomous public
agency. It is headed by a Managing Director appointed by the Minister of Works and Communications.
Under the First Banjul Port Project (Credit 187-CM, US$2.1 million, May 1971), the GPA was provided
with a new wharf to replace an old timber structure, transit sheds and other facilities, and training
assistance. The project was completed successfully in 1976, although with some delay and cost overruns.
According to the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), the project fulfilled a most important requirement for The
Gambia'. Nevertheless, traffic increased much faster than expected at appraisal and port congestion
again became common. Productivity in the Port at the time of appraisal was noted as low. Ganig sizes
were large and the equipment maintenance and availability was below acceptable standards. Ship waiting
times amounted to as much as 5 to 6 days.
3.           The Second Port Project was designed to expand and modernize GPA's port facilities to
efficiently handle its increasing traffic and to strengthen GPA management. Preparatory work was
financed with surplus funds under the First Port Project and with financing under the Project Preparation
Facility (PPF). As maintenance of the port had not been adequate with resulting deterioration of the
infrastructure, IDA emphasized the need for GPA to appoint a civil engineer to manage port repairs and
maintenance. IDA also financed a PPF to provide for immediate emergency repairs to existing GPA
facilities including the Government wharf and the Banjul Wharf built under the First Port Project (para.
13).
1 SAR, Second Banjul Port Project, para. 1.02.



2
4.           The Project was closely related to a British Overseas Development Administration (ODA)
package for GPA consisting of the supply of cargo handling eqtuipment, training for cargo handling and
equipment maintenance. However, ths ODA package was not part of the Project.
5.           At the time the Project was appraised, the GPA was also responsible for some revenue
losing non-port related activit,es including the feiry services and river transport, and the dockyard all of
which operated at a deficit. Tbe Government intended that a state-owned authority would be established
on July 1, 1983 to orarate the ferry and river transport services. It also intended to lease the dockyard
through its National Investment Board (NIB) to a local private company. The Bank's recommendation
to lease the dockyard on the basis of an internatior.al tender was ignored by the Govermnent. The actual
transfer of these activities from GPA, although frequently discussed over the next decade, did not take
place until 1991 (see paras. 24 and 25).
C.           Proiect Objectives and Description
6.           Project Objectives.2   The objectives of the project, whicl complemented the short-term
ODA package were to:
(a)    provide urgently needed emergency rehabilitation of existing port infrastructure,
particularly at Banjul Wharf;
(b)    provide additional port capacity to meet present and future traffic requirements, including
container traffic;
(c)   improve navigational safety;
(d)   improve port operations, management and infrastructure maintenance; and
(e)   improve productivity and financial viability of the
dockyard operated by GPA.
The goal of the Project was to greatly reduce ship waiting at the Port of Banjul and hence avoid costly
congestion surcharges and demurrage payments, thereby facilitating Gambia's export trade as well as its
transit and import trades. The Project was intended to greatly strengthen the financial position of the
GPA.
2 SAR, Second Banjul Port Project, para. 5.06.



3
7.      xioect DsQription.3  The Project comprised the following principal components:
(a)    ivl Works
(i)    Construction of a deepwater L-head wharf 123 m long by 29 m wide;
(ii)    Reclamation of 7,8G0 rn2 of land ptotected against erosion by a revetment, and
pavement of 5,100 m2 for storage of containers;
(iii)   Extension oi the north transit shed at Banjul Wharf by 850 mi2 for cargo
storage;
(iv)   Construction of a 200 mm aiiamn.ter steel pipeline 1,100 m long from
groundnut oil storage tank, to allow loadi.3g of groundnut oil from the new L-
head wharf;
(v)    Construction of a repair workshop, a gate house and about 300 m of new
fencing, repair of existing fire-fighting systems, repair of the revetment and
other miscellaneous works;
(vi)   Refinancing of a PPF for repair works to existing facilities which would
prevent interruption of port operations;
(vii)  Improvements to navigation lights at Banjul Point, Barra Point and Fajara;
(viii) Procurement and installation of five new mooring buoys for tying up small
vessels.
(b)    Floating Craft and Spare Parts for Cargo Handling Eguipment
(i)    Procurement of a new pilot boat and mooring boat to replace the existing
worn-out ones, and spare parts for the existing cargo handling equipment.
(c)    Technical Assistance
(i)    Consulting services for supervision of construction, training assistance to the
dock-yard and establishment of a data compilation and interpretation system to
enhance managerial decisions for the over-all improvements of port
operations; and
(ii)    Refinancing of a PPF for consulting services for carrying out: (a) preparation
of feasibility study and tender documents; (b) mathematical study to predict
level of siltation at :he entrance channel after construction of the
bridge/barrage; and (c) superv sion of emergency works noted under (a) (vi)
above.
3 SAR, para. 5.07.



4
D.    Project Design and OrglQanjin
8.           The Association assisted the GPA in preparing Terms of Reference ([OR) and
selecting a consultant to cary out a feasibility study of tha proposed port expansion. A contract with
the selected consultants was signed on September 24, 1979. As the Food and Agriculture
Organization (FAO) was Interested in financing a fishing facility in the general area of the port, IDA
arranged a meeting between the 'onsultants and FAO to ensure appropriate coordination. IDAk also
reviewed the TOR and contract oetween the consultar't and his sub-contractor for soils investigations.
9.           The April 1980 pre-appraisal mission reviewed the draft master plan for the port and
the feasibilit) study which, after coi8sidering the alternatives, recommended an entirely new structure
in deeper water than the existing Banjul Wharf. A second alternative was to repair the structurally
unsound Government Wharf. Complicating issues were: i) the unknown extent of the repairs needed
to Government Wharf in order to maintain shipping operations until the new facilities were ready; ii)
the very poor soil conditions at the Banjul Port; and iii) the higher capital costs of building a new
wharf. Thus, cost estimates were subject to an unustually wide margin of error. IDA staff carefully
reviewed the alternatives and participated in ineetings with GPA and the consultasit leading u:p to the
decision to build a new wharf. IDA also made inquiries with a number of possible co-donors; the
German Aid Agency (KfW) and the African Development Bank (AfDB) eventually participated in co-
inancing th9 project.
10.          On February 2, 1981, the Government informed the Bank that it had decided on
building the new wharf, agreed to a financial package with the UK Government for port equipment
(para. 4), and had received indications that KfW and AfDB would participate in the financing; and
had instructed the consultant to proceed with detailed engineering and preparation of tender
documents. As regards co-financing, the Bank replied that as only one procurement lot would be
involved, joint rather than parallel financing would be necessary, and that its procurement guidelines
would thus apply. In the meantime, the Bank proceeded to prepare the project.
11.          In May, 1981, notices were placed for prequalification of contractors for the new
wharf. The project was appraised in June/July 1981. The appraisal mission met with KfW and
AfDB at their respective headquarters to inform them of the outcome of the appraisal and solicit their
views on the project scope, financing and other issues. The prospective co-donors responded
promptly to inquiries, maintained close contact, and coordinated their efforts with each other. The
mission also met with ODA representatives in The Gambia to discuss the equipment and training
package (para. 10).
12.          The Issues Paper of July 24, 1981 fully set forth the issues, action to be taken and
mission recommendations. Shortly after the return of the appraisal mission, the Association advised
the prospective co-financiers of its detailed schedule for processing the project from prequalification
to start of works. A key aspect of the schedule was to expedite project implementation by tying the
prequalification and tender call to the completion of detailed engineering, and in view of Gambia's
tight financial situation, to have bids available by negotiations so as to provide a sound basis for
fiLalizing project costs and the financing plan. IDA considered this important especially in view of
the risks noted in para. 9. The Decision Memorandum of August 14, supported the recommendations
of the Issues Paper. IDA called for prompt negotiations with the co-financiers to assure early
effectiveness of the financing package.



5
13.          During the preparation of the project, IDA proceeded to launch the emergency
rehabilitation works which were financed under a PPF (para. 3) rather than the Project, because of
the urgency to carry them out and avoid the risk of a virtual shut down of port operations. These
works amounting to approximately US$650,000, were awarded to a joint venture on November 16,
1981, six months before construction of the new wharf was expected to get underway. This would
permit the rehabilitation works to be substantially completed before the main contractor for the new
wharf started work, and thus ensure the availability of the nearby existing Banjul wharf and related
space for his use.
14.          IDA set a number of conditions to be met prior to negotiations, the most important of
whicL were to i) complete the emergency works; ii) fill vacant senior management posts in GPA; and
iii) take steps to raise tariffs to strengthen GPA's financial position in light of the substantial
investment being made under the Project. The Government and GPA met all but one of these
conditions (para. 15), and negotiations were held on April 19-21, 1982.
15.          The co-donors were invited to participate in negotiations but were unable to do so.
Coneitions in the draft documents were agreed with only minor modifications. One hem, noted
earlier by the Loan Committee, concerning provisions for the acquisition of land for future port
development was satisfactorily agreed.4 It was also agreed that the appointment of a permanent
Managing Director of GPA (para. 14) would be a condition of signature of the proposed credit 5.
After negotiations, Bank staff visited the headquarters of both the co-donors to review the cost
estimate and financing packages.
E.           Project Implementation
16.          Lon Fffectiveness.   The Credit was approved on June 17, 1982, signed on
September 3, and became effective on January 5, 1983. Originally, the appointment of a permanent
Managing Director (para. 15) was a condition of negotiations. Due to slow action on the part of the
Government, it was made a condition of signature. This appears to have delayed credit signing and
necessitated requesting two one-month extensions of the bid validity date, which expired on August
16, 1982, by the bidders for the civil works.
17.          Effectiveness of the Credit was delayed by slow processing of the many documents
requhed by the three co-donors including the credit and project agreements, on-lending agreements
and the legal opinion, the first of which the Bank found inadequate. Fortunately, AfDB, whose loan
agreement had been signed on August 13, was willing to pre-finance the mobilization advance so that
a contract between GPA and its prime contractor could be signed on November 6, 1982, two months
before the I)A Credit became effective.
4 This issue later proved to be one of the most difficult to resolve (see paras. 26 and 27).
5 Office Memorandum dated April 28, 1982.



6
Implementation
18.          Training,    ODA's two experts started work on training in cargo handling
operations and repair of equipment early in 1982. Despite lack of spare parts, they made good
progress and by the end of 1982, productivity in the port had doubled. As a result of these efforts,
shipping lines removed their surcharge on deliveries to Banjul. Later, the contract of the two experts
was extended repeatedly, lastly to September 1987. ODA provided a management information system
for GPA; and in 1987 provided a financial advisor to upgrade GPA's accounting system for a three
year period.
19.          Tariffs.     Particular concern was expressed by IDA over heavy losses incurred
by GPA because of non-port related activities during 1982. The Government was urged to the
appropriate action including a tariff increase of 20%. Shortly thereafter, a tariff increase of 25% was
approved by GPA but because of slow approval by the Government, it did not become effective until
October 15, 1983. A new tariff system was introduced by GPA in 1986 whereby all harbor services
and stevedoring were charged in Pounds Sterling. Shorehandling would continue to be charged in
dalasis. Since the new tariff system was introduced in 1986, tariffs have been revised only once in
1988.
20.          Civil Works.  By April 1983, the main civil works were progressing well and on
schedule with 25% of the piles driven. Land reclamation was also progressing well and the
construction of the workshop was 30% completed. By January 1984, the civil works contrace was
estimated to be over 80% complete, and except for the revetment, was expected to be compleied on
schedule by June 1984. A soil slip occurred in April 1983 which severely damaged the stone
revetment wall constructed to retain the fill brought in to reclaim land to be used as storage space for
the port. Since the failure could not be stabilized by the existing design and system of work, a soils
specialist to advise the engineering consultant was called in to propose a solution to stabilize the
revetment and accelerate settlement so as to expedite the start of paving works. His recommendations
were adopted.
21.          During July, August and November 1984 a series of additional soil slips took place in
the reclaimed area behind the revetment. After unsuccessfully trying several additional methods to
retain the fill required for reclamation, it was agreed by all involved that the best solution was to
drive a steel sheet pile wall to retain the fill. This system indeed prevented further soil slips. While
this work was expensive, it was considered the only sound solution. This considerably delayed
completion of the reclaimed area, as well as the availability of additional port storage space. The
driving of the steel sheet pile was completed in 1987, however, paving works could only commence
some 15 months later following the removal of the surcharge fill material required to accelerate the
fill stabilizing process. This in turn delayed the paving and other works in the port which were to
follow the paving of the reclaimed area. However, these delays did not hold up the opening of the
new wharf which became fully operational in October 1984.
22.          Equipment.   Floating craft was ordered in 1984 and delivered in 1985. By mid
1984, when the main civil works contract was 95% completed, the cost to complete the Project could
be more accurately calculated. It was agreed by all concerned that in order to enhance port
operations, to include in the project additional works and procure additional equipment. These items
included procurement of equipment for the workshop, a weigh bridge, portacabin and training tools,
and two electrical sub-stations. These items were all satisfactorily completed in 1988. In mid-1991,



7
GPA placed an order for US$1.5 million of cargo handling equipment with the remaining surplus
funds. A contract for paving the port storage areas, and other miscellaneous works was awarded in
April 1989. It was satisfactorily completed in late 1990. In 1990-91, GPA built a ful.y equipped
navigation control tower with its own funds.
23.          Management Strenthening.  The main problem in this area involved inadequacies
in the management structure which were studied by a consultant flnanced under the Credit. In 1983
IDA requested, and Government agreed, that the term of the present Managing Director be extended
to the completion of the on-going works then scheduled for June 1984, to ensure adequate
management of the port during construction. In mid 1984, the Government selected a Gambian
national to be trained as Managing Director, a post that had been previously held by an expatriate.
The Managing Director designate was trained in the UK for five months and in November 1984
returned to Banjiui to work together as co-manager with the incumbent expatriate Managing Director.
This training was carried out under the Project by the same firm employed by ODA to train lower
level port staff (para. 18). The candidate, who had little previous knowledge of port operations, at
first made reasonable progress and steadily improved over the next remaining period of the Project.
In 1990, he was replaced by the Director of GPA's finance department who had also been trained
under the Project and had acted as deputy to the former Managing Director for several years.
24.          Ferry and River Transport Services.  From the time the Project was prepared, IDA
has been concerned over the drain on GPA resources posed by non-port related activities (para. 5).
To avoid this, the Government covenanted that it would compensate GPA for any losses arising from
the operation of the ferry and river transport services. This the Government did. IDA also wanted
the Government to transfer these services to a new state-owned authority or privatize them. These
steps were studied at length with funding from the Kuwait Fund and IDA. In the meantime, the
services were strengthened with the addition of new ferries and docks provided by Japanese Aid.
In 1989, it was finally decided that GPA would establish a subsidiary called The Gambia Ferry
Services Company Limited, which took over its ferry operations (para. 42). Studies are now
underway as to how the new company might be privatized.
25.          Dockyard.   In addition to the physical improvements to the dockyard and the
training provided under the Project, AfDB made a separate loan to GPA for the repair of the
dockyard slipway. By mid 1984, it became evident that additional works, including the repair of
existing equipment and the installation of new machine tools, were needed to make the dockyard fully
capable of providing repair services for local shipping. This work, along with other repairs, was
carried out by the prime contractor. A contract for the training of dockyard personnel was awarded
in late 1984; work started in mid 1985 and was completed in 1989. Performance of the dockyard was
substantially improved and it was recently leased by the Government to a local shipbuilder. This was
done over IDA objections. IDA believed that the dockyard should have been put up to international
tender, which probably would have been a more profitable transaction for the Government.
26.          Land for Future Port Expansion.   A key agreement of the Credit negotiations
was that the Government would prepare a draft plan of action for the expropriation of the land
adjacent to the port for future expansion (para. 15). It also agreed to take all such action as would be
necessary to acquire such land per sections 3.04 and 3.05 of the Credit Agreement. A study of the
needs of the port was prompdy carried out under the Project, but the Government refused to act on its
recommendations for political reasons. Housing in the area of the port would have to be expropriated
and other goverrnent land in the area was involved. Unfortunately, IDA allowed the matter to lapse



S
until the later 1980's when the delay in paving the port contributed to the shortage of storage space.
Even the dockyard had to be used for storage which curtailed its operations. Lack of storage space
became a critical issue as congestion was reaching a point where the port might have to shutdown.
27.          The Government eventually offered to make space available at the nearby Public
Works Department (PWD) yard which was owned by the Ministry of Works and Communications
(MWC). This arrangement was accepted by all concerned and GPA took possession of the space
allocated to it. Shvrtly thereafter, the Minister of Works and Communications repudiated the above
arrangement and ordered that the yard be turned over to The Gambia Utilities Corporation (GUC) for
a tank farm. IDA made a strong protest to senior Government officials and it threatened to suspend
disbursements both to GUC and GPA. The co-donors supported IDA's position. The Government
countered with an offer to remove the tank farm in a couple of years, if IDA would agree that it be
built on a temporary basis. IDA rejected that proposal and finally the Government acquiesced and
made the PWD space available for storage. However, it is not as satisfactory as the land adjoining
the port which was to have been made available to GPA under the Credit Agreement.
28.          Studies.     Apart from the engineering, management and land expropriation
studies, a number of other studies were carried out by IDA and the co-donors during the decade the
Project was under execution. These included studies of dockyard improvements including a new
jetty, alternative storage areas, a maintenance program for the port and its equipment, the
establishment of a ferry authority, asset reevaluation, the setting of computerized accounts, etc.
These were all useful in helping GPA attain its financially viable position.
29.          Procurement. Contracting for both the civil works and the floating craft proceede(
relatively smoothly and both contracts were awarded to the lowest evaluated bidders. The low bidder
for civil works had stipulated minor conditions regarding payment but these were satisfactorily
resolved at contract negotiations. Because of the long delay in completing the reclaimed area, paving
was delayed by several years and finally it was decided to call for separate bids for the paving and
follow-on works. The original prime contractor was low bidder on the paving works but when asked
to extend his bid validity because of certain delays, he added a reservation regarding cost. His bid
was rejected for that reason and the second lowest bidder was awarded the paving contract.
30.          Disbursements.      Credit disbursements are shown in Table C (i). The table
shows that the disbursements ran at roughly 70% of the appraisal estimate through the construction
period. This was not unreasonable, considering that the contingencies for the main civil works
contract and the floating craft were not used for this work. They were thus available to finance the
many extra items added to the Project after the prime contract had been substantially completed (para.
21). The closing date was extended five times from June 30, 1986 to March 1991. The final
disbursement was made on March 29, 1991 when the Credit was fully disbursed except for a
remaining balance of SDR 89, which was canceled. Table C(ii) shows the allocations of credit
proceeds.
31.          Credit Allocations.   The original and actual allocations in SDRs are shown in
Table C(ii). The main difference between the two is that most of the unallocated funds were spent on
consultants services, mostly in connection with the extra works, as well as on additional studies.



9
32.          Proect Cgsts. The Project took a decade to execute. It was completed within the
appraisal cost estimate of US $19.15 million despite a 5 year time overrun and the addition of
substantial works and equipment. The appraisal and final cost estimates are shown in Table D (i).
The co-financing plan is given in Table D (ii).
F.           Major Results of the Project
33.          The prompt completion of the emergency repairs (para. 3) provided temporary
docking facilities to GPA, as well as the means for the contractor to unload his equipment. Over the
decade that the Project was under execution some major problems developed which delayed
completion by over five years. In particular, the repairs of the damage caused by the slip in the
reclaimed area of the port required extensive additional work. The difficulty encountered in obtaining
adequate port storage space, and the extended effort needed to train local dockyard all contributed to
delaying completion of the Project. Despite all of the above problems, the Project was eventually
completed in a most satisfactory manner. In fact, the physical delays provided much needed
additional time to continue with training of personnel, the development of management, resolution of
the storage issue, and improvements in port operations.
34.          The civil works were successfully completed at both the port and dockyard; the ERR
is lower than estimated at appraisal, all the covenants but two (para. 57) were eventually met; and the
Gambian nationals now managing and operating the port were well trained and are performing well.
While port traffic has declined over the appraisal estimates, GPA's financial performance is
considered exemplary as noted in para. 35.
35.          Financial Performance. Tables E(i), (ii) and (iii) present a comparison between
actual and anticipated financial results over the years 1982-1988. Since theproject closing date was
extended to 1991, the actual results for 1989 and 1990 are included in the Tables. GPA's financial
performance for the last years of the project (1988 and onwards) is highly commendable. It achieved
a return on net fixed assets beyond the rates set by IDA as well as the rate set by NIB through a
performance contract. Total revenue, for most of the years, grew at a faster pace than the SAR had
foreseen. For 1988, the last year of forecast data, revenues were 52% higher than projected. For the
same year, working expenses were only 6% higher than forecasted. The reduction in expenditures
was achieved due to stringent expenditure control measures instituted by management. Reduction in
personnel costs played a definite role in reducing these expenditures. In 1982 labor costs were D4.9
million (43% of working expenses) while in 1990 they were D6.4 million (29%). In 1990 GPA was
able to reduce the number of personnel to 478 from 664 in 1989, while still increasing revenues.
36.          GPA shows a rather favorable evolution in its working and operating ratios, having
changed the latter ratio from 1.24 (1982) to only .61 (1990) and the former from 1.02 (1982) to .43
(1990). These improvements were only possible due to the growth in receipts which resulted from
the new pricing policy introduced in 1986. Prior to this change, all charges were based on the dalasi.
From 1986, all charges are. based on the Pound Sterling except for shorehandling charges. With the
new pricing policy, GPA entered a period of rapidly increasing revenues in dalasis as the dalasi
decreased in value towards the Pound Sterling. Revenues increased from D11.1 million in 1982 to
D49.3 million in 1990. The revenue increase in 1990 over 1982 thus represents a 340% increase,
while the opeiating expense increase for the same period was D16.3 million or 118% increase, and
working expenses increase over the same period was D1O million or 88%. Stevedoring and shore



10
handling generated the greater part of the revenue - about 43%. Depreciation increased from 9% of
operating expenses in 1982 to 20% of operating expenses in 1990. Thus GPA was able to maintain a
very good financial situation due to revenues increasing much faster than costs.
37.          Based on agreements reached during negotiations, GPA agreed to physically revalue
its fixed assets once every five years beginning in 1984 with annual cost indexing applied to the years
between physical revaluations. However, this revaluation only took place in 1986, two years later
than planned. The results of the revaluation were incorporated into the balance sheets. The return on
fixed assets was less than forecasted for all years until 1988 where it increased from 4% in 1987 to
12% in 1988. In 1990 GPA achieved an exemplary return of 18%. Although the current ratio was
slightly below the rates in the SAR, the liquidity ratio was higher than the forecast for 1987 and
1988. GPA's cash position is very strong. The receivables position improved from 1987 onwards
and also demonstrates a healthy position. These results should continue due to GPA's strong
management.
38.          The debt to equity ratio until 1988 was higher than the SAR antici',ated. However,
the times interest covered by net operating revenues was more than double the amount shown in the
SAR for 1988 and stands at a respectable 2.1 in 1990 and the times debt service covered by cash is
2.0 (1990).
39.          The introduction of a performance contract in 1986 was a positive action taken by
GPA, NIB, and IDA and has provided a major incentive for improvements in the performance of
management and staff. Overall, GPA responded well to the use of performance contracts and is in
control of the situation. However, targets require continuous updating since port activities change
constantly (type of shipping, type of cargo, type of equipment, etc.). The resetting of targets should
be realistic and best be done by experts who should take into consideration GPA's entire range of
activities.            0
40.          GPA's operating revenues showed good progress during the period 1982-1990.
During this period, revenues from harbor dues increased over 8 times from the level in 1982 while
stevedoring revenues showed the next best progress, increasing 6 fold. However, up until 1988, the
actual revenues for stevedoring were below the forecast figures. Operating revenues for the other
categories of revenues (such as berthage, pilotage, etc.) remained very much in line with the forecast
figures in the SAR.
41.          It was foreseen in the SAR that commencing in 1988, GPA would be in a position to
pay dividends to the Government to help avoid any unsound additional investments. As yet, no
dividends have been paid to Government. GPA has placed excess funds in short term investments
made up of Gambia Government Treasury Bills and fixed deposits.
42.          It was also agreed during negotiations that the Government would transfer all fixed
assets and outstanding loans pertaining to ferry services and river transport from GPA's books to a
new state-owned authority by July 1, 1983. The ferry services were transferred to the Gambia Ferry
Services Company, a limited liability company with effect from July 1, 1989. GPA and the
Government each hold fifty percent shares of the company. The effect of this on the balance sheet
(1990) can be seen by the int-3duction of Long Term Investments of D16.1 million and the reduction
of gross fixed assets from D201.5 to 156.5 to reflect the transfer. Up until this transfer, it can be
seen from the income statement that marked improvements in the revenues generated by the ferry



11
operations took place. For example, in 1987 revenues from ferries represented 30% of operating
revenues.
43.          The Managing Director recently prepared a request to privatize the stevedoring
operations. Other West African countries (Senegal, Guinea Conakry, Ivory Coast, and Nigeria) have
allowed private stevedore labor within their ports which has resulted in competition which benefits
ship owners in reduced costs and has improved port operation. Privatizing would enable owners to
improve the utilization of their increasingly expensive and high-technology ships. The justification is
sound and if the port is to remain attractive to modern and fast working vessels, it must be able to
react to the changing needs of shipping, as otherwise the port will be placed at an extreme
disadvantage by being served only by old and slow vessels.
44.          Economic Performance. The project files do not show the detailed set of
assumptions used at appraisal. The SAR itself gives an overview of the methodology foflowed, but
Table 6.1 in the SAR is too summarized to give an indication on respective weights of benefits from
avoided waiting time and those from avoided diversion through Senegal. The data sheets used to
operate the PORTSIM model had been discarded, and investigations in the GPA revealed that no set
of relevant data could easily be assembled. Rather than using PORTSIM again, which is a
painstaking exercise of uncertain value now that port systems have gained in complexity through
development of RO-RO and container berths, the economic revaluation in this PCR is based on a
simple model, including mathematical functions developed by UNCTAD in its application of the
queuing theory for measurement of ship waiting time. (Reference: Port Development -
TDIB/C.4/175 - Annex 2).
45.          As for the appraisal evaluation, the economic analysis focused on the impact of
replacing the old Government wharf by the new wharf. The Government wharf had undergone
emergency repairs in 1982 (para. 13) which allowed for its continuous use by ocean going ships until
the new berth was commissioned. The general state of the old wharf was judged so poor that using it
much beyond 1984 was not deemed feasible. The same assumption was used in the re-evaluation.
Since the new wharf can accommodate ships of 30,000 dwt on the outer side, and ships of up to
3,000 dwt on the inner side, the overall port system was extended by one berth after opening of the
new wharf and simultaneous closure of the old Government wharf. Had the wharf not been
constructed, the port system would have included two less berths than in the "with project" solution,
starting 1985. The Project wharf provided two more berths. As for the new public pier where river
traffic is handled, it could have been used for lighterage in case of port congestion, as well as some
of the eight small wharves. The economic revaluation does not assume traffic diversion through
Dakar as was done at appraisal, because traffic congestion would never have been such as to saturate
local port capacity, including lighterage.
46.          For computation of ship waiting time without the project, the number of berth
equivalent available was approximated as 1.5 (the inner side of the wharf is only accessible to small
ships and cannot be counted as a fully operational berth; besides, productivity of cargo handling
would be lower if two ships are operated simultaneously because of lack of manoeuvering space on
the wharf; the Government wharf also has access limitations and represents less than one berth
equivalent. With the Project wharf commissioned by end of 1984, the number of berths was
increased to 3, or doubled from 1985 onward (after decommissioning of the Government wharf). The
additional handling equipment purchased under the project raisev  oductivity which, combined with
the larger number of berths, drastically reduced the overall berth occupancy rates (in 1981, the 2-



12
berth equivalent system, Government wharf included, had an occupancy rate slightly below 70%,
producing waiting time of nearly half the service time; the 3-berth equivalent system accommodated
as much traffic in 1985 with berth occupancy rates of less than 30% and negligible waiting time).
Days of berth occupancy without the project were calculated on the basis of 300 tons per day for
general cargo, and 500 tons per day for bagged cargo.
47.          A major benefit of the Project was to provide facilities without which development of
containerization would not have been possible to any significant degree. The containerization rate
increased from less than 1% before completion of the new wharf to close to 35% in 1990. That
boosted productivity of the port and reduced the berth occupancy time needed to handle the traffic.
Port statistics show that days of berth occupation were reduced by 25% between 1986 and 1990,
whereas traffic other than bulk petroleum fell by less than 10%. This suggests apparent productivity
increases of 12.5% much of which has to see with the containerization rate growing from 7% to 35%
in the interval. Without the Project, the same traffic would have meant higher occupancy rates and
ship waiting time than with the Project.
48.          Updated ship costs per day at port were obtained from GPA. They range as follows:
- container ships (Maersk Line):  $ 15,000
- general cargo ships:           $ 4,000 - 8,000
- tanker:                        $ 11,000
- tramp ships:                   $ 5,000
These figures are very close to those used at appraisal.
49.          The economic revaluation assumes that GPA would resort to lighterage to overcome
saturation of the Banjul wharf, which was built under the First Port Project, in the "without project"
case. Typical cost of lighterage in the region is estimated around $ 8 per ton on average, including
the annualized cost of barges. The lighterage cost per ton constitutes the highest limit of ship waiting
time. Should waiting cost exceed $8 per ton, it would be more economical to resort to lighterage.
Calculations show that the limit is reached for an overall occupancy rate of 65%. It was further
assumed that some equipment would have to be purchased for operations at the lighterage berth;
related investment was tentatively estimated as $ 1 million evenly split over 1984 and 1985. Only old
and slow general cargo ships Oiners) and tramp ships carrying bagged cargo would make use of
lighterage.
50.          Projected traffic is based on an average growth of 3% p.a. until 1996 after which it
becomes constant. Table F(i) gives the traffic data used in the calculation. The economic revaluation
of the Project (including technical assistance but excluding emergency repairs and cost of extension of
the container yard which was carried out over 1990-91) gives an economic rate of return of 24.5%
compared to 29.5% estimated at appraisal. The difference mainly stems from lower traffic as shown
in Table F(ii) and the assumption that lighterage could be used at lower cost than traffic diversion to
Dakar in the "without Project" case.



13
G.           Project Sustainability
51.          The Project is fully sustainable, given the growth in revenues which has taken place
over the last decade, the excellent financial performance of GPA, and the development of it's
competent management. The main risk is political interference with GPA personnel and port
operations.
H.           Association Performance
52.          The Project files provide a textbook case as to how to properly prepare a multi-
component port project involving one or more co-donors. IDA prepared the TOR for the feasibility
studies and helped the borrower select a competent consulting firm. Alternative solutions were
carefully considered before the final decision to build a new wharf was taken. Extensive soils
investigations were carried out by a specialist.
53.          IDA also worked closely with ODA regarding the supply of port handling equipment
and training. IDA staff recognized that the emergency works (para. 13) could not be deferred until
normal project implementation, and proposed the innovative use of a PPF to finance these works
which was approved by IDA management on an exceptional basis. The PCR endorses the
recommendations contained in the second supervision report which recommended more frequent use
of PPFs for financing emergency works6.
54.          IDA supervising staff took a long term view of the action that needed to be taken by
the Government in strengthening the management of GPA, and meeting the covenants of both the
Credit and Project Agreements. To that end, IDA frequently reminded the Government of steps that
needed to be taken if it was to have properly trained staff available when required, and how this
might be accomplished. It also suggested that a draft plan be prepared of land adjacent to the port to
be expropriated to provide adequate space for future expansion; and indicated how this work might
best be done. Also, IDA pushed the Government to move ahead in its undertaking to transfer or
lease GPA's non-port assets, and to compensate GPA for the losses it incurred because of delays in
the transfer.
55.          IDA's supervision of this difficult project was frequent, thorough and highly
competent in all aspects, with the exception that towards the end of the project, cost records were not
included in the supervision reports, so as to adequately track costs (see Table G for use of Bank
resources). IDA staff provided the Borrower with sound advice and assistance whenever needed.
They worked closely with the engineering consultants on the many problems that arose. They
exercised close control over costs and ensured that the Project was completed within the original
appraisal cost estimate. The successful execution of the project must be credited in considerable
measure to the project staff assigned to prepare and supervise it, and the sound technical advice
provided by all three co-donors.
6 Supervision Report dated February 8, 1983.



14
I.           Borrower's Performance
56.          The Government's performance was reasonably adequate but on occasion it was s .w
in taking appropriate action such as on the matters requiring attention for credit effectiveness (para.
17), appointment of a permanent Managing Director until construction was completed (para. 16), and
approval of a tariff increase (para. 19). Despite the need for frequent reminders of matters that
needed attention, such as the need to pay its consultants and contractors promptly, Govenunent
officials were generally cooperative and worked closely with the donors to carry out the objectives of
the Project. However, certain important exceptions to this must be noted.
57.          First, the NIB was uncooperative in planning for the transfer of the uockyard from
GPA both when the subject first arose (pjira. 5) and again at the end of the Project (para. 25).
Secondly, the MWC made no effort to identify additional storage space urgently needed by GPA. In
fact, it sought to block the use of the space at the PWD yard near the Port which was accepted as a
second choice (the preferred choice being land adjacent to the port) following the failure of the
Government to act on the expropriation study financed under the Project. The Governmen: has still
not provided the space needed for the future expansion of GPA as recommended by the expropriation
study (para. 26). The need for this space is reiterated in the engineering consultants' Inception
Report of a review to update the 1980/81 master plan for the port7. The Report noted that certain
lands in the port area may now be available. After the master plan has been updated and the timing
of further port expansion is better known, the Government should be approached to make available
the space needed. Non-essential port activities such as the stuffing and unstuffing of containers and
customs operations could be handled inland to minimize the water frontage needed for essential port
activities.
58.          The GPA was generally prompt in responding to IDA comments, cooperative with the
co-donors, and coordinated closely with its consultants on the civil works, training and management
studies. The GPA was handicapped throughout most of the project period by the lack of experienced
management at all levels. Fortunately, the Borrower was willing to redress the problem to a
considerable extent, by appointing expatriates to line positions in GPA and the dockyard, and sending
Gambian nationals abroad for training. Three out of the four nationals sent to the UK for training in
the early 1980's are still with GPA. This was a particularly successful aspect of the project. Toward
the end of the Project, GPA's management and staff had been fully trained and were performing their
duties reasonably well with the exception that, according to the Consultants' Inception Report, the
new wharf is not being adequately maintained (see Table H for compliance with the covenants).
Satisfactory audit reports have been submitted to IDA on a regular basis.
J.           EQ; - t Relationships
59.          With the exception of the problems noted in para. 57, relationships were good among
all the parties involved in financing and executing the project. IDA supervisory staff took the lead in
providing constructive technical advice to GPA. They were well supported by the co-donors and
ODA (see paras. 52 and 53). The Borrower's appreciation of the contribution of IDA staff was noted
7  Inception Report dated August 2, 1991, for a Review and Updating of the 1980/81 Master Plan
for the Port of Banjul including Container Storage Facilities.



15
in a letter of commendation to the Bank when one of its supervising personnel was transferred to
another region'. The GPA's comments in Part II, (para. 4) also reflect favorably on IDA's
supervisory staff. The GPA enjoyed a close working relationship with all of the entities involved in
executing the Project.
60.          The Project is a good example of excellent coordination among the three co-donors
and ODA. Both KfW and the AfDB followed the progress of the project closely, and frequently
joined IDA supervision missions in the field. Because of the delay in credit effectiveness and the
need to promptly negotiate the prime civil works contract, AfDB showed flexibility in providing the
IDA share of the foreign exchange for the mobilization program required, prior to the effectiveness of
the IDA credit. KfW was of particular help in identifying experts in soil mechznics to help resolve
the slip problem. Co-donors were responsive in providing technical advice and cooperated fully with
IDA in achieving the purpose of the project. IDA, for its part, kept KfW and AfDB well informed of
progress and consulted them on every major prob' -.
61.          While the ODA financial package was not part of the Project (para. 4), ODA
participated fully in key elements of the project, namely in training port personnel and providing
equipment. ODA made available its good offices in identifying an organization that trained a
Managing Director, and provided senior port and harbor personnel when they were critically needed
in the early stages of the Project. Later, ODA financed a cost accountant to help train GPA
personnel in this aspect of its operations. The files indicate that ODA and its consultants cooperated
fully with IDA and the co-donors.
K.           Cosultinp-and Contractin? Services
62.          Engineerin.  Feasibility studies, design and supervision were carried out by the
same firm in a very satisfactory manner. The results confirm again that this is a sensible approach
under most circumstances. The files indicate that the engineering consultant carried out his work in a
thorough and professional manner, and kept the GPA and the Bank and co-donors well informed on
issues, problems and progress. The consultant was particularly helpful in explaining to GPA the
necessary steps to be taken and procedures to be followed in its negotiations with the contractors, and
in administering the contract. One IDA supervisory report noted, after the project was well
underway, that "the consultants to date have performed satisfactorily, and reported their activities
timely and accurately"9.
63.          The original revetment was designed to contain fill in a reclaimed area along a river
side subject to tides aad disturbances caused by ship movements. An assessment of the design
consultants performance with regard to the original design and the slip problems, the resolution of
which delayed completion of the Project by at least three years, is beyond the scope of this report.
The PCR notes the judgement of the IDA supervision engineer who wrote that "the extent of soil
failures could not have been foreseen and while no direct responsibility for mal-design could be put
on the consultants, it is felt that the consultants should have shown more prudence when suggesting
' Letter from the Ministry of Public Works and Communications dated January 26, 1984.
9 Supervision Report dated December 12, 1983.



16
various solutions to the problem, which proved to be expensive and unsuccessful. The introduction of
the sheet-pile wall should have been the first alternative"10. Another view is that the methodology of
surcharging the fill proposed by the original design was not fo!lowed accurately in the field by the
contractor and the consultant.
64.          Sudies.      The management consultant was engaged to review the GPA
organization and recommend specific changes, identify training needs, and prepare TOR for technical
assistance for the dockyard and GPA. In addition he was requested to prepare i) a management
information manual which was useful to GPA's Managing Director; and ii) job descriptions for all
positions in GPA. An IDA Supervision report noted that the consultant's work "was meticulous and
fruitful"." The other studies financed under the Project were carried out in a fully satisfactory
manner.
65.          Contractors.  The prime contractor for the civil works, and the paving contractor
performed well and on schedule, except for the delay caused by the soil slip which was beyond the
control of the former.
L.           Project Documentation
66.          The SAR and legal documents adequately describe the Project. However, the SAR
and the Credit Agreement seem to differ on the requirement for land for GPA. The SAR emphasized
the need for land for port development, i.e. for future expansion, while the Agreement only refers to
the acquisition of land required for carrying out the Project. This may account for the fact that IDA
did not press the Government as hard as it might have to make available land for future port
expansion.
67.          The correspondence files are unusually complete and detailed, and provide an
excellent record as to the reasoning behind every major decision. The files indicate that all parties
involved worked closely together to achieve the objectives of the Project and to kept each other well
informed. About a dozen pieces of correspondence in volumes 20 and 21 are misfiled, apparently at
about the time of the Bank's reorganization.
10 Supervision Report dated April 6, 1987.
" Supervision Report dated December 12, 1983.



17
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
SECOND BANJUL PORT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1266-GM)
PART II: FROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
NOTE:        The GPA submitted a Project Completion Report dated January 7, 1991. The
statistical data in this report has been used in preparing Part m of the Bank's PCR. GPA's comments
on performance of the en.ihes involved are as follows:
Performance of the Borrower and the World Bank
The BorrF3ter Egd2rtnanr&
1.           The Government of The Gambia was represented by GPA in all technical management
matters relating to the implementation of the eroject. GPA served as the executing Agency and its
Managing Director was the point of contact for the Bank in terms of project related communication
and coordination. The Managing Director had two Executive Directors, one of whom was assigned
to serve with the supervising consultant on site during the crucial phases of this project's execution.
This Executive Director worked closely with the Resident Engineer and handled liaison between the
consultant and GPA.
2.           The GPA maintained a close working relationship with the supervising consultant
during the course of the project implementation and generally performed well. Communications
between the two parties were continuous and GPA was aware of execution problems and issues as
they arose. The GPA chaired the site meetings in which the Resident consultant and contractor
participated. These project control and coordination efforts of the GPA were instrumental in assuring
the completion of the project.
The Bank Performance
3.           The Bank was involved in the early identification and preparation of the Banjul
Second Port project on the basis of technical studies undertaken by the engineering consultant on
behalf of the Gambia government. The project was technically well conceived, financially sound and
economically viable; it was well received by the Bank. At the time of project preparation, the Bank's
interpretation of the Government transport sector priorities and project objectives was accurate. The
credit for this project was timely and right for the developmen- agenda of the Gambia government.
4.          ILu Bank's supervision of the project during implementation was regular and on
schedule. One Bank mission participated in a meeting of the Port Consultative Committee in 1987.
From the perspective of the Gambia government, GPA level of involvement was adequate and
assistance received was beneficial. This assistance primarily involved disbursement problems,
ensuring that the contractors are paid for works completed and advice to Government and GPA
officials on problems affecting the project.
5.           The Government met all the credit conditions, including the "Other Conditions" set
forth in the loan agreement, Government assured the Bank that adequate budget allocations would be
made to finance the local cost and all cost overruns on the project.



18
Operatingy Performance
6.          'increases in traffic in response to the improvement in port facilities and operations and
mostly the significantly improved state of the Ganbiar. economy since '984, have lagged over
appraisal estimates. Table F(i) shows a reversal of the trend after 1988. In 1990, the actual traffic
overall was 6.3% lower than forecast, with most of the shortfall in fish and groundnut exports. The
SAR did note that progress of exports would be contingent upon realistic pricing policies and normal
rainfalls. Production shortfalls in exports did occur in relation to bad weather, ospecially in 1986,
1989 and 1991. However, in 1991 a record 522,139 tonnes was handled indicating an increase of
34.7% over the 1990 figure of 387,568 tonnes with imports constituting 94.3% or 492,142 tonnes
whilst exports showed a shortfall of 33.6% or 29,997. Lower international prices for groundnut also
discouraged producers who, at the same time, lost the benefit of subsidized fertilizers. Finally,
partial privatization of groundnut trade in Senegal led to reversal of the relative Senegalese and
Gambian prices and part of Gambian production has been unaccounted for in recent years, most likely
sold to Senegalese traders paying better prices than the official marketing board of the Gambia.
General cargo import increased from 208,259 tons in 1984 to 327,801 tons in 1988. The
containerized share of the traffic increased even more steeply from 3223 tons (1128 no. of boxes in
1984) to 50759 tons (6045 no. of boxes) in 1988. The explosive growth in containerized traffic is
bound to cause congestion on the newly constructed and rehabilitated Port facilities.
7.           Overall port productivity has increased considerably as shown in the followving table
which compares the past and the present operating indicators.
Cargo handling rate per gross gang hour
984          12Q
Bagged Export Cargo              15 t/hr       18 t/hr
Bagged Import Cargo              15 t/hr       22 t/hr
General Cargo                     8 tlhr       14 t/hr
Container                        2-3 TEU/hr   10-14 TEU/hr
(GPA quantities of imports and exports from 1982 to 1990 are given in Table F(i))
Performance of the Consultants and Contractors
8.           The project was prepared and supervised by the same consultants. Their performance
was very good, their progress reports were adequate and useful, and their relation with GPA
management and govern.nent officials was excellent; the same holds true for the two civil works
contractors.



19
Conclusion
9.            The completion of the project has provided additional port capacity to meet the
present and future traffic requirements including container traffic by expanding and rehabilitating the
port infrastructure, navigational safety has been achieved through improved and upgraded navigation
aids, the installation of new mooring buoys and the procurement of pilot and mooring boats.
10.          The project has greatly reduced the waiting time of ships thus forestalling port
congestion and its attendant cost. It has also improved the Gambia's export, import and transit trades
and has also strengthened the GPA's financial position.
Recommendations
11.           Maritime traffic through the port of Banjul has increased substantially since appraisal
and the feasibility study carried out in 1980/81. Consequently it is necessary to make the following
recominendations:
(a)   to update/review the 1981 feasibility study to reflect the rapid and significant increase
and changed pattern of maritime traffic to the Gambia;'
(b)    continuation of the Port Development Program - Phase III;
(c)    construction of a container freight station at the vacated IWD yard;
(d)    purchase of plant and cargo handling equipment.
12.          Finally, the lessons learned from the project may be simple, but they are worth
repeating. They are that excellent results can be obtained in stimulating growth of a small
Government-owned entity in a poor country, provided that a) sound feasibility studies and good
quality detailed engineering and supervision are carried out; b) a competent contractor is engaged to
carry out the work; c) the Government and its executing agency are cooperative; d) all co-financiers
closely coordinate their efforts and thoroughly monitor progress of the pr<o.ec..
This study is now underway (see para. 57 in Part I).



20
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
SECOND BANJUL PORT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1266-GM)
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
A. Related Bank Loans and Credits
Year of
Loan/Credit Title                 Purpose                 Approval               Status
1. Credit 187-GM                Provide a new wharf, transit   1971              Completed
The First Banjul Port Project    sheds and other buildings,
cargo handling equipment, a
small dredger, a public wharf
for river transport and fishing
vessels, advisory and
consulting services, and
training assistance.



21
B. Proiect Timetable
Date                   Date                   Date
Plauned                Revised b/              Actual "
Identification                 09/78                  09/78                  09/78
Preparation                    01/79                  04/80                  09/79
Appraisal Mission              05/80                  06-7/81                06-7/81
Negotiations                             _______                             04/82
Board Approval                 12/80                  C5/82                  06/17/82
Credit Signature                                                             09/03/82
Credit Effectiveness                                                         01/05/83
Credit Closing                                        06/Z,''86              03/31/91
Project Completion             12/31/85                                      02/91
Source: Project Brief dated October 24, 1978
hi      Source: Project Brief dated June 9, 1981
ri     Source: Supervision reports and correspondence files
APShN
11/06/91



22
C. Credit Data
(i) Credit Disbursements
Bank                              Disbumsements (in US$ million)
Fiscal                                   Credit 1266-GM
|   and                   Estimated            Actual        Actual as % of
l____Quarter                             Cwnulative aL      Cunulative b/      Estimated
1983   2                          1.3                0.9               69
3                         2.1                 1.8              86
4                          3.1                2.1              68
1984   1                          3.5                2.3               66
2                         4.0                 2.6              65
3                         4.3                 3.0              70
4                         4.6                 3.2              70
1985   1                          4.8                3.4               71
2                         5.1                 3.6              71
3                         5S4                 3.7              69
4                         5.6                 3.9              72
1986   1                          5.7                4.0               70
2                         5.9                 4.2              71
3                         6.1                 4.3              70
4                         6.3                 4.6              73
1987   1                          6.4                4.7               73
2                         6.5                 4.8              74
3                          --                 4.9              75
4                                             5.0              77
1988   1                                             5.1               78
2                          --5.2                               80
3                                             5.3              82
4                          --5.3                               82
1989   1                          --5.4                                83
2                                             5.5              85
3                                             5.5              85
4                                             5.6              86
1990   1                                             5.7               88
2                                             5.8              89
3                                             6.0              92
4                                             6.1              94
1991   1                          _                  6.3               97
2                                             6.6              102
3                                            6.7 c/            103
a/     Source: SAR, page 46
b/     Source: Statements of Development Credits
c/     Differential between actual and estimated disbursements attributed to currency variations between US
dollar and SDRs in which the credit was denominated.



23
(ii) Allocation Qf Credit Proceds
(in SDRs)
Original                     Actual
Ctegy                     Allocation aL             Disbursements hi
1)    Civil works                   2,450,000                   2,645,753
2)    Floating craft and              360,000                     305,063
spare parts for cargo
handling equipment
3)    Consultants' services         1,100,000                   2,152,454
4)    Refunding of Project            880,000                     796,641
Preparation advance
5)    Unallocated                    1,110,000          _
TOTAL                      5.9002 5.899.911
a/    Source: Development Crect Agreement, page 10.
b/    Disbursement Records dated 9/24/91.



24
D. agoect Costs
(i) Project Costs
(in US$ million)
At Appraisal a/                Actual bL_
l ~~Category
_________Category _           Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total
1. Civil Works                .72     13.23    15.95                        13.95
2. Equipment                   0       0.47     0.47                         2.20
3. Consultants and Training  0.82      1.91     2.73                         3.00
LOTAL               3.54     15.61   1_9._1_5                      19 .15
a/    Source: SAR, page 45
b/    Source: Data from Consultants, adjusted
Note: Consultants and GPA unable to provide breakdown between local and foreign costs.
(ii) Project Financing
(in US$ million)
Agency                Loca                Foreign               Total
IDA                         0.29                  6.21                 6.50
AfDB                          --                  7.00                 7.00
KfW                          _                    2.40                 2.40
GPA                         3.25                        _              3.25
TOTAL                 3.54                 15.611915
Source: Report and Recommendation of the President, page ii.



E.       Financial Statements
(i)     Balance Sheets, 1982-1990
GAMBIA PORTS AUTHORITY
BALANCE SHEET
(Dalasis millions)
1990    1989      1988             1987             1988             1985             1984             1983             1982        |
Actal   Actal Foramss  Actga   forecast Actual  Forecat Actual  Forcast Artml  fore=ast Ac.ul  F a  ActI  Forecast Acit
ASSETS
FIXED ASSETS
Gross Depracbble Asust                        141.3   183.4    89.7   176.6    78.5   126.7    59.2   120.6    39.4    64.3    28.3    43.4    25.9    41.6    43.1    25.4
Land                                           15.1    18.2      3.3    18.2      3.0    18.2      2.9     5.0      2.6     5.0      2.5     5.0      23      5.0      5.6    16.3
Gross Fxed Assets                             156.5   201.5    93.0   194.8    81.5   144.9    62.1   125.6    42.0    69.3    30.8    48.3    282           48.5    48.7    41.7
Less: Accumubted Deprecbtion                   39.1    50.8    24.6    42.2    19.6    37.1    15.3    32.6    12.1    18.9    10.1    17.1          8.6    15.0    13.6       9.9
NET FIXEDASSETS                                117.4   150.7    68.4   152.5    61.9   107.8    48.8    93.0    29.9    50.4    20.7    31.3    19.6    31.5    35.1    31.8
NET INTANGIBLE ASSETS                            3.1     8.1              8.3              7.3              7.3              3.2              3.3
CAPITALWORK IN PROGRESS                          6.4    12.6      0.4      7.1     0.1    139       7.7    20.3    20.7    10.1    26.0    26.8    221        14.3    18.9      1.7
TOTAL NET FIXED  SET8                          126.9   171.4    68.8   167.9    62.0   129.1    54.5   120.7    50.6    63.7    48.7    61.3    41.7    45.8    54.0    33.6
LONG TERM INVESTMENTS                           16.
CURRENT ASSETS
CashatBankandonHand                             3.2      9.4     23      Q0.7     0.8    16.8      0.4    11.0      0.5     3.1      0.4     1.1      1.5     0.1     3.8      0.0
Shod-teem InatmeSts                            27.7     9.1
Recehebbs                                       6.4      80      5.8     7.7      5.6     8.1      4.2    14.6      4.0    10.9      98 .1           3a       69      4.0      B.3  in
Stocks and Stores                               8.8    14.6      7.4    13.9      6.5     7.7      5.7      Z2      4.9     1.6      4.3     1.8     3.6      2.1     3.1      2.4
Ower                                            0.7     0.8      0.1     0.5      0.1     0.0      0.1     0.0      0.1     0.0      0.1     0.0     0.1      0.1     0.1      0.1
TOTALCURRENTASSETS                              48.8    4Z1      15.6    42.8    13.0    32.6    10.4    27.8        9.5    15.6      8.6    12.0     9.0      9.3    10.8     68
Less: CURRENT LA8IUTIES                          9.9    10.4      3.5     9.8      3.1     8.9      2.7    18.9      2.3    15.3      2.0    10.7     1.7      6.3     1.5      4.6
Not Current Asts                                36.9    31.7    12.1    33.0       9.9    23.7      7.7      89      7.2     0.3      6.6     1.3     7.3      zs      9.3      4.2
TOTAL NETASSETS                                179.8   203.1    80.9   201.0    71.9   152.6    62.2   129.6    57.8    64.0    53.3    62.6    49.0    48.8    63.3    37.7
FINANCED Of:
LOAN CAPITAL                                   103.    100.3    44.3   131.1    44.9    99.9    41.7    902         38.7    53.0    33.7    50.1    25.5    36.4    23.5    24.3
GOVERNMENT EOUITY                               11.3    11.3    33.6    11.3    25.0    11.3    20.5    11.3    19.1         4.5    18.5      9.5    18.4      9.5    20.0    15.6
RETAINED EARNINGS                               64.9    63.6      3o     58.5      2.0    41.6             28.1              6.6     1.1      3o      5.1      2.8    19.8    (3.0)
CApITAL GRANTS                                          27.9                                                                                                                   0.8
179.8   203.1    80.9   201.0    71.9   152.8    62.2   129.6    57.8    64.0    53.3    62.8    49.0    48.8    63.3    37.
Cwnret ratio                                     4.7     4.0      4.5     4.4      42      3.7      3.9     1.5      4.1     1.0      4.3     1.1     5.3      1.5     72       1.9
Uqedd grato                                      3.8     2.5      2.3      Z9      z21     z        1.7     1.4     2.0      0.9     2.1      1.0     31       1.1     5.1     1.4
DOebVEquIy stio                                 1.36    0.98     1.21    1.68    1.68     1.89    2.03     z29    2.03    4.81      1.72    4.01    1.09    2.95      0.59     1.80
29-Jan-92
02:00:58 PM



E.       Financial Statements (continued)
(ii)     Income Statements, 1982-90
GANSIA PORTS AUTHORITY
INCOME STATEMENT
(Dabsis mnillons)
Iog990   l9w     188              1987            19a9            1985             1984            1993            1982
Actual  As2u! f        Agug   ForecdAt                 Fost Acual   recat Actual  Forecast AduJ  Forcast Ac93   F         Actual
OPERAA1Na REVENUES
"WbogaDue"                                    6.      5.0     2S      42       21      23      2A      1.9     22       1.5     1.7    lb       t3      12      1.0     0s
Bouyago and UghtOuts                          2.4     1.0     1.1      1.3     oA      0.7     0.9     0.6    o0       0.5    O        05      O      05      0.4     03
sutg.                                         0.7     4.3     2.8     3.7      24      2.      2.3     2.0     1.t     t.4      18      1.3     II      1.1     1.3    o0
Plloagu                                       1A      1.2     14       1.1     12      0.7     1.1     0.5     0.8      0.5    0.       0s      0.6     0.4     01      03
Whatags                                       2S      2.3     2.8      1.0     24      0.9     22      0.7     1.7      0.7     i.e     0.7     1.3     0S      1.0     0S
He oaatnd dredger)                            2.4     1.9    1t        1A      12      0.9     12      0.6     0.8     0.6    0.        0.7     0.0     0.7     01      04
Stedodlngpncl. gehMrs)                       15.6     6.7     e.0    9.1      O8       4.3     8.1     3.9     5.1     32       4.1     3.1     31      3B      32      2a
Shoe hsealig ncL storage                      5.      71     06.       7.1     51      4n      4.9     31      4.1     3.7      32      3S      2.7     32      2.3     2.1
Ooc8lud-Sals                                  1.4     0.1     1.5     02       13      02      12      0.1     1.0     0.0    0.9       OD      0.7     0.1     0.1     00
Dockryd - R.lhargab  2pe-na.                  3.9     7.1     0.9     04       0.6     1.1     0.1     1.0     0.0      1.8     0S      1.6     0.4     12      0.      12
Furl.                                         0.0     9A      O0      9.1      0.0     62      0.0     6.1     0.0     31       0.0     39      0.0     20      21      2.1
TOTALREVEME                                   493     492     29.3    445      253    27.0    22.7    212      198.    1;.l    15.9    172      13.1    15.0    13.7    11.1
OPERATINS EXPENSES
PORfT:
Hbowexpenses (insL dedging)                   4.1     3.6     42    tWA        38      0.7     32      6.9     2.7     7.I      24      71      2D      OA      1.7     e4
Cago hldg                                     84      3.7     90       42      8.1     41      7.0    2.       02      2n       5.4    2.7      41      3.7     4.1     3.1
OodcywdWp.aloaln                              1.1     I       91      0.6      0.o     02      0.6     0.3    o0       0.4      0.o     93      0.7     02      0.3     09
Headoffce-eflocation                          4.0     21      1.9      1.3     1.7     12      1.8     0.6     1.3     0.       t.1     0.7     1.0     0.7     0.7     1.1
15.6    111    1s5      175     142    14.8    121       108    S11.     11.0     9.7    112    68        IID    6.9    11.4
Non-pal                                        5.7    14.9     3.0     2.6      2.7     11      2.4     12      22      II      19      1S      1.7     1 0     43      0.0
subtota Wouk     ssgxpns                      21A     26.4    1S      20.1    16e    le3       14.9    11.     132      12.5    11.6    12.7    102     12.0    112     IIA
PORT
Mocaon ofpIoidon (perdoln. tcJ                19      0.7     0.0    o0        0D      01      0.0     02      0.0     0.0      0D      0.1     0.0     0.0     0.0   -O0.
Ocprecdition                                  a       4..     8.0     3.7      43      2.      3.1     2.4     23       12      1.5     14      1.3     12      1.1     1.1
AmofizaUa IntanogbIs mae                      0.0     0.09    0       0.9    o0        OA 9     .5     05      0.5     04      o4       OA      0.0    O0O      O      00
ahtotet PORT                                   71      8.1     5.7     52       49      4.0     3.7     3.1     21       11     1       1.      IA      1.3     1.1     1.1
Mocallon otprovWon inon-pos                   0.3     OA      00      02       0.0     03      0.0     0.1     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.1    O      O      00    -0.0
DepreciatIon(nonpal3                          06n     3A      02      21       02      2.1     02                       .       02      12      0       12      1.3     1.3
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES                      30.1    382     24.7    26.3    22.0    22.7    16.7    t6       159      152     13.7    15D     122    143      131     13A
Net OpUalingRnavenm                           192     13.0     41      162      3A      4A      4.0     43      3D0      1      22       1 A     0*9     0S      0.1   -2.7
Non-pot opwaln e w emt nte                    30      2.7     0.9      IJ      0A     10       0.8     71      0.7     01      0.r   -01       o0       02      01    -0o
NotootlIncome bbdee kts                      222     15.7     51      180      42     15.0     4.1    llJ      3.7     21      2*       os      J.'    0.7      1.0   -3.1
Inte"                                          9O3     8.0     5.5     8*       53      OA      5.0     51      4.0     3n       3.1     1.0     0.6     10      0.9     1.1
NIA lcooe aftlkimst                      r   12F       81    -0.0      9.0    -1.1      81    -02       6.0   -0.3    -12    -0.3   -0.0         0.7   -03       0.1   -42
Woddng dato                                   0.43    014     0.64    OAS    0.87   o0D        015    0o6    0.70    0.73    0.73    0.74    0.76   OO    011          102
opeatgio                                      011     0.74    0.64    0.84    017    014    02    o0o    o04           010   o06       0.92    013    097    0.99    124
Avemgs nrtbed aaaethluIa                     1051    151.6    65.7   1302    5BA    100.4    38.4    71.7    25.3    40.9    202        31A     274    31.7    34.0    31.7
RPwnonn tedasuet Inuse                        18%      9%      7%      12%      6%      4%     10%      6%     12%      5%      11%     4%       3%      2%      0%     -as
Thss btIdcowredbYnetopw.                       2.1     1        O6     1     0o       05      o0      0.7     0.7     0S      0.7      I A     1.1     01      0.1   -2.5
revellIms
nimosd.Webtl-coveredbycah                      2.0     1.7     IA      2.0      I       2.      1.3     22      1.1     1.0      1.1     12      2.      1n      1a    -0.7
29-Ju-92
02:06:18 PU



E.      Financial Statements (continued)
(iii)    Source and Application of Funds, 1982-90
GAMBIA PORTS AUTHORITY
SOURCE AND APPUCATION OF FUNDS
(Dalasla millns)
I 1990   1960        19s6            1967            186              1965             1964            1963             1962
h Fat ~~~~~Acbi                  Aorl             ASFotw           Acb             r hh o AcS t A
SOUECE OF FUNDS
Ng Openg R_Vnue                                19.2    13.0      4.6    16.2      34      4.4     4.0     4.3      3o      1.9      2.2     1.4     0.9     0S       0.1    -2.7
Depwmbhn &Amousmilcm                            6.5     8.7      5.9     7.4      .1      5.7     3.8      4.7     2.7     2.6      2.1     2.9     20      2.4      24      2.4
Cah gmwelon  nm opeatons                       25.7    21.7    10.4    23.6       6.5    10.0     7.6      9.0     5.7     4.5      4.3     4.3     2.8      2.9     2.6    -02
Non-OpemIn Rvem                                 3.0     3.9      0.9     1.8     0.9    10.6      0.8      7.5     0.7     0.6     0.7   -0.5       0.6     0.2      09    -0.5
26.7    25.6    11.4    25.4      9.3    20.7      A6     166      6.4      52      4.9     3.9      a4      3.2     a5    -0.7
10ACtSt                                         5.7     1.6      0.0      z3      0.4     1.7     1.7      4.4     21      2.6      3.7     5.3     69      4.1      21      0.0
IFW Omt                                                 0S       0.0     6.2     0.3      .1      0.7     1.4      1.0     0.2      1.4     1.8     1.8     1.5      0.0     0.0
UFW Loan                                        0.6     0.3      0.0     0.0     0o       0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0o      0.0      0o      0.0     0o       0.0     0o
othe                                                     0o    0.0    23.6       0.0      0.0     0.0     0.3      0.0     0.3     0.0      1.7     0.0     22       0.0     2.6
ABD Loan                                        9.6     0.0      0.0     0.4     0.7      0.3     2.0     39       3.0     2.6     4.0      7.1     52      4.6     0.0      0.0
TOTAL BORRMVNGS                                16.1     2.4      0.0    34.5      1.3    10.2     4.4     9s       6.1     5.7      9.0    15.9    13.9    1Z.4      2.1     2.
TOTALFUNDS AVAILABE                            44.8    2o.0    11.4    59.9    10.6    30.8    13.0    265        12.5    10.9    13.9    19.8    173    155        5.6      2.0
-J
AP CTUCAO  OF FUNDS
Poect Inwamt                                   21.6     a.3      0.0    3s.1     1.7      5.9     5.3     6.4      7.4     5.7    10.8    la4      16.3    14.7     2.1      0.0
Othe invg o                            *        3.6     6.0     0.8      0.0     1.6      0.0     1.8     2.0      02      1.0     0.4     0.1      0.3     0.1     02       3.2
25.3    14.3     0.8    36.1      32      5.9      7.2    10.3     7.6     6.8    112      15       16.6    14.7     24      3.2
DEBT SERE CHARGES
nterst                                          9.3     6.9      5.5     8.9     5.3      6.4     5.0     5.8      4.0     3.8     3.1      1.0     0.8             0.9      1.1
flepyent                                        5.1     6.1    2Z7       3.7     0.6      1.7     0.8     1.7      0.8     1.3     0.7      22      0.6     1.0     0.5      0.0
Tol Oabt SerAce                               14.4     1.0      6.2    1Z6       5.9    10.1     5.8     7.5      4.8     5.1     3.6      3.2     1.4     20       1.4     1.1
Neotlncusin W.C.emt ash urpkw                 -7.2      0.9      0.6     5.3     1.0      9.1     0.2     0.7      0.0   -3.0      0.0   -26        1.4   -1.3      0.0   -1.6
Ohednds to Govrmnt                              0.      0.0     0.3       o      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0    0o        0.0     0.0   -0.3       0.0     0.0     0.        o
Tobl Fund Apped                                3Z4     30.2      9.9    560      10.2    25.1    1a2     18.6    12.4      69      15.0    16.     19.4    15.4     a7       27
Cash SpuVpDkn/cI ForYer                        12.4   -22        1.5     4.0     0.5      5.6   -02       7.9     0.1      zo    -1.1      1.0   -2.1       0.1     1.9   -0.7
44.8    2.0    11.4    59.9    10.6    30.8    13.0    26.5    12.5    10.9    13.9    19.8    17.3    15.5          5.6     2.0
Cashatbegbyniydyr                              16.5    20.7      0.8    16.      0.4    11.0      0.5     3.1      QA      1.1     1.5     0.1      36      0.0     i.8      0.7
Cashatndhgdyear                   ,            30.9    16.5      2.3    20.7     0.8    16.       0.4    11.0      0.5     3.1     0.4      1.1     1.5     0.1     3.6      0.0
29-Jan-92
02:10:38 PM



F.     Economic Data
(i)    Projected and Actual Import and Export Traffic, FY82-90
Port of Baniul projected and actual Import & Export Tratfic. FY82-90.                average grwth
rate
per annum
1982                  1984               1986               1988               1990              1982-1990
A imports                        forecast   actual   forecat   actual   forecast   actual   forcat   actual   forecast  actual   forecast  aclual
a. DOyCargo
cement                     36       28        27       30        29       45        31       56        34       53
sugar/flour                16       30        16       51        16       67        17       90        18       46
dce/sorghum                42       38        48       64        52       74       56        99       56        83
fOertlizer                 11       13        13        1        16       20        18        0       20         2
general cargo              61       49        69       35        78       47       86        68        95       93
miscelaneaus                         6                  1                  3                  7                  5
sub total                 166       164      173      183       191      256       208      320       223      282       2.0
b. Petroleum products              54       38        59       34        65       44        71       50        77       60       5.3
total imports                              i' 20: 2  ; 217      256      300      279       370       300...   342       3.0
B. Exports
a. DryCargo
groundnutcake              14        8        23       20        30       14        34       13        38        9                     X
groundnuts                  8        7         2       12         0        4        0        11         0        3
fish                       10        4        14        3        19        6        25        7        30        3
other                       4        3         6        3         7        4         8       13         8       26
sub totai                  36       22        45       39        56       29        67       44        76       41       4.7
b. Groundnuti d                    12        5        21        12       28        4        33        6        37        4      14.0
toa exports                         27        66       51        84       33       1         50 ";3             4 : 6.9
Combined total     F      268      229       298      268       340      333       379      420       413      388f      3.9
04-Feb-92



F.    Economic Data (continued)
ECONOMIC REVALUATlON OF THE PORT INVESTMENT                                       (ii)    Reevaluation of the Port Investment
I - Charactertsics of POlt operations
|    1980     1981     1982     19B3     1984     1985      1986     1987     1988     1989     1990
METRIC TONS
petroleum                       44,884   48,950   38,323   39,858   33,968   46,885   44,295   54,093   49,984   54.438   59.916
vegetable oi (bulk)              4,869    8,043    4,711    10,582   12,314    5,250    3,885    5154!    6,372    6,040    4,418
bagged cargo                   149,043  112,204  123,237  124,403  178,759  147,470  224.122  250,539  269,225  199,027  195,750
general cargo                   66,651   71,389   62,526   65,069   42,630   59,896   60.448   76,042   94.676   97,321  127,484
container:  : tons                503      579      946    1.774    9,229   15,852   18,945   40,094   50,759   59,132   82.750
nurber                 191      235      388      716    1,128    1,945    2,243    4,478    6,045    6,839    8,674
:average load             3        2        2        2        8        8        8        9        8         9       10
Total In tons        265,447  240,586  228,797  239,912  267,671  259,501   332,750  385,828  420,257  356,826  387,568
Containerization rate            0.2%     0.3%     0.5%      0.9%     4.2%     7.6%     6.7%    12.3%    13.9%    20.0%    25.6%
NUMBER OF SHIPS
petroleumtankers                   14       15       21        19      14       15        13       10       15       21       18
vegetable dl tanker                 8        6        6        6        10        7        7        8        9        8        8
othersHps                         n.a.     n.a.     n.a.      191      179      166      187      229      241      224      221
total                   n.a.     n.a.     n.a.     216      203       188      207      247      265      253      247
BER1H OCCUPANCY (days)       - Without the Inwestment:
petroleumtankers                   22       24       19       20       17       23       22        27       25       27       30
vegetable oil tankers               3        5        3        7        8        4         3        3        4        4        3
tramnps                           298      224      246      249      358       295      448      501      538      398      392
generi cargoshlips                222      238      208      217       142     200       201      253      316      324      425          '0
total                .546        492      477      493      525      522       674      785      883      754      849
berth occupancy rates:         74.79%   67.43%   65.37%   67.49%   71.89%   95.26%  123.19%  143.39%  161.33%  137.66%  155.13%
waiting trme without iigherage                                            congon.... ....
Ilihterage needed on tons):                                                  96,518  172,987  228,267  277,388  212,602  260,425
cost o lighterage Qn US dollars)                                            772,143 1,383,899 1,826,135 2,219,107 1,700,812 2,083,400
wallngtme Witlh lighterage tn days):                                           211       211      211      211      211      211
weighted average cost of general cargo ships (n US dollars):                  7,647    7,394    7,081    7,313    7,700    7,547
waiting time costs with ligterage On US bllars)                            1,616,070 1,562,581 1,496,447 1,545,401 1,627,186 1,594,925
toal cost withooA project Qn US dollars)                2,388,213 2,946,480 3,322,583 3,764,508 3,327,998 3,678,325
11 - Costs and benebts streams, Fi Y1982-2004  On US $ thousands)
r-  1982      1983     1984     1985     1986     1987     1988     1989     1990 1989-2004
Project Investment costs:                           590    5,080    2,040    1,200       650      660    2,170
Maintenance costs:                                                             446       478     511       620      620      620        620
Rehstilltation/equlpmert of Ugterage berths                                    500       500
3enelts: total                                                                2,388    2,946    3,323    3,765    3,328    3,678   . 3,678
Bienets: to Garnbia                                                                                                              +3% p.a
Intemal Rate of Retum:     41    %           will 1996,
Feb-92                                                                                                                       constant after



30
G. Use of Bank Resources
(i) Staff Innuts by Stage of Proect Cycle in Staff Weeks
Stage of Project Cycle                  Plannd             Bevised           BInad
Preappraisal                                        _ ____- _                 35.4
Appraisal to Board                                                           45.6
Supervision                                                                  96.5
Other
TOTAL                                                            177.5
Source: Summary of CAM lending operations
AFSIN
11/06/91



31
G.     Use of Bank Resources (continued)
(ii) Mission Data
Stage of      Month/Year    No. of    Days in       Specialization   Performance    Dates of
Project Cycle                  Persons     Pield     Represented a/    Rating Status   Reports
Identification       09/78          2          6      PE, EC             -             10/24/78
Preparation 1        02/79          1          5      PEB                              03/02/79
Preparation 2        09/79          1          4      FA                 _             11/01/79
Preappraisal 1        12/79         1          3      PE               _               01/31/80 b/
Preappraisal 2       04/80          3          6      PE, eC, PA         -             06/13/80
Appraisal            6-7/81         3         21      PE, eC, FA         .             07/24/81 c/
Post-Appraisal       01/82          1          3      PA                               02/10/82
Supervision 1        09/82          1          7      PA                 2,1           10/22/82
Supervision 2         11/82         1          6      PE                 2,1           02/08/83
Supervision 3         04/83         1          7      PE, FA             2,1           05/13/83
Supervision 4        08/83          1          3      PE                 _             09/08/83
Supervision 5        09/83          1          7      FA                 2,1           10/07/83
Supervision 6         10/83         1          4      PE                 1,1           12/12/83
Supervision 7        01/84          1          7      PE                 1,1           02/24/84
Supervision 8        05/84          2          6      PE, FA             2,1           07/05/84
Supervision 9         10/84         1          1      PA                               11/06/84
Supervision 10        11/84         1          4      PE                 2,2           01/29/85
Supervision 11       07/S5          1          5      PE                 1,1,1,2       09/12/85
Supervision 12        10/85         3         n.a     DC, EC, FA         _             12/05/85 d/
Supervision 13       02/86          1          5      PE                3,2,1,2        03/05/86
Supervision 14        05/86         1          1      PE                 3,2,2,3       06/18/86
Supervision 15       09/86          1          5      PE                 2,2,2,2,      11/17/86
Supervision 16        02/87         1          5      PE                 1,2,2,2       04/06/87
Supervision 17       07/87          1          7      PE                 2,2,2,2       0S/21/87
Supervision 18        01/88         1          3      PE                 2,2,2,2       02/05/88
Supervision 19       03/88            F1       1       A                 -             03/31/88
Supervision 20       09/88          1          6      PE                 1.1.1.2       11/09/88
Supervision 21        02/89         1         n.a.    PE                 1,1,1,2       05/09/89
Supervision 22        06/88         1          4      FA                 _             07/31/89
Supervision 23        11/89         1         n.a.    PE                 2,1,1,1,1     01/30/90
Supervision 24       06/90          2          5      PE, FA             2,1,1,1,1     08/13/90
Supervision 25        01/91         1          6      PE                 1,1,1,1,1     03/21/91
Supervision 26        10/91         1                 PA                               12/10/91
a/     PE - Ports Engineer     EC = Economist          FA = Financial Analyst  DC = Division Chief
b/     Meeting in Ccisultant's European office
e.'    Issues Paper dated July 24, 1981  d/    Transport Sector Review Mission
According to TOR dated Febmrary 13, 1990 and September 27, 1990, brief supervision visits were scheduled for March and October
respectively, but there are no reports on file.
AFSIN, 11/06/91



32
H. Compliance with Credit and Project Agreement (:venants
Section                         Iescnpiion of Covenant                           Status
Credit Agreement
3.01 (b)                                Make subsidiary loan agreemrent with OPA    melt
3.02                                    Compensate GPA for losses arising from
its feny and river transport services   mnet
3.03                                    Assume all capital costa, etc. of the trailer
suction dredger                         dredger subaequently sold
3.04                                    Prepare a draft plan of action for the
expropriation of land adjoined to the poft
for future expansion
met
3.05                                    Acquire all such lanu as should be       met (see reservations in paras. 26, 27 and
required for carrying out the Project   57)
Proiect Agreement
2.02                                    Employ engineering, management and
other consultants satisfactory to IDA   met
2.03                                    Follow IDA procurement provisions        met
2.04 (d)                                Prepare a PCR                            met
3.01                                    Carry out its operations and conduct its
affairs in accordance with sound
administration, financial and engineering  met towards the end of the project
practices under the supervision of qualified
and experienced management
3.02                                    Afford IDA the opportunity to review job
description and qualifications of the port
engineer                                met
3.03                                    Operate and maintain its plant, etc. in
accordance with sound engineering
practices                               not being fully met (see pare. 58)
3.04                                    Take out appropriate insurance           met
4.01                                    Maintain adequate records                met
4.02                                    Audit its accounts                       met
4.03                                    Meet net of return of not less than 7%   met
4.04                                    Carry out reevaluation of its fixed assets  met
4.05                                    Reduce its accounts receivable           met
APSIN
1 1/Ps91



IS-                                                                   14-           MAY 1982 I
w                                                                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~THE GAMBIA
SECOND BANJUL PORT PROJECT
4' Ports
S     E      N      E     G      A     L  -                                                                         Paved roads
_____  Laterite roads
L                              ____ Eorth roads
:-    =-:Rivers                                            4V-
International boundaries
0           2,           40           60           80          100
Ua(                                                  *-               c          <                                   KiLOMETERS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KIL     TER
/  ~    / Kittdo  8OIif8~~VoCh.                                                   rgeto n 
San5oeR  ,' JBirkama                 Biritanrag -4 Brnoaeoe
B.k u    GUINEAssA  I                                                                                                                                                                         4,.-.
g._  !  + \                                                         \   ~~~~~~~~~~~~GUINEA    jt
Stera  dt N   r  ent   tt              t
sa ty   tetoCmgtmo. ofisht OdetdOmtbMm5rtti hhtlStEtsutserFnrtezEtoy=rJivendonemmtor   )   /                                1 _  _._._.w._    At/antic               SiERRA, F
C  t   > >    g     =     L   ~ ~~.'~         Co,t=      , oJ,n                                     G U I N   E  A                 A   UO                           e  na                       COAST
S"g      ir                                                 r- 'cea                                                                                                                                IEdg



=        =  /'                                                                                                                                                           SECOND BANJUL PORT PROJECT
11~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E SI NG   -11T
Trsit shed e.ttesior
-     Groond Not oI pipel-n
. i t pfant / X / | |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Petroleum prhodu)cts S>=to/\\ragdnt l ielm
etI                             (Shell OS st-g.                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dolphins
W         !S                                                                                                   K                                          Depth contorS in mete-sin reference to  Combo.
depten                                                                                                                                                           Por fece                   Dar.m(O2re abor   M WS
o I-             .       0             200             300            400
.5                                                                         5.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~METERS
Dock ya,d                                                                                                                       7     -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.   NOR THt- -
.ansitshlds sI
FK mhm m Pmbg  Eanjmof                       ' .               r I- 
4- WrNdOnk,rteto,rr                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             pointr
Wharf _ar
rree  Fro,o,  .dnr                       '/     9013n)       .'
Or !ot -npin 0* pO r O                                                             _,_.
Fisheries                                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Bar1
4                         4           -                                                                                                                                                              poe~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o.
SENEGAL 
rI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
X  _._._._ ._._!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~br



