Document of
The Wor'd Bank                             E               t
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3703-GM
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THE GANBIA
SECOND BANJUL PORT PROJECT
May 28, 1982
Western Africa Projects Department
Transportation Division 1
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit           Dalasis (D)
US$1                          D 2.12
D 1.00          =            US$0.47
D 1.00                     Butus 100
-        FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
SYSTEM OF W'EIGHTS AND MEASURES: METRIC
Metric                               British/US Equivalent
1 meter (m.)                    =   3.28 feet (ft.)
1 square meter (m2)                 10.76 square feet (sq.ft.)
1 cubic meter (m.')                 35.30 cubic feet (cu.ft.)
1 kilometer (kin)                   0.62 mile (mi.)
1 square kilometer (km2)             0.39 square mile (sq.mi.)
1 hectare (ha)                      2.47 acres
1 metric ton (t)                    2,205 pounds (lb.)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB    -   African Development Bank
dwt     -   Dead Weight Ton
ERR     -   Economic Rate of Return
FEYP    -   First Five-Year Plan
GDP     -   Gross Domestic Product
G,NIC    -   Gambia National Insurance Company
GNP     -   Gross National Product
GPA     -   Gambia Ports Atuthority
G,PMB    -   Gambia Produce Marketing Board
y,rt    -   Gross Register Ton
IDA     -   International Development Association
K-fW    -   Genr.an Aid Agencv (Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau)
MIEPID   -   Ministry of Economic Planning and Industrial Development
MPWC    -   M-'inistry of Public Works and Communications
MLWS    -   Mean Low lWater Spring Tide
nrt     -   Net Register Ton
ODA     -   Overseas Develo,ment Administration (UK)
0DX     -   Ministry of Overseas Development (UK)
OED     -   Operations Evalvaation De?artment
PORTSIN -   Bank's Port Si.ulation 'lodel
PPF     -   Project Preparaticn Facility
PWD     -   Public Works Departrment
SFYP    -   Second Five-Year Plan



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE GAMBIAL
SECOND BANJUL PO'? PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Page No.
I.  INTRODUCTION .........................................            1
II.  THE TRANSPORT SECTOR .     .     ........................................ 2
A.  General .      .       ........................................ .  2
B. Transport Policy                  .. ......  3
C.  The Transport Network ..      .........................'     5
III.  THE PORT SUB-SECTOR .................................             5
A.  Port Organization .................................           5
B.  Staffing and Training .................................     6
C.  Accounting, Budgeting, Auditing and Insurance ............. 7
IV.  THE PORT OF BANJUL ..........................................., 8
A.  Port Facilities and Operations ............................8 
B.  Traffic  . .       ........................................ 10
C. Tariffs ................................................. 11
V.  INVESTMENT PLAN AND THE PROJECT . . ............................ 12
A.  GPA's Investment Plan ..             ............................ 12
B.  Objectives of the Project ...... . ....................... 13
C.  Project Description .      . ............................   14
D.  Cost Estimate . ................................16
E.  Project Financing             .      .       ................ 17
F.  Project Implementation   .       .     ......................... 18
G.  Procurement and Disbursement . . .8........................... 8
H.  Environmental Impact .      . ...................................19
VI.  ECONOMIC EVALUATION .     .     ......................................,.20
A. General .. .....................................             20
B.  Traffic Analysis and Projections .     . ....................... 21
C.  Project Benefits .................................. ....... 22
D.  Economic Return and Sensitivity7 Analysis   .......... . 24
VII.  FINANCIAL EVALUATION ......................................... 25
A.  Past and Present Financial Performance ................... 25
B.  Financial Objective ...................................... 27
C.  Forecast Financial Performance ............................ 27
VIII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ....................... 32
This report was prepared by Messrs. H. Hiansen (Economist), N. Rasheed
(Financial Analyst) and E. Vernigora (Engineer) on the basis of an
appraisal mission in June/July 1981.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ii-
Table of Contents (con't.)
ANNEXES
1. Past Bank Group Activities in the Transport Sector
2. Existing Port and Dockyard Facilities and Operations
3. Supporting Tables
T-3.1 Staff Employed by Area, FY1978-1980
T-4.1 Levels of Productivity and Project Targets, FY1982 and 1984
T-4.2 Port of Banjul Import and Export Traffic, FY1974-1980
T-4.3 Port of Banjul Import and Export Traffic Projections,
FY1980-1990
T-4.4 Vessels Calling at Port of Banjul, FY1979
T-5.1 Project Cost Summary
T-5.2 Estimated Disbursement Schedule, FY1983-1987
T-6.1 Costs and Benefits Streams for Economic Evaluation, FY1982-
2004
T-6.2 Economic Rates of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
T-7.1  GPA Income Statements for Port, Non-Port and Total Operations,
FY1975-1980
T-7.2  GPA Consolidated Balance Sheets, FY1975-1980
T-7.3  Summary of Tariffs Effective September 1, 1979
T-7.4  Forecast Income Statement for Port Operations, FY1981-1988
T-7.5  Forecast Income Statement for Dockyard Operations, FY1981-1988
T-7.6 Consolidated Forecast Income Statement for Port and Dockyard
Operations, FY1981-1988
T-7.7 Sources and Application of Funds, FY1981-1988
T-7.8 Projected Balance Sheet, FY1981-1988
CHARTS
C-1 General Organizational Structure of GPA
C-2 Project Execution Time Schedule, 1982-1985
MAPS
IBRD 15945 RI
IBRD 15946



THE GAMBIA
SECOND BANJUL PIDRT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01     In September 1978, the Government of The Gambia requested IDA to
assist in the preparation and financing of a Second Banjul Port Project.
The objective was to improve operational performance and productivity and
to expand basic port capacity to enable the Gambia Port Authority (GPA)
to meet the present and forecast traffic demands more efficiently and to
avoid costly ship waiting. The Association assisted in drafting terms of
reference for preparation of the project and financed the foreign
exchange costs of the study through the unspent funds from the First
Banjul Port Project (Credit 187-GM) and from the Project Preparation
Facility (PPF, para. 5.03). Subsequently the PPF was increased, on an
exceptional basis, to finance certain emergency works to the existing
port infrastructure (para. 5.07(a)(vi)) and additional consulting ser-
vices (para. 5.07(c)(ii)).
1.02     The basic objective of the First Banjul Port Project
(Credit 187-GM; US$2.1 million; May 1971) was to provide Banjul with a
new wharf to replace an old timber strtcture, transit sheds and other
buildings, cargo handling equipment, a small dredger, a public wharf for
river transport and fishing vessels, advisory and consulting services,
and training assistance. The project vras completed successfully,
although with some delays and cost overruns, and has fulfilled a most
important requirement for The Gambia. The delays were mainly associated
with construction of the new wharf and the public wharf. Most of the
cost increases were related to civil wcrks, engineering and consultants'
services. After a supplementary appraisal in October 1973, the original
cost estimate of US$2.4 million was increased to US$5.3 million and the
Credit was raised in April 1974 from US$2.1 million to US$4.5 million.
The project was substantially completed by December 1974, about 18 months
later than scheduled originally. The benefits estimated at appraisal
have been largely achieved. The ship-wraiting time has been reduced sig-
nificantly, although with traffic increasing much faster than expected at
appraisal, port congestion has again become common. Credit covenants
have been fulfilled within reason excepting that: (a) the Government,
without consulting the Association, waived GPA's obligation to pay inter-
est on Goverrnment loans until commencemient of capital repayment; and
(b) reporting requirements were not fully met. The main findings of the
Project Performance Audit Report (No. 1502 of March 9, 1977) are given in
para. 3.03.
1.03     The proposed Second Banjul Port Project would continue the Asso-
ciation's assistance to Gambia in exparding and modernizing Banjul's port
facilities to handle efficiently its increasing traffic and to strengthen
the GPA. The proposed project comprises GPA's investment requirements
for emergency rehabilitation of existing port infrastructure, construc-
tion of a new L-head wharf, land reclamation, mooring and navigational



-2-
improvements, transit shed expansion, groundnut oil pipeline, paving and
fencing of reclaimed land area, purchasing of floating craft and techni-
cal assistance for supervision of construction, introduction of manage-
ment information systems at GPA and training of dockyard personnel. The
project is expected to cost about US$21 million (Annex 3, Table 5.1),
excluding the closely related British Overseas Development Administration
(ODA) package consisting of the supply of cargo handling equipment,
training for cargo handling and equipment maintenance. The project is
expected to commence in September 1982 and be completed in December
1985. The co-financiers involved are the African Development Bank (AfDB)
and the German Aid Agency (Kreditanstalt fur WiederaufbaL - KfW).  GPA
will self-finance 92% of the local component of the Project estimated to
be about US$3.3 million equivalent.
II. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. General
2.01     The Gambia consists of a narrow, east-west strip of land some 30
to 50 km wide along the banks of the Gambia River inland from Banjul, the
capital city and commercial center. The country, the smallest in main-
land Africa, extends inland from the Atlantic and is otherwise surrounded
by Senegal. With a population of about 605,000 (1981) and growing at
about 3.1% p.a., The Gambia has one of the highest population densities
in Africa (56/km2). Economic growth has been very slow and uneven during
the recent past; GDP in constant prices rose by an average of 4.0% p.a.
between FY1975 and FY1979. As a result of drought and other factors, it
declined by 9.8% in FY1980 and again by 4.1% in FY1981. GNP per capita
is estimated at $320 at mid-1981.
2.02     The economy is based on traditional rural smallholder activities
and commerce. Agriculture, livestock, forestry and fisheries accounted
for about 30% of GDP in FY1981 (40% in FY1977) and these sectors employ
about 80% of the active population. Agriculture is in turn based on
groundnuts, the main cash crop, which in natural or processed form
accounts for about 90% of the total value of domestic exports in a normal
year and is the basis for the country's principal industrial activity,
groundnut oil milling.
2.03     Despite the traditional predominance of the rural economy, The
Gambia has become increasingly active in trade and transport.  Transit
trade, which results from the unique geographical situation of The Gambia
(see Map IBRD 15945R) and from low import tariffs, among other factors,
is an important source of revenue for the country, as is tourism.
2.04     The Government is trying to increase agricultural productivity-
and diversify the economy by reducing dependence on groundnuts and in-
creasing production of rice, cotton and vegetables. The basic strategy
of the Government's development plan is to increase food production and
to ensure a steady farm income as free as possible from the vagaries of
climatic conditions, and with a producer price structure which provides



-3-
adequate incentives to raise agricultural output and exports.
Considerable emphasis is also placed on expansion of the fishing indus-
try, tourism and selective manufacturing.
2.05     During the First Five-Year Plan, period, extended to cover six
years, FY1976-81, the Government gave high priority to the improvement
and expansion of the transport network, particularly roads and the
airport at Banjul, as well as to tourism.. Total investments during the
First Plan were D350 million. The Secornd Plan envisages investments of
D475 million, with greater emphasis on agriculture (from 16% of actual to
28% of estimated public investments) ana industry (from 3% to 8%). The
share allocated to transport and communications has been reduced (from
44% to 30%), with emphasis in the transport sector shifting to
maintenance and optimum utilization of the existing infrastructure and
facilities.
B. Transport Policy
2.06     While the Government's past transport sector policy aimed at
expanding the infrastructure network, the principal objectives of the
SFYP are:
(a)   consolidation and preservation of the existing transport
infrastructure;
(b)   coordination and cooperation among existing modes of
transport and increased integration;
(c)   optimum utilization of all available facilities and
strengthening and consolidation of transport institutions;
(d)   undertaking of new projects only to relieve bottlenecks
(e.g., the Port of Banjul);
(e)   reduction of resources wastage and improvement of opera-
tions efficiency; and
(f)   development of indigenous goods haulage services.
2.07     The proposed Second Banjul Port Project and the closely related
ODA-financed component (para. 3.07) are directly concerned with (a), (c),
(d) and (e) above.
2.08     Related to objectives (b), (c) and (e) above, the Government is,
with assistance from the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development, im-
proving river transport. These activities include the construction of
river wharves and the establishment of a new state-owned authority
(para. 4.12) to operate all services for the transport of passengers and
goods on the inland waterways of The Gambia. The Government plans that
low value goods will increasingly be handled by river transport. The
Gambia's loan agreement with the Kuwait: Fund provides for the new



-4-
authority to set tariffs so as to cover operating costs, repayment of
debts and earn a surplus to finance a portion of future investments.
2.09     A major continuing transport-related issue facing The Gambia is
the proposed construction of a bridge/barrage across the Gambia River at
Yelitenda. This large scale and costly project, which has been under
discussion during the last decade, would provide year-round irrigation of
24,000 ha and improve road transport between northern and southern
Senegal across The Gambia by replacing the existing ferry service. Ap-
proximately 75% of the expected benefits would be agricultural and 25%
transport related. By virtue of the size and multi-sectoral scope of
this project, it needs to be considered carefully at the macro-economic
level as the preliminary economic rate of return is understood to be
marginal. The proposed bridge/barrage structure could cause additional
siltation in the port access channel at the bar. To check on this possi-
bility, consultants have studied the problem in a mathematical model
which was completed in April 1982 under PPF financing
(para. 5.07(c)(ii)). It is concluded that siltation in the entrance
channel, as a result of the barrage, will be insignificant.
2.10     Overall economic planning in The Gambia is done within the
Ministry of Economic Planning and Industrial Development (MEPID).  To
complement this work, a Planning Unit was established within the Ministry
of Public Works and Communications (MPWC) to coordinate investment pro-
grams between the transport subsectors and to develop a comprehensive
road development program based on the 1978 National Transport Study by
consultants. Progress to date has been slow. Under the Highway
Maintenance Project the Government agreed to maintain the Planning Unit
at MPWC and no separate action is therefore proposed under this project.
2.11     The Gambia, with no domestic petroleum production or refining
capacity, is an importer of petroleum products. While petroleum taxes
have been low in the past, consumers at present pay more than 100% tax on
either gasoline or diesel. The prices and taxes as of November 25, 1981,
were as follows:
Duties as % Retail Price
Retail   of Retail      as % of
C.I.F. Import Price  Duty  Price         Price     Import Price
------- Dalasis per litre -
Regular Gasoline       0.65         0.73    1.54          47           237
Premium                0.67         0.73    1.58          46           236
Diesel Oil             0.65         0.67    1.47          46           226
Source: MPWC and Shell, Banjul.



-5-
C. The Transport Network
2.12     The transport system of the Garbia is export/import-oriented and
focused on Banjul, the dominant port and the administrative/commercial
center of the country. The system is also, to a lesser extent, transit-
oriented; i.e., serving trade to, from and between various parts of
Senegal.
2.13     Transport demand results mainly from: (a) the seasonal movement
of groundnuts from the field to depots and hence to the processing plant
and on to the Port of Banjul (and to a lesser extent to Kaur, the river
port) for export; (b) the movement of imported merchandise (cement, rice,
fertilizer and general cargo) from the port of Banjul upcountry and to
some extent on to Senegal; (c) Senegalese traffic crossing The Gambia,
mainly at Banjul and at Farafenni; and (d) passenger flows, primarily
between Banjul and villages upcountry as well as between Banjul and
Barra.
2.14     The transport system consists of the deepwater port of Banjul, a
small river port at Kaur (for groundnut exports);l/ about 300 km of paved
and 1,000 km of improved gravel or eart!a roads, plus about 2,000 km of
dry-weather earth tracks; the Gambia River, which is navigable by ocean
freighters to Kaur and barges further upriver; and an international air-
port at Banjul. There is no railway or domestic air transport in The
Gambia. The system has been developed gradually during the past two
decades to connect the main areas of economic activity and to facilitate
the movement of exports and imports as well as some transit trade, mainly
through the Port of Banjul. However, as indicated in Chapter IV, the
existing port facilities at Banjul are not sufficient to meet present and
future trade requirements.
III. THE PORT SUB-SECTOR
A.  Port Organization
3.01     GPA is a financially and operationally autonomous public agency
which was established by the Ports Act of July 1, 1972. An eight-member
board of administration sets the policies for the Port Authority
(Chart 1). Three of the eight members are ex-officio: the managing
director of GPA, the chief executive officer of the Gambia Produce
Marketing Board (GPMB) and the controller of customs. The remaining five
members are nominated and are experts in shipping (1), imports (1), ex-
ports (1) and port-related industries (2). The chairman is elected from
the group of the five nominated members. The board delegates its powers
for day-to-day operations to the managing director who is appointed by
1/ Groundnut exports through the Port of Kaur amounted to about 8,000
tons in PY1981 as compared with about 25,000 tons during each of the
preceeding three years.



-6-
the Minister-in-charge (presently the Minister of Public Works and
Communications). GPA is responsible for all operations of the Port of
Banjul and Kaur including cargo handling and stevedoring. In addition,
it is also responsible for some burdensome non-port activities: the
ferry services, river transport and the dockyard. The ferry services and
the river transportation will, however, be separated from GPA
(para. 4.12). The dockyard, a deficit operation, will remain under GPA
for the time being (paras. 3.05-3.06 and Annex 2), although the Govern-
ment is considering the possibility of its separation at a later date.
3.02     Although GPA has been functioning satisfactorily, maintenance in
the port has not been adequate, which resulted in deterioration of the
infrastructure. It is therefore necessary to fill the position of civil
engineer who will manage repairs and maintenance works in the port. GPA
prepared and submitted to the Association a detailed job description and
qualification requirements for this vacancy and, during negotiations,
agreed to obtain the Association's comments on the candidates' qualifica-
tions prior to making the appointment. The position of traffic manager
has just been filled and the incumbent is expected to start work soon.
The Managing Director and Chief Accountant were given extended leaves of
absence following the coup attempt in June/July 1981. The Administrative
Manager has resigned. The Chief Accountant, however, has returned to his
position effective January 19,1982. While the Managing Director retired,
in his place an-acting Managing Director has been appointed. The Asso-
ciation has requested the Government to maintain job continuity among
experienced and competent senior officials of GPA and fill the vacant
positions. The Government agreed during negotiations that the appoint-
ment of a permanent Managing Director satisfactory to the Association is
a condition for signature of the proposed Credit.
3.03     In its Project Performance Audit Report of the First Banjul Port
Project (No. 1502 of March 9, 1977, para. 29), the Bank's Operations
Evaluation Department (OED) questioned the creation of an autonomous port
authority. In view of the rapid expansion of traffic, extension of port
infrastructure with the proposed construction of a second L-head wharf,
technological developments in shipping and cargo handling, and financial
improvement of the Banjul Port under the autonomous ports authority, the
existence of GPA is justified. The Government of The Gambia also prefers
to have an autonomous ports authority and is satisfied with its opera-
tional and financial performance.
B. Staffing and Training
3.04     GPA's total staff, including those assigned to ferry services,
river transport and dockyard, increased from 770 at the end of FY1978 to
877 at the end of FY1980 (Annex 3, Table 3.1). Most of the increases
were in the areas related to river transport, dockyard, security and
ferry services. Of the total staff of 877, dockyard employs 231, ferry
services and river transport, 250 and the Banjul Port, 396. As the fer-
ries and river transport will be transferred from GPA to a new organi-
zation (para. 4.12), the GPA staff should be reduced by about 30%. The



-7-
staff of about 400 should be adequate for ports operations includinig
handling cargo and stevedoring.
3.05     The dockyard's staff is excessive, thus creating under-
employment with overall low productivity. However, under the proposed
Fisheries Development Project,l/ the increased fishing fleet is expected
to be repaired and maintained in the dockyard. This additional work
should improve dockyard's productivity and reduce its iunit cost.
3.06     The technical know-how, job costing and billing systems in the
dockyard are inadequate. These weaknesses were not taken into considera-
tion in the Fisheries Development Project financed by AfDB, which treated
in part improvements to the dockyard. Inasmuch as the dockyard is a part
of GPA and a drain on its finances, the p:roposed project includes a tech-
nical assistance component for training of dockyard employees in mecha-
nical repairs, job costing and billing.
3.07     GPA needs to improve both its administrative and operational
capabilities. These needs could be addressed through technical assist-
ance financed by ODA and the Association. Is' January 1982, ODA assigned
two experts to Banjul for a period of two years: one to train mechanics
in the repair of cargo-handling equipment and the other to train steve-
dores and longshoremen in cargo-handling techniques. These experts have
prepared a detailed work program which was made available to the
Association prior to its implementation; their progress reports would
also be made available to the Association for comments. The Association
would, in the proposed project, finance consultants to GPA to:
(a) establish an information system to assist the general manager in
decision-making; (b) train dockyard personnel in mechanical repairs, job
costing and billing; and (c) supervise construction.
C. Accounting, Budgeting, Auditing and Insurance
Accounting
3.08     As a result of the Credit Agreement for the First Banjul Port
Project (187-GM), GPA's accounting system has improved considerably and
is now maintained on commercial principlEs. Separate accounts are kept
for port and non-port activities (dockyard, ferry services and river
transport). The fixed asset accounts are not only identified and main-
tained but a proper revaluation has also been carried out with the
assistance of foreign consultants. Asset. values are updated by applying
annual cost indices. The accounting system is now working with reason-
able accuracy and an estimation of GPA's financial state of affairs can
be obtained with sufficient reliability.
1/ This project has already been negotiated between the Government and
AfDB.



-8-
Budgeting
3.09     Annual capital and operating budgets are prepared and submitted
by GPA in June through its Board to the MPWC for approval. During the
last few years improvements have been made in budget preparation and its
presentation. The budget now includes operating revenues and expendi-
tures, capital expenditures and a cash flow forecast for the ensuing
year, and is generally satisfactory. Furthermore, in order to avoid
delays in obtaining MPWC's approval, GPA has decided to submit future
budget proposals well in advance.
Auditing
3.10     The Internal Audit Department is functioning adequately under
the direct supervision of GPA's Managing Director. As recommended by OED
in Report No. 1502, para. 5.08, GPA has agreed to include the results of
the internal audit in its annual report. External audits are carried out
by a private independent auditing firm whose performance is satisfactory,
except that it does not include comments on GPA management's efficiency
and the ports' performance. Furthermore, the audit reports are being
forwarded to the Bank with delays. GPA and the auditor have agreed to
include the requested commentary in future reports and submit them on
time. A standard audit covenant is included in the project agreement.
Insurance
3.11     All fixed assets of GPA are insured with a loc9Rl reputable
firm--The Gambia National Insurance CGcpany (GNIC). Although GNIC rein-
sures GPA's assets with foreign insurai)se agents, it does not indemnify
losses in freely usable foreign currency because GPA pays its premium
only in local currency. Due to foreign exchange difficulties GPA cannot
readily obtain foreign currency in order to replace the damaged or lost
equipment. During negotiations, the Gambian delegation informed the
Association that the Ministry of Finance and Trade and GNIC have recently
agreed in principle that (a) 90% of the losses on GPA's fixed assets
would be covered by GNIC's foreign re-insuring agents in freely usable
foreign currency'and would be passed on to GPA; and (b) the remaining 10%
of the losses will be reimbursed by GNIC in local currency for which the
Government would provide the foreign exchange to GPA. The Government
would send to the Association documents related to the above arrangements
as soon as they are formalized.
IV. THE PORT OF BANJUL
A. Port Facilities and Operations
4.01     Banjul, the principal seaport of the country, lies at the mouth
of the Gambia River. The entrance channel extends 40 km from the outer
fair buoy to the port. There is an extensive bar which limits the depth
of water to 8.0 m at MLWS (mean low water spring tide). Mean spring



-9-
tidal range in Banjul is 1.6 m which allows ships up to 30,000 dwt in
light condition to use the port.
4.02     The GPA onshore area for cargo handling is about 15,300 m2,
of which 6,520 m2 is occupied by transit: sheds. Of the total area,
10,560 m2 is located at the Banjul Whari' and the remainder at Gcvernment
Wharf areas. Under the project, storage facilities will be doubled.
According to the Consultants' port master plan, in the long-term
(about 1990) additional land area for port development may be required.
Acquisition is proposed by expropriation of land adjacent to the port.
This proposal has been reviewed with the Bank Urban Division which found
it acceptable in principle and communicated this proposal to the
Government of The Gambia so that it can be taken into consideration
during the master plan studies of Banju. City, expected to start early
next year with German assistance. The Government agreed at negotiations
to prepare by June 30, 1984 a plan of action by which this land would be
made available for port use; this plan would be submitted to the
Association for review and comment.
4.03     The GPA offshore structures coinsist of:
(a)   the old T-head Governmen-: Wharf, (approximately
90 m x 12 m);
(b)   the L-head Banjul Wharf, (122 m x 18 m), built under the
First IDA-financed Port ?roject; and
(c)   Public Wharf used mainly for river boats.
In spite of repairs carried out, the Government Wharf is in a poor
structural state. Under the Emergency lehabilitation Works
(para. 5.07(a)(vi)), the wharf was outfitted with fenders, which enabled
it to be used until the new L-head wharE becomes operational. There-
after, it would be abandoned by the GPA. For a detailed description of
infrastructure owned and operated by GPA, refer'to Annex 2.
4.04     GPA's present functions include maintenance and operation of
ferry services/river landings, maintenaace of entrance channel markers,
pilotage, minor dredging in port and stevedoring. GPA also operates a
dockyard and a slipway and is responsible for maintenance of wharfs,
sheds and other port infrastructure. Ownership and operation of the
Public Wharf and ferry services/river landing will be transferred to a
new authority (para. 4.12).
4,05     In Banjul ships are loaded/unloaded using ships gear.  Bagged
export cargo of groundnut or groundnut zake is delivered directly to ship
side by trucks in preslung units of bags which are bled into the ships'
hold. Bagged import cargo is lifted from ships on pallets or slings and
loaded onto trailers to be stored in transit sheds or sorted on the wharf
and transported by trucks. General cargo is treated the same way as
bagged import cargo, while containers are moved on trailers. Oil tankers



- 10 -
discharge mineral oil at Banjul Wharf through a pipeline and groundnut
oil is loaded similarly through a pipeline at the Government Wharf.
4.06     Productivity in the port is low:  gang sizes are large, equip-
ment availability is below acceptable limits and direct truck deliveries-
/pick-ups cause long ship-waiting times.  These problems will be investi-
gated under the ODA-financed component which will include new equipment
and technical assistance in maintenance and cargo handling. With the
expected input, productivity is expected to increase by about 50%; this
target is realistic and should be achieved by 1984. The component will
be closely coordinated between ODA and the co-donors for the port proj-
ect. For present levels of productivity and future targets see Annex 3,
Table 4.1.
B. Traffic
4.07     During the 1970s, total foreign traffic through the Port of
Banjul increased much faster than expected at the time of appraisal of
the First Banjul Port Project. During the last six years of the decade,
traffic grew from 173,000 freight tonsl/ to 340,000 freight tons or by an
average of 12% p.a. (Annex 3, Table 4.2), causing port congestion and
extensive ship waiting in recent years. There has, however, been a deci-
ded difference in the development of import and export traffic. During
the period 1974-1980, imports increased from about 116,000 tons to
282,000 tons or by about 16% p.a. The increase was faster for dry cargo
(17% p.a.) than for petroleum products (11% p.a.). In contrast, exports
were - ughly the same in FY1980 as in FY1974, following an inierease
between FY1974 and FY1977 and a decline thereafter as a result of the
1978-1981 drought. Preliminary figures for FY1981 indicate that import
traffic stagnated while exports declined further as a result of the
drought. Increased seed purchases, early rains and increased prices
resulted in a partial recovery in the groundnut harvest and volume of
byproducts and hence, exports, in FY1982.
4.08     In FY1980, the main import items, apart from petroleum products,
were cement, sugar, flour, rice, sorghum, fertilizers, and miscellaneous
other general cargo imports (Annex 3, Table 4.3). On the export side,
groundnut cake, groundnuts and groundnut oil accounted for about 78%
(about 90% in earlier years) of the volume, followed by fish and miscel-
laneous minor items such as palm kernels, cotton and lime. Both import
and the export trades show monthly variations which affect berth occu-
pancy and ship waiting. These variations appear in part to be due to
seasonal variations in agricultural exports and certain related imports
1/ Traffic data prior to FY1980 were recorded by GPA in freight tons
rather than in weight tons; one freight ton represents a volume of 40
cubic feet or one weight ton depending on whichever provides a greater
revenue to the shipping lines. The 340,000 freight tons in FY1980 were
equal to 282,000 weight tons.



- 11 --
and in part to random fluctuations in the arrival of certain major im-
ports.
4.09     Petroleum products and groundnuit oil were mostly handled by
small petroleum or vegetable oil tanker3. Bagged cement and rice imports
and bagged groundnut and groundnut cake exports were mainly shipped in
chartered vessels, while general cargo imports and some bagged goods were
shipped on regular liner vessels. In FY1979, a total of 337 vessels
called at the Port of Banjul, of which 274 berthed at the three cargo
berths (main and inner berths at Banjul Wharf and Government Wharf) and
the remainder, mostly fishing vessels, at private facilities or in mid-
stream. Banjul Main accommodated 135 vessels, Banjul Inner 65 and the
Government Wharf 74 vessels in FY1979. Of these, 157 were of 3,000 grt
and over and 117 were of under 3,000 grt. Annex 3, Table 4.4 provides
detail on vessel type, size and berth used. Preliminary data for FY1981
indicate that a total of 173 vessels berthed at the Banjul Wharf, 46 at
Government Wharf and 111 either did not berth or used other facilities.
The average size of the vessels berthing at Banjul Wharf was 5,300 grt
and at the Government Wharf 1,600 grt.
C. Tariffs
4.10     GPA's tariffs are regulated by the Government and are basically
cost oriented. With the help of consul:ants, GPA revised its tariff
structure in 1975 and increased tariff Levels in line with operating-
costs for each profit center. As a result of the heavy inflationary
impact on GPA's operating costs, the ta:riffs were again increased by 29%
effective September 1, 1979. Tariffs compare favorably with the neigh-
boring port of Dakar, Senegal. Port users have not objected to the
higher tariffs and there appears to be no danger of traffic diversion to
other ports.
4.11     While substantial improvements have been made in the tariff
policy and the financial position of GPAt, adequate and timely future
tariff increases are crucial to sustain future financial viability.
During the proposed project period, investments, fixed assets and depre-
ciation charges will increase considerably, debt service charges will
rise substantially and inflation will continue to push operating costs
upward. To cover these increasing costs, there will be a definite need
to increase tariffs more often than has been the practice. Furthermore,
it would be imprudent for GPA to continue to depend on Government
grants. During the project appraisal, the Government agreed in principle
to increase tariffs at least every alternate year during the forecast
period of 1982-1988 and has already granted average tariff increase. of
30% effective April 1, 1982 (para. 7.09(a)). Most of these tariff
increases would affect shipping lines and not domestic consignees so as
to avoid any adverse impact on Gambia's economy and help the country
recover a substantial part of the project benefits.
4.12     In contrast, the tariff policy for GPA's non-port activities has
not been satisfactory inasmuch as the Government, for social reasons, is



- 12 -
reluctant to increase tariffs. However, a new state-owned authority will
be established by July 1, 1983, which will provide and operate all
freight and passenger services on the inland waterways. GPA will there-
fore be relieved of the financial losses on ferry services and river
transport. This agreement also states that the new authority will col-
lect passenger fares and freight rates to cover operating expenses,
depreciation, interest charges, loan repayments (to the extent that such
repayments shall exceed provision for depreciation) and, also afford a
surplus for financing a reasonable portion of future expansion.
V. INVESTMENT PLAN AND THE PROJECT
A. GPA's Investment Plan
5.01     The First Banjul Port Project was based on a feasibility study
prepared at the request of the Gambian Government by consultants to
ODA. The project focused on operational, organizational and financial
reforms of GPA with emphasis on the introduction of adequate control on
cargo movements, improvements in materiel-handling techniques, the crea-
tion of an autonomous Ports Authority, installation of modern commercial
accounting and cost-oriented tariff structures and implementation of a
training program.
5.02     In September 1978, the Government requested assistance from the
Association in preparing a Second Banjul Port Project. Feasibility
studies were then carried out and a master plan was prepared by foreign
consultants. In this scheme, emphasis was given to the expansion of port
facilities to meet the present and future traffic demands including con-
tainerized traffic, institutional improvement, better operational and
managerial performances with action plan targets and technical assistance
and training for GPA staff.
5.03     The feasibility study and detailed engineering for the proposed
project was financed by funds left from the First Banjul Port Project
(Credit 187-GM) and a PPF of US$300,000 approved on August 9, 1979. On
August 28, 1981, the PPF was increased to US$480,000 to finance addi-
tional consulting services (para. 5.07(c)(ii)) for siltation studies and
for design and preparation of tender documents for port emergency rehabi-
litation works (para. 5.07(a)(vi)).  The PPF was further increased to
US$980,000 on October 8, 1981, to finance on an exceptional basis the
above-mentioned rehabilitation works.
5.04     The total Investment Plan for FY1981-1987 consists of D48.4
million (US$22.8 million equivalent), of which the proposed project
amounts to D40.6 million (US$19.2 million equivalent) net of taxes.
Outside the project, ODA financing is about D3.1 million (US$1.5 million
equivalent) and GPA is self-financing about D4.7 million (US$2.2 million
equivalent).  Of the project cost, the foreign exchange component
comprises D33.1 million (US$15.6 million equivalent) or 82%. The
Association's financing of about D13.8 million (US$6.5 mil-lion
equivalent) includes some emergency repairs and maintenance work under



-13
PPF financing (para. 5.07(a)(vi)), and would cover mainly foreign
exchange costs; AfDB and KfW would finance the remaining foreign exchange
costs of the project.
5.05     It was agreed during negotiations that, until the proposed
project is completed, GPA will not incur any capital expenditure outside
the Investment Plan in the aggregate of more than D2 million per year
unless prior agreement is reached with the Association. Furthermore, the
Government has agreed to procure a 300 m  trailer suction dredger through
KfW financing for delivery in the second half of 1982. This dredger is
proposed for use mainly in land reclamation and dredging the access for
the Barra-Banjul ferry. In view of the fact that the dredger will be
used basically for non-port related activities, the Government agreed at
negotiations that it will assume the capital cost, debt service charges,
maintenance and operating costs of the dredger and GPA would be billed
only for port-related dredging.
B. Objectives of the Project
5.06     The proposed project, which comnplements the short-term ODA pack-
age, will:
(a)   provide urgently needed emergency rehabilitation of exist-
ing port infrastructure, particularly at Banjul Wharf;
(b)   provide additional port capacity to meet present and fu-
ture traffic requirements, including container traffic;
(c)   improve navigational safaty;
(d)   improve port operations, management and infrastructure
maintenance; and
(e)   improve productivity and financial viability of the dock-
yard operated by GPA.
The project will greatly reduce ship waiting at the Port of Banjul and
hence avoid costly congestion surcharges and demurrage payments, thereby
facilitating Gambia's export trade as w,sll as its transit and import
trades. The project will also greatly strengthen the financial position
of the GPA.



- 14 -
C. Project Description
5.07     The project would comprise the following principal components:
(a)   Civil Works I/
(i) Construction of a deepwater L-head wharf 123 m
long by 29 m wide in minimum of 12.5 m water depth
in reference to the Gambia Datum (0.2 m above
MLWS), with an access bridge 120 m long by 9 m
wide and two mooring dolphins (all supported on
piles).
(ii) Reclamation of 7,800 m2 of land protected again2t
erosion by a revetment, and pavement of 5,100 m
for storage of containers.
(iii)  Extension of north transit shed at Banjul Wharf by
850 m2 for cargo storage.
(iv) Construction of 200 mm diameter steel pipeline
1,100 m long from groundnut oil storage tank, to
allow loading of groundnut oil from the new L-head
wharf.
(v) Construction of a repair workshop, a gatehouse and
about 300 m of new fencing, repair of existing
fire-fighting systems, repair of revetment and
other miscellaneous works.
(vi) Refinancing of PPF for repair of the following
works (para. 5.03) which would prevent interrup-
tion of port operations: (a) repair of the ramp at
the Banjul Wharf; (b) repair of revetment to avoid
possible settlement of transit sheds, and replace-
ment of a portion of slab; (c) construction of
fendering at the existing Government Wharf to
allow ships to use it before construction of new
L-head wharf and reduce ship-waiting time; and
(d) replacement of portion of existing slab in the
temporary container storage area with a stronger
one to withstand heavy loads.
(vii)  Improvements to navigation lights at Banjul Point,
Barra Point and Fajara.
(viii)  Procurement and installation of five new mooring
buoys for tying up small vessels.
1/  See Map IBRD 15946R.



- 15 -
(b)   Floating Craft and Spare  'arts for Cargo Handling
Equipment
(i) Procurement of a new pilot boat and mooring boat
to replace the existing worn-out ones, and spare
parts for the existing cargo handling equipment.
(c)   Technical Assistance
(i)  Consulting services for supervision of construc-
tion, training assistance to the dockyard and
establishment of a data compilation and interpre-
tation system to enhance managerial decisions for
the over-all improvements of port operations.
(ii)  Refinancing of PPIY for consulting services for
carrying out: (a) preparation of feasibility study
and tender documents; (b) mathematical study to
predict level of siltation at the entrance channel
after construction of the bridge/barrage; and
(c) supervision oi- emergency works listed under
(a)(vi) above.
Project Technical Summary
5.08     According to the master plan developed during the First Banjul
Port Project, the second berth was envisaged to be built along the exten-
sion of the Banjul Wharf.  However, hydraulic studies by consultants
indicated that siltation in this area would be heavy and interfere with
port operation. The proposed finger wharf is sited in 15 m water depth
not because of ship draft requirements (which need no more than 12 m),
but to allow ships to pass safely in froiit of the existing Banjul Wharf
in order to enter the inner berth of the new wharf safely and against
predominant currents. Also, at this location no siltation is expected.
Storage area in Banjul is limited and further expansion difficult because
of the city that has encroached upon it. To overcome this problem, land
will be reclaimed and the existing northern warehouses extended. After
main settlement of the soil strata, expected to take place in the first
year, the reclaimed area will be paved to provide storage for contai-
ners. Subsoil at the new wharf location from seabed to about 35 m below
it consists of very soft to soft clay, below which is found stiff clay.
This circumstance makes construction of miarginal wharfs such as back-
filled sheet pile walls, caissons or block wall wharfs technically unfea-
sible. A floating pontoon wharf was considered; however, because of its
instability during relatively small wave disturbances, the proposal was
abandoned.
5.09     On the basis of the above considerations, an offshore wharf
supported on long piles connected to land by a pile-supported bridge as
recommended by the consultants is the appropriate solution. The new
wharf 123 m long and 29 m wide will consist of: (a) concrete deck de-
signed for distributed live load of 2.5t/m2 or an axle load of 60t;



- 16 -
(b) 60 cm diameter and about 44 m long tubular steel piles; (c) two dol-
phins (75t); and (d) 9 m wide concrete access bridge supported on 60 cm
diameter and about 42 m long tubular steel piles. The outer berth will
have 28-ton meter rubber fenders and 50t bollards, the inner berth will
have 7-ton meter rubber fenders and 30t bollards. The seaside berth will
accommodate up to 30,000 dwt vessels while the landside berth is designed
mainly to handle vessels up to 3,000 dwt but may be used by larger ves-
sels. The wharf head will be equipped with a tower flood light. Con-
tainer storage area consisting of a pavement of 30 cm thick basalt con-
crete will rest on a cement stabilized subbase supported over compacted
subgrade designed to withstand 60t axle load. The storage area will be
lighted with two tower flood lights.
Technical Assistance
5.10     GPA have retained PORTCONSULT consultants, who prepared
feasibility studies and contract documents, to supervise construction of
the new L-shaped wharf, buildings and land reclamation. GPA will also
employ suitably qualified consultants to: (a) assist the port manager to
establish an information system; and (b) review dockyard capability in
mechanical repairs, job costing and billing and implement a suitable
training program. Total consultant man-months (mm) of 146 are estimated
as follows: design and supervision of construction for civil work: 99 mm;
information system for the port manager: 3 mm; and training in the
dockyard: 44 mm. Consultant services are estimated in 1982 prices at
US$12,000 per man-month including per diem, transportation and other
reimbursable items. Under PYF financing, consultants have already comp-
leted the feasibility study, design and bid documents including bid
evaluation for the following project components: (a) L-head wharf; (b)
emergency rehabilitation works; and (c) bids for the floating craft.
D. Cost Estimate
5.11     The total estimated cost of the project is about US$19.2 million
equivalent, with a foreign exchange component of about US$15.6 million
equivalent. While the foreign exchange costs would be financed by co-
donors, GPA will finance local costs from its own income, generated in
part through appropriate tariff increases.



-17 -
Project Cost SuLmmary L1
Dal. million               US$ million equivalent
Particulars                       Foreign   Local   Total       Foreign   Local   Total    %
I.  Civil and Associated Work            19.98    4.28   24.26        9.42      2.02   11.44    60
II.  Emergency Rehabilitation Works        1.06    --       1.06        .50      --       .50      3
III. Equipment
Floating Craft & Spare Parts           .81    --        .81        .38     --        .38      2
IV.  Consultants                           3.52    1.44    4.96        1.66       .68    2.34    12
V.  Physical Contingency                  2.84     .59    3.43        1.34       .28    1.62      8
VI.  Price Contingency                     4.90    1.19    6.09        2.31       .56    2.87    15
Total                           33.11    7.50   40.61        15.61     3.54   19.15   100
/1 For details see Annex 3, Table 5.1. The cost extimates exclude taxes as the project is
exempted.
5.12      Cost estimates for civil works and floating craft are based on
opening tender prices and cost of spare parts proposed under the project
based on manufacturers' prices. Estimates are calculated in January 1982
prices and include price escalation and physical contingencies over the
project period. Given the nature of civil works, especially uncer-
tainties related to piling, 25% physica:. contingencies were assumed for
piling and 10% for all other work. Price contingencies have been cal-
culated for both foreign and local currencies at 8.5% in 1982 and 7.5% in
1983-1987.
E.  Project Financing
5.13      The financing plan for the project consists of an IDA credit,
co-financing from KfW (grant), AfDB (loan) and self-financing by GPA.
The following financing plan including physical and price contingencies
was agreed upon:



- 18' 
(US$ million)
IDA    AfDB    KfW   GPA    Total
Civil and Related
Miscellaneous Works        3.62   7.00    2.40  2.43   15.45
Floating Craft and
Spare Parts                 .47   --      --    --         .47
Consultant Services          1.43   --       --     .82    2.25
Total                          5.52   7.00    2.40  3.25   18.17
Refinancing of PPF              .98   -                        .98
(emergency rehabilitation
works and consultants)
Grand Total                    6.50   7.00    2.40  3.25   19.15
% of Grand Total              34.0   37.0    12.0  17.0   100%
IDA credit would finance 100% of foreign exchange component of the float-
ing craft, spare parts and consultants services, 74% of the emergency
rehabilitation works, and 23% of the total costs of the civil and related
miscellaneous works. ODA agreed to supply the cargo-handling equipment
and technical training for a sum of $1.5 million (outside the Project);
the equipment has been delivered and training started in January 1982.
F. Project Implementation
5.14     GPA will be responsible for overall project implementation in
accordance with the time schedule as shown in Chart 2. The consultants,
responsible for the feasibility study and preparation of tender docu-
ments, would supervise the emergency rehabilitation works and main civil
works on behalf of GPA. Supervision of construction of pilot and mooring
boats will be entrusted by GPA to Lloyd's or a similar organization ac-
ceptable to the Association. Project implementation is expected to take
three years and is scheduled to be completed by December 1985. Problems
relating to land acquisition for project execution, abandonment of the
old ferry terminal and moving the location of-the new river wharf to a
proper site, were reviewed at negotiations and solutions acceptable to
the Assocation were agreed upon (8.02 (v)).
G. Procurement and Disbursement
5.15     Banjul *Port emergency rehabilitation works, financed under the
-PPF, were procured under local competitive bidding and the unit price
contract for their execution was signed in November 1981; these works
were completed in April 1982. Motors for the floating craft and spare
parts for cargo handling equipment, amounting to about US$150,000, where



- 19 -
standardization is essential, will be ;rocured directly from the original
manufacturers. Floating craft, amounting to about US$380,000, will be
procured internationally on the basis cf performanze specifications.  For
technical assistance, consultants will be selected by GPA in accordance
with the Association's "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants," dated
August 1981. Contractors for the Banjul Port's civil and miscellaneous
works, estimated to cost about US$16.0 million, have been internationally
prequalified in November 1981, in accordance with the Bank guidelines,
and in consultation with AfDB and KfW. Unit price tenders were received
by GPA in mid-February 1982 and made available to the co-donors.
Pavement of the reclaimed area after settlement of subsoil will be
procured in accordance with the local competitive bidding acceptable to
the Association. The estimated disbursement schedule for the total IDA
Credit is shown in Annex 3, Table 5.2.
Disbursements of IDA Funds
5.16     Disbursements would be fully documented and made as follows:
I   - Civil Works: 23% of total expenditures.
II  - PPF Advance for Rehabilitation Works: 74% of total
expenditures for emergency rehabilitation and 100% of
foreign costs for consultants.
III - Floating Craft and Spare Parts: 100% of foreign
expenditures.
IV  - Consultant Services: 10C% of foreign expenditures.
5.17     While preparing the disbursement schedule, the following pro-
files were considered: (a) IDA sectoral, transportation; (b) IDA sec-
toral, West Africa transportation; (c) IDA subsectoral (ports and water-.
ways); and (d) First Banjul Port Project. The adopted disbursement
profile retains the basic configuration of the IDA subsectoral (ports and
waterways) profile suitably modified tc: (a) reflect the experience
gained in the First Banjul Port Project; (b) extend the project time
schedule to just over five years instead of seven years; and
(c) repayment out of PPF funds after effectiveness of the Credit. It is
expected that the project will be completed by mid - 1985.
H. Environmeni:al Impact
5.18     None of the proposed works should affect the existing ecology of
the Port of Banjul. Land reclamation envisaged for containers is small
and should have no effect on the overall ecology of the area.



- 20 -
VI. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. General
6.01     The proposed project continues the Bank Group's earlier assist-
ance to help The Gambia and GPA meet the country's present and future
port traffic requirements, including the developing containerized traf-
fic, through the construction of a new deep-water wharf and institutional
improvements. The new wharf would replace the old and dilapidated
Government Wharf and would concentrate foreign traffic at the two wharfs,
the Banjul Wharf constructed under the First Banjul Port Project and the
proposed new wharf. It would also increase the port capacity and reduce
existing port congestion and ship waiting. Ship waiting in Banjul in
FY1979 for instance was 550 ship days or about 48 hours per vessel. The
need for improving port operations and expanding port capacity at Banjul
was recognized in the National Transport Survey completed in 1978. The
preparation of a port master plan and feasibility study and detailed
engineering of the first phase were financed in part from funds left over
in Cr. 187-GM and in part under PPF on terms of reference acceptable to
the Association.
6.02     The economic objectives of the project are:  (a) to greatly
reduce existing and potential future ship-waiting and related ship-
waiting costs and congestion surcharges; (b) to avoid expensive overland
transport costs for future traffic which would otherwise have been di-
verted via Dakar; (c) to improve navigational safety in the entrance
channel and port; and (d) to improve port operations and administration
by concentrating port activities in one area. Consolidation of port
operations will also help reduce traffic congestion in the city. Fi-
nally, through its training assistance, the project will help improve the
efficiency and financial viability of GPA's dockyard.
6.03     The proposed project takes into account the immediate improve-
ments in port productivity and operations expected from the ODA-financed
project. The expected improvements under the ODA-financed component proj-
ect have therefore been considered in the "without" case.
6.04     The consultants preparing the port master plan and the proposed
project considered alternative solutions for expanding the port's capa-
city, including the possible rehabilitation of the existing Government
Wharf. The consultants concluded that, without rehabilitation, the
Government Wharf could not be counted on to handle ocean-going vessels
beyond 1984. A net present value comparison, undertaken by the consul-
tants at the Association's suggestion, indicated that the proposed proj-
ect and the alternative rehabilitation of the Government Wharf were
better than any of the other solutions considered, and on the basis of
the net present value of quantified costs and benefits, the proposed
project solution was marginally better than the rehabilitation alterna-
tive. The consultants concluded that taking into account non-quantified
benefits and operational considerations the proposed project involving a
new L-head wharf would be preferable. The Association indicated its
readiness to accept whichever of the two solutions the Government



- 21 -
selected. Taking partly into account the non-quantified advantage of
concentrating port operations in one area, the Government agreed with the
consultants and chose the proposed new wharf solution.
B. Traffic Analysis and Projections
6.05     As indicated in para. 4.07, traffic at the Port of-Banjul
increased rapidly (about 12% p.a. betwaen FY1974 and FY1980) to a total
of 340,000 freight tons (282,000 metriz tons). The growth was mainly in
imports as the export volume, mainly groundnuts and by products, was
negatively affected by the drought in 1978-1981 period. Considering the
moderate growth prospects for The Gambia during the 1980s, and the
Government's emphasis in the SFYP on agriculture and the reduction of
external imbalances, imports are likely to increase at a slower pace than
in the past while exports should grow more rapidly.
6.06     The consultants prepared detailed traffic forecasts on a commod-
ity-by-commodity basis through 1990 and an indicative forecast through
2000. The forecasts were based on the consultants' best assumptions,
together with both a more pessimistic and a more optimistic scenario. In
reviewing the study the Association suggested that the pessimistic fore-
cast of imports appeared to be the more realistic and that it would be
preferable for use in the economic evaluation; The Gambia officials
agreed. The consultants were also asked to review the export forecasts,
which they subsequently revised downwa:rds and adjusted their composition
to reflect increased processing of groundnuts into groundnut oil and
groundnut cake in the country. Groundnut exports from Banjul were
assumed to stop by FY1985.
6.07     The consultants' revised traffic forecasts were used in the
economic evaluation with the following modifications:
(i)   a slower rate of recovery and expansion of groundnut cake
and groundnut oil expor:s which implies that the consul-
tants' projections for 1985 would only be achieved in
1990;
(ii) a slower rate of increa;se in fish exports; and
(iii) a significantly lower rate of growth of petroleum imports.
The forecasts are summarized below and described in more detail in
Annex 3, Table 4.3:



- 22 -
Port of Banjul Traffic Forecasts FY 1980-90
(000 metric weight tons)
(actual)   --------(forecasts)---------
1980     1984    1986    1988    1990
Dry Cargo Imports                   179       172      190     208      223
Petroleum Imports                    45        59       65      71       77
Subtotal                       224      231      255      279     300
Dry Cargo Exports                    48        45       56      67       76
Groundnut Oil Exports                10        21       28      33       37
Subtotal                        58        66      84      100     113
Combined Total                 282      297      339      379     413
These forecasts imply an average annual growth rate of 3.0% for imports
and 6.9% for exports from the depressed FY1980 volume, for an overall
average of 3.9% p.a. as compared with 12% p.a. during FY1974-1980.  These
growth rates, which could prove to be conservative, are considered pru-
dent in light of the uncertain economic situation in The Gambia.
6.08     The relatively greatest uncertainty concerns the forecasts for
groundnut and byproduct exports. The forecasts assume that the efforts
to improve groundnut harvest and byproduct production will continue, that
a realistic pricing policy is followed and that rainfall is more nor-
mal. Improving productivity in the groundnut sector and increasing ex-
port earnings are major objectives in the Government's short-term plans
for FY1982 and FY1983. Reflecting increased rainfall and prices, the
preliminary estimates of GPMB indicate that the groundnut harvest in the
1982 crop year may reach 100,000 tons as compared with about 65,000 tons
Tn 1980 and 45,000 tons in 1981. As indicated in para. 6.06, the fore-
casts take into account the trend towards increased processing of ground-
nuts into groundnut oil and cake. The export forecasts also take into
account the plans to expand the fishing industry; a major Fisheries
Development Project was recently appraised by the AfDB and other co-
financiers. For the economic analysis, neither traffic growth beyond
FY1990, nor the possible traffic diversion of Southern Senegal traffic
from Dakar to Banjul were taken into account.
C. Project Benefits
6.09     The quantified benefits for the project include:
(a)   reduced ship-waiting times and waiting costs due to in-
creased port capacity and expedited berthing; and
(b)   avoided overland transport costs for goods which would
otherwise be diverted via Dakar.
Benefits which have not been quantified include reduced inventory capital



- 23 -
costs for goods tied up in waiting ships, increased navigational safety
resulting from the project, benefits from increased productivity at the
dockyard as a result of training assistarce and possible further improve-
ments in cargo handling productivity as a result of the new, wide wharf.
6.10     The costs and benefits for emergency rehabilitation works are
not considered in the project evaluation. Costs of these works are rela-
tively modest (about US$590,000), while the benefits would be large.
Without these works most port traffic wDuld have to be diverted via Dakar
or delayed until the new wharf becomes operational. Either course of
action might have seriously affected the ability of Gambian exports to
compete on the international market, would have increased the costs of
imports substantially and would probably have resulted, at least
temporarily in the loEs of transit trade, thus affecting the Gambian
economy seriously and far exceeding the rehabilitation costs. In any
case, Banjul Wharf would be required to avoid expensive ship waiting
after the new wharf has been constructed.
6.11     The Bank's Port Simulation Model (PORTSIM) was used for calcu-
lating ship-waiting times without and with the new wharf. The usefulness
of PORTSIM in estimating ship waiting was tested by running the model
with actual vessel/cargo traffic figures and cargo handling rates col-
lected by the consultants for FY1979 and the existing berth characteris-
tics.  The resulting ship-waiting time derived from PORTSIM (532 days)
differed only marginally (3% less) from that actually reported by GPA
(550 days). The cost of ship waiting wras calculated using the ship-
waiting time from the model and the following main costs per ship day:
$11,000 for petroleum tankers, $4,800 for vegetable oil tankers, $3,800-
$8,600 for tramp ships and $4,000-$9,000 for general cargo vessels.
These figures are based on consultants' estimates with some minor adjust-
ments and are considered reasonable. PORTSII4 was also used to test the
incremental ship-waiting costs from changes in traffic to determine at
what traffic level the cost would become less to transport the additional
traffic overland via Dakar, rather than incurring additional ship waiting
which increases rapidly as the port approaches its capacity.
6.12     For the economic analysis, it was first assumed that The Gambia
received all the benefits from reduced ship waiting for tankers, tramps
and fish carriers and 90% of the savings to liner vessels. This latter
assumption is conservative in light of the imposition by shipping confe-
rences of congestion surcharges at the Port of Banjul         Apart from
avoided port congestion surcharges, a part of the benefits would be re-
covered directly through port tariff increases (para. 7.09). The above
method might, however, overstate the benefits actually accruing to The
Gambia as part of the traffic through :he Port of Banjul is "border
trade", i.e., goods which are sold to neighboring countries. Based on
1/ Using instead the 20% congestion surcharge imposed in early 1981 and
an average liner freight rate of about $300 per weight ton would yield a
greater benefit than that estimated on the basis of reduced ship-waiting
costs to liner vessels.



- 24 -
the consultants estimates it has been assumed that such border trade
represents about 40% of the petroluem imports and about 50% of the other
general cargo imports (40% of the total general cargo traffic) through
the Port of Banjul. Consequently a further economic analysis was done
taking only 60% of the savings to tankers and 54% of the gross savings to
liner vessels as benefits accruing to The Gambia. This evaluation is
again conservative as The Gambia certainly benefits significantly from
border trade and would recover directly part of the savings from ship-
waiting costs on this trade through proposed tariff increases and trading
margins.
D. Economic Return and Sensitivity Analysis
6.13     On the basis of the quantified benefits discussed in Section C
above, estimated capital costs (including physical contingencies), main-
tenance/operating costs and a 20-year economic life (Annex 3, Table 6.1),
the project would yield an economic rate of return (ERR) to the region of
29% and a first-year benefit of 23%, with a 10% cost of capital and a 19%
ERR to The Gambia if no benefits from the border trade are considered.
Including the costs of the technical assistance and emergency
rehabilitation works, but without counting any benefits from these items,
would reduce the ERR to 26% and 17% respectively. The ERRs for
alternative cost and benefit sensitivity assumptions are given in
Annex 3, Table 6.2.
Risks
6.14     The project does not involve significant technical risks because
it is designed in accordance with standard engineering principles, would
be implemented by reputable contractors and would be supervised by compe-
tent consultants. However, possible difficulties may be encountered due
to poor soil conditions (para. 5.08). To overcome such difficulties, 25%
physical contingencies were assumed for piling and 10% for all other
work.
6.15     One uncertainty with regards to the economic evaluation is the
potential effect of closer links between The Gambia and Senegal. As
indicated in para. 6.12, two economic returns were calculated: (a) for
the region including the benefits of the reduced ship-waiting costs for
the border trade; and (b) for The Gambia only. It is possible that as a
result of closer links The Gambia might increase its import duties to be
in line with Senegal's or take other measures that would minimize the
border trade. But as the Dakar Port tariffs are presently higher than
those at Banjul and furthermore, diversion of trade to Dakar Port would
add considerable land transportation costs, it is unlikely that Dakar
would be preferred. In fact, current ship-waiting time at a higher cost
is preferred to land diversion. It is however quite possible that closer
links between the two countries might attract to the Port of Banjul more
import and export trade of southern Senegal (particularly the Casamance
region and parts of the Sine Saloum) due to the lower cost. For the sake
of clarification, an additional sensitivitiy analysis was undertaken,



- 25 -
assuming the total loss of the border trade1 that yielded a 18% ERR. As
indicated in para. 6.09, non-quantifiec benefits include reduced inven-
tory capital costs, increased navigaticnal safety, benefits from dockyard
training assistance and further likely increases in port productivity
from the greater width of the new berth. The project is therefore
considered well justified.
VII. FINANCIAL EVALUATION
A. Past and Present Financial Performance
7.01     Annex 3, Table 7.1 shows separate income accounts for port and
non-port activities, which include river transport, ferry services and
the dockyard. Since GPA will be relieved of non-port activities except
for the dockyard, this section focuses mainly on port activities.
7.02     GPA's port operations showed good financial progress during
1975-1980.  The summary of income accotnts is shown below:
1975    1976    1977    1978    1979        1980
-------      ( 000s Dalasis)         ----------------
Revenues:
Harbor Services          862   1,959   2,331   2,711   2,685    3,618
Cargo Handling         1,393   2,666   3,354   3,911   3,931    5,103
Total               2,255   4,625   5,685   6,622   6,616    8,721
Working Expenses          1,535   2,628   2,991   3,760   3,912    4,926
Depreciation                159     506      540      774     905       959
Operating Expenses        1,694   3,134   3,531   4,534   4,817    5,885
Net Operating Revenue       561   1,491   2,154   2,088   1,799    2,836
Return on Revalued
Net Fixed Assets (%)      8.9    15.4    18.9    15.4    13.4         20.8
7.03     The revenue increase for port operations in 1980 over 1975 was
D6.5 million or-almost 290%, while the operating expense increase for the
same period was D4.2 million or 247%. Stevedoring and shore handling
generated the greater part of the revenue -- about 60%. Working expenses
increased at a lesser rate, by 221%. The depreciation increased, how-
ever, by 503% (from 9% of total operating expenses in 1975 to 16% in
1980) because of new investments and tnae annual indexing for revaluation
of fixed assets. Even so the operating ratio improved from 75 in 1975 to
67 in 1980 and the return on net fixed assets showed excellent progress
from about 9% in 1975 to about 21% in 1980. Theqe are good indicators
which demonstrate that revenues increased at a faster rate than costs,
allowing GPA to maintain a satisfactory financial condition.
7.04     By contrast, the financial results of non-port activities have
been poor. High depreciation charges caused by the rapid addition of
fixed assets and Government's reluctance, for social reasons, to grant
needed tariff increases contributed to this poor performance. The rate



-26-
of return on net revalued fixed assets has been negative, except in 1978
at 1%.
7.05     The poor performance of non-port activities, therefore, deteri-
orated GPA's overall performance. The operating ratios and the return on
fixed assets with and without the non-port activities were as follows:
1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   1980
Operating Ratios
Consolidated (%)                   94     83      79     76      86     90
Excluding non-port
activities (%)                   75     68      62     68     73      67
Return on Fixed Assets
Consolidated (%)                  2.6    8.5   10.8   12.1    5.5    3.7
Excluding non-port
activities (%)                  8.9   15.4   18.9   15.4   13.4   20.8
7.06     GPA's balance sheets for the period 1975-1980 are shown in
Annex 3, Table 7.2.  Gross fixed assets rose from D13.7 million in 1975
to D41.8 million in 1980 -- an increase of 205% mainly due to consider-
able increases in non-port assets in 1979. The share of non-port assets
to total assets grew from 12% in 1975 to 57% in 1980. GPA revalued fixed
assets in 1979 with the help of foreign consultants and incorporated a
net increase of D2.3 million in its books of accounts. The small in-
crease of D2.3 million was due to considerable additions of non-port
related fixed assets in the same year as that of the revaluation. The
current and liquid assets remain at safe levels. As a consequence of the
increase in investments, long-term loans also doubled between 1975 and
1980. Equity rose by 286%, from D5.9 million in 1975 to D16.9 million in
1980 because of a UK grant, Government capital contribution and appro-
priation to capital reserves.  The debt/equity ratio first deteriorated
from 54/46 in 1975 to 67/33 in 1978 but improved to 57/43 in 1980.  For
the first time, a dividend of D100,000 was paid to the Government from
FY1978 operations. On the whole, GPA's balance sheets reflected a sound
position with working capital at a satisfactory level. Recently,
accounts receivable increased substantially and were about 40% of the
revenues in 1980. This situation, caused mainly by large sums due from
the Government, is being corrected under the proposed project (para.
7.16(d)).
7.07     The 1972 Ports Act granted GPA:
(a)   exemption from customs duties;
(b)   exemption from'corporation taxes; and
(c)   Government compensation for losses on unremunerative non-
port activities.



- 27 -
Recently, however, the Government withdrew exemption from customs duties
on items financed by GPA's own funds and outside the IDA and other public
projects. Compensation for losses on non-port operations were never paid
by the Government, but inasmuch as the ferry services will be transfer-
red, the dockyard will be the only unremunerative service operated by
GPA.
B. Financial Objective
7.08     GPA's long-term financial objective should be to remain as a
commercirlly-oriented, nrofitable and self-sufficient entity. It should
continue to generate sufficient revenues to cover all operating costs,
service its debts and make a reasonable contribution to justified renewal
and expansion investments. The tariff structure should be cost based and
each major profit center should be analyzed to determine whether its
marginal and total costs are reflected in the tariff structure and
levels.
C. Forecast Financial Performance
Income Accounts
7.09     A financial forecast for 1982--1988 (with 1981 estimates) has
been developed in current prices based on the financial goals discussed
above, the investment plan, traffic fo^ecast, debt service charges and
the financing plan. Major assumptions and considerations used in the
forecast were:
(a)   Tariffs prevailing in September 1979 were used (Annex 3,
Table 7.3) for estimates thru March 31, 1982. These
tariffs were then increased by 30% from April 1, 1982, 20%
in July 1983, 25% in JuLy 1985 and 15% in July 1987. The
purpose of these tariff increases was to:
(i) cover future inElationary and real cost increases
and higher depreciation charges; and
(ii) obtain a satisfactory financial rate of return.
(b)   The following wage increases were used:
(i) FY81 - 13% to harbor employees, 28% to cargo-
handling workers;
(ii) FY82 - 10% salary increase to senior staff and 15%
wage increase to all workers (an overall average
of about 13% effective January 1, 1982).
About 250 employees (Annex 3, Table 3.1), related to ferry
services and river transport, were excluded from the



- 28 -
forecast beginning in FY1983 as they will be transferred
to the new authority (7.16(f)). The remaining staff costs
were increased at about 4% per year in constant terms
throughout the forecast period. Such cost increases
represent the traffic growth as well as real-term in-
creases in expenses after adjustments for savings esti-
mated from improved productivity in the proposed project.
(c)   Material and other working expenses were increased annual-
ly at about the same rate as traffic.
(d)   GPA's own cost increases were assumed to be 10% for 1983-
and 1984, 9% for 1985 to 1987 and 8% for 1988. These
percentages are slightly higher than inflationary rates
used for project cost estimates (para. 5.12) but are based
on past experience (staff costs have increased by about
13% against the inflationary rate of 8.5% in 1982.
(e)   Depreciation was calculated on a straight-line basis on
revalued fixed assets at an annual average rate of 5% of
gross assets.
(f)   The feasibility study and technical assistance components
in the project were amortized at an annual rate of 20%.
(g)   The IDA Credit, co-financing and grants were assumed to be
on-lent to GPA at positive real interest rates, for 20
years including a 5-year grace period, with the following
nominal rates suggested by co-financiers:
- IDA Credit and Kfw grant at 11.6%;
- ODA grant at 8%;
- AfDB loan at 9%;
- Interest charges for FY83 capitalized to avoid
financial hardship on GPA. The on- lending
agreement will incorporate this point.
The on-lending contracts will be signed separately for
each co-donor's fund.
7.10     Projected income statements for port and dockyard operations are
shown separately as well as in consolidated form in Annex 3, Tables 7.4
through 7.6. The results of port operations are summarized as follows:



- 29 -
1981    1982    1983    1934    1985    1986         1987    1988
('OOOs Current Dalasis)
(Est.)
Operating Revenues   9,010  10,250  11,530  14,570  17,290  20,920   23,220  26,860
Working Expenses      5,920   6,880   8,500   9,700  11,000  12,460   14,170  15,880
Depreciation and
Amortization        1,095   1,110   1,360   1,910   2,525   3,650    4,890   5,660
Operating Expenses   7,015   7,990   9,860  11,610  13,525  16,110   19,060  21,540
Net Operating
Revenue before
Interest, etc.      1,995   2,260   2,070   2,960   3,765   4,810    4,160   5,320
Non-port Operating
Revenue (net)          500     550      600      660     730      790       860      930
Income before
Interest            2,495   2,810   2,670   3,620   4,495   5,600    5,020   6,250
Interest              1,010      890      800   3,120   4,030   5,010    5,340   5,530
Net Income             1,485   1,920   1,870       500     465      590    (320)       720
Return on Net
Fixed Assets          13.7    14.0    12.0    16.6    13.8    13.5          7.9      8.6
7.11     The forecast for port operations indicates that GPA would be
able to strengthen its financial position to achieve the long-term finan-
cial goal. The working and operating ratios would remain within safe
limits reaching 59 and 80 respectively in 1988. During the forecast
period, the return on average revalued net fixed assets would remain at
or over 12% until 1986, decrease tc, about 7.9% in 1987 due to investments
from the proposed project and thereafter start improving with 8.6% in
1988. The net tariff increases between FY82 and FY88 are expected to be
108% as against the net cost increases of 73%, a real-term increase of
23%.
7.12     In contrast, the dockyard will continue to operate at a loss
unless remedial actions are taken. The time-keeping and billing systems
in the dockyard need improving so t:hat operating costs are properly
charged to jobs performed (para. 3.06).
7.13     The Government, as the onLender of capital in the port, will
benefit from the proposed project and expected financial improvements of
GPA. The Government will collect: (a) debt service charges under
separate on-lending contracts with GPA for the proposed investments
(para. 7.09); and (b) dividends in the latter part of the forecast period
(Annex 3, Table 7.7). The payment of dividends is in compliance with the
provision of the 1972 Ports Act. Total receipts by the Government from
GPA for the proposed project are estimated to be D19 million during
FY1984-1988.
Cash Flow and Balance Sheets
7.14     The cash flow forecast is shown in Annex 3, Table 7.7 and a
summary for the project period fol:Lows:



- 30 -
(millions)
1981 - 1988
Source of Funds:                                       Dalasis    US$       %
Cash Generated from
operations (incl. depreciation)                         50.9    24.0    58
Borrowings:                        Dalasis      US$
IDA                               13.8       6.5
ODA                                 3.1      1.5
KfW                                 5.1      2.4
AfDB                               14.8      7.0       36.8    17.4    42
87.7    41.4   100
Application of Funds
Investments - Project                                     43.7    20.6    50
Other (GPA)                                 5.4      2.6      6
Increase/(decrease) in Working Capital                     3.5      1.7      4
Debt Service Charges                                      33.2    15.6    38
Dividends to Government                                    0.3      0.1  )
Cash Surplus                                               1.6      0.8  )  2
87.7    41.4   100
7.15     Over the forecast period, GPA's total sources of funds would
comprise 58% cash generation from operations and 42% from borrowings.
Once the proposed project is implemented, GPA's cash needs will be limi-
ted to meeting debt service charges and future asset renewals and expan-
sions. Any cash surplus beyond such needs should be transferred to the
Government as dividends to help avoid any unsound additional invest-
ments. GPA is expected to be in a position to pay dividends to the
Government commencing from FY88 for D300,000. The projected balance
sheets for 1981-1988 are given in Annex 3, Table 7.8 and summarized as
follows:
1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988
(million Dalasis)
Net Fixed Assets        34.1   54.0   41.7   46.7   50.6   54.5   62.0   68.8
Net Current Assets        7.4    9.3    7.3    6.6    7.2    7.7    9.9   12.1
Total                   41.5   63.3   49.0   53.3   57.8   62.2   71.9   80.9
Financed from:
Long-Term Debt        22.4   23.5   25.5   33.7   38.7   41.7   44.9   44.3
Govt. Equity          15.8   20.0   18.4   18.5   19.1   20.5   25.0   33.6
Retained Earnings       3.3   19.8    5.1    1.1       --    _       2.0    3.0
Total                   41.5   63.3   49.0   53.3   57.8   62.2   71.9   80.9



- 31 -
GPA's gross fixed assets in use will increase substantially from D21.0
million in 1980 to D86.6 million in 1988, an increase of 410%. This sub-
stantial increase is due to annual revaluation of fixed assets and the
proposed investments. A correction has been made to keep the accounts
receivable down to an acceptable maximum level of 25% of gross
revenues. The current ratio remains at a satisfactory level during the
forecast period and closes at 4.5 in 1988. The debt/equity ratio, after
reaching a high of 67/33 in 1986 and 1987, will improve to 55/45 in 1988
and will continue to improve thereafter. These improving trends should
be maintained. Since the long-term delts will grow substantially from
about D22.0 million in 1981 to D45 million in 1987, GPA's financial
viability is protected by introducing a debt limitation covenant.
7.16     Based on the above analysis and discussions, agreement was
reached between the Association, the Government and GPA during
negotiations that:
(a)   Necessary measures will be taken, by the Government and
GPA, including tariff increases to achieve for GPA's port
activities a minimum rate of return on average revalued
net fixed assets in use of not less than 7% during the
forecast period of 1982-1988. It is, however, expected
that for some years the returns will be as high as 16%
(Annex 4, Table 7.4).
(b)   Unless otherwise agreed by the Association, GPA would not
incur debts, other than for those provided in the financ-
ing plan for more than D2 million per year with an amorti-
zation period of two or more years.
(c)   Before the Credit becomes effective, an on-lending
agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, will be signed
between the Government and GPA for the IDA Credit on terms
and conditions stated ir. para. 7.09(g) including capital-'
ization of FY83 interest. charges. Other on-lending
agreements will also be prepared and signed for AfDB, KfW
and ODA funds. During nLegotiations the Gambian delegation
presented a draft subsiciary loan agreement which was,
after minor amendments, accepted by the Association.
(d)   GPA would tighten its credit policy and the levels of
accounts receivable will be corrected to a satisfactory
level of not more than 25% of annual gross operating
revenue by FY1984.
(e)   GPA's fixed assets woulcd be physically revalued once every
five years beginning in 1984 and annual cost indexing
should be applied to the years between physical revalua-
tions, and results should be incorporated in the balance
sheet.



- 32 -
(f)   The Government would transfer all fixed assets and out-
standing loans pertaining to ferry services and river
transport from GPA's books to the new state-owned author-
ity by July 1, 1983 and will compensate GPA for losses
arising from these services commencing July 1, 1982 till
the date of the transfer.
Sensitivity Analysis
7.17     A sensitivity analysis has been carried out to test whether GPA
will be able to generate revenues sufficient to meet its financial obli-
gations under more pessimistic assumptions. Two important risk elements
have been considered: (a) if the traffic does not increase as forecast;
and (b) if the tariff does not increase as anticipated. The effects on
financial rates of return are as follows:
1982   1984   1986   1988
Financial Rates of Return on Net
Fixed Assets (%):
(a) Forecast                          14.0   16.6   13.5    8.6
(b) If freight traffic growth is
25% lower than forecast           13.3   15.0    8.9    4.3
(c) If tariff increases are 30%
lower than the forecast           12.7    8.2    2.3    1.5
GPA's financial performance is very sensitive to the rate of tariff in-
creases. The Government and GPA should ensure that tariffs are increased
adequately and timely as shown in the forecast.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01     The following actions were taken before negotiations.
(a)   The Government and GPA:
(i)  Completed a mathematical model study, with the
help of consultants,.to determine the siltation
potential in the port access channel after
construction of the barrage/bridge across the
Gambia River at Farafenni (para. 2.09).
(ii)  Agreed to resolve the senior management problem
and fill the Managing Director's position by
signature of the Credit (para. 3.02).
(iii)  Submitted to the Association:  (a) detailed work
program prepared by the ODA experts; and (b) final
list of equipment to be financed by ODA (para.
3.07 and 5.13).



-33
(iv) Increased tariffs by 30%, effective April 1, 1982
(para. 7.16(a)).
(b)   GPA:
(i)  Executed the emergency rehabilitation works
(para. 5.15).
(ii)  Made available to the Association tender prices of
civil works (para. 5.15).
8.02     The following agreements were reached during negotiations.
(a)   The Government:
(i)  Will provide promptly sufficient foreign exchange
needed by GPA tc replace damaged equipment,
covered by the insurance policy with Gambia
Insurance Company (para. 3.11).
(ii) Will prepare a plan of action for the
expropriation of the land adjacent to the Port by
June 30, 1984 and will afford the Association an
opportunity to review and comment on such plan of
action (para. 4.02).
(iii) Will assume the capital cost, debt service
charges, maintenance and operating costs of the
new dredger and will not pass them to GPA
(para. 5.05).
(iv) Will on-lend co--donors funds to GPA (para.
7.16(c)).
(v)  Will transfer aLl fixed assets and outstanding
loans pertaining to ferry services and river
transport from GPA's books to a new state-owned
authority effect:ive July 1, 1983 and will
compensate GPA Eor losses on these services
commencing July 1982 till the date of transfer
(para. 7.16(f)).
(b)   GPA:
(i)  Will review with the Association .the job descrip-
tion of the port engineer and afford the
Association an apportunity to review and comment
on his qualifications prior to the appointment
(para. 3.02).



- 34 -
(ii) Will seek the Association's agreement before
undertaking capital expenditure not included in
the Investment Plan in the aggregate of more than
D2 million per year (para. 5.05).
(iii) Will increase tariffs sufficiently to achieve for
port activities, minimum financial rate of return
targets; and will reduce the accounts receivables
(paras. 7.09(a), 7.16(a) and (d)).
(iv) Will observe debt limitation commitment (para.
7.16(b)).
(v) Will carry out physical revaluation and indexing
of its fixed assets. (para. 7.16(e)).
8.03     The proposed project is suitable for a Credit to the Government
of The Gambia in the amount of US$6.5 million equivalent on standard IDA
terms.



- 35 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1
PAST BANK GROUP ACTIVITIES IN THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
Cr. No. 187-GM      The Gambia Banjul (Bathurst) Port Project; US$2.1
Million Credit May 1970 and US$2.4 Million Supple-
mental Credit May 1974; Effective Date: August 1970;
Closing Date: December 1976
The project provided a new wharf (at Banjul) with associated
dredging, transit sheds, etc; a new passenger wharf; rehabilitation of an
existing wharf (Government Wharf); port equipment; and advisors and
training for the establishment of an irdependent port authority. The
project was substantially completed in October 1974; however, due to
delays in minor works under force account the project was only completed
in December 1976. The project, with minor revisions, was physically
executed as envisaged at the appraisal and the credit covenants with
minor exceptions (e.g., reporting requirements) were fulfilled
satisfactorily. The actual project cost was about double the original
estimate, due in part to an error in estimating costs on the part of the
consulting engineer and lack of experience in the Gambia on similar types
of projects. Funds left over from the project, complemented by a PPF,
were used to prepare the proposed Second Banjul Port Project.
Cr. No. 897-GM      Highway Maintenance Project:  US$5 Million Credit of
May 10, 1979; Effect:iveness Date: July 20, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project consists of a four-year maintenance program,
including routine and periodic maintenance of selected roads; installa-
tion of a weighing bridge and procurement of equipment; technical
assistance to the Public Works Department; and a mechanical engineering
fellowship. The major component, periodic maintenance, started according
to the appraisal schedule in October 1980. The EEC Special Action Credit
(6-GM, US$1.7 million), supplementing t:he IDA credit, was amended to
include additional equipment; its clos-ng date was extended to the end of
1981 and has been fully disbursed. Field implementation of the routine
and periodic maintenance programs has been good. Spare parts procurement
for equipment should be improved to assure smooth operations; the
Government is studying alternative procedures and will propose a solution
to the Association.



- 36 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1
THE GAMBIA
SECOND BANJUL PORT PROJECT
Existing Port and Dockyard Facilities and Operations
1.       Banjul, at the mouth of Gambia River, is the only major seaport
of the Gambia. The port prov:.des good shelter to sea-going ships;
however, small craft may be er.dangered during short-lived tornados.
The Channel
2.       The entrance channel extends 40 km from the outer fair buoy to
the port. The 13 km long inner channel presents few problems as the
water is deep throughout its length. Over the 27 km outer channel, the
depth of water is around 8.0 m at MLWS which compares favorably with
other West African ports.
3.       The channel is not provided with sufficient marker buoys;
however, this problem will be resolved as GPA intends to position
intermediate buoys.
The Wharves
4.       The port consists of two berths to handle ocean-going vessels;
namely the Banjul Wharf built under the First Port Project financed by
the Association, and the Government Wharf which is old and in poor
structural condition. In addition, several smaller wharves exist along
the shoreline which, apart from the New Public Pier and Banjul/Barra
Ferry Terminal, are not owned by GPA.
5.       The Banjul Wharf is an L-head pile-supported structure, 122 m
long, and 18 m wide with an approach bridge 55 m long and 9 m wide.
Three mooring dolphins are used for tying ships up to 30,000 dwt. This
wharf is used for loading/unloading bagged cargo as well as unloading oil
from oil tankers. The structure is in good condition; some minor
repairs, e.g., replacement of damaged fendering by the GPA and repair of
the access ramp slab and revetments have been carried out under emergency
rehabilitation works (para. 5.07(a)(vi)).
6.       The Government Wharf is a T-head pile-supported structure, 90 m
long, and 12 m wide with an approach bridge 49 m long, and 10 m wide. Of
the two original mooring dolphinz, only one remains. Due to heavy
siltation, the wharf is limited to small ships; however, GPA has dredged
this area recently to allow ships up to 6,000 dwt to use it mainly for
loading groundnut oil and other cargo. The wharf will be used until the
new L-head wharf has been constructed under the project, and thereafter
will be abandoned by the GPA. The structure is in poor condition:



- 37 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2
original fendering is missing and repair works previously undertaken were
not properly carried out. To allow the Government Wharf to be used
during this interim period, it is proposed that fendering be installed
under the emergency rehabilitation work, (see para. 5.07(a)(vi)).
7.       The new Public Pier, an L-head wharf supported on piles, is 60 m
long in approximately 4.0 m depth of water.  It is connected to land by
an approach bridge 84 m long and 4.6 m wide and an approach causeway
150 m long. The wharf is used for small vessels. Its ownership will be
assumed by the State-owned authority to be established by June 30, 1983,
which will be made responsible for ferr, and river transport service.
8.       Between the Government Wharf arad Banjul Wharf there are eight
small wharves owned by various trading companies which are in poor
condition. They are used for handling of fishing vessels, lighters and
other small crafts.
Transit Sheds, Open Storage
9.       GPA has a limited storage area of 15,300 m2 which is located
next to Banjul Wharf and Government Wharf. Of this total area, 6,220 is
covered. The sheds at Government Wharf are not suitable for cargo
handling equipment, whereas those at Banjul Wharf are well adopted for
mechanized cargo handling. Transit sheds are used by cargo up to a
maximum of five days and are usually nct full. Most cargo deliveries are
made directly by truck.
Cargo Handling Equipment
10.      Ship loading/unloading is mostly accomplished using the ship's
own gear, but sometimes assisted by 257' mobile crane. Mobile equipment
owned by GPA consists of eleven tractors, fifty-three small and two large
tractors, eleven forklift trucks ranging from 3 to 7 tons, one 6T crane
and one 25T crane, motor cars and insuidficient miscellaneous equipment,
e.g., pallets. Equipment is very poor:.y maintained and thus wears out
before it normally should. Some of the equipment listed above will have
to be scrapped and the following new eqjuipment have been procured through
an ODA grant to ensure an appropriate level of efficient operation: two
tractors, ten trailers, one 25T forklift, seven 3T forklifts, two
container spreaders, one thousand winged pallets and miscellaneous pallet
forks and lifting gear.  This equipmen:, included in the consultants'
feasibility study, is expected to be financed by ODA.
11.      Floating equipment of GPA includes one 1,000 horsepower tugboat
in good condition, one 325 horsepower pilot boat being overhauled, and
light-weight mooring boats with outboard motors which are not adaptable
for this purpose as the motors tend to become caught in the mooring
lines. To overcome this problem, under the project, it is proposed that
an appropriate mooring boat and a pilot boat be procured.



- 38 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3
Dockyard
12.      The dockyard, situated to the south of Banjul Wharf, is operated
by GPA.  It includes the following facilities:
(a)   a 50-year old 12 m x 39 m machine shop equipped with
battery charging, engine reconditioning and drilling and
cutting tools;
(b)   a 9 m x 18 m plate and blacksmith shop;
(c)   a foundry;
(d)   a fuel pump shop;
(e)   an 18 m x 39 m shop for building small craft;
(f)   a 9 m x 24 m carpentry shop;
(g)   two slipways (one 500 tons capacity and one 50 tons
capacity); and
(h)   various small shops and stores.
Under the fisheries project the AfDB is proposing to finance expansion of
the dockyard which would include improvement to the existing plate shop,
carpentry, foundry, workshops and vehicles and improvements to the
slipways to make them more operational. In addition, technical
assistance will be offered to manage the project during the
implementation period.
13.      With this investment, it is expected that the dockyard should be
able to meet the needs of the expanding fishing industry in Gambia. To
further assure effective and efficient performance both technically and
financially under the Second Banjul Port Project, it is proposed that
technical assistance to train the personnel of the dockyard be included
(para. 5.07(c)(i)).
Dockyard Operations
14.      River vessels and ferries owned by Gambia River Transport
Company and tugs, other floating craft and cargo handling equipmentl/ of
GPA are maintained and repaired in the dockyard.  Also fishing vessels
are built and maintained in the dockyard. This latter work is expected
to increase under the Fisheries Development Project financed by AfDB.
Wooden ferry boats are no longer built in the dockyard, but existing ones
are maintained. Productivity, job accounting and billing in the dockyard
I/ Under the project, a new workshop will be built in the port for repair
of GPA's cargo handling equipment.



_ 39 _
ANNEX 2
Page 4
are inadequate; these will be improved under the project and would
complement infrastructural improvements under the Fisheries Development
Project.
Cargo Handling
15.      Most of the deliveries and pickups are done directly by
trucks. Lack of cargo handling equipment, (especially pallets) and its
low availability as well as time lost between arrivals of trucks result
in great losses of time and long ship waiting. Under the ODA-financed
component, this problem has already been partially solved by equipment
procured and further improvements are expected through technical training
with respect to the handling of equipment and its maintenance. The port
should continue unloading ships with its own equipment between truck
arrivals and let consignees pick up cargo from the storage area. For
export cargo, the port should insist on prestowing sufficient quantities
of cargo for loading ships with its own equipment during the slack period
between truck arrivals. These procedures should help reduce ship-waiting
time substantially, thus resulting in overall benefits to the economy of
the country.



- 40 -
ANNEX 3
Table 3.1
GAMBIA
BANJUL SECOND PORT PROJECT
Staff Employed by Area, FY1978-1980
Number of Employees
At June 30   At June 30   At June 30
Area                                      1978          1979          1980
Directorate/Administration                  20            19            21
Accounts                                    23            27            28
Stores and Purchasing                       17            18            18
Security                                    72            72            91
Ferries                                    160           177           170
River Services                               2            34            33
Harbors                                    138           141           138
Dockyard                                   204           218           231
Traffic                                    134           144           147
Total                              770           850           877
Source: GPA
May 1982



- 41 ^
ANNEX 3
Table 4.1
THE GAMBIA
SECOND BANJUL PORT PROJECT
Levels of Productivity ar.d Project Targets
FY1982 and 1984
Items                               1982                   1984
I.  Operatonal Availability of        less than              at least
Existing Cargo-Handling
Equipment                            50%                   75%
2. Cargo Handling Rates
Per Gross Gang Hour
a. General Cargo                  '   T/hr.               8 T/hr.
b. Bagged Exports                 9.5 T hr.              15 T/hr.
c. Bagged Imports                10.5 T/hr.              15 T/hr.
d. Containers                    2 to 3/hr.             2 to 3 5-
/1  Will remain at the same level unl:il more specialized container
ships call at Banjul.
Source: Consultants and Bank Staff.
May 1982



THE GAMBIA
SECOND BANJUL PORT PROJECT
Port of Banjul Import and Export Traffic, FY1974-1980
('000s freight tons)
Increase2
in % p.a. /2
1974    1975    1976    1977        1978    1979      1980    1974-1980
A. Imports
a. Dry Cargo
Cement                        /1       /1       14       16       44       45       45         n.a.
Rice                          /1       /1       24       36       32       32        29        n.a.
Fertilizers                   /1       717       3        4       12         7       12        n.a.
Sorghum                       /1       71        1       --       13        4         1        n.a.
General Cargo                 92       92       75       94      114      135      150         n.a.
Subtotal                92       92      117      150      215      223       237       17.0
b. Petroleum Products             24       22       33       31       36       45       45       10.8
Total Imports          116      114      15Q      181      251       268      282       15.9
B. Exports
a. Dry Cargo
Groundnut Kernel              12       16       16       13       --        6        18        7.4
Groundnut Cake                22       28       26       26       21        16       17       (3.7)
Fish Products                  2        7        7       15       18       16       10        26.8
Palm Kernels                   2        1        1        2        2       --         1     (11.6)
Other                          3        1        2        2        2        2         2       (5.6)
Subtotal                41       53       52       57       43       40        48        2.5
b. Groundnut Oil                  16       17       18       18       12       12       10       (8.2)
Total Exports           57       70        70       75      55        52       58        0.2
Combined Total         173      184      220      256      306      320       340       11.9
/1 Included under General Cargo.
/2 Calculated on the basis of detailed not rounded figures.
Source: Consultants and GPA.
May 1982



THE GAMBIA
SECOND BANJUL PORT PROJECT
Port of Banjul Import and Export Traffic Projections, FY1980-1990
(000s weight tons)
Increase
Actual                                           Forecast                              in % p.a.
1980   1981 /1   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1980-1990
A. Imports
a. Dry Cargo
Cement                        45         44      36      31      27      28     29      30      31      32      34
Sugar/Flour                   33         21      16      16      16      16     16      16      17      18      18
Rice/Sorghum                  30         33      42      45      48      50      52      54     56      56      56
Fertilizer                    13         11      11      12      13      15      16     17      18      19      20
Other General Cargo           58         59      61      65      69      74      78      82     86      90      95
Subtotal               179        168    166    169    172    182    190    199    208    215    223                2.0
b. Petroleum Products            45          54     54      56      59      62      65      68      71      74      77       5.3
4,
Total Imports          224        222    220    225    231    244    255    267    279    289    300                3.0
B. Exports
a. Dry Cargo
Groundnut Cake                18          7      14      18      23      27     30      32      34      36      38
Groundnuts                    17          3       8       6       2      --     --      --      --      --      --
Fish /2                       10          8      10      12      14      16      19     22      25      27      30
Other                          3          3       4       5       6       6      7        7      8       8       8
Subtotal                48         21      36      41      45      49      56      61      67      71      76       4.7
b. Groundnut Oil                 10           8     12      16      21      26      28      31      33      35      37      14.0
Total Exports           58          29     48      57      66      75      84      92    100    106    113          6.9
Combined Total         282        251    268    282    297    319    339    359    379    395    413                3.9
/1 Preliminary data.
7T Excluding fish loaded at sea or other facilities.
Source:  Consultants and Bank Staff
May 1982



- 44 -
ANNEX 3
Table 4.4
THE GAMBIA
SECOND BANJUL PORT PROJECT
Vessels .Calling at Port of Banjul, FY1979
Large Vessels    Small Vessels             Total
Average           Average
No.    grt.       No.    grt.        No.   grt. 000
A. By Type and Size
Dry Cargo Ships           135    6,000       109       900     244         907
Mineral Oil Tankers        12   16,200        --        --       12        192
Vegetable Oil Tankers    --          --        8    2,600         8         21
Passenger Ships            10   10,900        --        --       10        109
Total                157               117                274      1,231
Berth
Banjul      Banjul    Government
Main       Inner        Wharf        Total
B. By Type and Berth
General Cargo Ships         108         49            49          206
Fishing Vessels               3          6            14           23
Other                          3         10            2           15
Mineral Oil Tankers          12         --            --           12
Vegetable Oil Tankers        --         --             8            8
Passenger Ships               9         --             1           10
Total                  135         65           74          274
Source: Consultants and GPA.
May 1982



ANNEX 3
4                ~               Table 5.1
THE GAMB:IA
SECOND BANJUL PORT PROJECT
Project Cost Summary
Dalasis millions             US$ million equivalent /-
% of
Foreign   Local   Total   Foreign   Local    Total   Cost
1.  Civil Works
a. Land reclamation and revetments          .91      .19    1.10         .43      .09      .52
b. Pavement                               2.08      .47    2.55          .98     .22    1.20
c. Wharf access bridge
Dolphins incl. mobiliz.               14.61    3.12   17.73         6.89    1.47    8.36
d. Oil pipeline                             .32     .06      .38         .15     .03       .18
e. Transit shed ext.                        .32     .06      .38         .15     .03       .18
f. Misc. works including
drainage, power, etc.                  1.74      .38    2.12         .82      .18    1.00
g. Emergency Rehabilitation Works         1.06       --    1.06          .50      --      .50
Subtotal Civl Works                21.04    4.28   25.32          9.92    2.02   11.94
Contingencies
Physical                                  2.76      .59    3.35        1.30      .28    1.58
Price                                     4.26    0.89    5.15         2.01      .42    2.43
Subtotal Contingencies               7.02    1.48    8.50         3.31      .70    4.01
Total Civil Works                  28.06    5.76   33.82         13.23    2.72   15.95   83.30
2.  Equipment
a. Mooring boat                             .13      --      .13         .06              .06
b. Pilot boat                              .55       --      .55         ;26      --      .26
c. Spare parts for exist. equip.           .13       --      .13         .06      --       .06
Subtotal Equipment                    .81       -       .81        .38       --      .38
Contingencies
Physical                                   .08       --      .08         .04      --      .04
Price                                      .11       --      .11        .05       --      .05
Subtotal Contingencies                .19      --       .19        .09       --      .09    2.50
Total Equipment (net of taxes)   1.00          --    1.00          .47       --      .47
3.  Consultants
a. Supervision of construction            1.59      .61    2.20          .75     .29    1.04
b. Tech. assist. to dockyard               .78       53    1.31         .37       25      .62
c. Information System                      .13      .30      .43         .06     .14      .20
d. PPF financed consultants               1.02       --    1.02         .48       --      .48
Subtotal Consultants                3.52       .44    4.96        1.66      .68    2.34
Contingencies
Price                                      .53      .30      .83        .25      .14       .39
Total Consultants (net of taxes)   4.05    :L.74    5.79            1.91      .82    2.73   14.20
Project Grand Total                      33.11     7.50   40.61       15.61    3.54   19.15 /2 100.
/1 Rate of exchange   2.12 Dal. = 1.0 US$.  The cost estimates are net of taxes.
ZT Does not include $414,451 transferred from Cr. L87-GM to finance consultant's feasibility
study.
Source: Consultants and Bank Staff.
May 1982



- 46 -
ANNEX 3
Table 5.2
THE GAMBIA
SECOND BANJUL PORT PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
(US$ millions)
IBRD Fiscal Year
and Quarter                                  Quarter         Cumulative
1983
To December 31, 1982                            1.3 /1             1.3 _/
To March 31, 1983                                .8                2.10
To June 30, 1983                                1.0                3.10
1984
To September 30, 1983                             .4               3.50
To December 31, 1983                             .5                4.00
To March 31, 1984                                .3                4.30
To June 30, 1984                                 .3                4.60
1985
To September 30, 1984                            .2                4.80
To December 31, 1984                             .3                5.10
To March 31, 1985                                .3                5.40
To June 30, 1985                                 .2                5.60
1986-
To September 30, 1985                            .1                5.70
To December 31, 1985                             .2                5.90
To March 31, 1985                                .2                6.10
To June 30, 1985                                 .2                6.30
1987
To September 30., 1986                            .1               6.40
To December 31, 1986                             .1                6.50
/1 Including reimbursement of PPF.
Source: Bank Staff
May 1982



THE GAMBIA
SECOND BANJUL PORT PROJECT
Costs and Benefits Streams for Economic Evaluation, FY1982-2004
(US$'000)
COSTS
----Project Costs--------------
Excluding Emergency       Including Emergency
Fiscal               Rehabilitation Works    Rehabilitation Works    Maintenance              Benefits to        Benefits to
Years                 & Technical Assist.       & Technical Assist.          Costs            the Region         The Gambia
1982                             --                      800                    --
1983                         6,500                     6,800                    --
1984                         5,100                     5,300                    --                1,879               1,264      4
-4
1985                         3,000                     3,000                    --                3,757               2,528
1986                             --                       --                   600                4,227              2,895
1987                             --                       --                   600                4,748               3,316
1988                             --                       --                   600                4,940               3,420
1989                             --                       --                   600                5,150               3,550
1990-2004                        --                       --                   600                5,407              3,707
/1 Benefits for 1985, 1987 and 1990 estimated using PORTSIM;
Beieli it, tor other years estimated by interpolation.
Source:  Consultants and Bank Staff.                                                                                         A 
May 1982                                                                                                                     m x
- 0u 



- 48 -
ANNEX 3
Table 6.2
THE GAMBIA
SECOND BANJUL PORT PROJECT
Economic Rates of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
A.   Project Cost Excluding Emergency                For the         For The
Rehabilitation Works & Technical                Region          Gambia
Assistance                             (%)             (M)
1. Best estimate                                  29            19
2. 15% lower benefits                             24            15
3. 10% higher costs                               26            17
4. If 15% lower benefits and                      22            13
10% higher costs
5. If assuming no border trade                    n.a.          18
B.   Project Cost Including Emergency
Rehabilitation Works & Technical
Assistance
1. Best estimate                                  26            17
2. 15% lower benefits                             22            14
3. 10% higher costs                               23            15
4. If 15% lower benefits and                      19            12
10% higher costs
5. If assuming no border trade                    n.a.          16
Source: Bank Staff
May 1982



GAMB I A
BANJUL SECOND PORT PROJECT
GPA Income Statements for Port, Non-Port and Total Operations, FY1975-1980
(Dalasis 'OOOs)
1975                       1976                          1977                          1978                             1979                           1980
Non-                       Non-                          Non-                          Non-                             Non-                            Non-
Port    Port    Total    Port    Port         Total      Port    Port    Total         Port    Port       Total       Port       Port      Total      Port      Port       Total
Operating Revnues:
Harbor Service                          831               831    1,941               1,941     2,309               2,309    2,711                2,711       2,685                2,685    3,618                  3,168
Cargo Handling                       1,393              1,393   2,666                2,666    3,354                3,354     3,911               3,911       3,931                3,931     5,103                 5,103
Miscellaneous                            31                31        18                  18        22                 22        --                   -          --                   --        --                    --
Dockyard                                         26        26               157        157                134        134                110         110                  108        108                  66          66
Ferries                                         943       943   1,103   1,103                  1,240   1,240                 2,292   2,292                   2,502    2,502                 2,665     2,665       2,665
RIver Transport                                  63         63               70          70                28          28                --          --                  244        244                  222        222
Total                            2,255   1,032    3,287   4,625   1,330          5,955     5,685   1,402       7,087    6,622   2,402        9,024      6,616    2,854       9,470    8,721       2,953     11,674
Op!rating Expenses:
Habor Expenses (Inc. dredging)          320               320      534                 534       686                 686    1,108                1,108       1,034                1,034     1,333                 1,333
Cargo Handling                         912                912   1,545                1,545     1,835               1,835     2,079               2,079       2,312                2,312    2,862                  2,862   1
Dockyard                                         83        83                41         41                216        216                222         222                  320        320                  238        238  'D
Ferries                                         629       629               772        772                885        885              1,064       1,064                1,338      1,338               1,938       1,938
River Transport                                  157       157              211        211                288        288                  99         99                  356        356                  488        488
Al locatlon of Expenses:
lo,-k Y-rd                         127      234       361      280      421        701       174      245        419       225      263        488         162       190        352       291       342         633
Head OffIce AdmInIstratlon         170      163       333      254      244        498       284      2/2         57        741     323          I0        391       375        7r#       471       405         826
Total Working Expenses                  1,529   1,266    2,795   2,613   1,689         4,302     2,979   1,907       4,886    3,753   1,977         5,730      3,899    2,579       6,478    4,907      3,411       8,318
Depreciation                              159      123       282     506      131         637       540      153        693       774      377      1,151        905       738       1,643       959    1,203       2,162
Allocatfon of ProvIsIon                     6        6        12       15       15         30        12       12         24         7        7         14         13        12          25        19        16         35
Total OperatIng Expenses               1,694   1,395    3,089   3,134   1,835          4,96 9    3,531    ,072       5,603    4,534        361      6,895      4,81 7      3,29     8,146    5,885    4,6 30       10,5 15
Net Operating Revenue/(loss)              561    (363)       198   1,491      (5051       986    2,154    (670)    1,484    2,088           41      2,129      1,799      (475)      1,324    2,836    (1,677)    1,159
Non-Operating Revenue (net)                43       38        81       30       19         49       156       23        179       333    (387)        (54)       404       312         716       499       370        869
Net Income/(loss) befor-e Interest        604    (325)       279   1,521      (486)    1,035    2,310    (647)    1,663    2,421          (346)      2,075     2,203       (163)    2,040    3,335    (1,307)    2,028
Interest                                  -         -        --      488       --        488       627       _         627       932        --         932       940         --       940       956          --       956
Net Income/(loss)                         604    (325)       279   1,033    (4861         547    1,683    (647)    1,036        1,489     (346)      1,143     1,263      (1631      1,100    2,379    (1,307)    1,072
Working Ratio                              68      123        85       56      127         72        52      136         69        57       82          63        59        90          68        56       115          71
Operating Ratio                            75      135        94       68      138         83        62      148         79        68       98          76         73       117         86        67       157          90
Average Net Fixed Assets               6,295    1,378    7,673   9,712   1,866    11,578   11,366   2,361           13,727   13,531   4,078         17,609    13,441    10,800    24,241    13,645    17,285       30,930
Return on Average
Net Fixed Assets 1%)                    8.9  (26.3)       2.6    15.4  (27.1)          8.5      18.9  (28.4)        10.8       15.4      1.0        12.1      13.4    (4.4)          5.5      20.8    (9.7)         3.7
Times Interest Earned                      --       --        --      3.1      --         2.0       3.4       --        2.4       2.2       --         2.3       1.9        --         1.4       3.0        --         1.2
Debt Service Coverage                                                                                                                                                                            1.3                   1.2
Source:  Consultants.
May  1982



- 50-                 ANNEX 3
Table 7,2
uAMBIA
APPRAISAL REPORT
BANJUL SECOND PORT PROJECT
GPA Consolidated Balance Sheets, FY1975-1980
(Dalasis 'OOOs)
1975     1976      1977      1978      1979      1980
ASSETS
Fixed Assets
Port:
Depreciable assets                        8,942    9,741   14,332   15,042   15,254   17,509
Land                                      1,142    1,325    1,448    1,536    1,536    1,536
Gross fixed assets                       10,084   11,066   15,780   16,578   16,790   19,045
Less Accumulated depreciation             1,083    1,785    2,329    2,967    3,520    5,024
Net depreciable assets                    7,859    7,956   12,003   12,075   11,734   12,485
Net fixed assets in use                   9,001    9,281   13,451   13,611   13,270   14,021
Non-Port:
Depreciable assets                        3,358    4,586    4,761    8,577   15,568   19,321
Land                                        221       221       221       308    3,078    3,417
Gross fixed assets                        3,579    4,807    4,982    8,885   18,646   22,738
Less: Accumulated depreciation            2,194    2,460    2,606    3,104    2,826    3,989
Net depreciable assets                    1,164    2,126    2,155    5,473   12,742   15,332
Net fixed assets in use                   1,385    2,347    2,376    5,781   15,820   18,749
Total net fixed assets in use            10,386   11,628   15,827   19,392   29,090   32,770
Work-in-progress                            303       745    2,755    3,744         204      651
Total net fixed assets                   10,689   12,373   18,582   23,136   29,294   33,421
Current Assets
Cash at bank and on hand                    185       416       136        33    (166)    (212)
Investment fund                           1,100       828    1,028    1,028    1,000         500
Receivables                                 479       800    1,076    1,837    3,613    4,960
Stocks and stores                           708    1,228    1,387    1,228    1,412    2,575
Other                                        25        26         9        47         6       45
Total                                  2,497    3,298    3,636    4,173    5,865    8,293
Less: Current liabilities
Sundry creditors                            183       661       615       676    1,311    1,420
Accountant general                          168       590    1,376        641       944      944
Total                                    351    1,251    1,991    1,317    2,255    2,364
Net Current Assets                          2,146    2,047    1,645    2,856    3,610    5,929
Total Net Assets                           12,835   14,420   20,227   25,992   32,904   39,350
Financed from:
Loan Capital                                6,922    8,031   12,805   17,427   18,495   22,424
Equity:
Government                                4,462    4,462    4,462    4,462    9,498    9,498
Capital reserves                            723    1,400    2,150    3,150    3,900    6,344
Retained earnings                           728       527       810       953    1,011    1,084
Total                                  5,913    6,389    7,422    8,565   14,409   16,926
Total Loan and Equity                      12,835   14,420   20,227   25,992   32,904   39,350
Currency ratio                                   7.1       2.6      1.8       3.2       2.6       3.5
Debt equity ratio                              54/46    56/44    63/37    67/33    56/44    57/43
Source: Consultants.
May 1982



- 51 -
ANNEX 3
Table 7.3
GAMBIA
BANJUL SECOND PORT PROJECT
Summary of Tariffs Effective September 1, 1979
Harbor dues                              D   2.75/ton
Buoyage and light due                    D   0.45/NRT (minimum charge of D1.50)
Berthage:
Berthing party                       D 100.00/movement
Berthing dues                        D   0.30/GRT (1st day)           [Minimun charge
D   0.15/GRT (following days) [ of D75.0
Pilotage                                 D   0.40/GRT + distance (minimum charge of
D100.0/day)
Wharfage:
Groundnut oil                        D   1.50/ton
P.O.L.                               D   2.50/ton
Other cargo                          D   2.50/ton
Passenger                            D   2.00/5.00/passenger
Hire of craft:
Tug                                  D 800.00/hour
Other                                  Variable/hour
Stevedoring:
Labor:    Discharging                D   5.90/ton
Loading                  D   4.50/ton
Gear hire: Discharging               D   0.50/ton
Loading                  D   0.50/ton
Shorehandling:
Imports                              D   7.25/ton
Exports                              D   2.50/ton
Storage:
Imports                              D   7.50/ton/3 days
Exports                              D   5.00/ton/month
Source: Consultants.
May 1982



GAMBIA
BANJUL SECOND PORT PROJECT
Forecast Income Statement for Port Operations, FY1981-1988
(current Dalasis '000s)
1981        1982        1983        1984        1985        1986         1987        1988
(Est.)
Port Revenues
Harbour Dues                                      930       1,040       1,320        1,670       2,180       2,350       2,500       2,880
Buoyage and Light Dues                            330         380         480         600          640         850         930       1,070
Berthage                                        1,090       1,270       1,490       1,780        1,850       2,260       2,400       2,770
Pilotage                                          440         490         620         780          830       1,100       1,170       1,390
Wharfage                                          890       1,040        1,250       1,570       1,700       2,180       2,410       2,750
Hire of craft (incl. dredger)                     450         510         640          840         880       1,170       1,240       1,520
Stevedoring (incl. gear hire)                   2,850       3,190       3,450       4,090       5,100        6,080       6,820       8,030
Shore handling (incl. storage)                  2,030       2,330       2,680       3,240       4,110        4,930       5,750       6,450
Total                                    9,010      10,250      11,530      14,570      17,290      20,920      23,220       26,860
Port Expenses
Hlarbour expenses (incl. dredging)              1,450       1,730       2,030       2,360        2,730       3,150       3,620       4,170
Cargo handling                                  3,600       4,130       4,750       5,440       6,190        7,030       8,050       9,020
Allocation of expenses on:
- Dockyard                                     270         320         740         770          790         800         800         770
- Head office                                  600         700         980       1,130       1,290        1 480       1,700       1,920
Working expenses                                5,920       6,880       8,500        9,700      11,000      12,460      14,170      15 ,880
Allocation of provision (pension, etc.)            15          20           20          25          30          35          40           45
Depreciation                                    1,080       1,090       1,340        1,460       2,300       3,110       4,300       5,020
Amortization intangible assets                   --          --          --            425         465         505         550          595
Operating expenses                              7,015       7,990       9,860      11,610      13,525       16,110      19,060      21,540
Net Port Operating Revenue                        1,995       2,260       2,070        2,960       3,765       4,810       4,160        5,320
Non-port operating revenue (net)                  500         550          600         660         730         790         860          930
Net port income before interest                 2,495       2,810       2,670       3,620       4,495        5,600       5,020       6,250
Interest                                          1,010         890          800      3,120        4,030       5,010       5,340       5,530
Net income after interest                         1,485       1,920       1,870          500         465         590        320           720
Working ratio                                         65          67          73          67          64          61           61          59
Operating ratio                                      77           78          85          80          78          78          82           80
Average revalued net fixed assets (million)        14.5        16.1         17.0        17.8        27.2        35.5        52.3         61.8
Return on net fixed assets in use (%)              13.7        14.0         12.0        16.6        13.8        13.5         7.9          8.6
Times interest covered by net operating
revenues (x)                                      2.0         2.5         2.6         0.9          0.9         1.0         0.8          1.0    
Times debt service coverd by cash generated
from operation (x)                                1.8         2.4         2.4          1.3         1.3         1.5         1.5          1.5
Source: Consultants and Bank Staff.
May 1982



GAMBIA
BANJUL SECOND PORT PROJECT
Forecast Income Statement for Dockyard Operations, FY1981-1988
(current Dalasis 'OOOs)
1981       1982        1983        1984       1985        1986        1987        1988
Sales                                              110        121         727         853        991       1,153       1,340       1,548
Recovered expenses                                 702        834         397         471         554         651        764         895
Revenue                                            812        955       1,124       1,324       1,545       1,804      2,104       2,443
Direct working expenses                          1,185      1,324       1,482       1,660       1,844      2,051       2,279       2,516
Allocation of expenses on head office (20%)        183        212         244         282         324         369        423         482
Total working expenss                      1,368       1,536       1,726      1,942       2,168       2,420       2,702       2,998
Depreciation                                       113         124        137         150         164         179         195        211
OperAtin, expenses                               1,481      1,660       1,863       2,092       2,332      2,599       2,897       3,209
Under recovery                                    (669)       (705)      (739)       (768)       (787)       (795)      (793)       (766)
Source: Consultants & Bank Staff.
May 1982
L.)
U,2



GAMBIA
BANJUL SECOND PORT PROJECT
Consolidated Forecast Income Statement for Port and Dockyard Operations, FY1981-1988
(current Dalasis '000s)
1981        1982        1983        1984        1985         1986        1987        1988
(Est.)
Operating Revenues
Port                                            9,010       10,250      11,530      14,570      17,290      20,920       23,220      26,860
Non-port IL                                     3,277        3,459       I,124       1,324       1,545        1,804       2,104       2,443
Total                                     12,287      13,709      13,054      15,894       18,835      22,724      25,324       29,303
Operating Expenses
Port (work expenses)                            5,920        6,880       8,500       9,700      11,000       12,460      14,170      15,880
Non-port (working expenses) /13,796                         4,279        1,726       1,942       2,168        2,420       2,702       2,998
Total working expenses                          9,716       11,159      10,226      11,642      13,168       14,880      16,872      18,878
Depreciation-h                                  2,307        2,440       1,977       2,060       2,689       3,829        5,085       5,871
Total operating expenses                  12,023      13,602      12,203      13,702       15,857      18,709      21,957       24,749
Net operating revenue                                264         107         851       2,192       2,978        4,015       3,367       4,554
Non-port operating revenue (net)                     800         930         600         660          730         790         860          930
Net income before interest                         1,064       1,037       1,451       2,852       3,708        4,805       4,227       5,484
Interest charges                                   1,010         890         800       3,120       4,030        5,010       5,348       5,530
Net income after interest                             54         147         651       (368)       (322)        (205)     (1,121)         (46)
Working ratio                                         79          81          78           73          70          65           67          64
Operating ratio                                       98          99          93          86           84          82          87           84
Average revalued net fixed assets in use
(D million)                                      32.6         34.0        27.4        20.2        25.3         38.4        55.4        65.7
Return on net fixed assets in use (%)                0.8         0.3         3.1        10.8        11.7         10.5         6.0          6.9
Times interest charges covered
by net oper. revenues                              0.3         0.1         1.1         0.7         0.7          0.8         0.6         0.8
Times debt service coverage by cash generated
from operation                                     1.5         1.8         2.0         1.1         1.1          1.3         1.4         1.4
/1  Non-port activities include ferry services, river transport and dockyard until July 1982.  From July 1982 only dockyard
operations are included as the losses on other services will be compensated by the Government until these services are
transferred to a state-owned organization by July 1, 1983.
/2 Including amortization and allocation provision
Source: Consultants and Bank Staff.
May 1982



GAMB IA
BANJUL SECOND PORT PROJECT
Sources and Application of Funds, FY1981-1988
(current Dalasis 'OOOs)
1981      1982       1983       1984       1985       1986       1987       1988     Total
(est.)
Sources of Funds
Net operating revenue                            264        107        851      2,192     2,978      4,015      3,367      4,554    18,328
Depreciation and amortization                  2,307      2,440      1,977      2,060     2,689      3,829      5,085      5,871    26,258
Cash generation from operation                 2,571      2,547      2,828      4,252     5,667      7,844      8,452    10,425    44,586
Non-operating revenue (net)                      800        930        600        660        730        790        860        930     6,300
Borrowings:
Proposed IDA Credit                                                6,360      3,180     2,120      1,696        424                13,780
AfDB                                                               5,236      3,964     2,968      2,014        657                14,839
KfW                                                                1,780      1,357      1,018        678        254                5,087
IDA                                                     2,120        510        500                                                 3,130
Total borrowings                                  2,120    13,886       9,001      6,106      4,388      1,335                36,836
Total funds available                   3,37       5,57    17, 1/.    1 ,913    12.503    13.022    10,647    11,355    87,722
Application of Funds
Proposed investments incl. ODA                    --      2,120    16,303    10,845        7,442      5,342      1,674         --    43,726
Other investments                                210        242        278        369        163     1,809      1,555        821      5,447
Debt service charges:
Interest                                     1,010        890        800     3,120      4,030      5,010      5,348      5,530    25,738
Repayment                                      747        495        643        698        757        821        590     2,652      7,403
Total debt service                      1,757      1,385      1,443     3,818      4,787      5,831      5,938      8,182    33,141
Net increase in working capital                  329         __      1,400         --         --        200      1,000        600     3,529
Dividends to Government                           --         -                     --         --                              300        300
Total funds applied                     2,296      3,747    19,424    15,032    12,392    13,182    10,167          9,903    86,143         mX
Cash surplus (deficit) for year                  1,C75      1,850    (2,110)   (1,119)         111      (160)        480      1,452      1,579
Cash at beginning of year                           713     1,788      3,638      1,528        409       520         360        840    10,396
Cash at end of year                               1,788     3,638      1,528        409        520       360         840      2,292    11,975
Source:  Consultants and Bank Staff.
May 1982



GAMB IA
BANJUL SECOND PORT PROJECT
Projected Balance Sheet, FY1981-1988
(current Dalasis millions)
1981 '1    1982           1983        1984        1985        1986        1987         1988
(Est.)
ASSETS
Fixed Assets
Port:
Cross depreciable assets                       20.0        21.9        23.9        26.0        36.9        56.5        75.5        86.6
Land                                            1.7         1.8         1.9         2.1         2.2         2.4         2.5         2.7
Gross fixed assets                             21.7        23.7        25.8        28.1        39.1        58.9        78.0        89.3
Less: Accumulated depreciation                  6.0         7.1         8.5         9.9        11.9        15.1        19.4        24.4
Net fixed assets in use                        15.7        16.6        17.3        18.2        27.2        43.8        58.6        64.9
Non-Port:
Gross depreciable assets                       19.3        21.2         2.0         2.3         2.5         2.7         3.0         3.1
Land                                            3.4         3.8         0.4         0.4         0.4         0.5         0.5         0.6
Gross fixed assets                             22.7        25.0         2.4         2.7         2.9         3.2         3.5         3.7
Less: Accumulated depreciation                  5.2         6.5         0.1         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2
Net fixed assets in use                        17.5        18.5         2.3         2.5         2.7         3.0         3.3         3.5
Work-in-progress                                  0.9        18.9        22.1        26.0        20.7         7.7          0.1         0.4
Total net fixed assets                   34.1        54.0        41.7        46.7        50.6         54.5        62.0        68.8
Current Assets
Cash at bank and on hand                        1.8         3.6         1.5         0.4         0.5         0.4         0.8         2.3
Receivables                                     5.0         4.0         3.8         3.8         4.0         4.2         5.6         5.8
Stocks and stores                               2.7         3.1         3.6         4.3         4.9         5.7         6.5         7.4
Other                                           0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1         0.1
Total current assets                        9.6        10.8          9.0         8.6         9.5        10.4        13.0        15.6
Less:  Current liabilities                        2.2         1.5         1.7         2.0         2.3         2.7          3.1         3.5
Net current assets                                7.4         9.3         7.3         6.6         7.2         7.7         9.9         12.1
Total Net Assets                                 41.5        63.3        49.0        53.3        57.8        62.2        71.9         80.9
Financed from:
Loan Capital                                     22.4        23.5        25.5        33.7        38.7        41.7        44.9        44.3
Government equity                                15.8        20.0        18.4        18.5        19.1        20.5        25.0        33.6
Retained earnings                                 3.3        19.8         5.1         1.1         0.0          --          2.0         3.0
Total Loan and Equity                      41.5        63.3        49.0        53.3        57.8         62.2        71.9        80.9              a,
Current ratio                                       4.4         7.2         5.3         4.8         4.1         3.9          4.2         4.5              s W
Liquid ratio                                        3.1         5.1         3.2         2.2         2.0         1.7          2.1         2.3              X
Debt/equity ratio                                 54/46       37/63       52/48       63/37       67/33       67/33       62/38        55/45
/1  Including non-port activities of ferry service, river transport and dockyard for 1981 and 1982.  From 1983, only dockyard is included.
Source:  Co6sultants and Bank Staff.
May 1982



- 57 -
Chart 1
THE GAMBIA
SECOND BANJUL PORT PROJECT
General Organizational Structure of Gambia Ports Authority
[   Board of Direcor
Internal
Managing Director            Audit and
Control
Deputy
Managing
Director
ior                         Chief              Purchasing Supply          Administrative
Accountant           and Stores Manager        Secretary (Board)               fie                        ae
Chief
Mechanical                Harbour
Engineer                  Master
Dockyard
May 1982                                                                                                                     World Bank- 23122



- 58 -
Chart 2
THE GAMBIA
SECOND BANJUL PORT PROJECT
Project Execution Time Schedule
1982               1983               1984              1985
1   2   3   4    1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4
I. Ci 11LWORKS
Land Reclamation and Revetments
(i  Jetty, Access Bridge, and Dolphins
(iii) Oil Pipeline
(iv) Pavement, Miscellaneous Works,
including Drainage, Power, etc.
v) Pavement in New Reclaimed Area
II. EQUIPMENT
Mooring Boat, Pilot Boat and Spare Parts
for existing Equipment
Ill. CONSULTANT AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
i) Supervision of Construction                                                   -A
(ii) Technical Assistance to Dockyard
(iii) Port information Center                                      L
May 1982                                                                                                     World Bank -23121



I-, t-i t,   A  /\A
gAt-JJ "AL  PC)R I  i
4
0                            46             60
KILOM -E's
Kuntcwr
AtIontic
'z'7                                                             --------                                         C,
K-d,
.d.                                                                                                                       K.,
Y.'.b
B,                                                                                    Mi.
17
Kartun
E  C
13-                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SM
':A
N E A
16                                                                            w



I
I
I



IBRD 15946R
NOVEMBER 1981
New publicwhoArf    I                                                   /
I   }                   11                                                                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~THE GAMBIA
SECOND BANJUL PORT PROJECT
XEISTI N   PROJECT
IProect area
i l | /1 /                                       K 1 i 9 \ .X2,.^. Transit shed extension
Power                                                                Petroleum productsstorage                I   /                                          -                 Ground rt oil pipeline
piouS                                                (>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~p. (Shll)u c                           /                          UsIsEtophios5
!..>' e       -I  |  P   /   /     ,,  -                                                            Depth contours in metersn reference to Gambian
dpublt wort                                                                                                                                                    P, f-Ee                    Datum (0Sm above MIWS).
0 ,                                           200 4</ /  __=O100  200R00
,                                             -'                                     Oil taiks
/     Dock yond                                                                                                                                                                             N NOR TH -V h---
J L
PA                                                                                                                                                                   L /7 ",
'N, los 2      -|I:Transit s  * |\
dnont,qr/shwnlnthtsrmrah                   O0ui ouo'                    -,.                                  /                     /! -.-                  I  . . ] -     | - J6 
W/d~~~~~~~~ weus   RenTs                                                                     ____ /tlnfahd                     I    Is_                                                  fs r 
udymerit m the loml statoS af . - ~~~~. v._. ~ . ~~~--_ ~ ~ t ~~ ~ \ x D t ' : J 19 _J O O_       t
_a5u    _~s,                                             -                                                -N,,                        ._                                                                                                     .
wharf        N             
N  7~~~~~~~~~
ii,  Se3  Bu   NS~   EwS-       GAL Sw                 .T N                          1A    ;                             > -Q vrgf                                                                                            --
1316' SENEGAL  ___--_          /
WS5~~~~d u,,,k 05,5 iS SOi,Sie, Sen ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~       ~       ~       ~      ~       ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     G,e
~~~~~~~~~,n ~ ~ ~ ~     ~             ~             ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~c
is                is                           Is  ~~~i                      14     i       -Pi



