OEFICIADI
DOCUMENTS       CREDIT NUMBER 1266 GN
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Banjul Port Project)
between
THE REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                             , 1982


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1266 GM
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated    j4-U7            3       , 1982, between
THE REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION    (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower has applied to the African Development
Bank (hereinafter callea AfDB) for a loan (hereinafter called the
AfDB Loan) in an amount equivalent to about seven million dollars
($7,000,000) to assist in financing the Project on the terms and
conditions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the AfDB
Loan Agreement) between the Borrower and AfDB;
(C) the Borrower intends to obtain from the Government of
the Federal Republic of Germany acting through Kreditanstalt fBr
Wiederaufbau (hereinafter called KfW) a loan (hereinafter called
the KfW Loan) in an amount equivalent to about two million four
hundred thousand dollars ($2,400,000) to assist in financing the
Project on terms and conditions set forth in an agreement
(hereinafter called the KfW Loan Agreement) between the Borrower
and KfW;
(D) pursuant to an exchange of letters dated September 18,
1979; October 12, 1979; July 8, 1981; September 15, 1981;
October 24, 1981; and January 5, 1982, between the Borrower and
the Association, the Association has granted to the Borrower a
project preparation advance (hereinafter called the Project
Preparation Advance) in an amount equivalent to nine hundred and
eighty thousand dollars ($980,000) to assist in financing the
preparation of the Project;
(E) the Project will be carried out by the Gambia Ports
Authority with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to the Gambia Ports
Authority the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in tne Project


﻿-2-
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and :he
Gambia Ports Authority;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and the Gambia Ports Authority of even date herewith,
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term
includes all schedules to the Project Agreement and all
agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(b) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and the Gambia Ports Authority
pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c)  "GPA" means the Gambia Ports Authority, an autonomous
public agency of the Borrower established pursuant to the Ports
Act of July 1, 1972, of the Borrower;
(d)   "Special Drawing Rights" and "SDR" mean a special
drawing right as valued from time to time by the International
Monetary Fund; and
(e)   "Fiscal Year" means a year starting from July 1 and
ending June 30 in the Gambia.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit
Agreement set forth or referred tc, an amount in various curren-
cies equivalent to five million nine hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 5,900,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cent of goods
and services required for the Project and to be finanaced out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) Promptly after the Pffective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw       from  the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the prin-
cipal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges
thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, services and civil works
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule
to the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1986 or
such  later  date   as  the  Association   shall  establish.   The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
dr,.wn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.


﻿4-
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at ouch places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment and service charges shall be pay-
able semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each Febru-
ary 15 and August 15 commencing August 15, 1992, and ending
February 15, 2032, each installment to and including the
insta7lment payable on February 15, 2002, to be one-half of one
per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment  thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%)
of such principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
Section 2.10. The Managing Director of GPA is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any
action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditicns.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under the Development Credit Agree-
ment, the Borrower shall cause GFA to perform in accordance with
the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations
therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action,


﻿-3-
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable GPA to perform such
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)   The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit
available to GPA under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and GPA under terms and conditions
which shall have been approVed by the Association.
Ic,  The Borrower shail exercise its rights under the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the pur-
poses  of  the  Credit and, except as     the  Association   shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Without any limitation or restriction upon its
obligation under Section 3.01 above, the Borrower shall,
commencing in Fiscal Year 1983, compensate GPA for any losses
arising from the operation of its ferry services and the river
transport network.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall assume all capital costs,
debt service charges and maintenance and operating costs of the
trailer suction dredger and shall ensure that said costs are not
subsequently transferred to GPA.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall prepare a draft plan of
action for the expropriation of the land adjacent to Bantil Port
necessary for the future expansion of the port and shall furnish
said plan to the Association for its review and comment not later
than June 30, 1984.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire all such land
and rights in respect of land as shall be required for carrying
out the Project and shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Association
that such land and rights in respect of land are available for
purposes related to the Project.


﻿ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) GPA shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
(b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situa-
tion shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that GPA
will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agree-
ment.
(c)   The Ports Act of July 1, 1972 of the Borrower shall
have been   amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or wzived so
as to affect materially and adversely the ability of GPA to per-
form any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of GPA or for the suspension of its operations.
(e)  (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the pro-
ceeds of the AfDB Loan or the KfW Loan made to the
Borrower for the financing of the Project shall
have been suspended, cancelled or terminated in
whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the
AfDB Loan Agreement, or the KfW Loan Agreement,
respectively or (B) the AfDB Loan or the KfW Loan
shall have become due and payable prior to the
agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Association that. (A) such suspension, cancel-
lation, termination or prematuring is not caused
by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of
its obligations under any such Agreement, and (B)
adequate funds for the Project are available to
the Borrower from other sources on terms and


﻿-7-
conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement and of GPA under the
Project Agreement.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the fol".owing additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) Any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower and GPA.
(I) Any event specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of
Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
(c) The event specified in paragraph (e) (i) (B) of Section
4.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
subparagraph (ii) of that paragraph.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Ternination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) The Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and GPA.
(b) The t'0DB Loan Agreement and the KfW Loan Agreement
shall have been auly signed on behalf of the parties thereto.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by GPA and is legally binding upon GPA in accordance
with its terms.


﻿-8-
(b) That the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and GPA and is legally
binding upon the Eorrower and GPA in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date                      Is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.04. The obligations of the Borrower under   Arti-
cle III of this Agreement and the provisions of Section 4.02 of
this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty
years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the
earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.10 of this
Agreement, the Minister of Finance, Trade and Development of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Trade
The Quadrangle
Banjul
The Republic of the Gambia
Cable address:                        Telex:
MINFIN                             2264
The Republic of the Gambia
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿-9-
Cable address:                         Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
THE REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By                    Rgional Vice President
AARWestern Africa


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures fo-. items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category                SDR Equivalent)        to be Financed
(1) Civil works                  2,450,000         23%
(2) Floating craft                 360,000          100% of for-
and spare parts                                eign expendi-
for cargo-handling                             tures
equipment
(3) Consultants'                 1,100,000          100% of for-
services                                      eign expendi-
tures
(4) Refunding of Project           880,000         Amount due
Preparation Advance
(5) Unallocated                  1,110,000
TOTAL          5,900,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for  ods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.


﻿3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of
the Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes
levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or
supply thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes
levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit decreases or increases, the Association
may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the dis-
bursement percentage then applicable to such item as required to
be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for ex-
penditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that
the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the 'estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Cate-
gory may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have
been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Asso-
ciation's reasonable opinion, represents      the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the expansion and improvements of
Banjul Port and comprises:
A.   Civil Works:
(i) Construction of a deepwater L-head wharf with an
access bridge and two mooring dolphins.
(ii) Reclamation of about 7,800 m2 of land protected
against erosion by a new revetment and paving of
about 5,100 m2 for storage of containers.
(iii) Extension   of a north    transit  shed  at Banjul
Wharf.
(iv) Construction    of  a   steel  pipeline   from  the
groundnut oil storage tank to the new L-head
wharf.
(v) Construction of a repair workshop, a gatehouse,
new fencing and repair of existing fire fighting
equipment, revetments, slabs, ramp and fendering
and associated works.
(vi) Improvements to navigation lights at Banjul Point,
Barra Point and Fajara.
(vii) Procurement and installation of five new mooring
buoys for tying up small vessels.
B.   Floating Craft and ,)are Parts:
Procurement of a new pilot boat and a mooring boat and
spare parts for the existing cargo handling equipment.
C.   Technical Assistance:
Consulting services for feasibility studies, project
preparation, siltation studies, supervision of construction,


﻿- 13 -
training assistarce to the dockyard personnel arl establish-
ment of a data compilation and interpretation s: em.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1985.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
198 L
FOR SECRETARY


