Document of
The World Bank
Report No: T 7538-AF
TECHNICAL ANNEX
FOR A PROPOSED GRANT
OF SDR 26.5 MILLION
(US$33 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
AFGHANISTAN
FOR AN
EMERGENCY INFRASTRUCTURE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
MAY 10, 2002



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(exchange rate is Quetta based open market buying rate)
effective as of April 17, 2002
Currency Unit       =        Afghani
US$1         =        33,000 AFA
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
March 21 - March 20
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AACA          Afghan Assistance Coordination Authority
ADB           Asian Development Bank
AIA           Afghanistan Interim Administration
bcm           billion cubic meters
CAWSS         Central Authority for Water Supply & Sewerage
DABM          Da Afghanistan Breshna Moassesa (Afghanistan's electricity utility)
DACAAR        Danish Committee for Aid to Afghan Refugees
EOI           Expression of Interest
EU            European Union
ICRC          International Committee for the Red Cross
IDA           International Development Association
IFC           International Finance Corporation
IMF           International Monetary Fund
ISAF          International Security Assistance Forces
KfW           Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (German development bank)
kWh           Kilowatt Hour
MHBTP         Ministry of Housing, Building and Town Planning
MIC           Ministry of Information and Culture
MMI           Ministry of Mines and Industry
MOC           Ministry of Communications
MOF           Ministry of Finance
MOI           Ministry of Interior
MOP           Ministry of Power
MPW           Ministry of Public Works
MVA           Mega Volt Amperes
MW            Mega Watt = 1,000 kW
NGO           Non-Governmental Organization
PCF           Post Conflict Fund
SOE           Statement of Expenses
UN            United Nations
UNDP          United Nations Development Program
USAID         United States Agency for International Development
Vice President   Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:  Alastair J. McKechnie
Sector Director:  Vincent Gouarne
Afghanistan Reconstruction Manager:  Philippe Dongier
Team Leader:    Tjaarda Storm van Leeuwen



AFGHANISTAN
EMERGENCY INFRASTRUCTURE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
Table of Contents
I. BACKGROUND AND STRATEGY ........................................................................1
A. THE CONFLICT AND ITS CONSEQUENCES .....................................              ...................................1
B. FEATURES OF THE EXISTING INFRASTRUCTURE SECTOR .                      .............................................................1
C. AIA RESPONSE AND STRATEGY ........................................................................3
D. SECTOR SPECIFIC VISION ........................................................................4
II. IDA'S RESPONSE ........................................................................5
A. AFGHANISTAN'S RELATIONS WITH IDA .................................               .......................................5
B. THE TRANSITIONAL SUPPORT STRATEGY ......................................5.................................5
C. RATIONALE FOR EARLY GRANT ASSISTANCE ........................................................................       6
D. RATIONALE FOR SELECTION OF RECONSTiUCTION PROJECTS ..................                          ..............................7
III. THE PROPOSED            PROJECT ........................................................................7
A. OBJECTIVES .......................................................................7
B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION ........................................................................8
Component 1: Urban Services ........................................................................8
Component 2: Power .......................................................................                        10
Component 3: Policy Advice and Other Support ....................................................................... 10
IV. INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS AND PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ................... 11
A. DETAILED IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS BY COMPONENT .                                   ............................................... 11
Urban Component .......................................................................                           11
Power Component .......................................................................                           12
Policy Advice and Other Support Component              ....................................................................... 13
B. PROCUREMENT .......................................................................                                13
C. DISBURSEMENT AND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT ....................................................................... 13
D. ENVIRONMENT AND SOCIAL SAFEGUARD .                        ....................................................................... 15
E. MONITORING AND EVALUATION ....................................................................... 16
F. JUSTIFICATION ....................................................................... 16
ANNEX I: DETAILED INFORMATION ON RELEVANT INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS ..... 17
A. URBAN SERVICES .......................................................................                             17
B. POWER ....................................................................... 21
C. OIL AND GAS ....................................................................... 26
D. MNING .......................................................................                                     29
ANNEX II: DETAILED ACTPITIES ........................                         ............................................... 32
ANNEX       III: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS .                                 ............................................................ 34



ANNEX IV: FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT & DISBURSEMENT ARRANGEMENTS .............. 40
ANNEX V: ENVIRONMENT AND SOCIAL SAFEGUARDS FRAMEWORK ........................... 43
ANNEX VI: MONITORING .................................................................. 61



I. BACKGROUND AND STRATEGY
A. The Conflict and its Consequences
1.    Afghanistan is one of the poorest and longest-suffering countries among the members of the
World Bank. An estimated 7 million people remain vulnerable to hunger and very large numbers are
dependent on a massive inflow of food and humanitarian aid. Afghanistan's infrastructure has been
destroyed or degraded; its human resource base severely depleted; and its social capital eroded. State
institutions are largely nonfunctional, and the economy and society have become increasingly fragmented.
2.     September 11, 2001 precipitated wholesale changes in the political and military situation in
Afghanistan, transforming the overall context for national reconstruction and for World Bank support to
Afghanistan. The collapse of the Taliban regime was followed by the conclusion on December 5, 2001,
in Bonn, Germany, of the Agreement on Provisional Arrangements in Afghanistan Pending the Re-
establishment of Permanent Government Institutions (a.k.a. the Bonn Agreement), an agreement among
the different groups in opposition to the Taliban regime on a new structure of government and a process
that would lead to the election of a fully representative government within a period of about 2 and 1/2
years.
3.     The Afghanistan Interim Administration (AIA) is part of the Afghanistan Interim Authority
which is expected to remain in power for six months. Fully vested with the sovereign functions of
government, the Afghanistan Interim Authority peacefully took over central administration on December
22, 2001. An emergency Loya Jirga will take place in June 2002. The Loya Jirga will decide on a
Transitional Authority that is expected to pave the way for a new constitution and an elected, fully
representative government for Afghanistan within two years. The Interim Authority has the power to
repeal and amend laws and regulations by decree.
4.     The AIA has moved quickly to restore basic government functions and reestablish international
relations. However, expectations among the population for a "peace dividend" are high, and if the AIA
and its successor do not deliver results relatively quickly, the prospects for further progress and the peace
process will dim.
5.     Despite being hampered by very limited capacity and the difficult security situation in many parts
of the country, the AIA has made considerable progress and has gained widespread international
recognition and some moral authority. The AIA has also presented a draft National Development
Framework to the Interim Donors Group in April 2, 2002, which laid out the AIA' s development strategy.
6.     Beyond popular expectations for a peace dividend, major infrastructure bottlenecks will need to
be removed in order to stimulate early economic recovery and growth. War has not only devastated
Afghanistan's existing infrastructure but prevented new investment from taking place. Immediate
challenges include repairing urban piped water, sanitation systems and other essential urban
infrastructure, restoring essential electric power supplies, establishing communications systems, removing
major transport bottlenecks and re-establishing safe emergency air traffic services.
B. Features of the Existing Infrastructure Sector
7.     Urban infrastructure. During this period of massive population movement under war conditions,
existing urban infrastructure not only failed to match the increasing demands, but actually deteriorated
1



owing to lack of maintenance and outright destruction. Street lighting has almost disappeared. Public
buildings such as markets, municipal offices, workshops and depots lie damaged and have been looted of
all tools and equipment. About a quarter of urban housing has been seriously damaged or destroyed, and
about 40 percent of housing units are in unplanned areas. Urban management capacity has been
decimated. Urban water supply and sanitation, solid waste management and storm water drainage
facilities are in urgent need of repair. Access to adequate and safe water and sanitation facilities is limited
although in some areas NGOs and communities have improved conditions. Currently an estimated 23
percent of the population has access to safe water, although this masks wide differences among provinces
and districts. Coverage is poor, less than 20 percent of Kabul's population has access to piped water and
many provincial and secondary towns have no networked services. Many urban families lack access to
safe sanitation. Hygiene education accompanying water supply installation has been introduced by some
NGOs, but coverage remains limited. Water borne diseases are a major cause of the prevailing high
infant and child mortality rates. Approximately 85,000 children under age five die annually from
diarrheal diseases. Few residential or public buildings in Afghan cities have sewerage systems, and those
that do, discharge wastewater directly into rivers without treatment. In 1997, sanitation coverage was
estimated to be 23 percent of the urban population and 8 percent of the rural population.
8.     Power. The vast majority of the Afghan population relies on traditional household fuels (wood,
bushes, crop residues and animal waste) for its energy needs. There are reports of over-exploitation of
forestry resources and non-sustainable production and use of firewood leading to deforestation and severe
environmental degradation in many areas. The current situation poses a disproportional burden on
women and children, for example, in terms of gathering of fuel wood and exposure to pollution from
cooking stoves. Only about 4 percent of the population is reported to have access to electricity, but the
faltering supply is limited to the larger urban areas. The existing network is characterized by (a) daily
rationing of electricity - in Kabul, about half of the consumers are provided with electricity on alternative
evenings; (b) an almost total lack of offices, workshops and stores facilities due to buildings having been
destroyed totally or partially; (c) the absence of conductors and insulators, which have been stolen from
many overhead transmission and distribution lines; (d) high technical losses caused by poorly repaired
transmission and distribution lines; (e) inadequate outdated generation and substation plant and
equipment, for which spares will be difficult and expensive to acquire; (f) a lack of all consumables,
including even simple cleaning rags, stationary, and light bulbs; (g) an absence of hand tools, modern
workshop and laboratory equipment and vehicles; (h) no communications equipment or computers; and
(i) an enthusiastic MOP staff, most of whom are close to retirement, and who have been out of touch with
many of the latest developments in the power sector industry.
9.     Mining, Oil & Gas. The infrastructure of the country's commercial energy sector is in disarray,
caused by a combination of the direct effects of the wars that have blighted Afghanistan, and by
subsequent pillages of much of the sector equipment. Exports of natural gas stopped in the late eighties.
The two producing gas fields in the north that remain have depleted over the years and the combined
remaining reserves are now estimated to be about 15 billion cubic meters. The current gas production is
about 550,000 cubic meter per day, which is one fourth of the production in the 1980s. Seventy percent of
current production is used in a fertilizer factory and power plant. Transmission and distribution pipelines
have corroded and about 30 percent of gas is being lost due to leakage. All gas facilities are in a
desperate need of rehabilitation and apart from a loss of revenue, pose a major safety hazard. In the
mining sector, the situation is not much better. Ineffective legislation and weak public sector institutions
limit the ability of the central government to exert sovereignty over mineral resources and to mobilize
investment for their development. While some geological survey work has been conducted in the past,
the large laboratory of the geological survey department has been completely destroyed. The existing
coal mines are hardly operational. Semi precious gem stones and industrial minerals are being
inefficiently mined but detailed information is not available.
2



10.    Communications. Twenty years of conflict in one of the poorest countries in the world has left
Afghanistan with a barely functioning and limited communications sector. Adding together the analogue
and wireless local loop networks suggests a country teledensity on the order of 2 telephones per 1,000 (14
phones per 1,000 in Kabul, 0.6 phones per 1,000 in the rest of the country). A number of fixed lines
remain operational in Kabul although the analogue and digital networks are not interconnected. A
number of private companies were offering satellite telephony in various cities. In April 2002, a private/
government joint venture began telecom operations in Kabul. International access and internet services
are expected to be available in May 2002. Radio and television broadcasting facilities are very limited,
and there is no functioning system to provide information to rural and displaced groups on sources of
support, weather, and emergencies. In 1999, there were only three radio stations operating in the country,
only one is operating today, with a broadcast footprint that only covers the province of Kabul.
11.   Roads. Roads provide the principal means of transport for both internal and international traffic.
The road network comprises about 5,800 kilometers (km) of national roads, of which 3,100 km are
primary highways including 2,400 km roads that were originally paved. The national primary road
network largely consists of the ring road (Herat-Kandahar-Kabul-Mazar-i Sharif-Shibergan-Maimana-
Herat) and the six international links to neighboring countries. The remaining network of 2,700 km
secondary national roads and 15,000 km provincial roads is either gravel or earthen. The coverage and
condition details of tertiary road network consisting of village access roads is not known, except that
these roads are all unpaved. More than two decades of conflict combined with a prolonged lack of
maintenance has resulted in damages to long sections of roads, critical structures, bridges and other
structures.  Overall, the road network has been rendered only partially usable and that too at a
significantly high transportation cost. According to the last condition survey undertaken in 1994, 17
percent of the network was in good condition, 35 percent in fair condition and the remaining 48 percent in
poor condition. Based on recent visits to some sections of the network, the road conditions have
deteriorated significantly.
C. AIA Response and Strategy
12.   The formal infrastructure sector in Afghanistan is currently largely owned and operated through
centralized ministries, with some operational and production functions delegated to government
enterprises. The reach of formal services is, however, very limited. In the urban water supply and
sanitation sectors, there is already substantial private participation in service delivery mainly through
communities, NGOs and UN agencies. In rural areas, NGOs and communities have been and are likely to
remain the core providers of infrastructure services. The AIA has stated it will encourage scaling up of
community-based, decentralized approaches to improve and expand the delivery of infrastructure
services. It also plans to open up the infrastructure sectors to private participation and investment,
starting with the telecommunication and oil and gas sectors.
13.   Attracting sustainable and efficient private participation in the infrastructure sectors will require,
first of all, a sound general business environment characterized by well-defined property rights, rule of
law, and open entry. For those parts of the infrastructure sectors characterized by monopoly power,
attention will also be needed to create a suitable regulatory framework. It will, however, take time to
formulate and obtain consensus on new policy frameworks, modify legislation and regulations, achieve
financial sustainability and reorganize the sectors. The AIA therefore favors a parallel approach of using
existing government structures to supervise or implement emergency repairs and reconstruction work
while maximizing the use of service delivery schemes that involve communities and the local private
sector, and working towards the policy and structural changes appropriate for each sector.
14.   In proceeding with this parallel approach, the AIA recognizes the risk of developing large and
inefficient public sector in-house construction and operations departments and public enterprises.
3



Functional arrangements and processes put in place to facilitate emergency reconstruction should not be
in conflict with the AlA's medium- to long-term vision for service provision in the infrastructure sectors.
Therefore a strategic priority is to identify medium- to long-term options for service delivery.
15.    The ALA will launch a number of critical initiatives over the next three months to commence
reconstruction. The focus is on projects that are quick to implement, that address major bottlenecks to the
reconstruction effort, and that do not create barriers to the future emergence of private sector- and
community-led infrastructure service provision.
D. Sector Specific Vision
16.    Urban. Afghanistan's urban vision is for well functioning cities with inclusive, efficient, and
self-sustaining management systems, operated by municipalities in close collaboration with residents.
Municipalities would be the principal actors for reconstruction of the urban environment. To the extent
possible, urban services will be expanded into new and informal areas by integrating, formal service
delivery with community interventions, ensuring that all citizens can engage effectively in city
governance. Investments in private facilities, such as houses, will be the responsibility of families and
communities, while public infrastructure (urban roads, sanitation, public parks, etc.) will be the
responsibility of municipalities and carried out through local contractors or labor based contracts.
Flexible urban planning to facilitate appropriate development of housing and municipal services is a
priority need. Ultimately urban reconstruction and development activities will need to take place in the
context of strengthened capacity and greater financial autonomy at the municipal level.
17.   Urban Water Supply. The delivery of urban water supply presents particular challenges and
opportunities. The nodal agency, the Central Authority for Water Supply and Sewerage (CAWSS), lacks
resources to move back into its role as a central implementer of investments. Experience from other
countries suggests that a more effective institutional model would be for decentralized service delivery
with an increased role for the private sector (building initially from the existing base of small-scale
contractors, NGOs and UN agencies). Municipalities are likely to play a key role in ensuring service
delivery at the city level. The central government and CAWSS would then move into a more facilitating
role, developing appropriate policy and regulatory instruments and overseeing the delivery of sustainable
water supply and sanitation within an agreed framework of technical, social and environmental standards.
18.   Power. The AIA's vision for the power sector is to encourage community service delivery,
particularly in rural areas, and encourage local and foreign private investors to provide services at least
cost in an environmentally sustainable and socially acceptable way. Government would withdraw from
implementation of investment projects and operations while keeping responsibility for policy making and
putting in place an appropriate regulatory framework. As a first step, the AIA plans, over the next few
months, to bring the semi-autonomous "enterprises" reporting to the Ministry of Water and Power under a
new framework of company law reflecting the Constitutional Law of 1964 which would provide them
with real autonomy. The AIA intends to privatize the Power Construction Unit and the Spinghar
Construction Unit (which deal with electrical and mechanical installation and civil construction activities,
respectively) as soon as possible. The options for further restructuring and possible privatization of Da
Afghanistan Breshna Moassesa (DABM - the power utility), which is responsible for operation and
maintenance of the system throughout the country, will need some further study, but it is expected to be
implemented in the near future.
19.   Oil, Gas and Mining. In the mining and oil and gas sectors, the AIA envisions the development
of the country's considerable hydrocarbon and mineral potential to supply the needs of the domestic
market, to export and to generate revenue for the benefit of its population. As the resources required for
development of this potential vastly exceeds available budgetary resources, and since recognition is given
4



to the positive role the private sector can play, AIA seeks to establish as soon as possible an enabling
environment that would attract investments from both local and international private investors. This
requires the strengthening of government institutions which must be equipped with logistical support and
qualified manpower to enable them to effectively promote, control, manage and monitor Afghanistan's
hydrocarbon and mining resources.  The AIA recognizes that the development of the enabling
environment and the appropriate institutions will take time, but given its revenue and employment
generation potential attaches high priority to this activity.
20.    Telecommunication. Even before the AIA was installed, private investors, in joint venture with
the Ministry of Telecommunications, had initiated mobile telephone systems on a modest scale.
Recently, one of these joint ventures, previously active in the North, has started to operate services in
Kabul. The AIA is in the process of formulating a new telecommunications policy which would allow
entry of other private operators, both in mobile and other telecommunication services such as internet.
New licenses and other regulations are already being formulated and new operators will be invited on a
competitive basis.
II. IDA'S RESPONSE
A. Afghanistan's Relations with IDA
21.    Afghanistan is a member of IDA, IFC, IMF, and ADB. Afghanistan became a member of the
IMF and World Bank in 1955. IDA has provided 21 development credits to Afghanistan since 1964 in a
wide range of sectors including education, roads and agricultural activities. Of the original US$230
million approved by IDA for Afghanistan, US$83 million was disbursed and US$147 million was
subsequently canceled. IDA operations were suspended shortly after the 1979 Soviet invasion of
Afghanistan, and the Resident Mission in Kabul was closed. Afghanistan has repaid US$9.2 million to
IDA and was up to date on debt service payments until June 1992, when the country went into non-
accrual status. Lending operations remained suspended due to the continuing fighting, absence of a
national government, and Afghanistan's entry into non-accrual status with IDA.
22.    Afghanistan's Arrears to International Financial Institutions. Resuming normal financial
relations with the IFIs will require Afghanistan to clear outstanding arrears which total, as of January 31,
2002, around US$51 million including US$25.2 million to IDA, about US$16 million to the ADB, and
US$9.8 million to the IMF. The AIA is committed to clearing its arrears to IDA by the end of the
summer, which will set the stage for a resumption of normal relations with IDA.
23.   IDA has not extended any credits to Afghanistan since 1979 although it has remained engaged
with the assistance community. Efforts included continuous monitoring of political and economic
developments; managing selective investments in the Afghan refugee communities; working closely with
the UN and donors; undertaking knowledge-building and knowledge-sharing activities; and providing
analytical and strategic depth for the work of the wider assistance community.'
B. The Transitional Support Strategy
24.   IDA's Transitional Support Strategy, which was presented to the Board on April 4, 2002 with the
Public Administration Emergency Project, is predicated on the need for well-coordinated efforts by
Afghanistan's development partners to realize Afghanistan's reconstruction and development priorities.
The key objectives of IDA's assistance over the next six to nine months are to assist the authorities in
See Afghanistan: World Bank Approach Paper, November 2001 for more details.
5



establishing capacity in areas essential to facilitate the reconstruction program; to support high-priority
reconstruction activities that can also help jump-start economic activity; and to continue to build IDA's
knowledge base to allow for setting a well-designed program of future assistance. To deliver assistance
outside of Kabul, it will be vital to utilize the experiences and networks of NGOs and UN agencies, and to
develop mechanisms to channel funds directly to community groups or traditional governance structures.
25.    Assistance to Afghanistan, for both recurrent and capital expenditures, is likely to be received
from various donors and delivered through a variety of mechanisms. Hence, aid coordination will be
essential to ensure a comprehensive and unified budget that is in line with agreed national priorities. One
mechanism to assist in such coordinated funding is the multi-donor, IDA-administered Afghanistan
Reconstruction Trust Fund that will provide financing for priority expenditures including recurrent costs.
Donor funding for recurrent expenditures, including wage payments, is an essential element of the support
needed since the scope for own-revenue collection is at present very limited.
C. Rationale for Early Grant Assistance
26.    Legal Basis for Assistance to Non-Accrual Member. Under IDA's Twelfth Replenishment
Resolution, IDA 12 donor funds may be used for post-conflict grants under the following conditions: (i)
the proposed grant has been designed in accordance with OP 2.30; (ii) early performance is promising as
evidenced by the recipient country having taken convincing steps towards social and economic recovery;
(iii) arrears to IBRD and/or IDA are large and protracted, and cannot be easily or quickly cleared using
domestic resources; (iv) a concerted intemational effort to provide positive financial flows and other
assistance is underway, and other creditors have agreed not to make net withdrawals of financial
resources from the country; and (v) altemative sources of financing for post-conflict recovery are
inadequate or available only on inappropriate terms.
27.    With respect to the first two criteria, the proposed Grant has been designed in accordance with
OP 2.30, and Afghanistan is in the midst of establishing its path towards social and economic recovery.
As for Afghanistan's arrears to IDA, it has been in non-accrual status since June 1992, with outstanding
principal of US$74.7 million and overdue principal and charges of US$25.2 million. In terms of criterion
(iii), these amounts are "large and protracted" compared with Afghanistan's capability to service debt,
and Afghanistan does not have domestic resources available to clear them. As for the last two criteria, the
proposed grant would be part of the first steps in fulfilling the pledge by the World Bank Group
institutions to contribute to the international effort to assist Afghanistan; other multilateral creditors have
agreed not to make net withdrawals of financial resources prior to arrears clearance; bilateral creditors are
not expected to make net withdrawals; and alternative sources of funding are not adequate to meet
Afghanistan's needs in the immediate post-conflict period. Thus the proposed grant is consistent with the
adopted framework for IDA's provision of post-conflict grant assistance.
28.    Program of IDA Grants for early support to post-conflict recovery. The proposed grant is
part of a program of early IDA support to Afghanistan's post-conflict recovery. The program includes the
Emergency Public Administration Project (US$10M) which was approved by IDA on April 4, 2002, the
proposed Emergency Education Rehabilitation and Development Project (US$15M), the proposed
Emergency Infrastructure Reconstruction Project (US$33M), and the proposed Emergency Community
Empowerment and Public Works Project (US$42M).   This program consists of priority activities
expected to be implemented rapidly, primarily during the next 12 months. Rather than bundling the
package of emergency, quick support into one operation, as has been done in some other post-conflict
situations, the program consists of several operations organized along logical groupings in order to
enhance the focus, efficiency of management, sustained sectoral focus during supervision, and orderly
transition to normal IDA support as lessons are leamed from the various projects.
6



D. Rationale for Selection of Reconstruction Projects
29.    To respond to the combination of short and medium/long term needs and to maximize the use of
available resources, IDA interventions in the infrastructure sectors have been designed programmatically
in three broad phases:
* Under a Post Conflict Fund, IDA is providing support to the ALA to: (i) carry out engineering
design and production of bidding documents for the highway from Kabul to the northern region;
(ii) draft licenses for the telecom sector; (iii) complete the needs assessment for broadcasting; (iv)
contract urgent solid waste collection services; (v) procure equipment for urgent water supply
repairs in Kabul and prepare bidding documents for further urgent water supply works; and (vi)
procure urgent equipment and engineering support for the electricity sector. Some of these
activities are also contributing to the preparation of the proposed Project.
* Under the proposed Project, IDA will support (i) municipal public works (5 cities); (ii) urban
water supply (up to 12 secondary cities); (iii) sanitation (Kabul); (iv) procurement of essential
electricity transmission and distribution materials (Kabul and secondary cities); (v) procurement
of essential tools and equipment for the electricity sector; (vi) repairs to key hydropower stations
(serving Kabul); (vii) recommissioning of the gas turbine in Kabul; (viii) engineering and
management support; and (ix) technical assistance including policy and regulatory advice,
training and additional engineering support.
* Under follow-up projects, IDA will provide longer term support to investment in a restructured
institutional setting.
30.   It is recognized that rehabilitation of key parts of the road network is vital for the relief and
reconstruction efforts. Given the terrain of the country and the need for recommencement of normal
commercial activity, the resumption of internal and international commercial flights are also critical. The
current Project, however, includes only those investments where disbursements can commence in July
2002, and be completed within 12 to 18 months. As the time required for preparation and procurement of
civil works and equipment for transport precludes such rapid disbursement, IDA and the ALA are
currently discussing a stand alone transport project, the preparation of which is being funded under the
Post Conflict Fund.
III. THE PROPOSED PROJECT
A. Objectives
31.    The objective of the proposed Emergency Infrastructure Reconstruction Project is to improve
selected infrastructure service delivery in order to enhance the quality of life, health status, and welfare of
the population and to support the economic recovery of the country. This will be achieved by: (i)
carrying out urgent reconstruction and rehabilitation works to restore critical urban services and power;
(ii) providing employment opportunities through labor-based reconstruction activities; and (iii) providing
urgently needed policy advice and capacity building to the AIA in selected sectors to promote sustainable
infrastructure service delivery which fosters community and private sector participation. The outcomes of
the Project are expected to be improvements in infrastructure facilities and delivery, while laying the
foundations for sector reforms and institution building which would lead to sustainable development of
the infrastructure and energy sector. Monitoring indicators are given in Annex VI.
7



B. Project Description
32.    In pursuit of the above project objectives, the proposed Grant will finance the most urgent
reconstruction and technical assistance requirements in the urban infrastructure and energy sub-sectors,
and will set the stage for additional future assistance from the Bank Group and other donors in support of
the AIA's national development priorities. The needs for the infrastructure reconstruction program are
large, and IDA will only be able to finance part of the requirements. Criteria used to select activities as
part of the first IDA project include: (i) quick impact and readiness for disbursement; (ii) employment
creation; and (iii) geographical balance, i.e. including provincial cities other than Kabul.
33.    The project includes three components: (i) restoration of urban services, (ii) restoration of power,
and (iii) policy advice, training and engineering support in selected sectors.
34.    Selection of Cities for Each Subcomponent. The Bank fully supports the AlA's intention to
ensure a wide distribution of reconstruction support around the country within the practical constraints of
the infrastructure sectors and proposed interventions which will be supported by other donors. Given the
concentration of 85 percent of the urban population in five cities (Kabul, Kandahar, Mazar-i-Sharif, Herat
and Jalalabad), these cities will be the focus of the urban component. The needs assessment has identified
12 cities where rapid improvements can be made in piped water supply systems; these cities will be
targeted by the urban water supply sub component. In power, the Project will concentrate on repair and
reconstruction of generation in Kabul and on transmission and distribution in Kabul and secondary cities.
Component 1: Urban Services
(estimated cost: US$16 million)
35.    Part A: Municipal Public Works Program  (US$3M equivalent). The program would support
labor-intensive public works at the municipality level up to a maximum of $50,000 for each sub-project.
A total of about 100 "sub-projects" would be financed under the program over the 18 month project
period in the five participating cities. It is estimated that 18,000 person-weeks of labor would be
supported by the Project.
36.    To ensure a needs-based distribution of program funds, allocations to each of the participating
municipalities would be calculated on three criteria: (i) urban population; (ii) number of refugees and
internally displaced people; and (iii) war damage based on number of damaged houses. These allocations
would represent a ceiling amount to be disbursed for sub-projects in any one municipality.
37.    Sub-projects are currently being identified by communities through the Gozar/Mantaqa and
District Shuras as appropriate. Applications will be screened at the municipal level according to the
following criteria: (i) degree of labor intensity; (ii) economic impact; (iii) wide social or environmental
impact; and (iv) consultation with and endorsement by local civil society/ community groups. A long list
of "eligible" project types was prepared based on findings from the Needs Assessment carried out by UN
Habitat2. The existing systems whereby municipalities contract small local contractors and NGOs will be
used to carry out these types of works.
2 Examples of projects which have been proposed by Kabul Municipality include: (i) rehabilitation and
improvement of parks and green areas; (ii) repairing damaged flood control walls along the Kabul River; (iii) repair
and clearing of rubble on municipal access roads; (iv) provision of public toilet facilities close to markets and public
open spaces; and (v) filling, draining and re-designation of areas occupied by handaks (surface and waste water
collection ponds).
8



38.    Subprojects would aim for social inclusion of the various local ethnic/religious groups, both as
direct project beneficiaries and as employees. This would be done at the individual project level where
feasible or over the complete range of subprojects in a given city. For all sub-projects the municipalities
should ensure that a special gender-separated consultation is held to elicit the views of the female
population.
39.    MHBTP will be responsible for coordination. The project cycle of the program would be divided
into three stages: identification of municipal allocations; promotion and appraisal of subprojects; and
implementation.
40.    Part B: Urban Water Supply Improvements (US$9.8M equivalent). This subcomponent would
support repair and rehabilitation of the water supply systems (including goods, works and engineering and
consultant services) in the 12 cities outside Kabul which have a formal network installed by CAWSS.
41. In attempting to assist these 12 provincial towns, many options have been considered for designing
and constructing the works required to restore water supply systems to good working condition thereby
serving those households already connected plus significant areas that will be served by rehabilitated
standposts. Options considered included bringing in a management contractor to rehabilitate and operate
the systems, but the lack of information precluded this approach. It was therefore agreed that the works
will be implemented by small private contractors, UN agencies or NGOs, as appropriate. CAWSS will
carry out the design and prepare the technical specifications and bidding documents with the support of a
consultant who will also supervise the works and ensure that operational training and support are
provided to provincial CAWSS staff. Based on the operational experience gained during this phase,
CAWSS assisted by the consultant, will prepare technical designs and assemble data on demand and
willingness to pay which will subsequently be used by the AIA to prepare a more progressive intervention
(possibly a management contract or contracts) at a later stage.
42.    Urgent works will be selected for execution by CAWSS based on the following criteria: (i)
numbers of families gaining access; (ii) impact on long-term operational capability of the system; (iii)
availability of funds from other sources; and (iv) equitable distribution of investments between the cities.
43.    Designs, technical specifications and bidding documents for a first batch of emergency works in
key cities will be prepared with support from a consultant funded from the PCF to enable implementation
of works to commence in July.
44.    Part C: Sanitation Improvements (US$1.5M equivalent). This subcomponent would support
repair and rehabilitation of critical sanitation facilities, including excreta disposal, solid waste
management and drainage; implementation of pilot sanitation interventions in a low-income areas of
Kabul; and ongoing support to Kabul Municipality to finance contracted services such as solid waste
collection.
45.    A consultant will carry out a rapid assessment of critical investment needs in Kabul, including the
assessment of existing requests for support from the community level, prepare bidding documents and
supervise the works for rehabilitation, the pilot project, and for ongoing contracted services. These
consultant services will initially be procured using the PCF. Modalities for health and hygiene education
will also be identified and contracts with local organizations or NGOs prepared. The existing system of
contracting with small scale contractors, local NGOs and UN agencies currently employed by Kabul
Municipality will be used. Implementation of urgent works will commence in July or August.
46.    Part D: Engineering and Management Support (US$1.7M equivalent). This subcomponent
would include: (i) engineering and management support to MHBTP to implement the municipal public
9



works program including support to the screening and processing of municipal public works projects, and
development of community planning and consultation processes in the five cities; (ii) engineering support
for the operation of water supply systems in 12 secondary cities over a period of 18 months, preparation
of designs, technical specifications and bidding documents, supervision of works, and future system
planning for each system; and (iii) engineering support to Kabul Municipality to identify, design and
supervise priority sanitation interventions.
Component 2: Power
(Estimated cost: US$15 milion)
47.   Part A: Transmission and Distribution Materials (US$6.5M equivalent). This subcomponent
consists of the procurement of transmission and distribution materials, including insulators, line supports
(including, as an interim measure until a pole factory is established, the import of steel poles), conductor,
conductor joints, cables, cable joints and boxes, transformers, switchgear and ring main units. This
equipment will be used to repair networks in some secondary cities, including augmenting the materials,
which are in stock for Herat; make urgently needed repairs in Kabul, and replace stolen insulators and
conductors on various transmission lines, including those between Shirkhon Bander and Kunduz, and
Hairatan and Pulikhumri.
48.   Part B: Essential Tools and Equipment (US$1.5M equivalent). To enable the enterprises to
begin the work of rehabilitation and repair, and facilitate a resumption of routine preventative
maintenance, this component consists of the procurement of essential stock of tools (including conductor
stringing and joining equipment), cable jointing tools, transformer repair and maintenance equipment and
related supplies, survey equipment, metering and fault test equipment, vehicles, portable diesel generating
units, communications equipment (including cell phones), computers, printers, copiers, and essential
office equipment and software.
49.   Part C: Hydropower Station Repairs (US$2.5M equivalent). This subcomponent will correct the
poor state of repair of several hydropower stations (including Naghlu, Daruanta and Pulikumri II).
Replacement spare parts will be procured from the original manufacturers of the plant and equipment, and
under the supervision of the manufacturers' engineers, DABM staff will install them.
50.   Part D: Re-commissioning of Gas Turbine and Supply of Fuel (US$3.7M equivalent). This
subcomponent includes the re-commissioning, by the original plant supplier, of the 45 MW Kabul (North
West) gas turbine plant. The component will include the supply of diesel fuel and additives to enable the
plant to operate in the event of hydro plant outages, and during winter evenings in 2002 and 2003.
51.   Part E: Engineering and Management Support (US$0.8M equivalent). This subcomponent will
support (i) supervision of the erection of the equipment and plant described in Parts A through D of the
project, to ensure that the work carried out is to an appropriate standard, training and ensuring that
environmental impacts, if any, are positive; and (ii) engineering support for the preparation of the follow
up projects as well as introduction of modern design and construction techniques.
Component 3: Policy Advice and Other Support
(estimated cost: US$2 milion)
52.   This component will include urgently required policy and regulatory advice, training and
additional engineering support to key infrastructure services including, inter alia, water supply and
sanitation, urban services, power, telecom, transport, mining, oil and gas. While a broad policy vision has
been articulated by the AIA for most infrastructure sectors, this component will provide AIA with the
necessary support to detail and start to operationalize the specific reform agenda and improve efficiency
10



by optimizing private sector and community participation. The component will help AIA to put in place
the necessary framework and the legislation to promote private sector participation in the mining and
hydrocarbon sectors. In the urban, water supply and sanitation sectors, the objective is to reinforce the
current level of private sector and community involvement and facilitate a move to more formal private
sector participation. For the power sector, the objective is to support AIA's current efforts to divest the
construction units and design an appropriate industry structure. Draft terms of reference are being
discussed and will be defined by AIA not later than July 1, 2002. Additional details on background,
sector strategy, and policy advice are provided in Annex I.
Project cost table and financing plan (in US$ milion)
(100% IDA financed)
Component                    Local   Foreign   Total   Percent
Urban Services                                  9.7      6.3     16.0     48%
A. Municipal Public Works                    3.0               3.0
B. Urban Water Supply Improvements           4.8      5.0      9.8
C. Sanitation Improvements                   1.5               1.5
D. Engineering and Management Support        0.4      1.3      1.7
Power                                           1.0     14.0     15.0     46%
A. Transmission and Distribution Materials   1.0      5.5      6.5
B. Essential Tools and Equipment                      1.5      1.5
C. Hydropower Station Repairs                         2.5      2.5
D. Re-commissioning Gas Turbine and Supply            3.7      3.7
of Fuel
E. Engineering and Management Support                 0.8      0.8
Policy Advice and Other Support                 0.0      2.0      2.0      6%
A. Mining, Oil and Gas                                1.0
B. Other Infrastructure                               1.0
Total                                          10.7     22.3     33.0    100%
IV. INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS AND PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Detailed Implementation Arrangements by Component
Urban Component.
53.   Part A: Municipal Public Works. By July, the Ministry of Housing, Building and Town Planning
(MHBTP) will have determined the allocation of resources between the five municipalities based on the
agreed criteria and issued information to the municipalities on the mechanisms and rules for accessing
funds. MHBTP will also have convened a meeting of the mayors, key municipal staff and community
leaders to enable a consultation on the rules and modalities of the program. At the municipal level during
May and June, communities will be generating proposals (using the existing system of the district shura
11



or other appropriate mechanism) which will be prioritized at the municipal level. Proposals would then
be forwarded by municipalities to MHBTP for their no objection. Implementation will commence in
July. The materials and labor required to implement sub-projects of Part A would be procured by each
municipality on a case by case basis. At the close of the project, MHBTP would carry out an ex-post
evaluation to ascertain the extent to which the objectives and targeting aims of the subcomponent have
been met.
54.    Part B: Urban Water Supply Improvements. PCF funds will be used to procure the services of a
consulting firm with expertise in the water and sanitation sector. CAWSS, with support from this
consultant, will prepare technical designs, specifications and bidding documents for the most urgent
works to commence in July. Works will include re-establishment of supply, repair of transmission and
distribution networks, and repair and provision of new standposts to reach the maximum number of
consumers. The materials and labor required to implement the works will be procured by MPW. For the
remaining works, the consultant will present outline proposals to CAWSS who will prioritize
interventions across the cities according to the agreed criteria. The consultants will then package the
works appropriately and prepare bidding documents. Each package will include a health education
component to be contracted to local NGOs. The consultant will supervise the works and certify the
payments. The consultant will also assist CAWSS in the operation of the systems and produce an
analysis of long term investment and management needs for each city which will form part of the
preparation material for any future investments.
55.    Part C: Sanitation Improvements. Kabul Municipality already has a list of priority actions
identified by District Shuras which will form the basis of this subcomponent. Using PCF funds Kabul
Municipality will procure the services of a consulting firm or individual to review the sanitation situation
and assist in the final selection of urgent works and/or key pilot interventions in consultation with
community groups and the agencies currently working in the city. Selection of urgent works will be done
in the light of longer term strategic investment needs. The consultant will package the works, prepare
bidding documents or other documentation (if, for example, works are to be community executed). The
materials and labor required to implement the works will be procured by Kabul Municipality. Given the
simple nature of many of the works and the existing database covering the sanitation situation in Kabul,
implementation will commence in July or August.
56.    Part D: Engineering and Management Support. This technical assistance will be provided by
consultants selected in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Power Component.
57.    Part A: Transmission and Distribution: The staff of the Power Construction Unit (PCU) will
install in several teams, the replacement insulators and conductors on 110 kV and 220 kV transmission
lines. Rates for installation will be prepared by PCU and reviewed and, if necessary, corrected by the
Planning Department of the MOP, which will effect a contract with the PCU to carry out the installation
works. However such contract will exclude the cost of PCU staff. The installation of materials and
replacement parts on the distribution systems will be carried out by the DABM as part of its resumed
maintenance routine. Part of the work under this subcomponent is required to be implemented through
departmental labor/force account in view of scattered work in remote locations/emergency nature of the
work.
58.    Part B: Essential Tools and Equipment: The essential stocks of tools and vehicles, etc. will be put
to use by the various power sector enterprises.
12



59.    Part C: Strategic Spare Parts for Hydropower stations: DABM will install the strategic spares
for the hydro plants as part of its resumed maintenance routine, but under the supervision of the supplier
of the spares for each hydro station.
60.    Part D: Re-commissioning of NW Kabul Gas Turbine Plant: The PCU will carry out the
completion of the gas turbine unit under the supervision of the supply contractor, via a contract to be
issued to the PCU by the Planning Department of PWP. (The PCU erected the gas turbine units in 1986
under the supervision of the supplier.)
61.    Parts E: Engineering and Policy Strategy Assistance: This technical assistance will be provided
by consultants selected in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Policy Advice and Other Support Component.
62.    Policy advice and other technical assistance will be provided by consultants selected in
accordance with Bank guidelines. The following ministries will be the key counterparts for policy advice
and technical assistance: (i) Ministry of Public Works for water supply and transport; (ii) Ministry of
Water and Power for power; (iii) Ministry of Mines and Industry for mining and oil and gas; (iv) Ministry
of Telecommunications for telecommunications; and (v) possibly other ministries. The Afghanistan
Assistance Coordination Agency (AACA) will assist with coordination.
B. Procurement
63.    Major procurement, overall financial management and audit functions for the proposed Project
will be undertaken by three Agents - Procurement, Financial Management and Audit - funded under the
recently approved IDA grant-financed Emergency Public Administration Technical Assistance Project.
The three Agents are responsible for carrying out these core functions on behalf of the ALA and in
cooperation with the line ministries. This arrangement of having specialized firms in place early on
(contracts are expected to be signed by end May 2002) would ensure compliance with IDA procedures
from the outset, and expedite implementation of project activities.
64.    Goods, works and consulting services financed under the Project shall be procured in accordance
with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines and Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants,
and using the Bank's model standard bidding documents. Each contract for goods or works estimated to
be equivalent of US$300,000 or more and the first three contracts for goods and the first three contracts
for works, irrespective of value, shall be subject to prior review by IDA. Each contract for employment
of consulting firms estimated to cost US$100,000 or more, and US$50,000 or more in case of individual
consultants, shall be subject to prior review by IDA. All other contracts will be subject to the post award
review. For some of the urgent repair/replacement/recommissioning work, direct contracting with the
Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) is envisaged. For some of the major consulting services, the
preferred selection method is Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS); however, to facilitate quicker
selection of firms for this emergency project, selection based on Consultants' Qualification (CQ) is being
adopted. Detailed procurement arrangement is provided in Annex III.
C. Disbursement and Financial Management
65.    Since there is no Country Profile of Financial Accountability (CPFA) or Country Financial
Accountability Assessment (CFAA) for Afghanistan, there is inadequate knowledge of country issues and
related strengths and weaknesses. Financial management capacity in the country is not fully functional
and appropriate mitigation measures have been suggested through the engagement of the Financial
13



Management Agent. The Financial Management Agent will be responsible for assisting the MOF to
maintain the accounts for all Government expenditures, including IDA financed projects, including the
proposed project, in addition to building capacity within AIA for these functions.
66.    Funds Flow: Funds flow under the project will use the existing government system as much as
possible. As is the practice for government expenditure, all project payments will be routed through the
Ministry of Finance (MOF). The Financial Management Agent to be appointed will support the MOF in
executing and recording project payments.
67.    Treasury officials at the MOF will be the authorized persons to operate the USD Special Account
of the project at Da Afghanistan Bank (DAB); IDA funds will be deposited into the Special Account.
When a project payment is required to be made, implementing agencies (line ministries and other
government departments) will submit a standard payment request to the MOF-Treasury. Treasury
officials, after verifying the documents and checking the availability of funds in the Special Account and
budget will, (a) for payments in Afghanis issue a check in Afghanis for encashment at DAB and (b) in
case of a payment in foreign currency instruct DAB to execute the payment.
68.    For the municipal works component of the project, MOF will, on the advice of Ministry of
Housing, Building and Town planning (MHBTP) transfer advance funds out of the special account to the
municipalities to enable them to make payments to communities, small contractors or NGOs promptly.
69.    All withdrawal applications to the IDA, including replenishment, reimbursement and direct
payment applications, will be prepared and submitted by the MOF.
70.    Due to reasons related to security, damaged infrastructure, and a breakdown in communication
between the branches and the Kabul office of Da Afghanistan Bank (the Central Bank), the AIA will face
a challenge in effecting payments throughout the country. Although not all the branches of Da
Afghanistan Bank are currently fully functional, efforts are being made to rehabilitate the branches so that
the payment needs of the AIA throughout the country can be met, including making arrangements for
secure transport of cash notes around the country. In addition, in the short term there could be a shortage
of Afghani currency notes within the formal system. Salary payments have recently been made in 25 of
the 32 provinces, and the payment systems are being restarted throughout the country. Although the AIA
and Da Afghanistan Bank prefer to use the normal payment systems, in the case that Da Afghanistan
Bank cannot provide the payment services in all required locations, the AIA could resort to alternative
systems (e.g., Hawala) to effect payments in these locations. If the AIA chooses to use such an
alternative system for the flow of funds on IDA-financed activities, the implementation mechanisms and
risk mitigation measures will be agreed with IDA prior to the flow of funds through the alternative
system.
71.   Audit Arrangements: The accounts of the Project will be audited by the Auditor General with the
support of the Audit Agent with terms of reference satisfactory to the Association. The annual Project
financial statement to the Association would include a summary of funds received (showing funds
received from all sources), and a summary of expenditures shown under the main Project components/
activities and by main categories of expenditures.
72.    Retroactive Financing: Provision has been made to reimburse AIA for payments it makes, up to
SDR 3.5 million, between April 1, 2002 and Grant signing for Project expenditures.
73.    Disbursement Method:  Disbursements from the IDA Grant would be transaction-based
(replenishment, reimbursement, direct payment, and payments under Special Commitments) with full
documentation or against statements of expenditures as appropriate).
14



74.    Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs): Disbursements will be made on the basis of SOEs
for: (a) consultants and training for contracts not exceeding US$100,000 for firms and US$50,000 for
individuals; and (b) works and goods for contracts not exceeding US$300,000.
D. Environment and Social Safeguard
75.   The principles governing social and environmental management will be applied through an
Environmental and Social Safeguards Framework (the Framework) which is attached in Annex V. The
Framework is applicable to all activities financed by the proposed Project, and includes (i) key policy
principles for social and environmental management, (ii) tools to guide the screening of subprojects for
significant social and environmental impacts, and to assist in the mitigation of such impacts, (iii)
procedures to ensure that these principles and tools are appropriately applied, and (iv) guidelines for
capacity building and monitoring. The Framework will be operationalized through the proposed Project's
arrangements for implementation, capacity building and monitoring.
76.   The reconstruction and rehabilitation interventions envisaged under the proposed project are not
expected to generate significant negative environmental effects. Rather, they should contribute to the
improvement of environmental conditions. Limited adverse impacts could result, however, from
inadequate design and construction practices. To limit the extent of these risks, the Framework provides
a negative list of activities ineligible for support under the proposed project. To mitigate the remaining
potential impacts, the guidelines and codes of practice included in the Framework provide social and
environmental mitigation measures to be incorporated in the design, contracting and monitoring of sub-
projects. The only intervention expected to require a separate environmental report is the rehabilitation of
the NW Kabul power plant, for which an environmental audit will be conducted as part of
recommissioning.
77.   No activities will be supported that require involuntary land acquisition or the acquisition of land
requiring the resettlement or compensation of more than 200 people. Consequently, no Resettlement
Action Plan will be required for the proposed project. The voluntary donation or compensated
contribution of land for subproject activities will be guided by the "Guidelines for Land and Asset
Acquisition, Entitlements and Compensation" included in the Framework.
78.   Given the nature of the operation (being processed under OP 8.50 Emergency Recovery
Assistance) and the proposed activities for IDA financing, an exemption has been obtained from the
requirement to make the Framework publicly available prior to appraisal. The Framework will, however,
be made publicly available in Afghanistan and at the World Bank Info Shop prior to presentation of the
proposed project to the World Bank Board.
79.   Gender. The last twenty years of social upheaval has greatly affected the overall gender situation
in Afghanistan, resulting in very restrictive policies vis-a-vis women's participation in public life, access
to education and other services as well as employment opportunities. This development culminated
during the Taliban regime where women and girls were effectively excluded from any participation in
public life. With the replacement of the Taliban regime, women have regained the right to education,
employment opportunities and services, but the prevailing social norms are still very conservative and
restrictive regarding women's participation in the national development effort.  There are huge
differences between Kabul and the much smaller secondary cities, and the rural areas. In addition, there
are considerable regional differences with the south and southeastern areas of the country being more
restrictive and conservative than the western and northern areas. These variations to some extent coincide
with ethnic differences. To this should be added the great difference in outlook of returning refugees
(whether repatriating from the West or from the neighboring countries) and those who remained in
Afghanistan.
15



80.   The components of the project will benefit households in general by providing increased level of
services including power, water, sanitation and transport. While women and children are not specifically
targeted, they will be the primary beneficiaries of the interventions in water and sanitation in terms of
health gains (the under-S mortality rate is currently 25%) and reduced workload in water collection. The
realization of these benefits will be ensured through the provision of health education as part of the water
and sanitation interventions.
81.   The types of public works planned under the project are not expected to generate labor
opportunities for women to any significant degree, with the exception of the health education component
to be managed by the municipalities, which will primarily be employing women. During the process of
consultations with local communities, separate arrangements shall be made to ensure participation by and
consultation with women, as they can not be expected to be covered through the general community
consultations.
E. Monitoring and Evaluation
82.   Monitoring arrangements include plans for intensive supervision by IDA to ensure that any
implementation difficulties are dealt with promptly. At a minimum, a full supervision mission is needed
quarterly, with specialists visiting Afghanistan more frequently if needed during Project implementation.
A quarterly progress report will be prepared and submitted to IDA, which consolidates all components
including progress towards meeting implementation and development objectives, as further detailed in the
Project's procurement plan and detailed monitoring indicators. Responsibility for this reporting rests with
the AACA, with each implementing agency agreeing to provide requisite input. Annex VI provides
additional details on monitoring indicators for the Project.
F. Justification
83.   This project is expected to be the start of a longer term involvement of IDA and other Bank
Group instruments in selected infrastructure sub sectors. This first operation will, apart from emergency
assistance, set the stage for: (i) increasing access to sustainable urban infrastructure services and power;
and (ii) developing the vast potential of energy and mineral resources for the benefit of the Afghan
population at large. In addition to the creation of suitable legal and regulatory frameworks, capacity
building efforts supported by the Project would help to create absorptive capacity for handling donor
assistance, community driven development as well as other forms of private sector involvement across
infrastructure sectors.
16



ANNEXES






ANNEX I: DETAILED INFORMATION ON RELEVANT INFRASTRUCTURE SECTORS
A. Urban Services
1.     Sector Organization. Under the 1964 Constitution, all local authorities fall under the Ministry
of Interior, except for Kabul which is headed by an appointed mayor with ministerial rank. There are 32
provinces in the country, each administered by a Provincial Governor, to whom all mayors report. Each
Province has a capital town varying in size from 5,000 people to Kabul's population of 2.5 million.
There are 217 municipalities with a population of 5,000 or more, but more than 85 percent of the urban
population are concentrated in the five largest towns.
2.     The Ministry of the Interior (MOI) is responsible for municipal governance and oversight while
the Ministry of Housing, Building and Town Planning (MHIBTP), formerly the Ministry of Urban
Development, historically was responsible for the preparation of master plans, housing plans and
oversight of construction norms and standards. Several years ago, MHIBTP was subsumed under the
Ministry of Public Works but was recently re-established although it lacks staff and assets.
3.     Notwithstanding Kabul's special status, its functions are typical of an urban local authority. Prior
to 1992, the responsibilities of Kabul Municipality were the implementation of the city's master plan,3
construction of canals, ditches, flood protection measures, solid waste management, supervision of public
parks, greening the city, construction and paving of roads, control of food prices, distribution of land plots
for commercial and residential purposes, recovery of residential sites, cultural services and expansion of
food markets. In cooperation with other ministries, it was also indirectly involved in the construction of
the city sewerage system, water supply, construction of prefabricated apartments, city power,
communications, public health, education, and sport. Public urban transport is controlled by the Ministry
of Transport while traffic management falls under the MOI.
4.     Staff of municipalities are centrally appointed: top-level managers require the Prime Minister's
approval; middle managers require the Minister's approval; and all other employees require the approval
of the Provincial Governor. Since 1992, there have been no elections to city councils, with all officials
being appointed by the administration of the day.
5.     While sources of municipal revenue are varied, revenue collection has been at a low level owing
to the disturbances and a lack of service provision. Significant sources of revenue raised at the local level
(customs, business tax, levies, income tax) flow to the central government with little redirected back to
the local level. While there are claims that local governments are autonomous, their lack of local revenue
and their relatively limited sphere of action, highly circumscribed in the development arena, would
indicate that they are not.
6.     Within municipalities each district has a president and vice president, below whom are five
offices: engineering, foodstuffs control, statistics, administration, and income. Residential areas are
currently organized administratively by the municipality in all cities into gozars (neighborhoods), with
distinct physical boundaries, each with a wakil-e-gozar (neighborhood level representative). Typically,
about 15-20 gozars form a single district. Prior to the Mujahideen takeover, elections were held for
community representatives at district level, via mosques and collection centers. In connection with the
3 The 1978 master plan was not implemented fully, reportedly due to insufficient funds, lack of management and
planning capacity. Unplanned shelter expansion occurred, with other government agencies also contributing
through the construction of facilities without reference to the master plan.
17



ANNEX I
rehabilitation efforts district shuras have been formed, and representatives from each shura combine to
form an informal council which meets regularly at municipal level.
7.     Urban Water Supply and Sanitation. The nodal agency for delivery of urban water supply and
piped sewerage is the Central Authority for Water Supply and Sanitation (CAWSS) which falls under the
Ministry of Public Works (MPW). CAWSS was established in 1978 as a quasi autonomous, publicly-
owned company. CAWSS is responsible for the water supply system in Kabul and has established
networks in twelve provincial cities4. CAWSS serves 31,500 connections in Kabul, about 3,000
connections each in the major provincial towns (Kandahar, Herat, Mazar-i-Sharif), and about 1,000
connections in the smaller towns such as Ghazni. The average staffing is therefore about 10 per 1,000
connections, which is low compared to the regional average (25-30 per 1,000), but above "good practice"
levels of 4 to 5 per 1,000.
8.     Within Kabul the former Soviet-style public housing complexes and some other buildings are
maintained by an independent agency within the MPW, known as the Macro-Rayan Maintenance
Department, which maintains independent water supply and sanitation systems. Sanitation, other than
sewerage, is the responsibility of the municipalities.
9.    In most urban areas, NGOs have taken responsibility for investments and management of
significant parts of the water supply and sanitation systems. Key players include Habitat, ICRC, CARE
International and German Agro Action. The scale of NGO/ Agency involvement is significant. (ICRC,
for example, have constructed 46,000 latrines in Kabul, and solid waste management in the city is
maintained only because of significant support provided through CARE, Habitat and ICRC.) Any future
strategy will need to reflect this situation. In addition, NGOs and Agencies have worked closely with
various community fora and directly with households and are a significant resource in terms of future
engagement between water supply and sanitation service delivery agents and consumers.
10.   The linkage between CAWSS staff in the provincial towns and Kabul is limited and these staff
seem to have a stronger relationship with provincial governors or the municipalities. In recent times
communication with the Southern cities such as Kandahar, Ghazni, Jalalabad, Herat, has been maintained,
but not with the Northern Cities formerly under the Northern Alliance. Even in Kabul, CAWSS has lost
many of its physical assets (records, equipment etc) and many of the staff are requesting capacity building
to bring them up to date with new approaches in the areas of management, office technology, water
supply and sanitation technology and modern institutional approaches to the sector. Nonetheless,
CAWSS staff and staff in the Agencies and NGOs in all the cities have shown dedication and creativity in
keeping at least parts of the network operational.
11.   Sector Status. Most urban Afghans currently lack access to basic services - and must either go
without or rely on costly alternatives. Among the most serious costs, particularly for women and
children, are the costs in terms of health (from unsafe water and sanitation and household air pollution
from burning traditional biomass fuels) and time (for example, fetching water and fuel).
12.   Most of the urban water supply systems in Afghanistan's cities and towns have been severely
damaged either directly during the period of conflict, or indirectly due to the prolonged period of neglect
and lack of maintenance. As a result the systems are operating at very low levels of efficiency. Source
yields are adversely affected by deterioration in the boreholes, lack of appropriate pumps, and fluctuating
power supplies. The distribution networks have been broken and mended haphazardly using any
4Charikar, Ghazni, Herat, Jalalabad, Kandahar, Kunduz, Mazar-i-Sharif, Mehterlam, Qala-e-Naw, Qalat,
Shiberghan and Taluqan.
18



ANNEX I
available pipe materials and informal connections are widespread. Significant parts of the systems have
been cut off from the network and there are a large number of alternative systems which have been built
around new borewells. However a significant number of consumers are still able to access some supply
through standposts which will form a major source of potable water for the foreseeable future.
13.    When and if water does reach the house, consumers have little incentive to conserve water. While
there seems to be a convention of paying for water supply, cost recovery is very low. Tariffs are
inconsistent with costs and the level of metering is very poor . In Kabul in 2001 CAWSS billed less than
US$150,000 (or less than US$5 per connection) of which only about 18 percent was collected due in part
to the confused situation with regard to tenure and the inability of government institutions to pay their
bills.
14.    As a consequence coverage is low and service unreliable. There is heavy reliance on local or on-
site water and sanitation solutions. It is estimated that less than 20 percent of Kabul's population are
currently served by piped water. Access to safe sanitation is very limited in urban areas although
impressive work has been done by NGOs and UN agencies to construct latrines utilizing composting
toilets. In many families hygiene practices are poor. Diarrheal disease is a major cause of infant and
child mortality - estimated to account for 27 percent of deaths in children between birth and one year, and
12 percent of deaths of children between the ages of one and five.
15.    Around a quarter of urban housing is seriously damaged or destroyed and about 40 percent of
housing units are in unplanned areas. Urban infrastructure is also severely damaged or destroyed: about
40 percent of roads are damaged and 50 percent of drains are broken or do not function. About 50
percent of houses have no solid waste collection and sanitary disposal sites do not exist.
16.    Afghan authorities now have to cope with rapid urban growth due to high natural population
increase, urbanization, and a current influx of returning refugees and displaced people; a backlog of land
and housing needs caused a combination of years of turmoil and a rigid master planning system; a
deteriorated housing stock, overcrowding, and pressure to make more land available for housing; a
mismatch between land and housing prices and income levels; an outdated and incomplete land
registration system; pressure to resolve disputed property claims; and a severe lack of financial resources.
17.    The key donors active in the urban services sector are:
*  Agencies and NGOs including Habitat, ICRC, CARE International, German Agro Action
and DACAAR who have provided support for both water supply and sanitation in various
cities during the past 10 years;
*  KfW supporting urban water supply in Kabul and possibly Herat;
*  EU planning to support urban development in a number of secondary cities;
*  USAID who have been providing support to agencies delivering urgent urban services
such as solid waste management;
*  ISAF providing support to urban reconstruction; and
5 In Kabul, both volumetric and flat rates are used, depending on whether the connection is equipped with a meter.
Current volumetric rates are Afg. 1000/ m3 for households ($0.03 / m3), and Afg. 4500/m3 for offices and NGOs
($0.13/m3). Few meters are likely to be operational at the current time. For those connections without a meter,
rates are Afg. 120,000/year ($3.43/year) for % inch connections, Afg. 240,000/year for /4 inch connections, and Afg.
480,000/year for 1 inch connections. Connection fees are Afg. 100,000 for % inch connections, Afg. 200,000 for 3/4
inch connections, and Afg. 400,000 for 1 inch connections. A labor charge of Afg. 80,000 has to be paid in addition
to the connection fee. Consumers have to be settle their bills at local branches of the Afghan Bank, which then
transfers the money to CAWSS own Bank account.
19



ANNEX I
* Government of Japan who previously provided support to construct water supply in
Kandahar and have launched a US$3M urban reconstruction fund for Kabul jointly with
lTNDP.
18.   In view of the large number of agencies and donors already active or interested in supporting
sector investments in Kabul City, particularly in water supply, short and medium term interventions by
IDA will focus largely on the delivery of improved services in provincial and other secondary cities.
Where other donors are willing and able to quickly support investments in particular cities this will be
coordinated. Where possible, secondary cities will be dealt with in geographic clusters by donors to
facilitate interventions.
20



ANNEX I
B. Power
1.    Overview of the power sector. In 1966, the Government created a state-owned power sector,
when it bought out the private investors who jointly owned with Government the country's Electricity
Corporation. Currently, the Ministry of Power (MOP) is responsible for the power sector, under
Afghanistan's Usage of Electricity Act of 1986. The Act describes the rights of the consumer and sets
down the responsibilities of the MOP with regard to the generation and supply of electricity, and the
development of new and renewable energy sources. In the 1980s, the Government passed the Enterprises
Act, which set out the responsibilities of the various departments, or enterprises, of the various sectors
including the power sector. This Act describes the memberships of the Boards of Directors of the
enterprises, along with their responsibilities and the need to operate each entity in a cost effective and
autonomous manner.
2.     The enterprises in the power sector are: (i) Da Afghanistan Breshna Moassesa (DABM), which is
responsible for the operation and maintenance of Afghanistan's generation, transmission and distribution
assets, as well as the sales of electricity. DABM accounts for about 80% of the country's electricity
production and distribution, with the Ministries of Mines and Industry, and Light Industry accounting for
much of the remaining generation, as owners of major industrial and small-scale enterprises; (ii) the
Water and Power Engineering Consultancy Authority (WAPECA), which, under specific contracts with
the Planning Department of the MOP, designs the additions to Afghanistan's generation and transmission
capacity; (iii) the Spinghar Construction Unit, which is similarly awarded contracts by the Planning
Department to build the civil works of its substations and power stations; (iv) the Power Construction
Unit, which is contracted by the Planning Department to erect power station equipment, and transmission
and distribution lines and the associated substations; and (v) the New and Renewable Energy Research
and Development Center. However, the enterprises, which are quasi-government departments, have not
been run autonomously, because successive governments have controlled most decisions and the Ministry
of Finance has controlled, through its budget, the sector's annual recurrent costs and investments.
3.     Recognizing that this is not a desirable situation, the AIA's vision for the power sector is to
encourage community service delivery, particularly in rural areas, and encourage local and foreign private
investors to provide services at least cost in an environmentally sustainable and socially acceptable way.
Government would withdraw from implementation of investment projects and operations while keeping
responsibility for policy making and putting in place an appropriate regulatory framework. As a first step,
the AIA plans, over the next few months, to bring the semi-autonomous "enterprises" reporting to the
Ministry of Water and Power under a new framework of company law reflecting the Constitutional Law
of 1964 which would provide them with real autonomy. The AIA intends to privatize the Power
Construction and the Spinghar Construction Units as soon as possible. The options for further
restructuring and possible privatization of Da Afghanistan Breshna Moassesa (DABM - the power
utility), which is responsible for operation and maintenance of the system throughout the country, will
need some further study, but it is expected to be implemented in the near future.
4.     Generation assets. Afghanistan has never had a national grid, and several isolated electricity
networks are centered on Kabul or the other secondary cities. The countrywide total of generating
capacity supplying the networks in the early 1990s amounted to 377 MW. As a result of the above
events, this capacity has declined to a fragile 200 MW, all of which is old and near to collapse. Details of
generation capacities for Kabul and the other cities are contained in Table 1 below. Much of the
operational plant is centered on Kabul, where currently each evening half of the consumers in rotation are
fed by three hydroelectric power stations, with a total nameplate rating of 188 MW. These power stations
are currently de-rated to about 120 MW, because of their age and their un-maintained, vulnerable
condition. Currently their total output is further downgraded to a total of about 60 MW because the
Kabul river on which the hydro stations are sited, is fed mainly by melting snow; and dryer than usual
21



ANNEX I
conditions have prevailed for the last four years, resulting in the reservoir outflow having to be carefully
rationed every day. The hydro-generation and associated substation plant and equipment are outdated and
have been poorly maintained. Much of it needs replacing. If the systems are to continue running in the
interim for the next year or two, strategic spares and consumables must be purchased and installed as soon
as possible. Because the stations are 35 and 45 years old, the spares will be difficult and expensive to
acquire.
5.     Kabul. city also has two gas turbine stations. One has been damaged by warfare, and this,
combined with its age, means that it is uneconomic to rehabilitate. The other with a capacity of 45 MW is
in mothballs, and has not been operated for 10 years. Most of the equipment to convert the station to a
more efficient combined cycle unit utilizing the turbines' waste heat, was delivered to site but it was not
installed because inter-factional fighting in 1988 and conditions since prevented the contractor from
completing the work. The station would use diesel at the rate of about $4,000 per hour, which DABM
cannot afford to procure. Thus the current evening supply of electricity to Kabul is limited to 60 MW,
which is about half the connected demand.
6.    In the secondary cities, where hydro-electric power has been the predominant source of supply,
the generation capacities of the machines are much lower than their nameplate ratings, because they are
old or have been badly maintained because of the lack of spares, consumables, lubricating oil, and tools.
Some outputs have been reduced to zero (see Table 1).
Table 1
Afghanistan's electricity generation capacities
Plant name      Type     Origin   Year   Units & name   Current units  Area served
(Region)                                plate ratings  available & de-
(kW)      rated capacities
_______           (kW )
Naghlu           Hydro     USSR      1967      4 x 25,000      3 x 25,000  Kabul
Sarobi           Hydro     Germany   1957      2 X 11,000      2 x 10,000 Kabul
Mahipar          Hydro     Germany   1967       3 x 22,000     2 x 16,000 Kabul
Gas turbines 1 & 2  Thermal          1978   21,800+21,800           Nil Kabul
Gas turbines 3 & 4  Thermnal         1985   21,800+23,800  21,800+23,800  Kabul
Darunta          Hydro     USSR      1964       3 x 3,850       3 x 2,500 Jalalabad
Kajakai          Hydro     USA       1975       2 x 16,500     2 x 12,000 Kandahar and
_____________                Helmand
Filkoh           Hydro     Germany    1950        2 x 320           Nil Kandahar
Baba Wali        Hydro     Germany   1936         1 x 250           Nil Kandahar
Grishk           Hydro     USA       1961       2 x 1,200        1 x 500  Grishk
Pulikhumri II    Hydro     USSR      1962        3 x 3,000      2 x 2,500 Pulikhumri
Chaki-wardak     Hydro     Germany   1940        3 x 1,100      2 x 2,500  Chaki-wardak
Jabul Seraj      Hydro     USA       1920       500 +500        Nil + 200 Jabul Seraj
TUK                  770+ 770        Nil + 300
Parwan           Hydro     China      1973        3 x 800        2 x 800 Parwan
Assadabad        Hydro     Germany   1983         2 x 350        1 x 250  Assadabad
Ghorband         Hydro    India      1975         3 x 100        1 x 100 Ghorband
Faizabad         Hydro    India      1984          3 x 85         1 x 85 Faizabad
Baharak          Hydro    India      1986         2 x 100        1 x 100 Baharak
Chalwarcha       Hydro    India      1950          1 x 85           Nil Herat
22



ANNEX I
7.     Transmission and distribution. In the early 1990s, Afghanistan's networks were made up of
about 3,800 km of transmission lines and about 5,450 km of distribution lines. These have been damaged
by factional fighting, and have had little or no maintenance, due to a lack of funds. Hundreds of
kilometers of conductor and the supporting towers and insulators have been stolen. The networks lengths
have been reduced to about 2,170 km and 3,700 km of transmission and distribution lines respectively.
The factories in Kabul and Kandahar, which produced pre-stressed spun concrete poles for the
transrnission, distribution and telephone networks, have been completely destroyed. Afghanistan's
substation capacities have been simnilarly depleted, from a total capacity of 507 MVA in the early 1990s,
to about 315 MVA today. Details of the town networks, the transmission lines and associated substations
are contained in Table 2. In some cities, many lower voltage cables have been dangerously repaired with
the metal of the joints in the open and above ground. Several accidental deaths have occurred in the last
year when adults or children have touched them. Table 2 also records the many transmission and sub-
transmission voltages that have been foisted upon the sector when network materials have being donated
to Afghanistan by various countries. There is an eventual need for some standardization to reduce stores,
associated tooling and costs. The missing transmission lines should be supplying important secondary
towns such as Gulbahar, Kunduz and Pulikhumri, where supplies of electrical power are needed by
existing, operational publicly-owned textile and soap factories, cement mills, coal mines and other
commercial undertakings, where work can be provided to returning immigrants, and production can begin
to support the rebuilding of the devastation.
Table 2
Electricity Networks in Afghanistan
Transmission and distribution lines           Substations
Network     Length of lines  Length of lines   Capacity     Capacity
Province    voltage(s)       built      currently available  built (kVA)  currently
(kV)           (km)            (km)                       available
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   ~(kV A )
Kabul          110/15/0.4  520/1,550/2,856    202/750/1,300     285,200      170,650
Kandahar       110/20/0.4    225/200/1,200    225/200/1,200      50,000       25,000
Helmand          4413/0.4        56/45/85          0/45/85       19,950       19,950
Nengerhar        35/6/0.4       43/52/120        43/52/120       15,700       11,400
Parwan              6/0.4          60/40              0/30       15,000          Nil
Ghori         110/35/6/0.4   204/5/115/350      0/5/115/250      37,000       37,000
Balkh         110/35/6/0.4  382/41/350/800   142/41/350/800      84,000       84,000
8.    Imports.   Afghanistan imports electrical power from four sources. (i) It began to import
electricity from Uzbekistan in 1985. Imports ceased during the Taliban rule, but were resumed in March
2002. Uzbekistan is supplying up to 22 MW to the city of Mazar-i-Sharif and Jawzjan province, via a
220 kV transmission line currently operating at 110 kV. No purchase agreement has been effected yet.
(ii) Afghanistan has been importing power from Turkmenistan since 1993, supplying Andkhoi district
near the border with about 5 million kWh per year via a 110 kV line; and supplying Turghundi district in
Herat province with about 8 million kWh via a 10 kV line. The tariff is US cents 5 per kWh. The 110 kV
line from Andkhoi and Jergodog was commissioned on April 15, 2002, and supplies from Turkmenistan
are now available to Balkh and Jawzjan province. MOP has plans to build a 220 kV line to Herat city ,
6Herat city provides an interesting case of private sector participation in the power sector. The city's publicly
owned generators have long since been destroyed, and its 6.0 kV system has been abandoned as a result. However,
the city has about 80 privately owned, 50-125 kW, diesel generators, which feed into small area low voltage
networks. Consumers, who must provide their own connections and meters, pay the city's MOP Directorate, who in
turn reimburses the owners of the generators according to their supplies. Based on the monthly cost of diesel fuel, a
23



ANNEX I
where power imports from Turkmenistan can be distributed. The city has had distribution materials in
stock since 1975, which were provided by East Germany to upgrade the now defunct 6.0 kV system to 20
kV. They were never installed. (iii) Tajikistan is supplying power to villages near the border in the
province of Badakhshan, through 6 and 10 kV sub-transmission lines. If the insulators and aluminum
conductor are restored to the 110 kV line from Sherkhan Bandar to Kunduz, Tajikistan power can be
supplied to Kunduz and the surrounds. No power purchase agreement has yet been effected. (iv) Iran
supplies about 500 kW to Zaranj town in Nimroz province. No power purchase agreement has been
effected Iran yet.
9.     Consumers. Currently there are about 90,000 electricity consumers in Afghanistan. But in 1990
in Kabul alone there were about 150,000 consumers. Their combined maximum, though unsatisfied,
demand in the winter months was about 300 MW. Currently Kabul has only 56,000 domestic consumers,
about 1,920 commercial and 2,250 industrial consumers. Government offices and undertakings, grouped
under the commercial tariff classification, number about 500 connections. Of the 56,000 domestic
consumers, about 60 percent are government employees. Kabul's current annual maximum demand,
which is also unmet, is about 130 MW on winter evenings. It consists largely of a domestic heating load.
Because of limited generation and transmission capacities, only about half of the consumers are provided
with electricity on alternative evenings. In the secondary cities, conditions are much worse, and supplies
are usually only provided for a couple of hours each evening at best. Everywhere security is threatened
by the lack of street lighting. Afghanistan's installed working capacity for electricity generation at 0.11
kW per capita, and the utilization of electricity of 16 kWh per year per capita is probably the lowest in the
world. Only about 4 percent of the population has access to power supplies.
10.    System losses. Total losses in the Afghanistan power systems are difficult to estimate accurately.
However, technical losses, caused by poorly repaired transmission and distribution lines, which have
inadequate capacities, are estimated to be about 35 percent. Non-technical losses (theft) are estimated to
be about 15 percent. Each consumer is individually metered, and DABM operates a strict disconnection
policy for defaulting payers. However, the billing system currently used is entirely manual, no use of
computerization is involved, thus the process is slow, and data and records are difficult to access.
11.    The status of the sector enterprises. DABM's service area is geographically large (the country
has an area of 652,000 km2), much of it with a very low population density. Historic data related to the
sector is sparse, and most of the records have been destroyed; often burnt as fuel in the winter when the
offices of the power sector were billeted by factional forces. Currently throughout the country, the power
sector infrastructure is in disarray, caused by a combination of the direct effects of the wars that have
blighted Afghanistan for the last twenty-five years, and by subsequent pillages of much of the sector
equipment. The consequent damage has been compounded by a lack of spare parts and a lack of
appropriate maintenance, caused by an under-funding of the sector by succeeding governments, despite
DABM's financial viability over the years. The substantial loss in value of the Afghani has contributed to
the problem. The tariff was recently reduced' in Kabul, which DABM estimates will decrease its
delegation of the owners sets the domestic, shopkeepers' and comnmercial tariffs, in which the Directorate allows a
reasonable profit.
7
Previous tariffs                   New tariffs since Dec 2001 in Kabul
Residential consumption, anually   Residential consumption, annually
Zero-600 kWh @ 600 Afs/kWh          Zero- 600kWh @ 200 Afs/kWh
600-1,200 kWh @ 1,000 Afs/kWh       600- 1,200kWh @ 600 Afs/kWh
1,200 kWh et al @ 2,000 Afs/kWh    1,200 kWh et al @ 900 Afs/kWh
Industries and others: @ 3,000 Afs/kWb  Industries and others @ 2,000 Afs/kWh
(*Current tariffs in the northern areas are reportedly 4,000
Afs/KwH
24



ANNEX I
collections by two-thirds to about 5 billion Afs/month. As a result of these difficult conditions, the
otherwise diligent electricity staff, which has made heroic efforts to keep the aged system operating, has
been unable to properly maintain and repair much of the remaining equipment. All five power sector
enterprises have suffered badly from the conditions of the last 25 years. Buildings have been partially or
totally destroyed, and looted of tools, plant and equipment. The enterprises are operating with a few ex-
USSR trucks, all of which are about thirty years old. Spares are not available for them. The power sector
has virtually no office furniture, no stationary or consumables, no light bulbs or cleaning materials, and
no telephones or radio communications. The power sector shares one, recently donated, desk-top
computer and a printer.
12.   The five enterprises have a total of about 6,044 staff positions, and the MOP has 537 staff
positions. Twenty or so years ago, most of these posts were filled. In response to AIA's invitation to
return to work, about 2,000 staff have recently reported back for duty, to join the 3,500 who remained in
their posts. However, many of the sector's staff are close to retirement, and because of the conditions that
have prevailed for the last twenty-five years, most of the staff have been unable to remain current with
modem worldwide developments in the power sector.
13.   IDA support to the sector. The proposed Project complements and takes into account proposed
interventions from other donors. Specifically, KfW is funding rehabilitation of parts of the Kabul
transmission and distribution networks of part of west Kabul, and the partial establishment of a 110 kV
substation at Breshna Kot in Kabul. The IDA grant funds will be used to concentrate on repair and
reconstruction of hydro and thermal generation in Kabul, and transmission and distribution in some
secondary cities as well as some urgently needed repairs, not covered by KfW, in Kabul.
14.   The Grant will help to prepare follow-on projects, which will address many of the problems
described above and which can only be resolved over a longer time span. These will likely include: (i)
the rebuilding of the transmission lines from Naghlu to Gulbahar, and from Pulikhumri to Kunduz; (ii) the
further expansion of the Breshna Kot substation in Kabul, (iii) the replacement with modem, more
efficient, higher capacity generating plant, which will utilize the same quantities of river water as is
currently used, in the Mahipar, Naghlu and Sarobi, Darunta, Pulikumri II, and other hydro power stations;
(iv) the procurement and installation of the long since planned third and final unit (18.5 MW) in the
existing Kajakai hydroelectric power station; (v) the installation of the combined cycle unit at the gas
turbine plant in Kabul and (vi) reconstruction, modernization and standardization of Afghanistan's
transmission and distribution networks.
25



ANNEX I
C. Oil and Gas
1.    The petroleum sector, when efficiently managed, can contribute significantly to the economic
development of any nation. Afghanistan has significant potential oil and gas resources. This potential,
however, is under explored. Initial hydrocarbon exploration activities carried out by Russia was
perfunctory and had concentrated only at shallow productive geological horizons. Due to the political
disturbances, no exploration activities have been conducted after 1979. Recoverable reserves of oil are
estimated at 14 million tons, and the gas reserves estimated at about 120 billion cubic meters (bcm) with
the likelihood of additional reserves of about 1000 bcm at deeper horizons (at depths greater than 3000
meters). Currently, petroleum products are supplied by several local private sector entrepreneurs with
minimum government control, monitoring or management. Infrastructure for local production of oil and
gas are currently not functional and the level of local expertise in oil and gas exploration and producticn
is limited. There is currently no foreign private sector participation in the overall sector. All these factors
have contributed to the country's inability to develop its hydrocarbon resources. As a result, Afghanistan
remains a country with attractive untapped oil and gas potential.
2.     The AIA has developed a strategy that would create a petroleum sector that is efficient and cost
effective in meeting the demand of products and services at least economic, financial and environmental
cost to the country, while at the same time promote the development of the country's hydrocarbon
potential, institution capacity and manpower needs for the sector. The AIA, however, is aware that in
order to achieve the objectives of this strategy it would have to establish an enabling environment that
would attract investments from both private local and international groups. This will also require
strengthening the capability of government institutions and to equip them with logistical support and well
trained manpower to enable them control, manage and monitor activities in the sector efficiently.
3.    In this regard, the AIA plans to implement the following set of actions:
* Develop institutional capacity and improve the level of expertise of its manpower;
* Develop appropriate legal and regulatory framework that would allow the promotion of private
sector investment in the sector and the efficient development of the resources in an
environmentally and safe manner;
* Restore the capability for local production of oil and gas and the rehabilitation of essential
infrastructure to facilitate the transport of oil and gas;
* Promote to the private sector (local and foreign) new areas for exploration and production; and
facilitate technology transfer;
* Evaluate the economic and financial viability of local industries such as refinery, fertilizer, etc.;
and
* Evaluate the viability of the country as a preferred transit route for gas exports from the
surrounding former Soviet Union countries.
4.     The policy advice and other support to be provided under this component will assist the AIA to
implement this strategy and would be executed over a six month period. This will lay the foundation for a
number of additional activities that may be undertaken under future projects and with assistance from
other donors. Some activities that relate to the development of Cadastre and Data Management
Information Systems and the development of geological data maps are described in the section on mining.
The Ministry of Mines and Industry (MMI) will be the principal beneficiary and agency responsible for
implementing the activities. The exact scope of the technical assistance is being formulated, but may
include:
26



ANNEX I
(a)   Assistance and advice in the implementation of the restructuring of MIMI, to separate the
responsibilities for petroleum (oil and gas) from mining into two distinct departments,
and the development and implementation of programs for training the staff of the
ministry and the agencies;
(b)   Advice on creation of an independent Directorate within the Ministry for petroleum
resources development that would be vested with the exclusive mandate to design, draft
and implement policies in the sector;
(c)   Analyze existing legislation and regulations pertaining to petroleum  resources
development with a view of preparing a modem legal regulatory framework as part of a
"Declaration of Sector policy" that would: (i) set the basic rules and regulations that
would govern petroleum operations in the country; (ii) regulate these activities as they are
carried out by both domestic and international enterprises; and (iii) define the principal
administrative, economic and fiscal guidelines for promoting investment activities in the
sector.
5.    The outcome could be a legal and regulatory framework that would include a new Petroleum
Law, Petroleum regulations, Modem Concession and Production Agreements that would be in line with
international best practices and would facilitate the promotion of private sector interest in the sector.
6.     Another component could provide assistance to MMI in undertaking several studies for
promoting the development of the petroleum resources of the country. The hydrocarbon potential of
Afghanistan has not been fully explored. Geologically, two petroleum basins (the Amu-Darya and the
Afghan -Tajik basins) extend southwards from the countries of the Former Soviet Union into the north
and north western parts of Afghanistan. These basins are considered to be highly productive. The Amu-
Darya basin, which is productive in Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan, is estimated to have recoverable
reserves of over 200 trillion cubic meters of gas (or 37 billion barrels of oil equivalent). Although also
found productive in Afghanistan, this basin has not been fully or comprehensively explored. The only
exploration done in this basin was carried out perfunctorily by the Russians in the 1970s during which
about 250 billion cubic meters of recoverable gas reserves and 14 million tons of oil reserves were found
in the shallow horizons (at depths less than 3000 meters). The other basin which is productive in
Tajikistan has not been explored in Afghanistan. In addition to these two basins, three other areas in
Afghanistan also have hydrocarbon potential. These are in the areas around Herat, the south and south
eastern parts, and the eastern part of the country, where Total Oil Company did some exploration
activities in 1976. These basins would need to be evaluated for their hydrocarbon potential with the
intention of promoting them to the private sector for exploration and development.
7.     Furthermore, there is need to evaluate the economic viability of utilizing the gas currently being
produced at Sherbagan for power and non-power demand in other parts of the country; and also to
evaluate the potential of the country as a transit route for gas export from the countries of former Soviet
Union (FSU) to the Arabian Sea. The following studies could be undertaken:
(a)   a geological, geophysical, geo-chemical analysis of the petroleum basins in the country
with the view of identifying areas that can be promoted for exploration of oil and gas
deposits; development of a concession map for these new areas to be promoted; and
development of a program for promoting these areas to interested local and foreign
private investors in several cities including Kabul (Houston, London, Singapore and
Moscow);
(b)   feasibility studies of: (i) a gas pipeline to transport gas from the Sherbergan area to Kabul
for power and non-power demand; (ii) development of a fertilizer and refinery plants in
the country; (iii) a cross country gas pipeline for the transport of gas from the FSU
countries through Afghanistan to the Arabian sea.
27



ANNEX I
8.     The consulting services may include creating opportunities for promoting the transfer of
technology through training and participation of the staff of the ministry and the Geological Survey.
28



ANNEX I
D. Mining
1.    Mining can and does contribute to economic development and human well-being. If conducted in
an environmentally sustainable manner, exploitation of mineral resources can provide substantial tax
revenues to central and local governments, create direct and indirect jobs, and stimulate spin-off
industries in and around the mining operations. Exploration in Afghanistan has identified occurrences of
gold, barite, talc, chromites, and other minerals. However, to date, attempts to develop the iron ore and
copper deposits have not proven successful. There is a considerable, but as yet un-quantified, semi-
precious stone industry undertaken mainly by artisans. Quarry, construction and industrial minerals are
also exploited, although at a drastically reduced rate from previous years. Finally, the country has
reasonably good quality coal resources and some of this is mined for domestic and industrial purposes as
well as fuel for electricity generation. However, the coal exploitations have suffered due to antiquated
machinery and lack of new investment.
2.     However, the benefits from mining have eluded Afghanistan. Previous policies which fostered
the use of State institutions to find and develop the resources have not proven successful to generate
investment in the sector. For the past 15 years the country has been isolated politically and the public
institutions responsible for mining and the personnel in them have been unexposed to new developments
and international best practices in mining. Finally, for the past 25 years the security situation in the
country has limited the ability of the central government to establish national sovereignty over mineral
resources and to promote exploration and development of them.
3.     The AIA is conscious of the need for the central government to exert its control over valuable
non-renewable mineral resources. At the same time, the AIA is aware that development of the mineral
resources will require investments much larger than the can be provided from internal budgetary
resources and thus seeks to establish an enabling environment which is conducive to investments by both
private local and international groups. In order to manage its prerogatives as owner of mineral resources
and to stimulate the private sector, it will be necessary to strengthen government oversight institutions
and to equip them with logistical support and personnel required for the task.
4.     The policy advice and other support to be provided to the MMI will be executed over
approximately six months. Additional activities may be undertaken under a subsequent project or by
other donors, essentially to reinforce and build upon the reforms introduced during the present project. It
is expected to include the following activities:
(i) Policy Dialogue and Strategic Vision for the Mining Sector.
*  Prepare a baseline assessment of the current situation with respect to national policies, legislation,
taxation, institutional structure, small scale mining, quarry and industrial materials, inventory and
conditions of existing enterprises, social and economic impacts of mining, and other existing
conditions.
* Examine the international mining context, specifically with reference to international best
practices with Afghanistan should adopt in order to attract and retain local and international
investment.
*  Provide training for a limited number of officials and reinforce certain logistical support to the
Ministry.
*  Help conduct a national dialogue on mining policy and strategy involving relevant stakeholders.
*  Assist in the formulation of a "declaration of sector policy" which will be endorsed by the
highest political leadership in the country. These policies will serve as the basis for further
reform of the mining sector conducted in subsequent activities.
29



ANNEX I
(ii)   Reform of the Mining Law, Regulations, and Tax Regime. Based upon the policies adopted
during the previous activity would involve both local and international legal, regulatory and tax
experts and:
* Analyze the existing legislation and regulations pertaining to mining (including sector specific
and other legislation) with a view producing a new mining law and regulations.
* Draft the new mining law and regulations and help to explain it to the political leadership.
* Prepare tax policies and regulations and manuals specific to the mining sector in line with
international practice.
* Produce procedural manuals to implement the law and regulations, specifically in terms of title
issuance, registry, health and safety and environment.
*  Provide training to certain ministry and other staff in administration of mining legislation.
(iii) Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building. This could include assisting the AIA to
restructure the public institutions responsible for oversight of the sector and to build capacity so that
personnel may become proficient with modern management techniques. In addition, it will provide
assistance to set up a proper mining title registry, cadastre office, and data management system.
Specific activities include:
* Analysis of existing structure and organization of the ministry with reference to how other
successful mining countries organize and staff the public sector oversight institutions.
* Conduct a skills and needs assessment of existing Ministry staff and recommend re-deployment,
training, and re-structuring.
* Provide training for ministry personnel in the new skills necessary to effectively administer the
sector in line with the new organizational set-up.
Possible joint Activities for both the Mining and Oil and Gas Sectors
Geo-Spatial Mapping.
5.     Proper cartography and maps making use of advanced research techniques in the earth sciences
are essential to a number of uses: geology, water resources, vegetation patterns, seismic detection,
environmental protection, and other uses. Afghanistan has been relatively extensively mapped from a
geology point of view, even though much of this information may be in donor countries and not
Afghanistan. In addition, the Afghanistan Information and Mapping System (AIMS) project has been
working under the auspices of the UNDP for the past seven years to improve the basic cartography of the
country and to integrate the datasets into an operational GIS system. The work to be undertaken under
this international consultant contract is only the initial step towards geo-spatial mapping. Follow-on
projects could build upon this initial work. The initial work undertaken will:
* Collect and compile existing geology and other maps pertaining to the earth sciences;
* Standardize and digitize these existing maps to conform to international standards and those used
by the AIMS project.
* Integrate the earth science maps into the overall GIS system being developed for the country.
* Coordinate with other relevant government agencies and other projects to supply needed earth
science information for purposes such as geology, petroleum, seismic detection, hydrology,
vegetation cover, environment and other uses.
* Provide for the dissemination of the maps and information to the public through all available
means, printed and electronic.
30



ANNEX I
Cadastre and Data Management Information System.
6.     The comerstone for effective management of mineral resources (including oil and gas) is a
modem mine title administration and cadastre system. Afghanistan to date does not have an adequate
registry or recording of exploration and exploitation titles. It is essential to rapidly move to establish such
a system in order to render effective the dispositions of the new mine law. In addition, proper legal title
and registry of claims will be an essential element to establish central govemment control over national
mineral resources and remove possibilities for abuse. This sub-component could provide technical
services, computer hardware and software, and training to the appropriate unit of the Ministry of Mines
and Industry to:
* Set up and equip to a functional level a new mining cadastre office, including procedure manuals
and computer hardware and software.
* Train Afghan personnel to use the new system.
31



ANNEX II: DETAILED ACTTIOTIES
Components                       Amount'         Selection Method        Submission of     Awardl       Completion of
(VS$SOO)                               Bids/Proposals    Signing of      package
(mo/yr)        contract        (molyr)
(molyr)
Component 1:Urban Services                              16,000
Pail A. Municipal Public Works
(Multiple packages) Works                         3,000  Quotations/DC/Community     Aug 02 to Sep03  SepO2 - Sep 03  DecO2-DecO3
Part B: Urban Water Supply Improvements
Repair and Rehabilitation of water supply (12 cities)  5,000  IS/NS                   Jul 02 to DecO2  AugO2 - JanO3  SepO2 -JunO3
(Multiple packages) Goods                              I
Works                          4,800  Quotations/DC/Community     Jul 02 to DecO2  AugO2 - JanO3  SepO2-JunO3
Part C: Sanitation Improvements
Works                          1,500  Quotations/DC/Community     Aug 02 to SepO3  AugO2 - JanO3  SepO2 -JunO3
Pail D: Engineering and Management Suppoil                                .
Engineering support for urban water supply        1,200  CQ/QCBS                     Jul02            Aug 02        Dec 03
Engineering support for Kabul sanitation           200   SS                          Jul02            Aug 02        Dec 03
Management Support for municipal public works      300   CQ/QCBS                     Jul 02           Aug 02        Dec 03
Component 2: Power                                      15,000
Part A: Transmission and Distribution Materials
(Multiple packages)  Goods                       5,500  ISINS                       Jun 02-July 02  Aug 02-Sep 02  JanO3-SepO3
Works                        1,000  FA/SS                       Jun 02-July 02   Aug 02-Sep 02  JanO3-SepO3
Part B: Essential Tools and Equipment                                                                                    _
(Multiple packages)  Goods                       1,500  IS/NS/UN                    Jun 02-July 02  Aug 02-Sep 02  Jan 03-SepO3
Part C: Hydropower Staton Repairs
Goods                        2,000  DC                          Jun 02           Jul 02         Dec 03
Repair, installation, Works                      500  DC                           Jun 02          Jul 02         Dec 03
Part D: Re-commissioning Gas Turbine & Supply of Fuel
Goods                          600  DC                           Jun 02          Jul 02-Oct 02  Dec 02
Repair, installation works                       100  DC                          Jun 02           Jul 02-Oct 02  Dec 02
Diesel fuel and additives                      3,000  Modified ICB                Jun 02-Sep 03    Sep 02-Dec 03  OctO2-Dec 03
Part E  Engineering Support
Supervision of the erection of equipment and     800  CQ/QCBS                     Jul 02           Aug 02         Mar 04
Plant in Part A-D and engineering support  _
32



ANNEX II
Po0cy Advice and Other Support                                a,ooo             :                                                      _
Part A: Mining, Oil and Gas       _
Sector Restructuring, training and capacity building   750   CQ/QCBS                        Jul 02            Aug 02          Jun 03
Feasibility Studies                                    250   QCBS _                         Aug 02            Nov 02          Jun 03
Part B: Other Infrastructure
Policy and Regulatory Advice, Training and            1,000  CQ/QCBS                        Jul 02-Sep 02     Aug 02-Oct 02   Variable by
Engineering Support to infrastructure sectors                                                                                  assignment
(Multiple packages)                                             .
Total                                                        33,000
1\ Including contingencies
Note:   DC = Direct Contracting
IS/NS = International Shopping / National Shopping
FA   Force Account
UN = UN procurement
QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), Single Source Selection of Firms or SOE for Training, etc.
Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), Commercial Practices, etc.
33



ANNEX III: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
A. Institutional Capacity
The project envisages three main components:
Component 1: Urban Services
Component 2: Power
Component 3: Policy Advice and Other Support
The IDA Emergency Public Administration Project is funding the services of a Procurement
Agent to support the AACA and various ministries. The Procurement Agent will be responsible for the
procurement of all goods, works and consultancy services for the Emergency Infrastructure
Reconstruction Project.
In view of the post-conflict environment in the country, the procurement risk is considered high,
despite the use of procurement expertise of the specialized firm (Procurement Agent) in the AACA.
Project supervision will include procurement expertise in most missions over the life of the IDA Grant.
Threshold limits described below have been set considering these risks.
B. Procurement Methods
The procurement arrangements and the estimated costs for the project components to be funded
by IDA are shown in Table A. Procurement under the IDA Grant would be carried out in accordance with
the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and Credits" (January 1995, revised in January and
August 1996 and September 1997 and January 1999) and "Guidelines for Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" (January 1997, revised in September 1997 and January 1999).
The "Bank's Standard Request for Proposals: Selection of Consultants" (July 1997, Revised April 1998
and July 1999) would be used for all consulting services. For the procurement of works and goods, IDA
shall suggest appropriate bidding documents/contract formats to be used.
General Procurement Notice for this project has been published in the on-line version of UNDB.
Bl: Procurement of Goods (US$17.6 Million)
The procurement of goods consists of items such as transmission and distribution materials,
essential tools, vehicles, office equipment, spare parts for repair/replacement/ re-commissioning of hydro
power stations/gas turbine (including supply of fuel), equipments for water supply, sanitation and solid-
waste. Modified International Competitive Bidding (MICB), International/National Shopping (IS/NS),
procurement through UN Procurement Agency (UN Procurement) and Direct Contracting (DC)
procedures will be used.
Modified ICB (US$3 M): This will be used for purchase of fuel for the gas turbine in accordance
with para 2.65 of the Guidelines involving multiple awards over the project period. Bidders can send
their requests by fax and no bid security would be required.
International/National Shopping (US$11.5 M): This will be used for goods estimated to cost less
than or equal to US$500,000 equivalent per contract. The contract packages are expected to be in the
range of US$10,000 to US$200,000 with few contracts of up to US$500,000. Under shopping
34



ANNEX III
procedures, the Procurement Agent will use simplified documents and procedures for soliciting, receiving
and evaluating competitive quotations from usually at least three suppliers (in International Shopping
from two different countries). The shopping method to be used will be based on IDA's memorandum of
June 8, 2000, Guidance Procurement Notes on handling procurement under Shopping Method. In view of
the emergency operations, the threshold will be higher than the normal limit of US$ 100,000.
Procurement through UN Procurement Agency (US$0.5 M): This will be used for goods
estimated to cost less than US$100,000 or equivalent per contract, with the UN acting as suppliers
pursuant to their own procedures.
Direct Contracting (DC) (US$2.6 M): This will be used for procurement of spares for repair and
rehabilitation of power stations from the Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEM). It is expected that
there will be two to three contracts in the range of US$400,000 to US$2,000,000 each.
B2: Works (US$10.9 Million)
Works will comprise of reconstruction and upgrading of sub-station, repair/ installation of pumps,
pipes, reconstruction work for sanitation, sewers, solid waste management, drain cleaning, clearing of
rubble, improvement of parks, etc.
Ouotation. Direct Contracting. Force Account and Community Participation (US$10.9M)
As the above work comprises many small value items scattered over a wide area and under busy
city conditions, the same will be procured on the basis of (i) lump sum fixed price contract soliciting
quotations from at least three qualified suppliers/contractors; (ii) direct contracting with a qualified
supplier/contractor; or (iii) through community participation procedures in accordance with paragraph
3.15 of the Guidelines. The value of each contract will be less than the equivalent US$50,000 in each of
the above three cases.
Force account procedure is being used for scattered/emergency work for an aggregate limit of
US$1,800,000.
B3: Consulting Services and Training (US$4.5 Million)
Although for consulting services the preferred selection method should be Quality and Cost
Based Selection (QCBS), it is envisaged that for some consultancies, for quicker selection, the method to
be used is Selection based on Consultants' Qualification (CQ). (This means seeking of Expressions of
Interest (EOI) based on brief TOR, specifying in the EOI criteria for establishing a shortlist with a view to
selecting the firm with the most appropriate qualification and references. The selected firm will be asked
to submit a combined technical-financial proposal before being invited for negotiations). The EOI for
these consultancies shall be published in UNDB/ Development Gateway and other targeted
announcements. For major consultancies the description, estimated cost and method of selection are as
under:
35



ANNEX III
Description of Svices  :.m|thte4 cost          Method Of Selection
T^l(S$00)
A     Urban Services
1.   Engineering support for urban  US$ 1,200        CQ/QCBS
water supply
2.   Engineering support for Kabul  US$ 200          SS
sanitation
4.    Management support for    US$ 300              CQ/QCBS
municipal public works
B     Power
5.    Supervision of the erection of  US$800         CQlQCBS
equipment and plant in Parts
A-D of the power component
C.   Policy Advice and Other Support
Oil Gas and Mining
7.    Sector restructuring, training  US$ 750        CQ/QCBS
and capacity building
8.   Feasibility studies on     US$ 250              QCBS
petroleum potential basin,
promotion of new exploration
areas; feasibility of gas
transport to Kabul, etc.
Other Infstructure
Policy, regulatory advice,  1,000               CQ, QCBS
training and engineering
support to infrastructure
sectors (multiple assignments)
IDA's clearance of the terms of reference and single source selections will be mandatory
irrespective of value of the assignment.
C. Procurement Planning
It is envisaged that a Procurement Agent will furnish to IDA for its review by end June 2002, a
detailed year-wise procurement plan in the specified format which was handed over during appraisal.
D. Prior and Post Review
All goods and works contracts in excess of US$300,000 each, and the first three contracts for
goods and the first three contracts for works, irrespective of value, and consulting services contracts
above US$100,000 for firms and above US$50,000 for individual consultants, would be subject to prior
review by IDA. All other contracts would be subject to post-review on a random basis during supervision
missions and audits.
36



ANNEX III
E. Procurement Information
The Procurement Agent will prepare procurement information which will be collected and
recorded as follows:
1. prompt reporting of contract award information for the respective components; and
2. comprehensive quarterly reports prepared by AACA indicating:
*  revised cost estimates for individual contracts and total cost:
* revised timings of procurement actions including advertising, bidding, contract award
and completion time for individual contracts; and
*  compliance report by AACA within three months of the Grant signing date.
F. Proposed Procurement Arrangements and Frequency of Supervision
The project elements, their estimated costs and proposed methods of procurement are
summarized in Table A. Consultant Selection Arrangement are given in the Table in para B3 above.
Thresholds are given in Table B.
37



ANNEX III
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
P. .uremeut Method' ,
Expendtu    Category     Modified | NCB R     Others   | NRF        Total
._. _ , _.. . , . . ,v _ _    Xd                _ _ _ _ _ _. _ _ _ _ _  c o t
A.     URBAN SERVICES
1.     Works                           0.0      0.0        9.3       0.0        9.3
(0.0)    (0.0)       (9.3)    (0.0)       (93
2.     Goods                           0.0      0.0         5.0      0.0         5.0
(0.0)    (0.0)       (5.0)    (0.0)       (5.0)
3.     Engineering Services            0.0      0.0         1.7      0.0         1.7
(0.0)    (0.0)       (1.7)    (0.0)       (1.7)
SUB-TOTAL                      0.0       0.0       16.0       0.0       16.0
(0.0)    (0.0)      (16.0)    (0.0)      (16.0)
B.     POWER
1.     Works                           0.0      0.0         1.6      0.0        1.6
(0.0)    (0.0)       (1.6)    (0.0)       (1.6)
2.      Goods                          0.0      0.0         9.6      0.0         9.6
______  (0.0)  (0.0)  (9.6)   (0.0)       (9.6)
3.     Fuel                            3.0      0.0         0.0      0.0         3.0
(3.0)    (0.0)       (0.0)    (0.0)       (3.0)
4.     Engineering Services            0.0      0.0         0.8      0.0         0.8
______  ________ (0.0)  (0.0)  (0.8)  (0.0)  (0.8)
SUB-TOTAL                      3.0       0.0       12.0       0.0       15.0
(3.0)    (0.0)      (12.0)    (0.0)      (15.0)
C.     OTHER INFRASTRUCTURE
1.     Engineering Services            0.0      0.0         0.2      0.0        0.2
______ (0.0)  (0.0)  (0.2)    (0.0)       (0.2)
2.     Consultant Services and         0.0      0.0         1.8      0.0         1.8
Training                      (0.0)    (0.0)       (1.8)    (0.0)       (1.8)
SUB-TOTAL                      0.0       0.0        2.0       0.0        2.0
(QA0)    (0(0)       (22-0 )  (0.0)       (2.0)
1.     Works                           0.0      0.0        10.9      0.0       10.9
(0.0)    (0.0)      (10.9)    (0.0)      (10.9)
2.      Goods                          0.0      0.0        14.6      0.0        14.6
___________ (0.0)  (0.0)  (14.6)  (0.0)  (14.6)
3.     Fuel                            3.0      0.0         0.0      0.0         3.0
(3 .0)   (0.0)       (0.0)    (0.0)       (3.0)
4.     Engineering Services            0.0      0.0         2.7      0.0         2.7
(0.0)    (0.0)       (2.7)    (0.0)       (2.7)
5.     Consultant Services and         0.0      0.0         1.8      0.0         1.8
Training                          (0.0)            (1.8)    (0.0)       (1.8)
TOTAL                          3.0       0.0       30.0       0.0       33.0
____  ______ (3.0)  (0.0)  (30.0)  (0.0)  (33.0)
' Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA. All the costs include contingencies.
2  Includes civil works, goods, and services to be procured out of Force Account and through national/international shopping,
direct contracting, three quotations, community participation, consulting services, training, technical assistance, incremental
costs etc.
38



ANNEX III
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review 1
.4=Editure        Contract Value       Procurement       Contracts Subject
.V1  Cmafory- Threshold                       Method               to
Prior Review
1. Goods/Works      Above US$300,000   Modified ICB/        US$4 million
and first three     Shopping/three
contracts of goods  quotations/ Direct
and first three     Contracting/
contracts of works,  Community
irrespective of value  participation! UN
Procurement
2. Services including                                       US$4 million
Training:
a) Firms            Above US$ 100,000  Bank Guidelines as per
Para B2 above.
b) Individuals      US$ 50,000 or above
TOTAL Value of Contracts subject to Prior Review:  US$8 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment: High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: Once every 3 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits).
39



ANNEX IV: FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT & DISBURSEMENT ARRANGEMENTS
Country Issues
Since there is no Country Profile of Financial Accountability (CPFA) or Country Financial
Accountability Assessment (CFAA) for Afghanistan, there is inadequate knowledge of country issues and
related strengths and weaknesses. Financial management capacity in the country is not fully functional
and appropriate mitigation measures have been suggested through the engagement of the Financial
Management Agent.
Strengths and Weaknesses
Strength: The engagement of the Financial Management Agent, along with the AlA's
commitment to transparent and accountable financial management, are the primary strengths of the
Project financial management.
StaffMng and Training
The Financial Management Agent will support the MOF, the line ministries and other
implementing agencies to perform the necessary financial management functions. One of the critical
functions of the Financial Management Agent will be to provide hands-on support to implementing
agency staff to enhance their financial management capacity.
Accounfing Policies and Procedures
The Project will follow standard AIA financial management policies and procedures, including
using the AIA Chart of Accounts to record Project expenditures. The use of these procedures will allow
for adequate recording and reporting of Project expenditures
Accounts will be consolidated centrally in the MOF (by the Financial Management Agent) for all
implementing entities and consolidated Project financial statements will be prepared for all sources and
uses of Project funds.
Audit Arrangements
The accounts of the Project will be audited by the Auditor General with the support of the Audit
Agent with terms of reference satisfactory to the Association. The annual Project financial statement to
the Association would include a summary of funds received (showing funds received from all sources),
and a summnary of expenditures shown under the main Project components/ activities and by main
categories of expenditures. The format of the annual Project financial statements will be similar to the
Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs). The audit of the Project accounts would also include an
assessment of: (a) the adequacy of the accounting and internal control systems; (b) the ability to maintain
adequate documentation for transactions; and (c) the eligibility of incurred expenditures for Association
financing. The annual Project financial statements audited by the Auditor General would be submitted
within 6 months of the close of AIA's fiscal year. The following audit reports will be monitored in the
Audit Reports Compliance System (ARCS):
40



ANNEX IV
Responsible Agncy           Audit                      Auditors
MOF                         SOE, Project Accounts and  Auditor General
Special Account
The Auditor General will audit the accounts of all the implementing entities. However, a
consolidated audit report (with consolidated financial statements) will be issued for the project.
Reporting and Monitoring
Quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports will be produced showing: (i) sources and uses of funds
by disbursement category and project component; (ii) physical progress; and (iii) status of procurement
activities. These will be submitted to the Association within 45 days of the end of the quarter.
Disbursement Arrangements
Allocation of Grant Proceeds
Expenditure Category        Amount       Financing
US$        Percentage
Works                        10,900,000    100%
Goods                        14,600,000    100%
Fuel                          3,000,000    100%
Engineering Support           2,700,000    100%
Consultant Services and       1,800,000    100%
Training
Total Project Costs          33,000,000
Financing Percentage.  Since collection of tax revenue has just begun and is sporadic,
disbursement percentages have been set at 100 percent with the understanding, however, that MOF will
submit withdrawal applications on a net-of-tax basis. The tax structure of the AIA will be reviewed
within six months of Grant signing at which time standard disbursement percentages will be set and
financing percentages amended accordingly.
Retroactive Financing. Provision has been made to reimburse AIA for payments it makes, up to
SDR 3.5 million, between April 1, 2002 and Grant signing for Project expenditures.
Disbursement Method.   Disbursements from the IDA Grant would be transaction-based
(replenishment, reimbursement, direct payment, and payments under Special Commitments) with full
documentation or against statements of expenditures as appropriate.
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs). Disbursements will be made on the basis of SOEs for:
(a) consultants and training for contracts not exceeding US$100,000 for firms and US$50,000 for
individuals; and (b) works and goods for contracts not exceeding US$300,000.
Special Account. A Special Account would be opened and maintained in a bank acceptable to the
Association; and would be operated by MOF in accordance with the Association's operational policies.
The Authorized Allocation of the Special Account would be US$3.3 million which represents the
estimated amount of expenditures to course through the Special Account in a 3-month period. Given the
short disbursement period and the immediate need for special account funds, the full amount of the
Authorized Allocation of the Special Account will be available to MOF upon effectiveness.
41



ANNEX IV
Minimum application size. Applications for replenishment to the Special Account will be
submitted (a) monthly, or (2) when the Special Account balance is reduced by 40 percent, whichever
comes first. The minimum application size for withdrawal applications for reimbursement, direct
payment, or for applications for Special Commitments is 20 percent of the Authorized Allocation of the
Special Account. In the event that banking facilities are not fully functional at Grant effectiveness, IDA
may, on an exceptional basis, waive minimum application size requirements in order to accommodate
urgent needs.
Authority to withdraw Grant funds. MOF will retain the right to sign and submit withdrawal
applications to the Association.
Supervision Plan
From a financial management perspective, the Project will need intensive supervision. The focus
during the supervision will be on the internal control arrangements for the Project and functioning of
accounting, financial reporting and auditing.
42



ANNEX V: ENVIRONMENT AND SOCIAL SAFEGUARDS FRAMEWORK
I.     Objectives
The Environmental and Social Safeguards Framework provides general policies, guidelines, codes of
practice and procedures to be integrated into the implementation of World Bank supported emergency
reconstruction operations in Afghanistan. Consistent with existing national legislation, the objective of
the Framework is to help ensure that activities under the proposed reconstruction operations will:
*      Protect human health;
*      Prevent or compensate any loss of livelihood;
*      Prevent environmental degradation as a result of either individual subprojects or their
cumulative effects;
*      Enhance positive environmental and social outcomes; and,
*      Ensure compliance with World Bank safeguard policies.
II.    General Principles
Recognizing the emergency nature of the proposed relief and reconstruction operations, and the related
need for providing immediate assistance, while at the same time ensuring due diligence in managing
potential environmental and social risks, this Framework is based on the following principles:
1. The proposed operations will support multiple subprojects, the detailed designs of which may not
be known at appraisal. To ensure the effective application of the World Bank's safeguard
policies, the Framework provides guidance on the approach to be taken during implementation
for the selection and design of subprojects, and the planning of mitigation measures;
2. The proposed emergency reconstruction operations will not support environmental Category A
subprojects8, nor subprojects requiring land acquisition affecting 200 or more people.
Consequently, no Environmental Impact Assessments (ElAs) or Resettlement Action Plans
(RAPs) will be required. With the exception of support for the emergency rehabilitation of the
Kabul North-West power plant, no subprojects requiring separate, site-specific environmental or
social reports will be supported. With this exception, all proposed subprojects will be screened to
ensure that the environmental and social risks can be adequately addressed through the
application of standardized guidelines and codes of practice;
3. Activities requiring a more detailed level of assessment, such as those entailing the construction
or installation of new or significantly expanded infrastructure, will be supported under subsequent
operations. The proposed emergency reconstruction operations will finance feasibility and
detailed design studies for these subsequent investments, which will include environmental and
social impact assessments as required by World Bank safeguard policies;
4. Project design and subproject selection will aim to maintain regional balance, and equity between
genders, and ethnic and religious groups, considering variations in population density.
Employment opportunities within the projects will be available on an equal basis to all, on the
basis of professional competence, irrespective of gender, or ethnic or religious group. In all
projects which require consultations with local communities or beneficiaries, gender-separated
8 As defined in World Bank Operational Policy 4.01, Environmental Assessment.
43



ANNEX V
consultations will be conducted to elicit the views of the female population, along with that of the
male population; and,
5. Consultation and disclosure requirements will be simplified to meet the special needs of these
operations. Prior to approval by the World Bank Board, this Environmental and Social
Safeguards Framework will be disclosed in Afghanistan in Dari and Pashto, and in the World
Bank Infoshop.
III.   Safeguard Screening and Mitigation
The selection, design, contracting, monitoring and evaluation of subprojects will be consistent with the
following guidelines, codes of practice and requirements:
*     A negative list of characteristics that would make a proposed subproject ineligible for
support, as indicated in Attachment 1;
*      Guidelines for land and asset acquisition, entitlements and compensation, presented in
Attachment 2;
*     Procedures for the protection of cultural property, including the chance discovery of
archaeological artifacts, and unrecorded graveyards and burial sites, provided in
Attachment 3;
*     Relevant elements of the codes of practice for the mitigation of potential environmental
impacts, presented in Attachment 4; and,
*     The requirement that confirmation is received through the Regional Mine Action Center
that areas to be accessed during reconstruction and rehabilitation activities have been
demined.
In addition to these requirements, an environmental audit will be conducted as part of feasibility study
and detailed design for the rehabilitation of the Kabul North-West power plant.
IV.    Responsibilities for Safeguard Screening and Mitigation
A number of Ministries will act as the implementing agencies for the proposed operations, including the
Ministries of Reconstruction and Rural Development, Public Works, Power, and Housing, Planning and
Building. Each Ministry will be responsible for applying the safeguard screening and mitigation
requirements to its own subprojects.
Within each Ministry, a Safeguards Focal Point will be identified with responsibility for overseeing the
implementation of the Environmental and Social Safeguards Framework.
V.     Capacity Building And Monitoring Of Safeguard Framework Implementation
As part of the capacity building that will be provided for implementation of the proposed operations, the
Safeguards Focal Points and relevant staff of the concerned Ministries will also receive training in the
application of the Safeguard Framework.
To assist in this capacity building, and to provide subsequent guidance and review of the application of
the Framework, GoA will contract specialist social and environmental services. During supervision of
these operations, the World Bank will assess the implementation of the Framework, and if required will
recommend additional strengthening.
44



ANNEX V
VI.    Consultation and Disclosure
This Environmental and Social Safeguards Framework was prepared in consultation with the principal
NGOs and development partners participating in reconstruction activities in Afghanistan. It will be
disclosed by GoA in both Dari and Pashto, as well as English, and it will also be made available at the
World Bank's Infoshop.
The environmental audit to be prepared for the rehabilitation of the Kabul North-West thermal power
station will be made publicly available by GoA, and at the World Bank Infoshop. Since no other separate
environmental or social assessments will be prepared for activities under the proposed reconstruction
operations, no additional disclosure requirements will apply. In this regard, however, it is worth noting
that GoA intends to make all project documentation publicly available through the Afghan Information
Management System (AIMS).
The proposed operations will support a number of feasibility and detailed design studies for future
infrastructure investments, for which World Bank safeguard policies relating to consultation and
disclosure will apply. In particular, for environmental Category A and B investments9 proposed for future
operations, the implementing agency will consult project-affected groups and local nongovernmental
organizations about the project's environmental and social aspects, and will take their views into account.
The implementing agency will initiate such consultations as early as possible, and for meaningful
consultations, will provide relevant material in a timely manner prior to consultation, in a form and
language that are understandable and accessible to the groups being consulted.
For Category A projects, the implementing agency will consult these groups at least twice, (i) shortly after
environmental screening and before the terms of reference for the Environmental Impact Assessment
(ELA) are finalized, and (ii) once a draft ELA report is prepared. For the initial consultation, the
implementing agency will provide a summary of the proposed project's objectives, description, and
potential impacts. For both Category A and B projects, the implementing agency will provide these
groups with a summary of the EIA report's conclusions. In addition, the implementing agency will make
the draft reports available at a public place accessible to project-affected groups and local NGOs.
9 As defined in World Bank Operational Policy 4.01, Envirornental Assessment.
45



ANNEX V
Attachment 1
Neeative List of Subproiect Attributes
Subprojects with any of the attributes listed below will be ineligible for support under the proposed
emergency reconstruction operations.
Attributes of Ineligble Subprojects
GENERAL CHARACTERISTICS
Involves the significant conversion or degradation of critical natural habitats. Including, but
not limited to, any activity within:
*      Ab-i-Estada Waterfowl Sanctuary;
*      Ajar Valley (Proposed) Wildlife Reserve;
*      Dashte-Nawar Waterfowl Sanctuary;
*      Pamir-Buzurg (Proposed) Wildlife Sanctuary;
*      Bande Amir National Park;
*      Kole Hashmat Khan (Proposed) Waterfowl Sanctuary.
Will significantly damage non-replicable cultural property, including but not limited to any
activities that affect the following sites:
*      monuments of Herat (including the Friday Mosque, ceramic tile workshop, Musallah
complex, Fifth Minaret, Gawhar Shah mausoleum, mausoleum of Ali Sher Navaii,
and the Shah Zadehah mausoleum complex);
*      monuments of Bamiyan Valley (including Fuladi, Kakrak, Shar-I Ghulghular and
Shahr-i Zuhak);
*      archaeological site of Ai Khanum;
*      site and monuments of Ghazni;
*      minaret of Jam;
*      mosque of Haji Piyada/Nu Gunbad, Balkh province;
*      stupa and monastry of Guldarra;
*      site and monuments of Lashkar-i Bazar, Bost;
*      archaeological site of Surkh Kotal.
Requires pesticides that fall in WHO classes IA, IB, or II.
Requires involuntary acquisition of land, or the resettlement or compensation of more than
200 people.
Supports commercial logging or plantations in forested areas.
Affects waters in riparian neighbors.
Drinking Water Supply
New or expansion of piped water scheme to serve 500 or more households.
Sanitation
New or significant expansion of sewerage or wastewater treatment plant.
Rehabilitation of existing wastewater treatment plant.
46



ANNEX V
Attributes of Ineligible Subprojects
Solid Waste
New or significant expansion of disposal site.
Roads
New roads.
Widening of primary road.
Irrigation
New irrigation scheme or expansion of scheme requiring increased water intake.
New tubewell for irrigation.
Dams
Construction or rehabilitation of dam higher than 3 meters.
Power
New power generating capacity of more than 5 MW.
Rehabilitation of hydro-electric power station with dam, or entailing alteration of the water
flow regime.
Oil and Gas
New exploration, production or distribution.
Rehabilitation of production or distribution systems
Income Generating Activities
Activities involving the use of unsustainably harvested timber or fuelwood.
Activities involving the use of hazardous substances.
47



ANNEX V
Attachment 2
Guidelines for Land and Asset Acquisition. Entitlements and Compensation
I. Objectives
Land acquisition will be kept to a minimum and no person will be involuntarily displaced under
subprojects financed by the proposed emergency reconstruction operations. Subproject proposals that
would require demolishing houses or acquiring productive land should be carefully reviewed to minimize
or avoid their impacts through alternative alignments. Proposals that require more than minor expansion
along rights of way should be reviewed carefully. No land or asset acquisition may take place outside of
these guidelines. A format for Land Acquisition Assessment is attached as Attachment 2(i).
These guidelines provide principles and instructions to compensate affected persons to ensure that all
such persons negatively affected, regardless of their land tenure status, will be assisted to improve, or at
least to restore, their living standards, income earning or production capacity to pre-project levels.
Categorization
Based on the number of persons that may be affected by the project (Project Affected People, PAPs) and
the magnitude of impacts, projects may be categorized as S-1, S-2, or S-3 projects:
a.     S-1 projects are those that will involve the resettlement of more than 200 PAPs and where a
full Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) must be produced. Such interventions will be ineligible
for support under the proposed emergency reconstruction operations.
b.     S-2 projects are those which will involve the resettlement of less than 200 persons. In such
cases, the following documentation is required: (1) a land acquisition assessment, (2) the
Minutes or record of consultations which assess the compensation claimed and agreement
reached, and (3) a record of the receipt of the compensation, or voluntary donation, by those
affected (see below).
c.     S-3 projects are not expected to have any land acquisition or any other significant adverse
social impacts; on the contrary, significant positive social impact and improved livelihoods
are expected from such interventions.
II. Eligibility
PAPs are identified as persons whose livelihood is directly or indirectly affected by the project. PAPs
deemed eligible for compensation are:
(1)    those who have formal legal rights to land, water resources or structures/buildings, including
recognized customary and traditional rights;
(2)    those who do not have such formal legal rights but have a claim to usufruct right rooted in
customary law;
(3)    those whose claim to land and water resources or building/structures do not fall within (1)
and (2) above, are eligible to assistance to restore their livelihood.
48



ANNEX V
Acquisition of Productive Assets and Compensation
PAPs are eligible for replacement costs for lost assets as described below:
a.   Voluntary contributions. In accordance with traditional practices, individuals may elect to
voluntarily contribute land or assets and/or relocate temporarily or permanently from their
land without compensation.
b.   Contributions against compensation. A contributor/asset loser considered "affected" will
be eligible for compensation from the local community or alternatively from the
Government. A PAP shall lodge his/her claim for compensation to the local community
representatives/shura head and it shall be verified by the implementing agency. The claim
shall be lodged within 2 weeks of completion of the consultations with the concerned
community, and before project implementation begins.
Voluntary contribution, or contribution against compensation, should be documented.  The
documentation should specify that the land is free of any squatters, encroachers or other claims. A format
is attached in Attachment 2(i), which includes a Schedule to be followed to assess any compensation
claimed and the agreement reached.
III. Compensation Principles
The project implementing agencies shall ensure that any of the following means of compensation are
provided in a timely manner to affected persons:
(1)    Project affected persons losing access to a portion of their land or other productive assets with the
remaining assets being economically viable are entitled to compensation at replacement cost for
that portion of land or assets lost to them. Compensation for the lost assets will be according to
following principles:
a.    replacement land with an equally productive plot, cash or other equivalent productive
assets;
b.     materials and assistance to fully replace solid structures that will be demolished;
c.    replacement of damaged or lost crops and trees, at market value;
d.     other acceptable in-kind compensation;
e.    in case of cash compensation, the delivery of compensation should be made in public, i.e.
at the Community Meeting.
(2)    Project affected persons losing access to a portion of their land or other economic assets
rendering the remainder economically non-viable, will have the options of compensation for the
entire asset by provision of alternative land, cash or equivalent productive asset, according to the
principles in (1) a-d above.
Consultation Process
The implementing agencies will ensure that all occupants of land and owners of assets located in a
proposed subproject area are consulted. There will be gender-separate community meetings for each
affected mantaqa/gozar (urban infrastructure) or village (other projects) to inform the local population
about their rights to compensation and options available in accordance with these Guidelines. The
49



ANNEX V
Minutes of the community meetings shall reflect the discussions held, agreements reached, and include
details of the agreement, based on the format provided in Attachment 2(ii).
The implementing agency shall provide a copy of the Minutes to affected persons and confirm in
discussions with each of them their requests and preferences for compensation, agreements reached, and
any eventual complaint. Copies will be recorded in the posted project documentation and be available for
inspection during supervision.
Subproject Approval
In the event that a subproject involves acquisition against compensation, the implementing agency shall:
a. not approve the subproject unless a satisfactory compensation has been agreed between the
affected person and the local community;
b. not allow works to start until the compensation has been delivered in a satisfactory manner to
the affected persons;
c. if more than 200 persons are affected and require compensation, the subproject shall be
deemed ineligible for support under the emergency reconstruction operations.
Complaints and Grievances
All complaints should first be negotiated to reach an agreement at the local community/village level. If
this falls, complaints and grievances about these Guidelines, implementation of the agreements recorded
in the Community Meeting Minutes or any alleged irregularity in carrying out the project can also be
addressed by the affected persons or their representative at the municipal or district level. If this also fails,
the complaint may be submitted to the relevant implementing agency for a decision.
Verification
The Community Meeting Minutes, including agreements of compensation and evidence of compensation
having been made shall be provided to the Municipality/district, to the supervising engineers, who will
maintain a record hereof, and to auditors and socio-economic monitors when they undertake reviews and
post-project assessment. This process shall be specified in all relevant project documents, including
details of the relevant authority for complaints at municipal/district or implementing agency level.
50



ANNEX V
Attachment 2(i)
Land Acquisition Assessment Data Sheet
(To be used to record information on all land to be acquired)
1. Quantities of land/structures/other assets required:
2. Date to be acquired:
3. Locations:
4. Owners:
5. Current uses:
6. Users:
*      Number of Customary claimants:
*      Number of Squatters:
*      Number of Encroacher:
*      Number of Owners:
*      Number of Tenants:
*      Others (specify):       Number:
7. How land/structures/other assets will be acquired (identify one):
*      Donation
*      Purchase
8. Transfer of title:
*      Ensure these lands/structures/other assets free of claims or encumbrances.
*      Written proof must be obtained (notarized or witnessed statements) of the voluntary donation, or
acceptance of the prices paid, from those affected, together with proof of title being vested in the
community, or guarantee of public access, by the title-holder.
9. Describe grievance mechanisms available:
51



ANNEX V
Attachment 2(ii)
Format to Document Contribution of Assets
The following agreement has been made on .day of
between ............                 resident of .....                     (the Owner)
and .................................            (the Recipient).
1. That the Owner holds the transferable right of .jerib of
land/structure/asset in....................................................................................
2. That the Owner testifies that the land/structure is free of squatters or encroachers and not subject to
other claims.
3. That the Owner hereby grants to the Recipient this asset for the construction and development of
................................ for the benefit of the villagers and the public at large.
(Either, in case of donation:)
4. That the Owner will not claim any compensation against the grant of this asset.
(Or, in case of compensation:)
4. That the Owner will receive compensation against the grant of this asset as per the attached Schedule.
5. That the Recipient agrees to accept this grant of asset for the purposes mentioned.
6. That the Recipient shall construct and develop the ........................ and take all possible precautions
to avoid damage to adjacent land/structure/other assets.
7. That both the parties agree that the ........................... so constructed/developed shall be public
premises.
8. That the provisions of this agreement will come into force from the date of signing of this deed.
Signature of the Owner:              Signature of the Recipient:
Witnesses:
1.
2.
(Signature, name and address)
52



ANNEX V
Schedule of
Compensation of Asset Requisition
Summary of                  Units to be Compensated           Agreed Compensation
affected unit/item
a. Urban/a'ricultural
land (mi):
b. Houses/structures to be
demolished (units/m2):
c. Type of structure to be
demolished (e.g. mud,
brick, etc.)                                               Not Applicable.
d. Trees or crops affected:
e. Water sources affected:
Signatures of local community representatives, shura head:
Include record of any complaints raised by affected persons:
Map attached (showing affected areas and replacement areas):
53



ANNEX V
Attachment 3
Protection of Cultural Pronerty
Physical culture includes monuments, structures, works of art, or sites of "outstanding universal value"
from the historical, aesthetic, scientific, ethnological, or anthropological point of view, including
unrecorded graveyards and burial sites. Within this broader definition, cultural property is defined as
sites and structures having archaeological, paleontological, historical, architectural, or religious
significance, and natural sites with cultural values.
The proposed emergency reconstruction operations are unlikely to pose a risk of damaging cultural
property, as the sub-projects will largely consist of small investments in community infrastructure and
income generating activities, reconstruction of existing structures, and minor urban public works.
Further, the negative list of attributes, which would make a subproject ineligible for support (Attachment
1), includes any activity that would significantly damage non-replicable cultural property. Nevertheless,
the following procedures for identification, protection from theft, and treatment of chance finds should be
followed and included in standard bid documents.
Chance Find Procedures
Chance find procedures are defined in the law on Maintenance of Historical and Cultural Monuments
(Official Gazette, December 21, 1980), specifying the authorities and responsibilities of cultural heritage
agencies if sites or materials are discovered in the course of project implementation. This law establishes
that all moveable and immovable historical and cultural artifacts are state property, and further:
1. The responsibility for preservation, maintenance and assessment of historical and cultural
monuments rests with the Archaeological Committee under the Ministry of Information and
Culture, which has representation at provincial level.
2. Whenever chance finds of cultural or historical artifacts (moveable and immovable) are made the
Archaeological Committee should be informed. Should the continuation of work endanger the
historical and cultural artifacts, the project work should be suspended until a solution is found for
the preservation of these artifacts.
3. If a moveable or immovable historical or cultural artifact is found in the countryside of a
province, the provincial governor (wali) or district-in-charge (woluswal) should be informed
within two weeks, and they should inform the Archaeological Committee. In case the immovable
historical or cultural artifact is found in a city, the provincial branch of the Department of
Maintenance of Historical Values of the Ministry of Information and Culture should be informed
within two weeks (art. 18). If the find is made within the center, the Archaeological Committee
must be informed directly within one week (art. 25).
4. Failure to report a chance find within the stipulated time limit will be punished with a fine or
imprisonment for a period of one week or up to one month (art. 72).
5. If someone intentionally damages a historical or cultural artifact, the culprit shall pay
compensation in accordance with the value of the artifact plus be imprisoned for a period of one
month to ten years depending on the gravity of the crime (art. 71).
54



ANNEX V
In case of a chance find of moveable or immovable historical or cultural artifact, the implementing
agency is responsible for securing the artifact from theft, pilferage and damage until the responsibility
has been taken over by the relevant authorities as specified above.
These procedures must be referred to as standard provisions in construction contracts, when
applicable. During project supervision, the Site Engineer shall monitor that the above regulations
relating to the treatment of any chance find encountered are observed.
Relevant findings will be recorded in World Bank Project Supervision Reports (PSRs), and
Implementation Completion Reports (ICRs) will assess the overall effectiveness of the project's
cultural resources mitigation, management, and capacity building activities, as appropriate.
55



ANNEX v
Attachment 4
Codes of Practice for Prevention and Mitigation of Environmental Imrcis
Potential TmpactU        .          Prevention and Miti ation Measures
Water Supply
*      Repair and rehabilitation ofexisting piped water schemes.
*      New. or expajided piped water schemes to serve fewer than 500 households.
*     - Instalation or rehabilitation of tubewells or dug wells.
Disease caused by poor water    *   Prioritise leak detection and repair of pipe networks.
quality:                        *   Chemical and bacteriological testing of water quality from
*  contamination by seepage from    adjacent comparable sources prior to installation of new
latrines, municipal waste or      sources.
agricultural areas.           *   Redesign to prevent contamination if adjacent comparable
*  high mineral concentrations.     sources are found to be contaminated.
*  creation of stagnant pools of  *  Subsequent monitoring of installed or rehabilitated sources.
water.                        *   Appropriate location, apron and drainage around tubewells
and dug wells to prevent formation of stagnant pools.
* Provision of cover and hand-pump to prevent contarnination
of dug wells.
* Where pit latrines are used they should be located more than
10m from any water source. The base should be sealed and
separated by at least 2m of sand or loamy soil from the
groundwater table.
*   Where nightsoil latrines or septic tanks are built they should
be sealed. Outflows should drain either to a soakaway
located at least l0m from any water source or be connected to
a working drain.
Depletion of water source:      *   Urban interventions and abstraction limits to be planned in
*  over-exploitation of aquifers.   the context of groundwater investigations.
*  hazard of land subsidence.   *   Local water use planning (conmnunity and technical
consultation).
Sanitation
*      Latrines. '_                         _     _     _     _      __'
Contamination of water supplies:  *  Where pit latrines are used they should be located more than
*      contamination of             10m from any water source. The base should be sealed and
groundwater because of seepage.   separated vertically by not less than 2m of sand or loamy soil
*      contamination of surface     from the ground water table.
waters due to flooding or over-  *  Where nightsoil latrines or septic tanks are built they should
flowing.                          be sealed. Outflows should drain either to a soakaway
located at least 10m from any water source or be connected to
a working drain.
*      Maintenance training to be delivered along with new
latrines.
56



ANNEX v
Potential Impacts                    Prevention and Mitigation Measures
Disease caused by poor handling  0   Training and health education to be provided to nightsoil
practices of nightsoil.              handlers where affected by interventions.
e   Protective clothing and appropriate containers for nightsoil
transsortation to be provided.
Disease caused by inadequate     e   Nightsoil should be handled using protective clothing to
excreta disposal or inappropriate    prevent anycontamination of workers skin or clothes.
use of latrines.                 o   Where night-soil is collected for agricultural use it should be
stored for a sufficient period to destroy pathogens through
composting. At the minimum it should be stored in direct
sunlight and turned regularly for a period of at least 6 weeks.
o   Septic tanks should not be constructed nor septic waste
collected unless primary and secondary treatment and safe
disposal is available.
IH[ealth and hygiene education to be provided for all users of
latrines.
e Awareness campaign to maintain sanitary conditions.
Solid Waste
*      New or rehabilitation of transfer stations.
*      Solid waste collection.
Disease caused by inadequate           Sufficient frequency of collection from transfer stations.
collection and disposal, including  e  Containment of waste during collection and transfer.
health risks from:                     Promote separation at source to reduce spreading by rag-
o insects, rats.                     pickers during recycling.
o burning of waste.                    M Minimize burning.
o industrial/medical waste.     o      Separate collection and disposal system for medical or
hazardous wastes.
o      Assess requirement for additional investment in final
disposal site.
Contamination of water supplies:  a    Site transfer stations should have sealed base and be
o      lateral seepage into surface  located at least 15m away from water sources with the base
waters.                           separated vertically by not less than 2m of sand or loamy soil
o      seepage of contaminants      from the ground water table.
into aquifers.                o      Assess requirement for additional investxnent in final
o      contamination from           disposal site to protect water sources.
clandestine dumping.          e      Monitoring of site to prevent illegal dumping
57



AfkEX V
Potential Impacts                   Prevention a          oil Miigt  Measures
.toads
* tt*  Rehailitation of roads,
* 1 - <'Widening of secondary or tertiar roads.
Disruption of drainage:         o     Design to provide adequate drainage and to rminimize
o hampers free drainage, causes     changes in flows, not limited to the road reserve.
stagnant pools of water.      o     Provision of energy dissipaters, cascades, steps, and check
* increased sediments into ponds,   dams.
streams and rivers due to erosion  o  Provision of sufficient number of cross drains.
from road tops and sides.     o     Balancing of cut and fill.
* increased run-off and flooding.  o  Revegetation to protect susceptible soil surfaces.
o     Rehabilitation of borrow areas.
Erosion:                        o   Design to prevent soil erosion and maintain slope stability.
* erosion of land downhill from  o  Construction in the dry season.
the road bed, or in borrow areas.  o  Protection of soil surfaces during construction.
* landslides, slips or slumps.  o   Physical stabilization of erodible surfaces through turfmg,
* Bank failure of the borrow pit.   planting a wide range of vegetation, and creating slope
breaks.
o   Rehabilitation and re-grading of borrow pits and material
collection sites.
Loss of vegetation:             H     Balancing of cut and fill.
o     Revegetation to protect susceptible soil surfaces.
c diniriize loss of natural vegetation during construction.
s aRevegetation and replanting to compensate any loss of
plant cover or tree fellins.
Loss of access:                     i Design to include accessibility to road sides in n case
roadbed is raised.
o      Alterative andgrehailtavoid bisecting villages by road
widening.
Impacts during construction:   f       Provision of fuel at work camps to prevent cuteing of
*   _   _    _   _    __fuelwoad collecnion.  firewood.
e  disease due to lack of    o      Provision of sanitation at work camps.
sanitation.                   o      Removal of work carnp waste, proper disposal of oil,
e     introduction of hazardous     bitumen and other hazardous wastes.
wastes.                       0      Management of construction period worker health and
*  ground/water contamination    safety.
(oil, grease).
accidents during
construction.
'  v>,.,'.   'r  .          ~~~Irrigatison
R.s >  ehabilitation of minor irriga ion systems._    _      _
Siltation and erosion:          o   lPlan disposal of spoil material from cleaned canals to ensure
it will not wash back into the systern, and is not deposited on
fields without the owners' perm-ission.
0 RLe-grading and rehabilitation of borrow areas or pits.
Water-logging and salinization:  o  Incorporation of adequate drainage to prevent water-logging
and salinization.



ANNEX V
-   Potential Impacts                    Prevention ant Mitigation Measwres
Over-exploitation of aquifers:   *   Analysis of the sustainability of groundwater yield, if
increased abstraction is proposed.
Injury, death or loss of productive  *  See section on dams, below.
resources caused by dam failure:  _
Housing and Pu blic lBuildings
*      Rehabilitation of dwellings o public bulldm 11Ts
Deforestation caused by:         0   Replace timber beams with concrete where structurally
*  unsustainable use of timber.     possible.
*  wood-firing of bricks.       *   Ensure fired bricks are not wood-fired.
*   Where technically and economically feasible, substitute fired
bricks with alternatives, such as sun-dried mud bricks,
compressed earth bricks, or rammed earth construction.
Injury and death from earthquake:  *  Apply low-cost aseismic structural designs.
Disease caused by inadequate     *   Ensure designs include adequate sanitary latrines and access
provision of water and sanitation:   to safe water.
Dams
*      Construction or rehabilitation of dams lower than 3 meters.
Injury, death or loss of productive  *  Application of generic dam safety measures and rapid
resources caused by dam failure.     hydrological assessment by qualified engineers.
e   For earthen dams, crushing of earth lumps, watering to near
optimal moisture content, and compacting during
construction.
*   Design of earthen dams to prevent excessive seepage through
the dam-body and piping at or near the toe or abutment of the
dam.
*   Design to incorporate spillway to prevent over-topping.
*   Local awareness-raising for breach situations.
Power
*   E New generating capacity of less than 5 MW.
*       tRehabilitation of existing generating capacity.
*      New or rehabilitation of transmission or distribution svstems.
Emissions to air:                      use of the cleanest fuel economically available (natural
gas is preferable to oil, which is preferable to coal).
*      emissions control to achieve a maximum level for
Particulate Matter of 100 milligrams per cubic meter.
Fuel and lubricant spills:      *    improvements in maintenance and housekeeping, and spill-
contaimnent structures.
Noise:                          *    location or sound-proofing to achieve a maximum increase in
background levels of 3 decibels, or a maximum of 55 decibels
in residential areas, whichever is higher.
PCB disposal:                   *    waste transformer coolant oil should be stored in sealed
containers, pending safe disposal.
59



ANNEX V
Polenlial Tmpacts                    Prevention and Mitigation Measures
Erosion and deforestation caused  e  Selection of access road alignments to minimize cut and fill,
by:                                  and tree felling.
access roads.             0   See section on roads (above).
*   _ unsustainable use of timber. *  Substitute concrete or metal for timber in construction.
Injury or death caused by:       e     Awareness campaign (regarding electrocution dangers)
*      risk of accidents.            before construction starts.
*      Collapse of power lines.  0     Application of generic safety standards.
_Inicome Generating Actisities
Injury from machinery:           a   Ensure that safe practices for the use of new machinery are
understood and adopted.
Livestock
Unsustainable grazing:           o   Before livestock are purchased, grazing requirements for the
new and projected herd should be estimated, and legal access
to sufficient sustainable grazing ensured.
60



ANNEx VI: MoNrroRING
The following table provides detailed information on monitoring outputs and outcomes for each
component of the project.
Component             Objectives                   Monitoring Indicators (targets)
Urban Services
* Address urgent        1. Disbursement (US$3M)
community needs       2. Number of packages implemented with community
* Create employment        endorsement (100)
* Improve the urban     3. Average number of households positively affected per
environment             intervention (1000)
A: Municipal                               4. Minimum number of households directly positively
Publc Works                                  affected by any intervention (50)
5. Number of person-days of employment generated
(18,000)
6. km road cleared, km access roads constructed, km drains
cleared, structures constructed/repaired, trees planted,
m2 land treated with soil conservation measures (targets
to be defined in subprojects).
* Restore reliable      1. Disbursement (US$9.4M)
potable water to      2. % of households reconnected to the network (60).
previously- connected  3. % of other households served by working standposts
households              (50)
B: Urban Water    * Restore supply to      4. Number of cities receiving improvements to water
supply               standposts              supply (I11)
* Provide sufficient    5. Number of cities for which planning information
information for         (identification of future bulk water sources, outline plan
planning future         of network expansion needs, household survey data
network expansion       including demand, willingness to pay etc, approximate
investment needs) has been provided (11)
* Maintain reasonably   1. Disbursement (US$1.5M)
sanitary conditions in  2. Number of neighborhoods with piloted improvements in
C: Sanitation        urban centers           sanitation services (2)
3. Sanitary and environmental aspects of existing
collection and disposal system in each district improved
(Kabul)
* Provide engineering   1. Number of systems designed and procured (water supply
D: Engineering       and management          - 12, municipal public works - 100, sanitation - 3))
Services             support to CAWWS
and Municipalities
Power
* Remove supply         1. Re-commissioning of two re-conductored transmission
A: Transmission      bottleneck to electrical  lines to take place in June 2003.
and distribution     supplies to commerce
materials            and industry in
secondary towns.
61



ANNEX VI
Component             Objectives                  Monitoring Indicators (targets)
* To improve reliability  1. 50 underground joints to have been repaired by end-
of supplies of power in  November 2002.
B: Spare parts,      city center, and
tools, equipment     improve network
and vehicles         safety for the public;
* Modernize and         2. 20 staff of sector to have taken lessons in use of
improve efficiency of   computers by end-September 2002
power sector and its  3. 250 staff of the sector trained in modem construction
staff.                  techniques by June 2003
* Improve reliability of  1. Re-commission units at two hydropower stations with
C: Spare parts       main renewable power  new spares installed by end-April 2003
for hydro plant      source to Kabul      2. Re-commission units with new spares installed at
Naghlu station by end-July 2003.
D: Re-            * To increase and       1. Re-commission the plant by December 2002
commissioning of     improve reliability of
gas turbine.         supplies of power to
Kabul.
F: Engineering    * Ensure engineering     1. Design, bidding documents and works completed
Services             and management       satisfactorily.
support to MPW.
Policy Advice and Other Support
Policy Advice and  * Formulation and       1. Plans agreed (multiple sectors)
Other Support        agreement on plans for
sector reform in
infrastructure
62



