Report No. PID11111
Project Name             Afghanistan-Emergency Infrastructure...
Reconstruction Project
Region                   South Asia Regional Office
Sector                   Telecommunications & Informatics;
Distribution & Transmission;Other
Transportation; Other Urban
Development; Other Water Supply &
Sanitation
Project ID               AFPE77779
Borrower(s)              AFGHANISTAN
Implementing Agency
AFGHANISTAN ASSISTANCE COORDINATION
AUTHORITY
Address: Kabul, Afghanistan
Contact Person: Ashraf Ghani,
Director, Afghanistan Assistance
Coordination Authority
Environment Category     B
Date PID Prepared        May 17, 2002
Auth Appr/Negs Date      April 30, 2002
Bank Approval Date       June 6, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
1.1 Afghanistan is one of the poorest and longest-suffering countries
among the members of the World Bank. An estimated 7 million people remain
vulnerable to hunger and very large numbers are dependent on a massive
inflow of food and humanitarian aid. Afghanistan's infrastructure has
been destroyed or degraded; its human resource base severely depleted; and
its social capital eroded. State institutions are largely nonfunctional,
and the economy and society have become increasingly fragmented.
1.2 September 11, 2001 precipitated wholesale changes in the political and
military situation in Afghanistan, transforming the overall context for
national reconstruction and for World Bank support to Afghanistan. The
collapse of the Taliban regime was followed by the conclusion on December
5, 2001, in Bonn, Germany, of the Agreement on Provisional Arrangements in
Afghanistan Pending the Re-establishment of Permanent Government
Institutions (a.k.a. the Bonn Agreement), an agreement among the different
groups in opposition to the Taliban regime on a new structure of
government and a process that would lead to the election of a fully
representative government within a period of about 2 and § years.1.3 The
Afghanistan Interim Administration (AIA) is part of the Afghanistan
Interim Authority which is expected to remain in power for six months.
Fully vested with the sovereign functions of government, the Afghanistan
Interim Authority peacefully took over central administration on December
22, 2001. An emergency Loya Jirga will take place in June 2002. The Loya
Jirga will decide on a Transitional Authority that is expected to pave the
way for a new constitution and an elected, fully representative government
for Afghanistan within 2 years. The Interim Authority has the power to



repeal and amend laws and regulations by decree.1.4 The AIA has moved
quickly to restore basic government functions and reestablish
international relations. However, expectations among the population for a
"peace dividend" are high, and if the AIA and its successor do not deliver
results relatively quickly, the prospects for further progress and the
peace process will dim.1.5 Despite being hampered by very limited capacity
and the difficult security situation in many parts of the country, the AIA
has made considerable progress and has gained widespread international
recognition and some moral authority. The AIA has also presented a draft
National Development Framework to the Interim Donors Group in April 2,
2002, which laid out the AIA's development strategy.1.6 Beyond popular
expectations for a peace dividend, major infrastructure bottlenecks will
need to be removed in order to stimulate early economic recovery and
growth. War has not only devastated Afghanistan's existing
infrastructure, but prevented new investment from taking place. Immediate
challanges include repairing urban piped water, sanitation systems and
other essential urban infrastructure, restoring essential electric power
supplies, establishing communictions systems, removing major transport
bottlenecks and re-establishing safe emergency air traffic services.
1.7 Urban infrastructure. During this period of massive population
movement under war conditions, existing urban infrastructure not only
failed to match the increasing demands, but actually deteriorated owing to
lack of maintenance and outright destruction. Street lighting has almost
disappeared. Public buildings such as markets, municipal offices,
workshops and depots lie damaged and have been looted of all tools and
equipment. About a quarter of urban housing has been seriously damaged or
destroyed, and about 40 percent of housing units are in unplanned areas.
Urban management capacity has been decimated. Urban water supply and
sanitation, solid waste management and storm water drainage facilities are
in urgent need of repair. Access to adequate and safe water and
sanitation facilities is limited although in some areas NGOs and
communities have improved conditions. Currently an estimated 23 percent
of the population has access to safe water, although this masks wide
differences among provinces and districts. Coverage is poor, less than 20
percent of Kabul's population has access to piped water and many
provincial and secondary towns have no networked services.    Many urban
families lack access to safe sanitation.   Hygiene education accompanying
water supply installation has been introduced by some NGOs, but coverage
remains limited.  Water borne diseases are a major cause of the prevailing
high infant and child mortality rates. Approximately 85,000 children
under age five die annually from diarrheal diseases. Few residential or
public buildings in Afghan cities have sewerage systems, and those that
do, discharge wastewater directly into rivers without treatment. In 1997,
sanitation coverage was estimated to be 23 percent of the urban population
and 8 percent of the rural population.
1.8 Power. The vast majority of the Afghan population relies on
traditional household fuels (wood, bushes, crop residues and animal waste)
for its energy needs. There are reports of over-exploitation of forestry
resources and non-sustainable production and use of firewood leading to
deforestation and severe environmental degradation in many areas. The
current situation poses a disproportional burden on women and children,
for example, in terms of gathering of fuel wood and exposure to pollution
from cooking stoves. Only about 4 percent of the population is reported
- 2 -



to have access to electricity, but the faltering supply is limited to the
larger urban areas. The existing network is characterized by (a) daily
rationing of electricity - in Kabul, about half of the consumers are
provided with electricity on alternative evenings; (b) an almost total
lack of offices, workshops and stores facilities due to buildings having
been destroyed totally or partially; (c) the absence of conductors and
insulators, which have been stolen from many overhead transmission and
distribution lines; (d) high technical losses caused by poorly repaired
transmission and distribution lines; (e) inadequate outdated generation
and substation plant and equipment, for which spares will be difficult and
expensive to acquire; (f) a lack of all consumables, including even simple
cleaning rags, stationary, and light bulbs; (g) an absence of hand tools,
modern workshop and laboratory equipment and vehicles; (h) no
communications equipment or computers; and (i) an enthusiastic MOP staff,
most of whom are close to retirement, and who have been out of touch with
many of the latest developments in the power sector industry.
1.9 Mining, Oil and Gas. The infrastructure of the country's commercial
energy sector is in disarray, caused by a combination of the direct
effects of the wars that have blighted Afghanistan, and by subsequent
pillages of much of the sector equipment. Exports of natural gas stopped
in the late eighties. The two producing gas fields in the north that
remain have depleted over the years and the combined remaining reserves
are now estimated to be about 15 billion cubic meters. The current gas
production is about 550,000 cubic meter per day, which is one fourth of
the production in the 1980s. Seventy percent of current production is
used in a fertilizer factory and power plant. Transmission and
distribution pipelines have corroded and about 30 percent of gas is being
lost due to leakage. All gas facilities are in a desperate need of
rehabilitation and apart from a loss of revenue, pose a major safety
hazard. In the mining sector, the situation is not much better.
Ineffective legislation and weak public sector institutions limit the
ability of the central government to exert sovereignty over mineral
resources and to mobilize investment for their development. While some
geological survey work has been conducted in the past, the large
laboratory of the geological survey department has been completely
destroyed. The existing coal mines are hardly operational. Semi precious
gem stones and industrial minerals are being inefficiently mined but
detailed information is not available.
1.10 Communications. Twenty years of conflict in one of the poorest
countries in the world has left Afghanistan with a barely functioning and
limited communications sector. Adding together the analogue and wireless
local loop networks suggests a country teledensity on the order of 2
telephones per 1,000 (14 phones per 1,000 in Kabul, 0.6 phones per 1,000
in the rest of the country). A number of fixed lines remain operational
in Kabul although the analogue and digital networks are not
interconnected. A number of private companies were offering satellite
telephony in various cities. In April 2002, a private/government joint
venture began telecom operations in Kabul. International access and
internet services are expected to be available in May 2002. Radio and
television broadcasting facilities are very limited, and there is no
functioning system to provide information to rural and displaced groups on
sources of support, weather, and emergencies. In 1999, there were only
three radio stations operating in the country, only one is operating
-3 -



today, with a broadcast footprint that only covers the province of Kabul.
1.11 Roads. Roads provide the principal means of transport for both
internal and international traffic. The road network comprises about
5,800 kilometers (km) of national roads, of which 3,100 km are primary
highways including 2,400 km roads that were orginally paved. The national
primary road network largely consists of the ring road
(Herat-Kandahar-Kabul-Mazar-i Sharif-Shibergan-Maimana-Herat) and the six
international links to neighboring countries. The remaining network of
2,700 km secondary national roads and 15,000 km provincial roads is either
gravel or earthen. The coverage and condition details of tertiary road
network consisting of village access roads is not known, except that these
roads are all unpaved. More than two decades of conflict combined with a
prolonged lack of maintenance has resulted in damages to long sections of
roads, critical structures, bridges and other significantly high
transportation costs. According to the last condition survey undertaken
in 1994, 17 perent of the network was in good condition, 35 percent in
fair condition and the remaining 48 percent in poor condition. Based on
recent visits to some sections of the network, the road conditions have
deteriorated significantly.
1.12 Overall sectoral policy approach.       The formal infrastructure
sector in Afghanistan is currently largely owned and operated through
centralized ministries, with some operational and production functions
delegated to government enterprises. The reach of formal services is,
however, very limited. In the urban water supply and sanitation sectors,
there is already substantial private participation in service delivery
mainly through communities, NGOs and UN agencies. In rural areas, NGOs
and communities have been and are likely to remain the core providers of
infrastructure services. The AIA has stated that it will encourage
scaling up of community-based, decentralized approaches to improve and
expand the delivery of infrastructure services. It also plans to open up
the infrastructure sectors to private participation and investment,
starting with the telecommunication and oil and gas sectors.1.13
Attracting sustainable and efficient private participation in the
infrastructure sectors will require, first of all, a sound general
business environment characterized by well-defined property rights, rule
of law, and open entry. For those parts of the infrastructure sectors
characterized by monopoly power, attention will also be needed to create a
suitable regulatory framework. It will, however, take time to formulate
and obtain consensus on new policy frameworks, modify legislation and
regulations, achieve financial sustainability and reorganize the sectors.
The AIA therefore favors a parallel approach of using existing government
structures to supervise or implement emergency repairs and reconstruction
work while maximizing the use of service delivery schemes that involve
communities and the local private sector, and working towards the policy
and structural changes appropriate for each sector.
1.14 In proceeding with this parallel approach, the AIA recognizes the
risk of developing large and inefficient public sector in-house
construction and operations departments and public enterprises. Functional
arrangements and processes put in place to facilitate emergency
reconstruction should not be in conflict with the AIA's medium- to
long-term vision for service provision in the infrastructure sectors.
Therefore a strategic priority is to identify medium- to long-term options
for service delivery.
-4-



1.15 The AIA will launch a number of critical initiatives over the next
three months to commence reconstruction. The focus is on projects that are
quick to implement, that address major bottlenecks to the reconstruction
effort, and that do not create barriers to the future emergence of private
sector- and community-led infrastructure service provision.
Sector Specific Visionl.16 Urban. Afghanistan's urban vision is for well
functioning cities with inclusive, efficient, and self-sustaining
management systems, operated by municipalities in close collaboration with
residents. Municipalities would be the principal actors for
reconstruction of the urban environment. To the extent possible, urban
services will be expanded into new and informal areas by integrating
formal service delivery with community interventions, ensuring that all
citizens can engage effectively in city governance. Investments in
private facilities, such as houses, will be the responsibility of families
and communities, while public infrastructure (urban roads, sanitation,
public parks, etc.) will be the responsibility of municipalities and
carried out through local contractors or labor based contracts. Flexible
urban planning to facilitate appropriate development of housing and
municipal services is a priority need. Ultimately urban reconstruction
and development activities will need to take place in the context of
strengthened capacity and greater financial autonomy at the municipal
level.
1.17 Urban Water Supply. The delivery of urban water supply presents
particular challenges and opportunities. The nodal agency, the Central
Authority for Water Supply and Sewerage (CAWSS), lacks resources to move
back into its role as a central implementer of investments. Experience
from other countries suggests that a more effective institutional model
would be for decentralized service delivery with an increased role for the
private sector (building initially from the existing base of small scale
contractors, NGOs and UN agencies). Municipalities are likely to play a
key role in ensuring service delivery at the city level. The central
government and CAWSS would then move into a more facilitating role,
developing appropriate policy and regulatory instruments and overseeing
the delivery of sustainable water supply and sanitation within an agreed
framework of technical, social and environmental standards.
1.18 Power. The AIA's vision for the power sector is to encourage
community service delivery, particularly in rural areas, and encourage
local and foreign private investors to provide services at least cost in
an environmentally sustainable and socially acceptable way. Government
would withdraw from implementation of investment projects and operations
while keeping responsibility for policy making and putting in place an
appropriate regulatory framework. As a first step, the AIA plans, over
the next few months, to bring the semi-autonomous "enterprises" reporting
to the Ministry of Power under a new framework of company law reflecting
the Constitutional Law of 1964 which would provide them with real
autonomy. The AIA intends to privatize the Power Construction Unit and
the Spinghar Construction Unit (which deal with electrical and mechanical
installation and civil construction activities, respectively) as soon as
possible. The options for further restructuring and possible
privatization of Da Afghanistan Breshna Moassesa (DABM - the power
utility), which is responsible for operation and maintenance of the system
throughout the country, will need some further study, but it is expected
to be implemented in the near future.
1.19 Mining, Oil and Gas. In the mining and oil and gas sectors, the AIA
- 5-



envisions the development of the country's considerable hydrocarbon and
mineral potential to supply the needs of the domestic market, to export
and to generate revenue for the benefit of its population. As the
resources required for development of this potential vastly exceeds
available budgetary resources, and since recognition is given to the
positive role the private sector can play, AIA seeks to establish as soon
as possible an enabling environment that would attract investments from
both local and international private investors. This requires the
strengthening of government institutions which must be equipped with
logistical support and qualified manpower to enable them to effectively
promote, control, manage and monitor Afghanistan's hydrocarbon and mining
resources. The AIA recognizes that the development of the enabling
environment and the appropriate institutions will take time, but given its
revenue and employment generation potential attaches high priority to this
activity.1.20 Telecommunication. Even before the AIA was installed,
private investors, in joint venture with the Ministry of
Telecommunications, had initiated mobile telephone systems on a modest
scale. Recently, one of these joint ventures, previously active in the
North, has started to operate services in Kabul. The AIA is in the
process of formulating a new telecommunictions policy which would allow
entry of other private operators, both in mobile and other
telecommunication services such as internet. New licenses and other
regulations are already being formulated and new operators will be invited
on a competitive basis.
2. Objectives
2.1 The objective of the proposed Emergency Infrastructure Reconstruction
Project is to improve selected infrastructure service delivery in order to
enhance the quality of life, health status, and welfare of the population
and to support the economic recovery of the country. This will be
achieved by: (i) carrying out urgent reconstruction and rehabilitation
works to restore critical urban services and power; (ii) providing
employment opportunities through labor-based reconstruction activities;
and (iii) providing urgently needed policy advice and capacity building to
the AIA in selected sectors to promote sustainable infrastructure service
delivery which fosters community and private sector participation. The
outcomes of the Project are expected to be improvements in infrastructure
facilities and delivery, while laying the foundations for sector reforms
and institution building which would lead to sustainable development of
the infrastructure and energy sector. Monitoring indicators are provided
in Annex VI of the Technical Annex
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
3.1 This Project is expected to be the start of a longer term involvement
of IDA and other Bank Group instruments in selected infrastructure sub
sectors. This first operation will, apart from emergency assistance, set
the stage for increasing access to sustainable urban infrastructure
services and power, and for developing the vast potential of energy and
mineral resources for the benefit of the Afghan population at large. In
addition to the creation of suitable legal and regulatory frameworks,
capacity building efforts supported by the Project would help to create
absorptive capacity for handling donor assistance, community driven
development as well as other forms of private sector involvement across
several infrastructure sectors.
-6-



4. Description
4.1 In pursuit of the above project objectives, the proposed Grant will
finance the most urgent reconstruction and technical assistance
requirements in the urban infrastructure and energy sub-sectors, and will
set the stage for additional future assistance from the Bank Group and
other donors in support of the AIA's national development priorities. The
needs for the infrastructure reconstruction program are large, and IDA
will only be able to finance part of the requirements. Criteria used to
select activities as part of the first IDA project include: (i) quick
impact and readiness for disbursement; (ii) employment creation; and (iii)
geographical balance, i.e. including provincial cities other than Kabul.
4.2 The project includes three components: (i) restoration of urban
services, (ii) restoration of power, and (iii) policy advice, training and
engineering support in selected sectors.Component 1: Urban Services
(estimated cost: US$16 million)4.3 The Urban component of the proposed
Project would consist of the following four parts: (i) Municipal Public
Works Program (5 cities); (ii) Urban Water Supply Improvements (12
cities); (iii) Sanitation Improvements (Kabul); and (iv) Engineering and
Management Support.
n Part A: Municipal Public Works Program (US$3M equivalent). This
subcomponent would support labor-intensive public works selected and
implemented by participating municipalities (Herat, Jalalabad, Kabul,
Kandahar, and Mazar-i-Sharif) up to a maximum of $50,000 for each
sub-project.
n Part B: Urban Water Supply Improvements (US$9.8M equivalent). This
subcomponent would support repair and rehabilitation of the water supply
systems in the 12 cities outside Kabul which have a formal network
installed by CAWSS (Charikar, Ghazni, Herat, Jalalabad, Kandahar,
Kunduz, Mazar-i-Sharif, Mehterlam, Qala-e-Naw, Qalat, Shiberghan and
Taluqan). CAWSS will procure the support of a consultant to prepare
bidding documents, supervise the works and ensure that operational
training and support are provided to provincial CAWSS staff during this
preliminary period. The consultant will also prepare information to
facilitate a move to a larger intervention (possibly a management contract
or contracts) at a later stage.
n Part C: Sanitation Improvements (US$1.5M equivalent). This subcomponent
would support repair and rehabilitation of critical sanitation facilities,
including excreta disposal, solid waste management and drainage;
implementation of pilot sanitation interventions in low-income areas of
Kabul; and ongoing support to Kabul Municipality to finance contracted
services such as solid waste collection. A consultant will carry out a
rapid assessment of critical investment needs in Kabul based on data
prepared by ICRC and the district shuras, prepare bidding documents and
supervise the works for rehabilitation, the pilot project, and for ongoing
contracted services.
n Part D: Engineering and Management Support (US$1.7M equivalent). This
subcomponent would include: (i) engineering and management support to
MHBTP to implement the municipal public works program including support to
the screening and processing of municipal public works projects, and
development of community planning and consultation processes in the five
cities; (ii) engineering support for the operation of water supply systems
in 12 secondary cities over a period of 18 months, preparation of designs,
technical specifications and bidding documents, supervision of works, and
future system planning for each system; and (iii) engineering support to
Kabul Municipality to identify, design and supervise priority sanitation
-7 -



interventions.Component 2: Power (estimated cost: US$15 million)4.4 The
Power component of the proposed Project would consist of the following
five parts: (i) transmission and distribution materials in secondary
cities; (ii) essential tools and equipment to maintain the power system;
(iii) hydropower station repairs; (iv) re-commissioning of the gas turbine
and supply of fuel; and (v) engineering support.
n Part A Transmission and Distribution Materials (US$6.5M equivalent).
Transmission and distribution materials for the implementation of urgent
repairs in some secondary cities, and the replacement of insulators and
conductor on transmission lines.
n Part B: Essential Tools and Equipment (US$1.5M equivalent). Procurement
of essential stock of tools (including conductor stringing equipment),
vehicles, repair of stores, computers and other equipment for
administrative systems, metering and billing to re-establish the capacity
to operate and maintain the power system.
n Part C: Hydropower Station Repairs (US$2.5M equivalent). Strategic
spare parts and consumables, and their installation for hydropower
stations (including Naghlu,Daruanta, and Pulikumri II).
n Part D: Re-commissioning of Gas Turbine and Supply of Fuel (US$3.7M
equivalent). Re-commissioning of NW Kabul gas turbine plant and supply of
diesel fuel and additives.
n Part E: Engineering Support (US$0.8M equivalent). Supervision of the
erection of the equipment and plant described in Parts A through D of the
project, to ensure that the work carried out is to an appropriate
standard, training and ensuring that environmental impacts, if any, are
positive; and engineering support for the preparation of follow up
projects as well as introduction of modern design and construction
techniques.Component 3: Policy Advice and Other Support (estimated cost:
US$2 million)4.5 This component will include urgently required policy and
regulatory advice, training and additional engineering support to key
infrastructure services including, inter alia, water supply and
sanitation, urban services, power, telecom, transport, mining, oil and
gas. While a broad policy vision has been articulated by the AIA for most
infrastructure sectors, this component will provide AIA with the necessary
support to detail and start to operationalize the specific reform agenda
and improve efficiency by optimizing private sector and community
participation. The component will help AIA to put in place the necessary
framework and legislation to promote private sector participation in the
mining and hydrocarbon sectors. In the urban, water supply and sanitation
sectors the objective is to reinforce the current level of private sector
and community involvement and facilitate a move to more formal private
sector participation. For the power sector the objective is to support
AIA's current efforts to divest the construction units, and design an
appropriate industry structure. The draft terms of reference are being
discussed and will be defined by AIA not later than July 1, 2002.
4.6 Details of the project components are provided in the Technical Annex.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER                 $0.00
IBRD
IDA                      $33.00
Total Project Cost       $33.00
6. Implementation
-8-



6.1 The Project would be implemented over an 18 month period, with a
December 31, 2003 anticipated project completion date. The project will
be implemented by the: (i) Ministry of Public Works, together with CAWSS,
for the water supply and sanitation activities; (ii) Ministry of Housing,
Building, and Town Planning with selected municipalities for urgent,
labor-based municipal services such as drain clearing and street repairs;
(iii) Ministry of Power, with DABM; for power; and (iv) Ministry of Mines
and Industry for the mining, oil and gas technical assistance. The
Afghanistan Assistance Coordination Agency (AACA) will assist with
coordination. Additional details are provided in the Technical Annex.6.2
Procurement of goods and services will be done through the procurement
agent under the AACA, but monitoring of technical assistance and
investment components, project administration etc. would be done by the
implementing ministries and their agencies. Government has retained the
services of an international procurement agent on an interim basis to
contract works and services on behalf of the ministries and is in the
process of selecting a more permanent procurement agent through a
competitive process.
7. Sustainability
7.1 This project is expected to be the start of a longer term involvement
of IDA and other Bank Group instruments in selected infrastructure sub
sectors. This first operation will, apart from emergency assistance, set
the stage for increasing access to sustainable infrastructure services and
for developing the vast potential of energy and mineral resources for the
benefit of the Afghan population at large. In addition to the creation of
suitable legal and regulatory frameworks, capacity building efforts
supported by the project would help to create absorptive capacity for
handling donor assistance, community driven development as well as other
forms of private sector involvement.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
8.1 The main lessons learned from other emergency reconstruction projects
include the following:(i) Complexity may not be entirely avoidable in
emergency operations which need to address urgent requirements across many
sectors. IDA should be prepared to support a borrower/recipient through
proactive and intensive involvement upfront during project preparation,
and subsequently during project implementation. Engagement by a
borrower/recipient of adequate technical assistance in project
implementation should be ensured through financing under an IDA grant or
credit, or possibly under grant financing from donors. (ii) The Bank Group
needs to respond quickly in project preparation. Any delays can lead to
changes in the composition of assistance as borrowers/recipients address
the more urgent requirements first from available resources. The
consequent re-assessment of priorities can further delay the delivery of
IDA assistance.(iii) Timeliness and flexibility are of key importance
during project implementation in ensuring the effectiveness of the IDA's
assistance. Changing circumstances of projects executed in politically
fluid environments call for quick adjustments within and between
components.(iv) Special attention needs to be given to defining
procurement arrangements, including installing the required capacities in
the local agencies, since time is of the essence in emergency operations.
Weaknesses in preparation place a subsequent burden through the need for
intensifying supervision input to correct deficiencies.
-9-



9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)      N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Tjaarda P. Storm Van Leeuwen
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-458-1464
Fax: 202-522-2427
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
May 24, 2002.
- 10 -



