ISDS
THE WORLD BANK GROUP                                                    AWotid Free nl Pnvorty
:   fIroShop
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Updated)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 0610412002                                          24267
Section 1-Basicinformation                                                   June 4, 2002
A. Basic Project Data
Country: AFGHANISTAN                                   Project ID: P077779
Project: Emergency InfrastructLIre Reconstruction Project Task Team Leader: Tjaarda P. Storm Van Leeuwen
Authorized to Appraise Date: April 30, 2002            IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: June 6, 2002                            IDA Amount ($m): 33.00
Managing Unit: SASEI                                   Sector: CC - Telecommunications & Informatics; PL)
Lending Instrument: Emergency Recovery Loan (ERL)      - Distribution & Transm ission; TY - Other
Status: Lending                                        Transportation; UY - Other Urbani Development;
WY - Other Water Supply & Sanitation
Theme: ENERGY; MININCiN TELECOM &
INFORLMATICS; WATER; URBANT
[.A.2. Project Objectives:
The objective of the proposed Emergency Infrastructure Reconstruction Project is to improve selected infrastructure
service delivery in order to enhance the quality of life, health status, and welfare of the population and to support the
econornic recovery of the country. This will be achieved by: (i) carrying out urgent reconstruction and rehabilitation
works to restore criticaL urban services and power; (ii) providing employment opportuiities through labor-based
reconstruction activities; and (iii) providing urgently needed policy advice and capacity building to the Afghanistan
Interim Administration (AIA) in selected sectors to promote sustainable infrastructure service delivery which fosters
community and private sector participation. The outcomes of the Project are expected to be improvements in
infrastructure facilities and deliver', while laying the foundations for sector reforms and institution building which
would lead to sustainable developnment of the infrastructure and energy sector. Monitoring indicators are provided in
Annex VI of the Technical Annex
I.A.3. Project Description:
In pursuit of the above project objectives, the proposed Grant will finance the most urgent reconstruction and
technical assistance requirements in the urban infrastructure and energy sub-sectors, and will set the stage for
additional future assistance from the Bank Group and other donors in support of the AlA's national development
priorities. The needs for the infrasiructure reconstruction program are large, and IDA wsill only, be able to finance
part of the requirements. Criteria used to select activities as part of the first IDA project include: (i) quick impact
and readiness for disbursement; (ii' employment creation; and (iii) geographical balance, i.e. including provincial
cities other than Kabul.
The project includes three components: (i) restoration of urban services, (ii) restoration of power, and (iii) policy
advice, training and engineering support in selected sectors.



2
ISDS
Component 1: Urban Services (esieimated cost: US$16 million)
The Urban component of the proposed Project would consist of the following four parts: (i) Municipal Public
Works Program (5 cities); (ii) Urban Water Supply Improvements (12 cities); (iii) Sanitation Improvements (Kabul);
and (iv) Engineering and Management Support.
Part A: MunicipalPublic Works Program (US$3M equivalent). This subcomponent would support
labor-intensive public works selected and implemented by participating municipalities (Herat, Jalalabad, Kabul,
Kandahar, and Mazar-i-Sharif) up to a maximum of $50,000 for each sub-project.
Part B: Urban Water Supply Improvements (US$9.8M equivalent). This subcomponent would support
repair and rehabilitation of the water supply systems in the 12 cities outside Kabul which have a formal network
installed by CAWSS (Charikar, Ghazni, Herat, Jalalabad, Kandahar, Kunduz, Mazar-i-Sharif, Mehterlam,
Qala-e-Naw, Qalat, Shiberghan ancl Taluqan). CAWSS will procure the support of a consultant to prepare bidding
documents, supervise the works and ensure that operational training and support are provided to provincial CAWSS
staff during this preliminary period. The consultant will also prepare information to facilitate a move to a larger
intervention (possibly a management contract or contracts) at a later stage.
Part C: Sanitation Improivements (US$1.5Mequivalent). This subcomponent would support repair and
rehabilitation of critical sanitation iacilities, including excreta disposal, solid waste management and drainage;
implementation of pilot sanitation interventions in low-income areas of Kabul; and ongoing support to Kabul
Municipality to finance contracted services such as solid waste collection. A consultant will carry out a rapid
assessment of critical investment needs in Kabul based on data prepared by ICRC and the district shuras, prepare
bidding documents and supervise the works for rehabilitation, the pilot project, and for ongoing contracted services.
Part D: Engineering and Management Support (US$1. 7M equivalent). This subcomponent would
include: (i) engineering and management support to MHBTP to implement the municipal public works program
including support to the screening and processing of municipal public works projects, and development of
community planning and consultation processes in the five cities; (ii) engineering support for the operation of water
supply systems in 12 secondary cities over a period of 18 months, preparation of designs, technical specifications
and bidding documents, supervision of works, and future system planning for each system; and (iii) engineering
support to Kabul Municipality to identify, design and supervise priority sanitation interventions.
Component 2: Power (estimated cost: US$15 million)
The Power component of the proposed Project would consist of the following five parts: (i) transmission and
distribution materials in secondary cities; (ii) essential tools and equipment to maintain the power system; (iii)
hydropower station repairs; (iv) re-commissioning of the gas turbine and supply of fuel; and (v) engineering support.
Part A Transmission and Distribution Materials (US$6.5M equivalent). Transmission and distribution
materials for the implementation of urgent repairs in some secondary cities, and the replacement of insulators and
conductor on transmission lines.
Part B: Essential Tools and Equipment (US$1.5M equivalent). Procurement of essential stock of tools
(including conductor stringing equipment), vehicles, repair of stores, computers and other equipment for
administrative systems, metering and billing to re-establish the capacity to operate and maintain the power system.
Part C: Hydropower Station Repairs (US$2.5M equivalent). Strategic spare parts and consumables, and
their installation for hydropower stations (including Naghlu,Daruanta, and Pulikumri 11).
Part D: Re-commissioning of Gas Turbine and Supply of Fuel (US$3. 7M equivalent).
Re-commissioning of NW Kabul gas turbine plant and supply of diesel fuel and additives.
Part E: Engineering Support (US$0.8M equivalent). Supervision of the erection of the equipment and
plant described in Parts A through D of the project, to ensure that the work carried out is to an appropriate standard,
training and ensuring that environmental impacts, if any, are positive; and engineering support for the preparation of



ISDS
follow up projects as well as introduction of modem design and construction techniques.
Component 3: Policy Advice and Other Support (estimated cost: US$2 million)
This component will include urgently required policy and regulatory advice, training and additional engineering
support to key infrastructure services including, inter alia, water supply and sanitation, urban services, power,
telecom, transport, mining, oil and gas. While a broad policy vision has been articulated by the AlA for most
infrastructure sectors, this component will provide AIA with the necessary support to detail and start to
operationalize the specific reform agenda and improve efficiency by optimizing private sector and community
participation. The component will help AIA to put in place the necessary framework and legislation to promote
private sector participation in the mining and hydrocarbon sectors. In the urban, water supply and sanitation sectors
the objective is to reinforce the cunrent level of private sector and community involvement and facilitate a move to
more formal private sector participation. For the power sector the objective is to support AlA's current efforts to
divest the construction units, and design an appropriate industry structure. The draft terms of reference are being
discussed and will be defined by AIA not later than July 1, 2002.
Details of the project components are provided in the Technical Annex.
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites
or critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The project will be implemented troughout Afghanistan where, due to a combination of several factors, including
demographic pressures, scarcity of the natural resource, and institutional failure, the environment has been undergoing
stress since the middle of the century. The past two decades of war and civil strife have exacerbrated an already
precarious situation. Extensive degradation of land, forest, and water resources, and various fonns of pollution are the
main challenges facing the environment in Afghanistan. In terms of this projet, specific sites for civil works will be
selected during implementation, applying a screening framework to ensure impacts are clearly identified, and where
possible, positive impacts are enhanced before sub-project.
B. Check Environmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)
Comments: An Environmental and Social Screening and Assessment Framework will be developed in parallel with the
proposed comprehensive needs assessment. The purpose of such a framework is to assist the project implementing
agencies (Afghanistan Assistance (Coordination Authority (AACA) and the line rninistries) in screening all the sub
projects for their likely social and environmental impacts, help in prioritizing investments, and prepare documentation,
mitigation measures, and institutionsal arrangements to be made part of project implementation.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
F'olicy                                   Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP,BP/GP 4.01)                          * Yes     No      TBD
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)                                             ' Yes * No        TBD
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                     C, Yes * No       TBD
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                         Yes * No     .TBD
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                         . Yes * No     .TBD
Involuntary Resettlement (OPIBP 4.12)                               Yes *No        TBD
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                        Yes 0 No      i TBD
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)                                       C Yes * No     C TBD
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*                 Cl Yes 0 No    : TBD
Projects in lnternational Waterw,ays (OP/BP/GP 7.50)              0 Yes 0 No        TBD
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties claims
on the dispuited areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Iss:ues and Their Management



4
ISDS
D. Summary of Key Safeguard .Issues. Please.fill in all relevant questions. If informaition is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.
Il.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and
describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
The reconstruction and rehabilitation interventions envisaged under the proposed project are not expected to
generate significant negative envircnmental effects. Rather, they should contribute to the improvement of
environmental conditions. Limited adverse impacts could result, however, from inadequate design and construction
practices. To limit the extent of the se risks, the Framework provides a negative list of activities ineligible for support
under the proposed project. To mitigate the remaining potential negative impacts, the guidelines and codes of
practice included in the Framework provide social and environmental mitigation measures to be incorporated in the
design, contracting and monitoring of sub-projects. The only intervention expected to require a separate
environmental report is the rehabilitation of the NW Kabul power plant, for which an environmental audit will be
conducted as part of recommissioning.
Although no significant environmental impacts are expected, some proposed activities will need to be carefully
screened for potential impacts, including: (i) solid waste management, particularly if it involves disposal; (ii)
domestic liquid waste disposal, and septic tank cleaning; (iii) reconstruction of sewers and drains; (iv) low cost water
treatment facilities and water distribution network repairs and extensions in provincial cities; and (v) electric
transmission and distribution repair and upgrading of substations (need to assess potential hazards, such as PCBs;
construction impact and access roads).
No land acquisition or involuntary resettlement is expected. However there are two proposed investment
components where there could be some potential for land acquisition:
*   Water Supply - "limited extension" of water distribution networks in provincial cities.
* Power - reconstruction and "upgrading" of Kabul I lOkV and 15 kV substations and associated transmission
and distribution systems.
Therefore, the environmental and social screening framework will include procedures for documenting potential land
acquisition. A one page Land Acquisition Assessment Data sheet would include basic land acquisition screening
information including, quality of land required, location, use of land and number of people potentially affected by
involuntary resettlement.
Although the indigenous people policy is not applicable, Project design and subproject selection will aim to maintain
regional balance, and equity between genders, and ethnic and religious groups, considering variations in population
density. Employment opportunities within the projects will be available on an equal basis to all, on the basis of
professional competence, irrespective of gender, or ethnic or religious group.
II.D. I b. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
There are no foreseen potential of cumulative negative impacts since the project is designed to reestablish the basic
necessities of life in term of public services, over a large area, leading only to very dispersed but localized effects
largely limited to the construction phase of the project.
I I.D. I c Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
The nature of the project, which is intended to assist in the restoration of pre-conflict conditions, is unlikely to lead
to any significant incremental long-term impacts.
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
There has been no explicit treatment of alternative in term of overall reconstruction decision-making i.e. the decision
to rebuild and restore infrastructure is inevitable. Its also important to note that AIA policy is to support in-situ



5
ISDS
reconstruction. Consideration of alternatives at the project component level will be done during sub-project
preparation.
lI.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
The borrower has prepared an Environmental and Social Screening and Assessment Framework, which highlight the
possible environmental and social impacts and present mitigation measures and implementation arrangements for
any significant impact. The framevwork includes a "code of practice" which allows incorporation of most mitigation
measures to be made part of constriction/rehabilitation measures. Technical assistance includes reviews of social
and environmental issues, as well a; detailed consultations with service users and local communities. The capacity of
implementing agencies and the adeqluacy of financing arrangements to apply the framework were assessed during
project appraisal. Where capacity to undertake environmental and social safeguard functions is weak, the project will
ensure arrangements are in place to strengthen capacity. AIA will ensure that the implementing institutions are able
to carry out or oversee the environnmental and social review and mitigation of possible impacts in subprojects.
Il.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
The key stakeholders in the project are those affected by the war and civil strife. NGO's who have joined the
reconstruction effort are key secondary stakeholders, along with administration officials who are leading the effort.
The AIA has consulted primary and secondary stakeholders during project preparation and will continues to have a
participatory approach during implementation. For example, financial assistance estimates for repairs/reconstruction
were based on detailed damage surveys involving both information dissemination and consultation activities.
Grievance redress mechanisms will be put in place for anyone who is dissatisfied with the surveys or other aspects of
implementation. Local mechanisms such as the involvement of village-level officials and NGO's also ensure
participatory and transparent processes.
This Environmental and Social Safeguards Framework was prepared in consultation with the principal NGOs and
development partners participating in reconstruction activities in Afghanistan. It will be disclosed by GoA in both
Dari and Pashto, as well as English. and it will also be made available at the World Bank's Infoshop.
The environmental audit to be prepared for the rehabilitation of the Kabul North-West thermal power station will be
made publicly available by GoA, and at the World Bank Infoshop. Since no other separate environmental or social
assessments will be prepared for activities under the proposed reconstruction operations, no additional disclosure
requirements will apply.  In this regard, however, it is worth noting that GoA intends to make all project
documentation publicly available through the Afghan Information Management System (AIMS).
The proposed operations will support a number of feasibility and detailed design studies for future infrastructure
investments, for which World Bank safeguard policies relating to consultation and disclosure will apply.  In
particular, for environmental Category A and B investments (as defined in World Bank Operational Policy 4.01.
Environmental Assessment) proposed for future operations, the implementing agency will consult project-affected
groups and local nongovernmental organizations about the project's environmental and social aspects, and will take
their views into account.The implementing agency will initiate such consultations as early as possible, and for
meaningful consultations, will provide relevant material in a timely manner prior to consultation, in a form and
language that are understandable and accessible to the groups being consulted.
For Category A projects, the implernenting agency will consult these groups at least twice, (i) shortly after
environmental screening and before the terms of reference for the Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) are
finalized, and (ii) once a draft EIA r eport is prepared. For the initial consultation, the implementing agency will
provide a summary of the proposed project's objectives, description, and potential impacts. For both Category A and
B projects, the implementing agency will provide these groups with a summary of the EIA report's conclusions. In
addition, the implementing agency will make the draft reports available at a public place accessible to
project-affected groups and local NGOs.
E. Safeguards Classiflcation. Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or on basis of



6
ISDS
cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the
provisions of that policy apply.
3 SI. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks
in management of one or more safeguard areas
[X] S2. - One or more safeguar(d policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
technically and institutionally manageable
S3. -No safeguard issues
[ ] SF. - Financial intermediarv projects, social development funds, community driven development or
similar projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address
safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements
Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan.              Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                                    4/30/2002
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                 5/31/2002
Date of submission to InfoShop
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:                             Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Developme.nzt Plan/Framework:                Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan:                                           Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan:                                    _Exvected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop,
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why. Consultation
and disclosure requirements will be simplified to meet the special needs of these operation. Prior to Board, the
Framework will be disclosed to the Infoshop and discussed with stakeholders in country. For sub-projects triggering
safeguard policies, necessary mitigation plans (EA, RAP, etc.) will be prepared and disclosed during
implementation, but in all cases, before approval of the sub-projects. Waiver of norrnal disclosure requirements will
be requested from MDs (on the advice of ESSD and SAR VPs) on grounds of urgency. In all cases where waivers
are granted, they will time-bound (e.g., 6 months), and noted in the MOP. The Framework will serve as the
operational instrument for managing social and environmental issues. The borrower will establish a senior level
position within the implementing organization to oversee and manage environmental and social clevelopment issues.
Signed and submitted by         Name                                          Date



7
ISDS
Task Team Leader:              Tjaarda P. Storm Van Leeuwen                  05/25/2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:  Paul Jonathan Martin/Person/World Bank   05/2412002
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:                   Name                                          Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: L. Panneer Selvam                          05/30/2002
Sector Manager/Director:       Philippe Dongier                             05/30/2002
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
SEARCH -      - FEEDEArK     i SrTr MAP       SHO A5OAS  



