                            Document of
                          The World Bank




                                                   Report No:ICR0000116




   IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                            (IDA-H0070)

                               ON A

                   CREDIT IN THE AMOUNT OF
                        US$ MILLION 37.11

                   (SDR 25.62 MILLION CREDIT)

                                TO

                          AFGHANISTAN

                              FOR THE

EMERGENCY INFRASTRUCTURE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT




                           March 28, 2007




South Asia Sustainable Development Department
Afghanistan, Bhutan & Maldives Country Management Unit
South Asia Region

                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                   (Exchange Rate Effective )

                   Currency Unit = Afghanis
                         1.00 = US$ 0.02
                        US$ 1.00 = 50.1

                         FISCAL YEAR
                     March 21 ­ March 20

           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB      Asian Development Bank
AIA      Afghanistan Interim Authority
CAWSS    Central Authority for Water Supply and Sewerage
HPP      Hydropower Plant
ICR      Implementation Completion and Results Report
IDA      International Development Association
ISR      Implementation Status Report
KfW      Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (German development bank)
KM       Kabul Municipality
km       Kilometer
lpcd     liters per capita per day
MEW      Ministry of Energy and Water
MOF      Ministry of Finance
MWP      Ministry of Water and Power
MUDH     Ministry of Urban Development and Housing
NGO      Non-Governmental Organization
OPCS     Operational Policy and Country Services
PDO      Project Development Objective
QAG      Quality Assurance Group
TTL      Task Team Leader
UN       United Nations
UNDP     United Nations Development Program
UWSS     Urban Water Supply and Sanitation



                 Vice President: Praful C. Patel
               Country Director: Alastair J. McKechnie
                Sector Manager: Salman Zaheer
           Project Team Leader: Julia M. Fraser
              ICR Team Leader: Michael Haney

                                         AFGHANISTAN
                  Emergency Infrastructure Reconstruction Project




                                             CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
 3. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 10
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 14
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 15
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 17
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 19
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 20
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 21
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 23
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 24
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 26
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 27
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR .................... 28
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 29
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 30
 MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                     Emergency
Country:                Afghanistan           Project Name:          Infrastructure
                                                                     Reconstruction Project
Project ID:             P077779               L/C/TF Number(s):      IDA-H0070
ICR Date:               03/01/2007            ICR Type:              Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     ERL                   Borrower:              AFGHANISTAN
Original Total
                        XDR 26.5M             Disbursed Amount:      XDR 25.6M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Urban Development & Housing
Central Authority for Water Supply and Sewerage
Ministry of Energy and Water
Kabul Municipality
Ministry of Mines and Industries
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process             Date             Process         Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:        04/03/2002    Effectiveness:       06/11/2002          06/11/2002
Appraisal:                           Restructuring(s):
Approval:              06/06/2002    Mid-term Review:                         07/01/2003
                                     Closing:             12/31/2004          06/30/2006


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  High
Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Moderately Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings              Borrower                Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory          Government:            Not Applicable

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory          Implementing
                                              Agency/Agencies:       Not Applicable

Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory          Performance:           Moderately Satisfactory

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                                QAG Assessments
      Performance               Indicators            (if any)                 Rating

Potential Problem Project No                    Quality at Entry
                                                                      Satisfactory
at any time (Yes/No):                           (QEA):
Problem Project at any                          Quality of
                          Yes                                         None
time (Yes/No):                                  Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                               Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Aviation                                                                              5
Central government administration                                 6
Power                                                            45                  47
Sanitation                                                        9                   8
Solid waste management                                                                4
Sub-national government administration                            5
Water supply                                                     35                  36


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction            Primary           Primary
Legal institutions for a market economy                         Primary           Secondary
Other urban development                                         Primary           Primary
Participation and civic engagement                              Primary           Secondary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                      At ICR                           At Approval
Vice President:           Praful C. Patel                    Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:         Alastair J. McKechnie              Alastair J. McKechnie
Sector Manager:           Salman Zaheer                      Philippe Dongier
Project Team Leader:      Julia M. Fraser                    Tjaarda P. Storm Van Leeuwen
ICR Team Leader:          Michael Haney
ICR Primary Author:       Michael Haney

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

As identified in the Technical Annex, the objective of the project was to improve selected
infrastructure service delivery in order to enhance the quality of life, health status, and
welfare of the population and to support the economic recovery of the country. This was
to be achieved by:

  (a) Carrying out urgent reconstruction and rehabilitation works to restore critical urban
services and power;

  (b) Providing employment opportunities through labor-based reconstruction activities;
and

  (c) Providing urgently needed policy advice and capacity building to the Government in
selected sectors to promote sustainable infrastructure service delivery which fosters
community and private sector participation.

The outcomes of the Project were expected to be improvements in infrastructure facilities
and delivery, and progress towards laying the foundations for sector reforms and
institution building which would lead to sustainable development of the infrastructure
and energy sector.

Annex VI of the Technical Annex identified monitoring indicators for the various
components and subcomponents of the project. These were quantified to the limited
extent possible given the absence of baseline data.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
Neither the PDO nor the Key Indicators were revised in the course of project
implementation.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target      Formally       Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value          Values (from       Revised        Achieved at
                                               approval          Target        Completion or
                                              documents)         Values        Target Years

Indicator :     Municipal Public Works - Number of packages implemented with community
                endorsement
Value
quantitative or                           100                               112
Qualitative)
Date achieved                             12/31/2004                        02/28/2005
Comments
(incl. %        No baseline value, since the project was based on urgent needs.
achievement)

Indicator :    Municipal Public Works - Number of person-days of employment generated
Value                                                                         43,000
quantitative or                           18,000                              people from an
Qualitative)                                                                  average of 10 days
Date achieved                             12/30/2004                          02/28/2005
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
               Municipal public works - Km roads cleared, km access roads constructed, km
Indicator :    drains cleared, structures constructed/repaired, trees planted, m2 land treated
               with soil conservation measures
                                                                              Over 43,000 meters
                                                                              of road
                                                                              gravelling/levelling
                                                                              in 4 cities;
                                                                              cleaning,

Value                                     targets to be                       construction,

quantitative or                           defined in                          excavation of

Qualitative)                              subprojects                         almost 61,000
                                                                              meters of side
                                                                              ditches in Kabul,
                                                                              Jalalabad and
                                                                              Kandahar;
                                                                              construction of 74
                                                                              shallow wells
Date achieved                             12/31/2004                          02/28/2005
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator :    Urban Water Supply - Number of cities receiving improvements to water supply
                                                                              11 provincial cities
                                                                              with about 132 km
                                                                              of pipes laid,

Value                                                                         bringing the

quantitative or                           11                                  distribution

Qualitative)                                                                  network from 453
                                                                              to 585 km. Water
                                                                              production was
                                                                              raised from 15,000
                                                                              to 25,000 cum/day.
Date achieved                             12/30/2005                          06/22/2005
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
               Urban Water Supply - No. of cities for which planning info. (identification of
Indicator :    future bulk water sources, outline plan of network expansion needs, household
               survey data, has been provided
Value                                     11                                  Feasibility studies
quantitative or                                                               were compiled for

Qualitative)                                                                  11 provincial
                                                                              towns. Satellite
                                                                              images were
                                                                              provided for 32
                                                                              provincial towns,
                                                                              digital maps
                                                                              processed from 22
                                                                              towns, and layout
                                                                              of water systems
                                                                              for 11 towns.
Date achieved                             12/30/2005                          06/22/2005
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator :    Kabul Sanitation - Improvement in the sanitary and environmental aspects of the
               existing solid waste collection and disposal system in Kabul

                                          Goods delivered:                    Completed:

                                          500 containers 1.1                  Rehabilitation of
                                                                              Gazak dumpsite,
Value                                     cum, 44 containers                  repair of 8 public
quantitative or                           7.5 cum; 3 garbage                  toilet complexes,
Qualitative)                              vehicles;
                                          equipment for                       pilot sanitary

                                          Gazak dumpsite; 4                   improvements for

                                          section trucks.                     row houses in
                                                                              district 11.
Date achieved                             06/22/2006                          06/22/2005
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator :    Power - Dispatch of distribution material to provincial cities by April 2005.
               Erection of all material for Kabul City by September 2005
                                                                              Material for all 7
                                                                              cities has been

Value                                                                         dispatched. Over

quantitative or                                                               1,000 additional

Qualitative)                                                                  customers were
                                                                              provided
                                                                              connections in
                                                                              Kabul east.
Date achieved                                                                 06/22/2005
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator :    Power - Re-commissioning of the gas turbine plant in the city of Kabul has taken
               place by December 31, 2002

Value                                                                         Completed in

quantitative or                                                               January 2003. This

Qualitative)                                                                  provided an
                                                                              additional 45MW

                                                                          to Kabul City and
                                                                          provides about 30%
                                                                          of Kabul's power on
                                                                          average and up to
                                                                          60% in the winter.
Date achieved                                                             01/15/2003
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator :    Power - Power Sector Master plan completed.
                                                                          The final report of
                                                                          the power sector
                                                                          master plan was
Value                                                                     submitted in
quantitative or                                                           October 2004. A
Qualitative)                                                              workshop was held
                                                                          in Kabul by
                                                                          Norconsult on
                                                                          December 4, 2004.
Date achieved                                                             10/20/2004
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                         Original Target     Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator        Baseline Value         Values (from                       Achieved at
                                             approval         Revised       Completion or
                                            documents)     Target Values     Target Years

Indicator :    This project was approved in FY02, and as such no intermediate outcome
               indicators were defined.
Value
(quantitative                           na
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                           12/30/2005
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                               Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived               DO                        IP               Disbursements
                                                                           (USD millions)
  1     07/31/2002          Satisfactory             Satisfactory                     0.00
  2     11/04/2002          Satisfactory             Satisfactory                     3.30
  3     12/30/2002          Satisfactory            Unsatisfactory                    4.13

  4   06/27/2003        Satisfactory      Unsatisfactory           6.49
  5   08/28/2003        Satisfactory      Unsatisfactory           6.69
  6   11/26/2003        Satisfactory      Unsatisfactory          12.33
  7   05/26/2004        Satisfactory       Satisfactory           21.69
  8   12/22/2004        Satisfactory       Satisfactory           27.62
  9   06/17/2005        Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory    33.91
  10  12/25/2005        Satisfactory       Satisfactory           34.96
  11  06/27/2006        Satisfactory       Satisfactory           37.11



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




I. Disbursement Profile

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)

1.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country and sector background, rationale for Bank assistance)

This project was prepared under the extraordinary circumstances that followed the attacks
on the United States on September 11, 2001, and forged an unprecedented coordinated
international response to the crisis in Afghanistan. For Afghanistan, this was a time of
great but tentative promise. The country was emerging from more than 20 years of
conflict that had exacted an enormous toll on its people and had destroyed its economic
infrastructure. For the first time in a generation, Afghans faced the prospect of living in
peace and of rebuilding their devastated country.

From the start of the reconstruction period, the Government of Afghanistan (in its various
manifestations, beginning with the Afghanistan Interim Authority (AIA) that was
recognized internationally at the Bonn Conference in December 2001) had stressed the
rehabilitation and development of the country's infrastructure as one of its top priorities.
This project, which was processed under Bank OP 8.50 Emergency Recovery Assistance,
represents the Bank's initial response to GOA's desire for assistance in the development
of the country's physical infrastructure, and was one of the first Bank-funded projects in
Afghanistan in over 20 years.

While the components of the project as designed ranged (within the general area of
infrastructure) from strictly engineering interventions to technical assistance to more
complex forms of community mobilization, they all reflected the Government's
overarching emphasis on interventions that would (i) show results on-the-ground as soon
as possible, to respond to the fragile socio-political situation and the high expectations of
a "peace dividend", and (ii) facilitate subsequent, in-depth sectoral engagements by the
Bank and others, in anticipation of the implementation of the large commitments of
development assistance that the international community had made to Afghanistan.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

As identified in the Technical Annex, the objective of the project was to improve selected
infrastructure service delivery in order to enhance the quality of life, health status, and
welfare of the population and to support the economic recovery of the country. This was
to be achieved by:

    (a) Carrying out urgent reconstruction and rehabilitation works to restore critical
        urban services and power;
    (b) Providing employment opportunities through labor-based reconstruction
        activities; and
    (c) Providing urgently needed policy advice and capacity building to the Government
        in selected sectors to promote sustainable infrastructure service delivery which
        fosters community and private sector participation.


                                              1

The outcomes of the Project were expected to be improvements in infrastructure facilities
and delivery, and progress towards laying the foundations for sector reforms and
institution building which would lead to sustainable development of the infrastructure
and energy sector.

Annex VI of the Technical Annex identified monitoring indicators for the various
components and subcomponents of the project. These were quantified to the limited
extent possible in the absence of baseline data.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

Neither the PDO nor the Key Indicators were revised in the course of project
implementation.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
(original and revised, briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD
and as captured in the PDO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected
to benefit from the project)

As described in the Technical Annex, the beneficiaries of the project were expected to be
households throughout urban Afghanistan using the various infrastructure services
supported under the project (water, sanitation, power). In addition, expected project
beneficiaries included the many individuals who would benefit from the short-term
public works employment generated by the Municipal Public Works component in five
cities, and the communities that would benefit from the public works themselves.

It was expected that women and children "[would] be the primary beneficiaries of the
interventions in water and sanitation in terms of health gains and reduced workload in
water collection" (Technical Annex, para. 80).

By design, the project beneficiaries were distributed throughout urban Afghanistan, as
various components were planned for execution in different locations (11 provincial
towns in the case of the water supply component; Kabul and the next four largest cities in
the case of the Municipal Works Program; and Kabul plus more than six other provincial
cities and towns under the power component). The Sanitation subcomponent was limited
to Kabul.

Project beneficiaries also included the various ministries and agencies engaged in the
implementation of the grant that would benefit directly from the experience of
implementation and the sector-specific TA financed under the grant.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

Component 1: Urban Services (est. US $16 million).
    · Part A. Municipal Public Works (US $3 million) in five cities.


                                             2

    · Part B. Urban Water Supply Improvements (US $9.8 million) in 11 cities.
    · Part C. Sanitation Improvements in Kabul (US $1.5 million).
    · Part D. Engineering and Management Support for Parts A-C (US $1.7 million)

Component 2: Power (est. US $15 million).
    · Part A. Transmission and Distribution Materials (US $6.5 million) for Kabul and
        other cities.
    · Part B. Essential Tools and Equipment (US $1.5 million).
    · Part C. Hydropower Station Repairs (US $2.5 million).
    · Part D. Re-commissioning of Gas Turbine and Supply of Fuel (US $3.7 million).
    · Part E. Engineering and Management Support for Parts A-D (US $0.8 million)

Component 3: Policy Advice and Other Support in Mining, Oil and Gas and other
infrastructure sectors (est. US $2 million).

1.6 Revised Components

The legal agreement was amended on August 15, 2002, to include a civil aviation
component to finance urgently needed repairs and improvements of the communication
and radio-navigation equipment at Kabul Airport. Originally intended for inclusion in
the Emergency Transport Rehabilitation Project (ETRP), the civil aviation component
was included in this project in view of the immediate need for financing (the ETRP went
to the Board only in March 2003). Supervision of the civil aviation component was
carried out under the ETRP.

1.7 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding
allocations)

The grant closing date was twice extended, for a total of 1-1/2 years, making for an
implementation period of about four years, although several of the subcomponents were
completed in less time than this. The first extension (by one year) was necessitated by
general procurement delays. The second extension (by six months) was requested by
Kabul Municipality to make possible the completion of the Kabul Sanitation
Improvements component, which would not have been possible without the extension
due to continued procurement delays and the need to change suppliers for some goods
originally coming from Pakistan, which had suffered a devastating earthquake in October
2005.

The significant delays in commencing the implementation of the Kabul Sanitation
Improvements component created a problem with uncollected garbage that was
considered a health hazard. In view of the public health risk, the decision was taken to
co-finance with Post-Conflict Grant funds the collection of garbage in Kabul and contract
UN Habitat on a sole-source basis while efforts were made to finalize the procurement of
a firm to assist Kabul Municipality in implementing the sanitation component (which
happened only in February 2004).



                                             3

In addition, the scope of the power component was scaled back slightly: the purchase of
transmission materials and repairs to two of the original three hydropower stations were
dropped due to cost increases in higher-priority power activities such as distribution
material and spare parts for the Naghlu Hydropower plant.

Other component-specific allocations were adjusted over the course of implementation,
reflecting some minor changes in evolving priorities but mostly the increase in the USD
equivalent of the grant amount due to exchange rate dynamics (from USD $33 million at
the time of appraisal to over USD $39 million at grant closing).

The table below shows original, revised and disbursed amounts by component.

            Table 1: Emergency Infrastructure Reconstruction Project: Project Costs by Component

                                 Component                            Original       Revised          Amt.             %
                                                                      Estimate       Estimate      Disbursed       Disbursed

 Urban Services
     A.     Municipal Public Works in Five Cities                           3.00         3.30             3.30        100%
     B.     Urban Water Supply Improv. in Provincial Cities                 9.80         8.96             8.65        97%
     C.     Sanitation Improvements in Kabul                                1.50         1.48             1.40        94%
     D.     Engineering and Management Support                              1.70         5.51             5.51        100%
              TOTAL                                                        16.00        19.25            18.86        98%
 Power
     A.     Distribution Materials                                          6.50         6.13             6.04        98%
     B.     Essential Tools and Equipment                                   1.50         1.81             1.81        100%
     C.     Hydropower Station Repairs                                      2.50         1.52             1.52        100%
     D.     Re-commissioning Gas Turbine & Supply of Fuel                   3.70         5.53             4.67        84%
     E.     Engineering and Management Support                              0.80         2.19             2.09        95%
              TOTAL                                                        15.00        17.18            16.13        94%
 Policy Advice and Other Support
     A.     Mining, Oil, and Gas                                            1.00         0.74             0.69        93%
     B.     Other Infrastructure                                            1.00
              TOTAL                                                         2.00         0.74             0.69        93%
 Civil Aviation
     A.     Radar Equipment for Kabul Airport                                 -          2.10             2.03        96%

 GRAND TOTAL **                                                            33.00        39.27            37.70        96%

** Grant amount is SDR 26.5 million. Original USD equivalent was $33 million. As of December 24, 2006, the USD equivalent was
$39.9 million.




2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
mitigations identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)

The project was assessed by QAG as part of QEA5 and the Quality-at-Entry was found to
be satisfactory.



                                                              4

The key determinant of project preparation was the imperative to respond rapidly and
relevantly to the prevailing emergency in Afghanistan. The existence of the joint
Bank/ADB/UNDP Preliminary Needs Assessment for Recovery and Reconstruction that
was prepared in January 2002 enabled the rapid preparation of the project and ensured its
relevance to addressing the key priorities for Afghanistan. From the Concept Review to
Board Presentation, two months elapsed. One result of the highly compressed
preparation period was that certain implementation arrangements were decided only after
grant effectiveness.

The limited availability of IDA funding at the time of the Bank's re-engagement in
Afghanistan was the key determinant of the level of financing made available under the
grant, but this had no significant implications for project implementation; the project was
well-sized relative to what could have been implemented at the initial stage in the
development of a Bank program in Afghanistan.

Under the prevailing circumstances, the potential for and, indeed, appropriateness of
background analysis for project preparation was limited. For obvious reasons, baseline
data were not available and the project team had to function in crisis mode, taking care to
avoid "paralysis by analysis". The lack of baseline data did not lead to project design
problems per se because there was an obvious and desperate need for assistance of all
sorts in Afghanistan and the components identified represented indisputable priorities in a
war-ravaged country whose infrastructure had been destroyed. (It is another matter that
the absence of baseline data renders more difficult the assessment of the developmental
effectiveness of the project, as discussed in section 8.2.) The project team carried out
extensive consultations with NGOs, UN agencies and others who had been working in
Afghanistan throughout the years of conflict and who constituted one of the most
important available repositories of information on and experience in Afghanistan. From
the Government's side, the active involvement in the project concept development and
preparation of the head of the agency responsible for coordinating aid (who became
Minister of Finance early on in project implementation) ensured that the project design
reflected the Government's priorities.

The number of components and subcomponents and the geographical scope of the
various components gave a complexity to the project structure, at least on paper. This
potential complexity was mitigated by the decision of the Bank team to supervise the
project by component (so that, for example, the power component was supervised by the
energy team at the same time as the preparation missions for the Emergency Power
Rehabilitation Project, and the water supply and sanitation components were supervised
by the team that was preparing the follow-up projects in these areas). In this sense, the
project was consciously structured not as a traditional sector investment project, with its
typically narrow and cohesive identity, but rather, as a vehicle for an initial multi-sectoral
engagement in the restoration of vital infrastructure services. It was, effectively, the first
component of a programmatic approach that was carried forward in different
infrastructure sectors.




                                              5

While the geographical spread of the project was also a potential design complication that
could have rendered the implementation more difficult, the project could not credibly
have been limited to Kabul given the imperative to demonstrate the benefits of
development beyond the capital city. In fact, the Bank was credited for ensuring that all
the major provincial towns were covered and for adopting a "cluster approach" with KfW
to ensure coverage of towns other than Kabul and Herat under the urban water supply and
sanitation (UWSS) component.

At the time of project preparation, the Government and the Bank team decided against
creating Project Implementation Units (PIUs) for the individual components, opting
instead to build capacity directly in the implementing ministries and agencies. While
avoiding the creation of such parallel institutions as PIUs is considered good practice in
post-conflict countries with ineffective state institutions, for this approach to achieve its
objectives it is essential to ensure adequate measures for rapid capacity-building in the
government. Absent this, individual projects risk becoming hostage to the country's low
project implementation capacity; EIRP is an example of such an unfortunate confluence
of project design features and implementation circumstances. This deficiency was to
some degree mitigated by the team's creative and pragmatic approach to tailoring the
implementation arrangements for the individual components. In view of its uncontested
advantage in on-the-ground implementation capacity, UN Habitat was used to oversee the
implementation of the Municipal Public Works component; a consulting firm was hired
to assist the Ministry of Urban Development and Housing and Kabul Municipality in the
implementation of, respectively, the UWSS and Sanitation Improvement components; at
the Government's request, force account was used for some of the power subcomponents
which eventually worked well when an expatriate supervisory engineer was engaged to
ensure the quality of the installation of the material procured under the grant. These
variations have in common the attempt to meet the somewhat conflicting objectives of
building capacity while ensuring implementation that was as timely as could have been
expected.

As concerns the assessment of the risks to the project, the team (which included a number
of staff with experience in post-conflict countries) clearly understood the fragile and
tenuous nature of the prevailing situation in Afghanistan, including the lack of human
capacity in the war-ravaged country. Nonetheless, with the wisdom of retrospect one
may observe that the implementation arrangements do not reflect an entirely adequate
assessment of the severity of the various risks to implementation. This can be seen both
in the ambitious expected time frame for project implementation (12-18 months) and in
the procurement arrangements. The procurement risk was assessed as high but this risk
was not effectively mitigated. A more effective design could have been to include
additional procurement specialists in the original central procurement consultant team
retained by the Government, and/or to second Bank staff to GOA to assist in technical
evaluation and procurement. (This observation, while relevant to the project under
review, more appropriately pertains to the overall Bank portfolio in Afghanistan.)

In addition to those risks that were or could have been mitigated, one must recognize that
in such an extreme situation there are some risks that are fundamentally not amenable to



                                              6

mitigation. The extremity of the risk factors and the low capacity to mitigate those risk
factors reflect the same grim reality: a traumatized society that had lost 25 years to war
and conflict, at a devastating cost to its human and economic development.

2.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and actions
taken, as applicable)

Procurement delays bedeviled project implementation. In recent decades Afghanistan
had not carried out procurement in the manner usually practiced by government entities.
This resulted in a complete lack of capacity in government for procurement of any kind,
which led the Government to decide to retain a firm to act as a central procurement agent
to assist line ministries for procurement associated with Bank and ADB projects as well
as for other government procurement. At the implementation stage this model was to
prove deficient in a number of ways and perhaps underestimated the extent of the lack of
government capacity. The scope of the central procurement agent did not include
technical evaluation of proposals (although to a certain extent they undertook this
function out of necessity in the first 1-2 years of implementation), and the line ministries
did not (and in most cases, still do not) have staff capable of reviewing bids. Moreover,
the number of staff in the central procurement unit was inadequate to handle
simultaneously multiple projects with multiple ministries and multiple bidding packages;
the volume of activities was simply too large to ensure that each maintained a fast-track
schedule required for emergency projects. These shortcomings in the procurement
arrangements led to significant delays in project implementation and delayed the
project's impact on the ground, which was particularly unfortunate given the emergency
nature of the project and the conscious choice by the team of procurement methods that
were intended to be time-saving (e.g. Consultant's Qualifications Selection over Quality-
and-Cost-Based Selection or dividing packages into smaller lots to allow the use of
shopping under a higher than normal threshold as opposed to International Competitive
Bidding).

In the case of the power component, under which numerous spare and replacement parts
were procured, MEW had no experience in contract management, inspection of goods,
etc., and it did not prove possible to develop this capacity over the course of project
preparation. The situation was to some degree mitigated through the assistance of the
central procurement agent (although under-staffed with a heavy work load) and later by
the establishment of the Program Implementation Support Unit in the course of
preparation of the Emergency Power Rehabilitation Project, which resided in the Ministry
of Energy and Water and was dedicated to the implementation of power sector projects,
including the power component of this project.

The foregoing notwithstanding, there were some notable exceptions to the general rule of
procurement delays, e.g. the repair contract with the original manufacturer of the turbines
at the Kabul NW plant which followed direct contracting procedures with the original
equipment manufacturer. The contract was signed one month after project effectiveness
(July 24, 2002) and the plant was recommissioned by January 2003, just six months after



                                               7

project effectiveness. (The recommissioning of this plant was one of the single most
important achievements of this project.)

In addition, the municipal public works component was implemented on schedule as UN
Habitat was sole-sourced to be the oversight consultant and was responsible for the
procurement process of the various public works subprojects in each of the five cities
(working closely with the municipalities). By contrast, the UWSS and sanitation
components were delayed by 12-18 months, as it took much longer than expected to
procure the implementation consultants due to lack of sufficient staff in the central
procurement unit which had a multitude of competing priorities. Once the consultants
were mobilized, however, the implementation of the investment components went
smoothly as they were responsible for the procurement (and implementation) of goods
and works. For future emergency projects in post-conflict settings when the Client lacks
capacity, the Bank may consider seconding procurement and technical staff to handle the
initial procurement activities, at least to mobilize the implementation/oversight
consultants who could then handle the procurement of goods and works. This would also
have the benefit of reducing the need for extensive sole-sourcing in the initial projects.

As noted earlier, an important success factor in the implementation phase was the
decision of the Bank team to supervise the project by component, which distributed the
supervision burden and aligned the Bank staff's sector-specific strengths with the
developing programs in the different sectors. Another important factor was the heavy
presence of the Bank team throughout implementation with frequent missions (no fewer
than six missions each year) and a TTL who spent at least six months per year in country
before eventually relocating to the Kabul office. This need for extensive hands-on
implementation support was consistent with OPCS recommendations on operations in
post-conflict countries, which recognize that the line between Bank and client execution
is often blurred in practical terms, necessitating more hands-on implementation support
by Bank staff than would usually be the case.

Once procurement got underway, it became clear that the cost estimates used at appraisal
were too low. Contractors, especially in consulting services, applied premiums for
working in Afghanistan that were in excess of what the team had anticipated. Fortunately,
the resulting cost overruns were compensated for by the beneficial (for the project's
finances) movements in the SDR/USD exchange rate, which proved to be the dominant
effect, covering the unanticipated higher costs and also allowing for the urgent
procurement of the radar equipment for Kabul Airport.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The design of the M&E framework was rudimentary, reflecting the absence of baseline
data and the lack of recent project experience in the country that could have informed
more substantive indicators in the various sectors covered by the project, at least through
expert assessment. In most cases, the monitoring indicators given in Annex VI of the
Technical Annex were essentially re-statements of the project components (including, for
example, disbursement targets and the number of cities in which improvements to the
urban water supply system were being carried out), not indicators by which the project's


                                               8

development effectiveness could be measured. At the same time, some of the indicators
were clearly relevant, their simplicity testifying to the stark reality of 2002: when
something as important as a power plant has been rendered non-functional through war
damage and lack of maintenance, it is obviously relevant to identify as a monitoring
indicator whether or not the plant has been repaired and rendered functional.

Given the non-existence of data on every aspect of life in Afghanistan (which continues
to hamper development efforts even in 2007), the team could not have put forward a
meaningful M&E framework with any more specificity at the time of appraisal. Some
efforts were made during project implementation to collect the sector-specific data that
were lacking at the time of project preparation, most notably in the area of urban water
supply. Under this subcomponent, a management and engineering consultant was tasked
with (among other things) collecting the first set of sector data on urban water and
sanitation in Afghanistan, which was instrumental in informing future interventions in
this sector (see section 8.5).

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

Early in the reconstruction period, the Government of Afghanistan articulated the
overarching priority that it assigned to proper management of the significant funds that
donors had committed to help rebuild the country. Reflecting this priority, the first IDA-
financed project in the reconstruction period was the Emergency Public Administration
Project (EPAP) which was used to procure the services of firms to act as agents in
procurement, financial management and audit. For the first emergency projects,
including EIRP, the financial management and audit functions were supervised on a
portfolio basis as opposed to the individual project basis. For the component-specific
fiduciary functions that were beyond the scope of these centralized functions, a conscious
decision was made to work with staff in the line ministries rather than establishing a
project office.

The centralization of certain functions helped ensure compliance with fiduciary
safeguards. For procurement, centralized oversight was provided by the Afghan
Assistance Coordination Agency (AACA) and its successor, the Procurement Unit of the
Afghanistan Reconstruction Development Services (ARDS) in the Ministry of Economy.
In the case of financial management and disbursement, the analogous oversight was
provided by the Development Budget and External Relations Unit (DBERU) of the
Budget Department and the Special Disbursement Unit (SDU) of the Treasury
Department at the Ministry of Finance. Audits were carried out by the Control and Audit
Office of Afghanistan (CAO) supported by the Audit Agent that is funded from EPAP.

In keeping with Bank procedures for projects prepared under OP 8.50, the application of
safeguard policies on the project level was not required. However during project
appraisal, the Bank assisted the AIA in developing an Environmental and Social
Safeguards Framework for application across the portfolio. The project did not generate
significant negative environmental effects. Only the recommissioning of the Kabul NW
power plant required an environmental audit which was prepared by the contractor as part


                                                 9

of the recommissioning of the plant. Moreover, environment and social assessments
were carried out as part of the scope of work of the implementation consultant for UWSS,
and environmental reports were, likewise, prepared by the Sanitation consultant on Solid
Waste and Sewerage & Drainage. This had the additional benefit of helping to lay the
groundwork for the next projects in these sectors. The Bank staff member who was
responsible for the UWSS component was also the environmental specialist for the
Afghanistan portfolio, which allowed for good synergies in supervising these areas. In
2005, the Bank organized training in social development and environment issues in the
urban and power sectors that was attended by about 25 Afghan officials from the
Ministries and agencies involved in EIRP.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by
present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional
capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)

For the major components of this project, the transition to the next phase took place while
EIRP was still under implementation. The project served as a vehicle for the
Government and the Bank to develop programs in urban reconstruction, water supply and
sanitation, and power, and the preparation of the follow-on operations in these sector
began early in the implementation of EIRP. The Kabul Urban Reconstruction Project
(Credit 3967 for US$ 25 million) built on the program established with the Ministry of
Urban Development & Housing and Kabul Municipality. The urban water and sanitation
component established the basis for the ARTF short-term support to Urban Water Supply
and Sanitation (TF 54729 for US$ 41 million), followed by the Urban Water Sector
Project (Grant H225 for US$ 40 million). The Kabul Urban Waste Management Project
(US$20-25 million) is currently under preparation. EIRP was similarly important for the
program of support to power sector rehabilitation, and facilitated the preparation of the
Emergency Power Rehabilitation Project (Credit 3933 for US$ 105 million). The mining
sector technical assistance that was financed under EIRP likewise provided an initial
point of entry for the important mining sector policy dialogue that has been continued
under the Sustainable Development of Natural Resources Project (Grant H238 for
US$ 30 million). This component financed several useful studies on specific important
issues in mining and energy.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

The project's objectives remain highly relevant. The rehabilitation of Afghanistan's
devastated infrastructure is a long-term challenge requiring a level of investment and
technical assistance that far exceeds the assistance that was provided through EIRP (and,
indeed, than could be provided through IDA). The Government of Afghanistan identified
infrastructure reconstruction and expansion of access to infrastructure services as among
its top development priorities, and these priorities remain valid to this day, finding
reflection in high-level policy and strategy documents (including, most recently, the


                                                10

Government's Afghanistan National Development Strategy, 2006) and in Government
decisions on the use of the development assistance that is made available to it. The
country's need for physical infrastructure and the related policy advice and capacity-
building in the agencies responsible for the infrastructure sectors remains acute.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on
outputs in Annex 2)

In the evaluation of the achievement of the project development objectives (PDOs) it is
appropriate to keep in mind that some components of the project were, by design, short-
term in nature, intended to provide services and benefits for a limited period of time in
response to the emergency prevailing in 2002. Other components were designed to
provide investments and capacity-building with a longer-term impact. The Municipal
Public Works and the Kabul sanitation component are in the former category, and the
UWSS and power components (accounting for about 75% of grant proceeds as allocated
at appraisal) constitute the latter category.

As concerns the urgent reconstruction and rehabilitation works to restore critical urban
services and power (PDO 1), achievements were attained under the urban water supply
and sanitation subcomponent and the power component. Urgent reconstruction works
were also carried out under the Municipal Public Works subcomponent, albeit on a
smaller scale and with an impact that was, by design, highly localized.

In UWSS, a basic level of services was restored in the 11 provincial towns in which the
component was carried out. In view of the shared nature of interventions in this area, the
achievements in this sector cannot be attributed solely to the support provided under
EIRP, but this was an important part of the total program of donor support in UWSS.
The number of registered household water connections increased from 10,000 to 25,000
and the associated average water supply coverage (number of household connections /
number of households) increased from 5% (ranging from 0 to 10%) to 12% (ranging from
0% to 24%). This level of coverage was confirmed by the results of the National Risk
and Vulnerability Assessment (NRVA) of 2005, according to which 10% of the urban
households use municipal piped water as their main source of drinking water. Overall
water production capacity was raised from 15,000 to 25,000 cum/day, equivalent to a
change in the average water availability from 6 lpcd (or 140 lpcd if expressed on the basis
of population actually covered) to 10 lpcd (or 89 lpcd if expressed on the basis of
population actually covered).

Concerning sanitation improvements in Kabul, it is difficult to quantify the actual
improvements in sanitation across Kabul city, although the volume of solid waste
collected and number of community organizations formed to improve the sanitation
problems during the first 18 months of the project are provided in Annex 2. However,
the Department of Sanitation in Kabul Municipality is functional again compared to its
relative state of inactivity at the beginning of project implementation. Rehabilitation of
the Gazak dumpsite was completed, as were repairs to eight existing and construction of
eight new public toilet complexes and pilot sanitary improvements for row houses in


                                                11

District 11. In addition, the municipality was provided with new equipment to improve
solid waste collection and the disposal system in Kabul.

Under the power component, a significant measure of the achievement of this particular
development objective is the recommissioning of the Kabul NW power plant. Inoperable
in 2002, the plant was rapidly repaired and since 2003. Originally intended to provide
only peaking power, the actual production of electricity at the plant was increased
significantly when drought severely constrained the available supply from the
hydropower plants serving Kabul. The plant continues to operate at medium and base
load in order to meet the increased demand caused by the surge in the population growth
in Kabul. As a result, in recent years the Kabul NW plant has contributed on average
about 40% of the power supplied to Kabul through the public grid. In winter, when the
share of power produced by the hydropower stations is reduced, the Kabul NW plant has
provided as much as 60% of the overall public supply of power that is available to Kabul.
(However, it needs to be noted that throughout the year Kabul's demand for electricity far
exceeds the capacity of the Kabul NW power plant and the hydropower stations.) While
reliance on the Kabul NW plant for baseload power is not an economic long-term option
for Kabul, the plant has played a critical role in supplying electricity to Kabul when no
other feasible options were available.

Other noteworthy results achieved under the power sector components include: (i) several
diesel generators that were procured and installed in smaller provincial cities throughout
the country (Faizabad, Baghdis, Bamiyan, Samanghan, and Uruzgan) which had few or
no alternative sources of electricity; and (ii) the provision of essential tools and
equipment and urgent spare parts for distribution systems. At the Government's request,
the Bank agreed to use force account arrangements to implement the distribution
subcomponent to provide work and experience to Afghan employees of the national
power utility. With the help of an expatriate supervisory consultant, most of the work
was eventually completed, but with a significant delay (some materials reached the local
branches of the utility only in 2005). The quality of the work was considered good and
the total cost in USD terms was lower than the comparable costs of foreign contractors.
Moreover, an additional 2,000 customers were connected to the public grid in Kabul
(however, because of generation constraints, their supplies and the supplies to Kabul's
existing consumers were and still are subjected to heavy rationing, with frequent black-
outs). On the other hand, there were instances where materials were not used, notably
underground cables with which local utility employees were unfamiliar. (In Kabul and
Herat, more technical assistance was available to the local branches of the utility and all
material procured under this component was used.)

The funds for the repair of the hydropower stations were ultimately limited to procuring
spare parts for Naghlu, the largest of the plants serving Kabul, and contributed to the
continuing functioning of this plant. (The major repairs to the Naghlu HPP are being
funded under the on-going Emergency Power Rehabilitation Project.)

The Municipal Public Works subcomponent was the vehicle for the provision of
employment opportunities through labor-intensive reconstruction activities (PDO2).



                                               12

According to the Completion Report prepared by UN-Habitat, which managed this
component, 112 sub-projects were completed in five cities. About 68% of the completed
work by contract value was carried out in Kabul (funds were allocated on the basis of
population). (Some of the completed public works in Kabul were visited in connection
with this ICR.) In addition, this component also generated some 13,000 person-months
of employment against a target of 10,000.

The efforts to provide urgently needed policy advice and capacity-building to the
Government in selected sectors to promote sustainable, infrastructure service delivery
(PDO3) produced mixed results. The technical assistance financed under the project
made an important contribution to the policy dialogue in UWSS, power, and mining.
Notable achievements included the preparation of a strategic sanitation plan for Kabul
city, a sewerage and drainage master plan for Kabul city, feasibility studies for the water
supply of 22 provincial towns, and the master plan for the least-cost expansion of the
power sector. (See Annex 9 for a list of the studies and other documents prepared with
financing from this component.) These planning tools are critical for institutions to take
informed decisions and laid the groundwork for future investments. In addition, the
mining and oil & gas sector technical assistance, which was closely supervised by Bank
experts, made a significant contribution to the development of modern Minerals and
Hydrocarbon Laws that were adopted in 2005. Moreover, as detailed in section 2.5, a
measure of the significance of the policy work supported by this project is the scope and
importance of the follow-up interventions that were prepared on the basis of the work
initiated under EIRP. Building capacity in the implementing agencies, however, proved a
far more challenging task. While this project represented a beginning in that regard, it
was not possible to advance capacity-building in any meaningful way within the
limitations of this first intervention in Afghanistan after more than 20 years of non-
engagement by the country with the Bank and other donors.

Additional details on outputs by component can be found in Annex 2.

3.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost,
and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

Not applicable as the project was processed under OP 8.50 Emergency Recovery
Assistance.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)
Rating: Satisfactory

The overall outcome rating of Satisfactory is based on the assessment of the project's
relevance and the achievements of the project development objectives as described above.
A single rating for a project consisting of several diverse components with varying
outcomes and for which data on which to base an evaluation are limited necessarily
requires a more qualitative judgment than would a project with more homogeneous


                                              13

components in a non-emergency situation. The limitations of the situation
notwithstanding, it is clear that the project yielded important outcomes that are consistent
with the development objectives established at appraisal. Considering the uncommonly
challenging circumstances that prevailed during project preparation and implementation,
this initial intervention in infrastructure rehabilitation is noteworthy for its physical
achievements and for its centrality in establishing a basis for the preparation of sector
development programs that are supported by the Bank and other donors.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
A number of project components had positive, anti-poverty impacts. The Municipal
Public Works component provided direct income-generation (cash for work) for
community members who were hired to carry out the public works projects.

As noted in section 6.4, women and children were intended as the primary beneficiaries
of the interventions in water and sanitation in terms of health gains and reduced workload
in water collection.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)
In an emergency project in a post-conflict country, it is difficult to effect significant
impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development. Indeed, the extreme lack
of government capacity hindered project implementation ­ in particular in the early years
of implementation when (in addition to the lack of human capacity), there was no
telephone network, no functioning banking facilities, and government offices were
lacking even the most basic of supplies and equipment to carry out their work. The use
of consultants and advisors by the government to assist in implementing their programs
was not effective in building capacity in the initial years, as the needs were so
overwhelming that the focus, by necessity, had to be on getting the work done and fire-
fighting issues as they arose. However, some limited capacity has been built under the
project in the implementing agencies through "learning by doing". Subsequent Bank
projects have been able to focus more directly on capacity-building and institutional
development although these are still difficult issues to address in the context of a 3-5 year
project in a country which has lost at least two generations of education and where the
civil service salary scale provides for only $40 per month.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)



3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: High




                                                14

As of early 2007, at the time of the completion of this assessment, the general situation in
Afghanistan remains fragile, indeed, perhaps more obviously so than five years earlier,
when the Bank team that prepared this project first traveled to Afghanistan. Continuing
insurgency and the ever-present threat to the security of the people of Afghanistan, the
dominant role of the opium trade in the country's economy, combined with the
pronounced worsening of the country's terms of trade resulting from the sharp increase in
the cost of imported oil products, perpetuate an environment that is high-risk from any
perspective. While the project achieved its short-term objectives (including
implementation of investments of a long-term potential) it remains to be seen whether the
country will be able to preserve and build upon the value of these investments.
Notwithstanding the importance of a stable security environment, the determining factor
in this question will be the success of efforts to build capacity in the agencies that were
the primary institutional beneficiaries of this project. The water and power utilities and
municipal governments throughout the country remain weak in terms of their capacity to
ensure provision of the basic services for which they are responsible. While follow-up
projects in these sectors are providing opportunities to continue to develop capacity, they
are also making clear in a way that could not have been fully grasped in 2002 the
profound extent of the need in Afghanistan for basic professional education and training
in all sectors of the economy. The threat to the long-term sustainability of the project's
achievements is symptomatic of the enormity of the developmental challenge that
continues to face Afghanistan and that will be a significant factor in the country's
development for the foreseeable future.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank's responsiveness to the challenging circumstances that prevailed in
Afghanistan following the fall of the Taliban was exemplary. Within weeks of the
formation of the Afghanistan Interim Authority in December 2001, a highly qualified,
experienced team was mobilized to work in Kabul with the new government. The early
and close collaboration with the government helped ensure the relevance and realism of
the project concept. The team prepared the necessary Bank documentation in record time
and in the face of constraints that are unusual even for post-conflict countries (such as the
absence of doors, windows and chairs in ministries, to say nothing of basic office
supplies and counterparts with even a modicum of relevant experience), delivering the
project to the Board only two months after the Concept Review. The project was
prepared with due regard for Bank procedures and for the Bank's fiduciary role in spite
of the pressure to deliver the project as quickly as possible. The only shortcoming of
note was the design of the implementation arrangements and in particular, the
arrangements for procurement, which was a portfolio-wide issue but of particular
relevance to this project as one of the first Bank interventions after the resumption of the
Bank program in Afghanistan. In view of the complete absence of procurement capacity


                                              15

in the project implementing agencies, and the inadequacy of the staff in the centralized
procurement agent, project implementation would have been facilitated if more sector-
specific procurement oversight had been built into the project implementation
arrangements, including possibly through secondment of technical and procurement staff.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Satisfactory

The supervision of the project was good, as is clear from the detailed supervision
documentation and the frequent missions which allowed the team to be pro-active in
identifying and solving problems. As noted earlier, the project was supervised by
component, allowing the staff responsible for a given sector to combine supervision of
this project with the concurrent preparation of follow-up sector projects and the evolving
policy dialogue. The TTL was based in Kabul for the latter half of the implementation
period, and spent about half of her time there before that, allowing for a "hands-on"
approach to identifying and addressing implementation problems as they arose.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Overall Bank performance is considered satisfactory, as preparation and supervision were
satisfactory, as detailed above.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately satisfactory

The period of implementation of this project coincided with the first few years of
reconstruction in post-Taliban Afghanistan, when the pressures on the Government to
rebuild the devastated country while maintaining a delicate socio-political balance were
enormous. In view of the enormity of the reconstruction challenge facing the
Government on all fronts, the Government is to be commended for its efforts to
implement this project, particularly in the early phase of project identification and
preparation. The rating given here is "Moderately satisfactory" rather than "Satisfactory"
in view of the recurring problems with procurement and, in some cases, payments to
contractors, which were frequently brought to the attention of the Government in the
course of project implementation. These problems were under the control of the
Government and could have been resolved more expeditiously.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating:
Ministry of Urban                   Moderately satisfactory
Development & Housing
Central Authority for Water         Moderately satisfactory
Supply and Sewerage
Ministry of Energy and Water Moderately satisfactory


                                                16

Kabul Municipality                 Moderately satisfactory

Ministry of Mines and              Moderately satisfactory
Industries

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The justification for the overall rating of Moderately Satisfactory is given above. For
purposes of assessing performance, the implementing agencies are considered to be
indistinguishable for the Government in general, as all ministries and agencies faced the
same conditions in the course of the project, and were handicapped by the same inherent
and understandable weaknesses, such as lack of project management capacity.

6. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

1. On trade-offs in the post-conflict development agenda: project implementation vs.
capacity-building. The experience of this project demonstrates the degree to which the
priorities of post-conflict reconstruction can work against one another, and suggests
measures that can be taken to help reduce this tension that is inherent in the post-conflict
development agenda. In a post-conflict country there is an obvious and urgent need to
reconstruct devastated infrastructure and restore vital services in order to stimulate
economic development and to win public support for the reconstruction and related
political processes. At the same time, it is equally obvious that in a country where the
systems of education and professional training were dysfunctional for many years,
investments in human capital ­ training and educating people ­ must rank among the
highest priorities. Such investments are generally of a longer term.

In the case of this project, the Bank's first sectoral intervention in Afghanistan in more
than 20 years, combining the two objectives in a single project diminished the project's
ability to deliver results in both areas. As has become increasingly clear in recent years,
the lack of human capital in Afghanistan is too profound a problem to be addressed
through the model of "capacity-building through project implementation". Preparation of
a new generation of civil servants, skilled workers and professionals will take some years,
and will require focused programs of vocational training and education that are just
emerging in Afghanistan. Likewise, effective implementation of Bank-financed projects
requires the availability of a range of specialists who cannot be trained in short order.
Even the support offered under the Emergency Public Administration Project, which was
designed precisely to address the shortage of project implementation capacity,
particularly in procurement and financial management, was not sufficient to prevent the
emergence of significant bottlenecks in the implementation of EIRP.

The significance of this lesson is that it suggests a modification to the prevailing view of
best development practice in post-conflict countries (as reflected, for example, in the



                                               17

QAG Quality-at-Entry assessment for this project), which has advocated incorporation of
capacity-building measures into sectoral investments, arguing against the creation of
separate agencies for project implementation in favor of delegating this task to line
ministries. The foundation for this view, which also reflects the oft-stated preference of
GOA, is that reliance on project implementation agencies deprives ministries of limited
resources and fails to build sustainable state institutions consisting of competent
government ministries and agencies. This legitimate general view fails, however, to take
into account the extreme dearth of capacity of any sort in Afghanistan at the beginning of
the reconstruction period. In addition, salaries and wages of Government employees
were, and remain, extremely low, such that even the most diligent employee cannot
support a family if he or she relies only a Government wage. To feed their families,
many Government employees have two or more sources of employment, which diverts
especially the best educated and most experienced, and thus the most effective, away
from their official tasks. Indeed, the vast majority of qualified Afghans have left the civil
service to work in higher-paying jobs with NGOs and international agencies with the
sometimes perverse result of trained professionals working as drivers or translators. But
projects must be implemented in order to be effective, and adequate implementation
arrangements must be made to ensure that projects are implemented more or less on time
and as intended. The experience of the power sector projects (including EIRP and the
follow-up EPRP) strikingly illustrates this point: the recent improvement in project
implementation has been the direct result of the engagement of an international project
management firm.

Recognizing that generalizations on this complex subject will never be universally
accepted or applicable, as developmental interventions must be made relevant to specific
situations, differentiating post-conflict situations on the basis of various attributes (one of
which would be the country's domestic ability to implement the projects intended to
further its development) would be a useful diagnostic that could be applied when
development programs are launched in post-conflict countries. If a country clearly lacks
this capacity, as is the case with Afghanistan at present, then a more useful
developmental strategy could be to put resources into vocational training and general
education while on parallel basis "importing" externally available capacity to implement
complex investment projects (either through traditional project implementing agencies or
secondment of the staff of international development agencies or through other means).

2. Costs are highly tenuous in an unresolved post-conflict situation and can undermine
the value of developmental assistance. In the experience of this project (and many other
projects in Afghanistan), cost estimates at appraisal, particularly for consulting services,
proved to be far below actual costs. For example, the Urban Services component
included an allocation of US $1.7 million for technical assistance in the engineering and
management of the investments funded under this component. In the event, this
subcomponent ended up costing US $4.9 million, nearly three times the estimate.

Under such circumstances, the value of the developmental assistance that donors can
offer to Afghanistan is undermined, and the Government and donors have a shared
interest in identifying measures to control costs. While it would appear that the primary



                                               18

reasons for the high costs is the limited competition for donor funds that is the result of
the worsening security situation, and the high security premium included in bids by those
contractors who are willing to compete for contracts in Afghanistan, this important
question should be investigated more systematically through consultations with
contractors so that adequate cost-control measures could be identified.

3. In a post-conflict country, the intensive and continuous presence of Bank staff to
support implementation is required; in practical (if not legal) terms, the distinction
between Bank and Client execution is blurred. Although this issue has been highlighted
elsewhere in the document, the Bank should consider seconding staff to Government (for
a limited duration and at the request of the government) during the early stages of re-
engagement. This could be particularly useful in the areas of procurement,
disbursement/financial management, and project management which are central to the
successful implementation of projects.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

(b) Cofinanciers

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                             19

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                Appraisal Estimate   Actual/Latest
          Components                                                    Percentage of
                                  (USD millions)    Estimate (USD
                                                       millions)         Appraisal

URBAN SERVICES                         16.00              18.9              118

POWER                                  15.00              16.1              107

OTHER INFRASTRUCTURE
                                         2.00               2.6             130



            Total Baseline Cost        33.00               37.6             114

Physical Contingencies                   0.00               0.00            0.00

Price Contingencies                      0.00               0.00            0.00
             Total Project Costs       33.00               37.6
Project Preparation Fund                 0.00               0.00            .00
Front-end fee IBRD                       0.00               0.00            .00
      Total Financing Required         33.00               37.6




(b) Financing
                                                  Appraisal Actual/Latest

          Source of Funds            Type of      Estimate      Estimate  Percentage of
                                   Cofinancing     (USD          (USD       Appraisal
                                                  millions)     millions)
Borrower                                            0.00          0.00         .00
IDA GRANT FOR POST-
CONFLICT                                           33.00          37.6         114




                                           20

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

The Emergency Infrastructure Reconstruction Project (US$33 million
Grant) rehabilitated water supply and sanitation in secondary cities, sanitation in Kabul,
and basic electricity for several cities. The project's urban public works generated short-
term employment opportunities. Specific outputs by activity included:

1. Rehabilitation of Water Supply Systems in 11 provincial cities (Kandahar, Qalat,
Mazar, Sheberghan, Kunduz, Taloqan, Charikar, Mehterlam, Jalalabad, Ghazni, and
Gardez). The project undertook rehabilitation and redesign of existing systems, sector
development analysis, planning for future operations, and feasibility studies for system
expansion. Civil works for upgrading water utility facilities in each of the 11 provincial
towns was completed, including new warehouses (except Kandahar), fully equipped
workshops, and new office buildings (except Jalalabad, only rehabilitation works in
Charikar and Ghazni). About 132 km of pipes were laid, increasing the distribution
network by about 30 percent to 585 km. Preliminary data on the 11 provincial towns
indicated that overall production capacity has risen from 15,000 to 25,000 cubic meters
per day, which translates into an improvement of the average water availability from 6.5
to 10.5 liters per capita per day.

2. Solid Waste Management in Kabul: Between October 2002 and May 2004, over
120,000 cubic meters of solid waste was collected, and 46 community organizations were
formed to help solve sanitation problems in Kabul. Teams of professional female hygiene
and health educators have, in addition to reaching out to over 68,000 students, visited
160,000 households to teach families safe ways to dispose of garbage.

3. Sanitation Improvements in Kabul: Works were completed to rehabilitate the Gazak
dumpsite, repair eight existing and construct eight new public toilet complexes, and pilot
sanitary improvements for row houses in District 11. In addition, the municipality has
been provided with new equipment to improve solid waste collection and the disposal
system in Kabul, including compaction vehicles, garbage and other trucks, steel waste
containers and suction trucks.

4. Labor-Intensive Municipal Public Works Program: Launched in December 2002 and
completed in April 2004, this program implemented over 100 labor-intensive projects for
infrastructure improvement and repair in Kabul, Kandahar, Jalalabad, Mazar-i Sharif, and
Herat. The cash-for-work program generated significant temporary employment
(supplying the equivalent of work for 43,000 people for an average of 10 days or 430,000
person-days). Achievements include: over 43,000 meters of road graveling and leveling
in four cities; cleaning, construction, and excavation of almost 61,000m of side ditches in
Kabul, Jalalabad and Kandahar; construction of 74 shallow wells and 17 deep wells in
Kabul; the planting of 21,000 saplings in Mazar; and site cleaning of 32,000 square
meters in Kandahar. Further details are provided in the table below:




                                              21

Table: Investment details ­ Municipal Public Works in 5 cities
                    Herat      Jalalabad             Kabul         Kandahar       Mazar
Sub-projects         14            8                  70               15            5
     (112)
    Budget        200,000       150,000           1,700,000         300,000       150,000
($ 2,500,000)
Spent+charges     199,966       149,018           1,694,705         299,889       149,846
($ 2,493,424)
   Drainage        15,178        96,392             578,992          58,674
  ($ 749,236)
    Roads          40,815        12,796             272,212         199,464       40,349
  ($ 565,636)
 Green areas                                        312,630          29,036       46,945
  ($ 388,611)
Public latrine     33,780        6,472                                            25,532
  ($ 65,784)
    Others        108,768        31,883             514,685           9,746       35,673
  ($ 700,755)
    Details      Protection      School       Schools, protection   Garbage    Kindergarden
   (Others)      walls, bridge                walls, water supply,    bins
                                               canal underground
Total-charges     198,541       147,543           1,678,519         296,920       148,499
($ 2,470,022)


5. Increasing Power Supply: In January 2003, the 45 megawatt Northwest Kabul
Thermal Power Station was re-commissioned, after being inactive for 14 years. At the
time, this almost doubled the available power supply in Kabul, particularly critical during
the winter months, when demand increases by one-third. In addition to providing
essential tools and equipment and urgent spare parts for distribution systems, several
diesel generators have been installed in smaller provincial cities throughout the country
which had little or no access to electricity, including Faizabad, Baghdis, Bamiyan,
Samanghan, and Uruzgan. An additional 2,000 customers in the eastern part of Kabul city
were connected to city power grid.

6. Power Sector Master Plan: A final master plan to develop Afghanistan's power sector
was completed in October 2004. It provides the basis for future investments in power
generation and transmission up to 2020.

7. Mining and Oil & Gas: Technical assistance, both through the financing of legal
advisors and policy advice provided during project supervision by Bank experts, led to
the adoption of modern Minerals and Hydrocarbons Laws in 2005. This has contributed
to the development of a policy environment conducive to private sector participation and
good governance in the extractive industry sector.




                                               22

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

Not applicable.




                                        23

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

            Names                             Title                Unit   Responsibility/
                                                                             Specialty
Lending
Hadi Abushakra              Lead Counsel                          LEGMS         Legal
Craig Andrews                Lead Mining Specialist               COCPO        Mining

Richard Beardmore            Sr. Urban Specialist                  SASEI  Municipal Public
                                                                         Works component

Christophe E. Bosch          Senior Water and Sanitation Economist SASES UWSS component +
                                                                            environment

Peter Dawes                  Municipal Engineer Consultant           -    Municipal Public
                                                                         Works component

Barbara J. Evans             Sr. Water and Sanitation Specialist   WSP    UWSS + Kabul
                                                                        Sanitation component
Julia M. Fraser              Sr. Financial Analyst                 SASEI        TTL
Joseph A. Gadek              Sr. Sanitary Engineer Consultant        -   UWSS component
Paul Jonathan Martin         Sr. Environmental Spec.              AFTSD    Environment
Kenneth Miller               Sr. Disbursement Officer             LOAG2    Disbursement
Devesh Mishra                Sr. Procurement Specialist            ECSPS    Procurement

Rajat Narula                 Sr. Financial Management Specialist  LOAG2       Financial
                                                                           Management
Akin Oduolowu                Lead Energy Specialist               COCPO      Oil & Gas
Asta Olesen                 Social Scientist Consultant            SASES Social Development
Paula Reed                   Procurement Analyst                   SASEI    Procurement

Robert Saum                  Sr. Financial Management Specialist  SARFM       Financial
                                                                           Management
Anthony E. Sparkes           Power Engineer Consultant               -   Power component
Tjaarda P. Storm Van Leeuwen Lead Financial Analyst               MNSSD   TTL ­ appraisal

Marcia Whiskey               Program Assistant                     SASEI   Administrative
                                                                               support
Supervision/ICR
Craig Andrews               Lead Mining Specialist                COCPO        Mining
Harbans Lal Aneja           Procurement Consultant                 SASPR    Procurement

Richard Beardmore            Sr. Urban Specialist                  SASEI  Municipal Public
                                                                         Works component

Christophe E. Bosch          Senior Water and Sanitation Economist SASES UWSS component +
                                                                            environment
Charles Delfieux            Junior Professional Associate          SASEI UWSS component
Paramjit Singh Dhingra       Power Engineer                        SASEI Power component

Minerva Espinosa-Apurada     Program Assistant                     SASEI   Administrative
                                                                            support-DC

Barbara J. Evans             Sr. Water and Sanitation Specialist   WSP    UWSS + Kabul
                                                                        Sanitation component

Karine Fourmond             Water & Sanitation Specialist          SASEI Water & Sanitation
                                                                                Eng.
Julia M. Fraser             Sr. Financial Analyst                  SASEI        TTL
David C. Freese             Sr. Finance Officer                   LOAG2    Disbursement



                                               24

Joseph A. Gadek          Sr. Sanitary Engineer Consultant      -      UWSS component

Mariam Haidary           Team Assistant                      SACAF      Administrative
                                                                        support-Kabul
Michael Haney            Sr. Energy Specialist               SASEI        TTL-ICR
S.M. Quamrul Hasan       Procurement Specialist              SARPS       Procurement
Abdul Wali Ibrahimi      Operations Analyst                  SASEI       Operations
Dhirendra Kumar          Procurement Consultant              SARPS       Procurement
Soheyla Mahmoudi         Finance Analyst                     LOAG2      Disbursement

Vardah Khalil Malik      Financial Management Consultant       -          Financial
                                                                         management
Akin Oduolowu            Lead Energy Specialist              COCPO       Oil & Gas
Asta Olesen              R. Social Development Specialist    SASES   Social Development
Anthony E. Sparkes       Power Engineer Consultant             -      Power component




(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                        Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                      No. of staff weeks    USD Thousands (including
                                                            travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY02                                        57                       366.39
  FY03                                                                   0.00
  FY04                                                                   0.00
  FY05                                                                   0.00
  FY06                                                                   0.00
  FY07                                                                   0.00
                        Total:                57                       366.39
Supervision/ICR
  FY02                                                                  73.85
  FY03                                        43                       326.14
  FY04                                        23                       141.10
  FY05                                        30                       166.22
  FY06                                        27                        95.16
  FY07                                         8                        40.44
                        Total:               131                       842.91




                                           25

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)




                                    26

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)




                                  27

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




                                   28

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders




                                    29

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


Afghanistan: Preliminary Needs Assessment for Recovery and Reconstruction, Asian
Development Bank, United Nations Development Program and World Bank, January
2002.

Technical Annex for a Proposed Grant of SDR 26.5 million (US$33 million equivalent)
to Afghanistan for an Emergency Infrastructure Reconstruction Project, Report No. T
7538-AF, May 10, 2002.

Memorandum and Recommendation of the President of the International Development
Association to the Executive Directors on a Proposed Grant of SDR 26.5 million (US$33
million equivalent) to Afghanistan for an Emergency Infrastructure Reconstruction
Project, Report No. P 7538-AF, May 10, 2002.

Development Grant Agreement (Emergency Infrastructure Reconstruction Project)
between Afghanistan and International Development Association, Grant No. H007 AF,
June 8, 2002.

Final Quality at Entry Assessment (QAE5), August 19, 2002.

Aide Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports, and Project Status Reports

Power Component
   1. Environment Field Service Report for Re-commissioning Kabul NW Power Plant,
       ALSTOM, March 2003
   2. Power Sector Master Plan: Interim Paper Final Version, Norconsult/Norplan, July
       2003
   3. Inception Report Asset Management Norconsult/Norplan, July 2003
   4. Establishment of Stores System, Draft Report, Phase 1, Norconsult/Norplan, July
       2003
   5. Draft Final Report Transformer Workshop, Norconsult/Norplan, October 2003
   6. Fixed Asset Management System ­ Final Report, Norconsult/Norplan, May 2004
   7. Fixed Asset Register Manual for DABM, Norconsult/Norplan, May 2004
   8. Final Report Power Sector Master Plan Vol.1 ­ Main Volume,
       Norconsult/Norplan, October 2004
   9. Final Report Power Sector Master Plan Vol. 2 ­ Appendix A: Demand Forecast,
       Norconsult/Norplan, October 2004
   10. Final Report Power Sector Master Plan Vol. 3 ­ Appendix B: Transmission
       System, Norconsult/Norplan, October 2004
   11. Final Report Power Sector Master Plan Vol. 4 ­ Appendix C: Hydropower,
       Norconsult/Norplan, October 2004
   12. Final Report Power Sector Master Plan Vol. 5 - Appendix D: Thermal Resources,
       Appendix E: Environmental Aspects, Norconsult/Norplan, October 2004




                                           30

    13. Final Report Power Sector Master Plan Vol. 6 ­ Appendix F: Economic Analysis,
        Norconsult/Norplan, October 2004

Municipal Public Works Sub-Component
(all reports prepared by UN Habitat on behalf of Ministry of Urban Development)
    1. Implementation Manual Municipal Public Works Programme, December 2002
    2. Various Monthly Progress Reports for the Municipal Public Works Programme,
        December.2002-February 2004
    3. Completion Report for Municipal Public Works Program, October 2004

Kabul Solid Waste Sub-Component
(all reports prepared by UN Habitat on behalf of Kabul Municipality)
    1. Various Monthly Progress Report for Municipal Solid Waste Management Project,
        UN HABITAT, October 2002 ­ April 2004
    2. Waste Characterization Report, UN Habitat, August 2003
    3. Institutional Study for Municipal Solid Waste, UN HABITAT, January 2004
    4. Kabul Municipality Solid Waste Management Support Program ­ Final Report,
        UN Habitat, May 2004

Provincial Towns Urban Water Supply and Sanitation Rehabilitation Sub-Component
(all reports prepared by Beller Consult/Kocks Consult/BETS on behalf of CAWSS)
    1. Draft Inception Report on Eleven Regional Towns Water Supply and Sewerage
        Project, October 2003
    2. Institutional Study Report, April 2004
    3. Feasibility Study Report Kunduz, Beller Consult/Kocks Consult/BETS, May 2004
    4. EIRP Eleven Provincial Towns Water Supply & Sewerage Project Progress
        Report Ext Summary, Beller Consult/Kocks Consult/BETS, August 2004
    5. Environment Assessment, November 2004
    6. Social Assessment ­ Intermediate Version, November 2004
    7. Sanitation Strategy Report, Beller Consult/ Kocks Consult/BETS, March 2005
    8. Feasibility Study Report - Ghazni, March 2005
    9. Feasibility Study Report - Mazar -e- Sharif, March 2005
    10. Feasibility Study Report - Mehterlam, March 2005
    11. Feasibility Study Report - Qalat, March 2005
    12. Feasibility Study Report - Gardez, March 2005
    13. Feasibility Study Report - Jalalabad, March 2005
    14. Feasibility Study Report - Sheberghan, March 2005
    15. Feasibility Study Report ­ Taluqan, March 2005
    16. Feasibility Study Report ­ Kandahar, March 2005
    17. Feasibility Study Report ­ Charikar, March 2005
    18. Feasibility Studies ­ Summary Report, March 2005
    19. Assessment of Population Figures: Special Report, March 2005
    20. Socio Economic Report, March 2005
    21. Financial Report, March 2005
    22. Various Progress Reports, April-November 2004, December 2004­April 2005




                                            31

Kabul Sanitation Improvement Sub-Component
(all reports prepared by Gauff Ingenieure/ICON/IBU on behalf of Kabul Municipality)
    1. Rapid Review Report ­ Main Report and Annexes, August 2004
    2. Strategic Sanitation Interim Report ­ Main Report and Annexes, April 2005
    3. Environmental Report; Part 1: Solid Waste, May 2005
    4. Environmental Report; Part 2: Sewerage & Drainage, May 2005

Other Infrastructure Component - Ministry of Mines and Industries
    1. Production of Oil & Gas Producing Areas to the Private Sector ­ First Interim
        Report, Gustavson Associates, July 2004
    2. Promotion of Oil & Gas Producing Areas to the Private Sector ­ Second Interim
        Report, Gustavson Associates, November 2004




                                           32

