Emergency Inf. and
Reconstruction Project                                                               E602
ENVIRONMENT AND SOCIAL SAFEGUARDS FRAMEWORK                      Volume 1
I.     Objectives
The Environmental and Social Safeguards Framework provides general policies, guidelines,
codes of practice and procedures to be integrated into the implementation of World Bank
supported emergency reconstruction operations in Afghanistan. Consistent with existing national
legislation, the objective of the Framework is to help ensure that activities under the proposed
reconstruction operations will:
*      Protect human health;
*      Prevent or compensate any loss of livelihood;
*      Prevent environmental degradation as a result of either individual subprojects or their
cumulative effects;
*      Enhance positive environmental and social outcomes; and,
*      Ensure compliance with World Bank safeguard policies.
II.    General Principles
Recognizing the emergency nature of the proposed relief and reconstruction operations, and the
related need for providing immediate assistance, while at the same time ensuring due diligence in
managing potential environmental and social risks, this Framework is based on the following
principles:
1. The proposed operations will support multiple subprojects, the detailed designs of which
may not be known at appraisal. To ensure the effective application of the World Bank's
safeguard policies, the Framework provides guidance on the approach to be taken during
implementation for the selection and design of subprojects, and the planning of
mitigation measures;
2. The proposed emergency reconstruction operations will not support environmental
Category A subprojects', nor subprojects requiring land acquisition affecting 200 or more
people. Consequently, no Environmental Impact Assessments (EIAs) or Resettlement
Action Plans (RAPs) will be required. With the exception of support for the emergency
rehabilitation of the Kabul North-West power plant, no subprojects requiring separate,
site-specific environmental or social reports will be supported. With this exception, all
proposed subprojects will be screened to ensure that the environmental and social risks
can be adequately addressed through the application of standardized guidelines and codes
of practice;
3. Activities requiring a more detailed level of assessment, such as those entailing the
construction or installation of new or significantly expanded infrastructure, will be
supported under subsequent operations. The proposed emergency reconstruction
operations will finance feasibility and detailed design studies for these subsequent
investments, which will include environmental and social impact assessments as required
by World Bank safeguard policies;
As defined in World Bank Operational Policy 4.01, Environmental Assessment.
FILE COPY


﻿4. Project design and subproject selection will aim to maintain regional balance, and equity
between genders, and ethnic and religious groups, considering variations in population
density. Employment opportunities within the projects will be available on an equal basis
to all, on the basis of professional competence, irrespective of gender, or ethnic or
religious group. In all projects which require consultations with local communities or
beneficiaries, gender-separated consultations will be conducted to elicit the views of the
female population, along with that of the male population; and,
5. Consultation and disclosure requirements will be simplified to meet the special needs of
these operations. Prior to approval by the World Bank Board, this Environmental and
Social Safeguards Framework will be disclosed in Afghanistan in Dari and Pashto, and in
the World Bank Infoshop.
III.   Safeguard Screening and Mitigation
The selection, design, contracting, monitoring and evaluation of subprojects will be consistent
with the following guidelines, codes of practice and requirements:
*      A negative list of characteristics that would make a proposed subproject ineligible for
support, as indicated in Attachment 1;
*      Guidelines for land and asset acquisition, entitlements and compensation, presented in
Attachment 2;
*      Procedures for the protection of cultural property, including the chance discovery of
archaeological artifacts, and unrecorded graveyards and burial sites, provided in
Attachment 3;
*      Relevant elements of the codes of practice for the mitigation of potential environmental
impacts, presented in Attachment 4; and,
*      The requirement that confirmation is received through the Regional Mine Action Center
that areas to be accessed during reconstruction and rehabilitation activities have been
demined.
In addition to these requirements, an environmental audit will be conducted as part of feasibility
study and detailed design for the rehabilitation of the Kabul North-West power plant.
IV.    Responsibilities for Safeguard Screening and Mitigation
A number of Ministries will act as the implementing agencies for the proposed operations,
including the Ministries of Reconstruction and Rural Development, Public Works, Power, and
Housing, Planning and Building. Each Ministry will be responsible for applying the safeguard
screening and mitigation requirements to its own subprojects.
Within each Ministry, a Safeguards Focal Point will be identified with responsibility for
overseeing the implementation of the Environmental and Social Safeguards Framework.
V.     Capacity Building And Monitoring Of Safeguard Framework Implementation
As part of the capacity building that will be provided for implementation of the proposed
operations, the Safeguards Focal Points and relevant staff of the concerned Ministries will also
receive training in the application of the Safeguard Framework.
2


﻿To assist in this capacity building, and to provide subsequent guidance and review of the
application of the Framework, GoA will contract specialist social and environmental services.
During supervision of these operations, the World Bank will assess the implementation of the
Framework, and if required will recommend additional strengthening.
VI.    Consultation and Disclosure
This Environmental and Social Safeguards Framework was prepared in consultation with the
principal NGOs and development partners participating in reconstruction activities in
Afghanistan. It will be disclosed by GoA in both Dari and Pashto, as well as English, and it will
also be made available at the World Bank's Infoshop.
The environmental audit to be prepared for the rehabilitation of the Kabul North-West thermal
power station will be made publicly available by GoA, and at the World Bank Infoshop. Since no
other separate environmental or social assessments will be prepared for activities under the
proposed reconstruction operations, no additional disclosure requirements will apply. In this
regard, however, it is worth noting that GoA intends to'make all project documentation publicly
available through the Afghan Information Management System (AIMS).
The proposed operations will support a number of feasibility and detailed design studies for
future infrastructure investments, for which World Bank safeguard policies relating to
consultation and disclosure will apply. In particular, for environmental Category A and B
investments2 proposed for future operations, the implementing agency will consult project-
affected groups and local nongovernmental organizations about the project's environmental and
social aspects, and will take their views into account. The implementing agency will initiate such
consultations as early as possible, and for meaningful consultations, will provide relevant material
in a timely manner prior to consultation, in a form and language that are understandable and
accessible to the groups being consulted.
For Category A projects, the implementing agency will consult these groups at least twice, (i)
shortly after environmental screening and before the terms of reference for the Environmental
Impact Assessment (EIA) are finalized, and (ii) once a draft EIA report is prepared. For the
initial consultation, the implementing agency will provide a summary of the proposed project's
objectives, description, and potential impacts. For both Category A and B projects, the
implementing agency will provide these groups with a summary of the EIA report's conclusions.
In addition, the implementing agency will make the draft reports available at a public place
accessible to project-affected groups and local NGOs.
2 As defined in World Bank Operational Policy 4.01, Environmental Assessment.
3


﻿Attachment 1
Nelzative List of Subproiect Attributes
Subprojects with any of the attributes listed below will be ineligible for support under the
proposed emergency reconstruction operations.
Attributes of Ineligible Subprojects
GENERAL CHARACTERISTICS
Involves the significant conversion or degradation of critical natural habitats. Including, but
not limited to, any activity within:
*      Ab-i-Estada Waterfowl Sanctuary;
*      Ajar Valley (Proposed) Wildlife Reserve;
*      Dashte-Nawar Waterfowl Sanctuary;
*      Pamir-Buzurg (Proposed) Wildlife Sanctuary;
*      Bande Amir National Park;
*      Kole Hashmat Khan (Proposed) Waterfowl Sanctuary.
Will significantly damage non-replicable cultural property, including but not limited to any
activities that affect the following sites:
*      monuments of Herat (including the Friday Mosque, ceramic tile workshop, Musallah
complex, Fifth Minaret, Gawhar Shah mausoleum, mausoleum of Ali Sher Navaii,
and the Shah Zadehah mausoleum complex);
*      monuments of Bamiyan Valley (including Fuladi, Kakrak, Shar-I Ghulghular and
Shahr-i Zuhak);
*      archaeological site of Ai Khanum;
*      site and monuments of Ghazni;
*      minaret of Jam;
*      mosque of Haji Piyada/Nu Gunbad, Balkh province;
*      stupa and monastry of Guldarra;
*      site and monuments of Lashkar-i Bazar, Bost;
*      archaeological site of Surkh Kotal.
Requires pesticides that fall in WHO classes IA, IB, or II.
Requires involuntary acquisition of land, or the resettlement or compensation of more than
200 people.
Supports commercial logging or plantations in forested areas.
Affects waters in riparian neighbors.
Drinking Water Supply
New or expansion of piped water scheme to serve 500 or more households.
Sanitation
New or significant expansion of sewerage or wastewater treatment plant.
Rehabilitation of existing wastewater treatment plant.
Solid Waste
4


﻿Attributes of Ineligible Subprojects
New or significant expansion of disposal site.
Roads
New roads.
Widening of primary road.
Irrigation
New irrigation scheme or expansion of scheme requiring increased water intake.
New tubewell for irrigation.
Dams
Construction or rehabilitation of dam higher than 3 meters.
Power
New power generating capacity of more than 5 MW.
Rehabilitation of hydro-electric power station with dam, or entailing alteration of the water
flow regime.
Oil and Gas
New exploration, production or distribution.
Rehabilitation of production or distribution systems
Income Generating Activities
Activities involving the use of unsustainably harvested timber or fuelwood.
Activities involving the use of hazardous substances.
5


﻿Attachment 2
Guidelines for Land and Asset Acquisition, Entitlements and Compensation
I. Objectives
Land acquisition will be kept to a minimum and no person will be involuntarily displaced under
subprojects financed by the proposed emergency reconstruction operations. Subproject proposals
that would require demolishing houses or acquiring productive land should be carefully reviewed
to minimize or avoid their impacts through alternative alignments. Proposals that require more
than minor expansion along rights of way should be reviewed carefully. No land or asset
acquisition may take place outside of these guidelines. A format for Land Acquisition
Assessment is attached as Attachment 2(i).
These guidelines provide principles and instructions to compensate affected persons to ensure that
all such persons negatively affected, regardless of their land tenure status, will be assisted to
improve, or at least to restore, their living standards, income earning or production capacity to
pre-project levels.
Categorization
Based on the number of persons that may be affected by the project (Project Affected People,
PAPs) and the magnitude of impacts, projects may be categorized as S-1, S-2, or S-3 projects:
a.     S-1 projects are those that will involve the resettlement of more than 200 PAPs and
where a full Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) must be produced. Such interventions
will be ineligible for support under the proposed emergency reconstruction
operations.
b.     S-2 projects are those which will involve the resettlement of less than 200 persons. In
such cases, the following documentation is required: (1) a land acquisition
assessment, (2) the Minutes or record of consultations which assess the compensation
claimed and agreement reached, and (3) a record of the receipt of the compensation,
or voluntary donation, by those affected (see below).
c.     S-3 projects are not expected to have any land acquisition or any other significant
adverse social impacts; on the contrary, significant positive social impact and
improved livelihoods are expected from such interventions.
II. Eligibility
PAPs are identified as persons whose livelihood is directly or indirectly affected by the project.
PAPs deemed eligible for compensation are:
(1)    those who have formal legal rights to land, water resources or structures/buildings,
including recognized customary and traditional rights;
(2)    those who do not have such formal legal rights but have a claim to usufruct right
rooted in customary law;
(3)    those whose claim to land and water resources or building/structures do not fall
within (1) and (2) above, are eligible to assistance to restore their livelihood.
6


﻿Acquisition of Productive Assets and Compensation
PAPs are eligible for replacement costs for lost assets as described below:
a.     Voluntary contributions. In accordance with traditional practices, individuals
may elect to voluntarily contribute land or assets and/or relocate temporarily or
permanently from their land without compensation.
b.     Contributions against compensation. A contributor/asset loser considered
"affected" will be eligible for compensation from the local community or
alternatively from the Government. A PAP shall lodge his/her claim for
compensation to the local community representatives/shura head and it shall be
verified by the implementing agency. The claim shall be lodged within 2 weeks of
completion of the consultations with the concerned community, and before project
implementation begins.
Voluntary contribution, or contribution against compensation, should be documented. The
documentation should specify that the land is free of any squatters, encroachers or other claims.
A format is attached in Attachment 2(i), which includes a Schedule to be followed to assess any
compensation claimed and the agreement reached.
III. Compensation Principles
The project implementing agencies shall ensure that any of the following means of compensation
are provided in a timely manner to affected persons:
(1)    Project affected persons losing access to a portion of their land or other productive assets
with the remaining assets being economically viable are entitled to compensation at
replacement cost for that portion of land or assets lost to them. Compensation for the lost
assets will be according to following principles:
a.     replacement land with an equally productive plot, cash or other equivalent
productive assets;
b.     materials and assistance to fully replace solid structures that will be demolished;
c.     replacement of damaged or lost crops and trees, at market value;
d.     other acceptable in-kind compensation;
e.     in case of cash compensation, the delivery of compensation should be made in
public, i.e. at the Community Meeting.
(2)    Project affected persons losing access to a portion of their land or other economic assets
rendering the remainder economically non-viable, will have the options of compensation
for the entire asset by provision of alternative land, cash or equivalent productive asset,
according to the principles in (1) a-d above.
Consultation Process
The implementing agencies will ensure that all occupants of land and owners of assets located in
a proposed subproject area are consulted. There will be gender-separate community meetings for
each affected mantaqa/gozar (urban infrastructure) or village (other projects) to inform the local
population about their rights to compensation and options available in accordance with these
7


﻿Guidelines. The Minutes of the community meetings shall reflect the discussions held,
agreements reached, and include details of the agreement, based on the format provided in
Attachment 2(ii).
The implementing agency shall provide a copy of the Minutes to affected persons and confitm in
discussions with each of them their requests and preferences for compensation, agreements
reached, and any eventual complaint. Copies will be recorded in the posted project
documentation and be available for inspection during supervision.
Subproject Approval
In the event that a subproject involves acquisition against compensation, the implementing
agency shall:
a. not approve the subproject unless a satisfactory compensation has been agreed
between the affected person and the local community;
b. not allow works to start until the compensation has been delivered in a satisfactory
manner to the affected persons;
c. . if more than 200 persons are affected and require compensation, the subproject shall
be deemed ineligible for support under the emergency reconstruction operations.
Complaints and Grievances
All complaints should first be negotiated to reach an agreement at the local community/village
level. If this falls, complaints and grievances about these Guidelines, implementation of the
agreements recorded in the Community Meeting Minutes or any alleged irregularity in carrying
out the project can also be addressed by the affected persons or their representative at the
municipal or district level. If this also fails, the complaint may be submitted to the relevant
implementing agency for a decision.
Verification
The Community Meeting Minutes, including agreements of compensation and evidence of
compensation having been made shall be provided to the Municipality/district, to the supervising
engineers, who will maintain a record hereof, and to auditors and socio-economic monitors when
they undertake reviews and post-project assessment. This process shall be specified in all
relevant project documents, including details of the relevant authority for complaints at
municipal/district or implementing agency level.
8


﻿Attachment 2(i)
Land Acquisition Assessment Data Sheet
(To be used to record information on all land to be acquired)
1. Quantities of land/structures/other assets required:
2. Date to be acquired:
3. Locations:
4. Owners:
5. Current uses:
6. Users:
*      Number of Customary claimants:
*      Number of Squatters:
*      Number of Encroacher:
*      Number of Owners:
*      Number of Tenants:
*      Others (specify):        Number:
7. How land/structures/other assets will be acquired (identify one):
*      Donation
*      Purchase
8. Transfer of title:
*      Ensure these lands/structures/other assets free of claims or encumbrances.
*      Written proof must be obtained (notarized or witnessed statements) of the voluntary
donation, or acceptance of the prices paid, from those affected, together with proof of
title being vested in the community, or guarantee of public access, by the title-holder.
9. Describe grievance mechanisms available:
9


﻿Attachment 2(ii)
Format to Document Contribution of Assets
The following agreement has been made on............  day of....... .......
between..................     ....resident of ............. ......(the Owner)
and ............................. the Recipient).
1. That the Owner holds the transferable right of................jerib of
land/structure/asset in................................................
2. That the Owner testifies that the land/structure is free of squatters or encroachers and not
subject to other claims.
3. That the Owner hereby grants to the Recipient this asset for the construction and development
of ..........  .........for the benefit of the villagers and the public at large.
(Either, in case of donation:)
4. That the Owner will not claim any compensation against the grant of this asset.
(Or, in case of compensation:)
4. That the Owner will receive compensation against the grant of this asset as per the attached
Schedule.
5. That the Recipient agrees to accept this grant of asset for the purposes mentioned.
6. That the Recipient shall construct and develop the......... .....and take all possible
precautions to avoid damage to adjacent land/structure/other assets.
7. That both the parties agree that the........ ........so constructed/developed shall be
public premises.
8. That the provisions of this agreement will come into force from the date of signing of this deed.
Signature of the Owner:         Signature of the Recipient:
Witnesses:
1.
2.
(Signature, name and address)
10


﻿Schedule of
Compensation of Asset Requisition
Summary of                   Units to be Compensated              Agreed Compensation
affected unit/item
a. Urban/agricultural
land (m2):
b. Houses/structures to be
demolished (units/m2):
c. Type of structure to be
demolished (e.g. mud,
brick, etc.)                                                   Not Applicable.
d. Trees or crops affected:
e. Water sources affected:
Signatures of local community representatives, shura head:
Include record of any complaints raised by affected persons:
Map attached (showing affected areas and replacement areas):
11


﻿Attachment 3
Protection of Cultural Property
Physical culture includes monuments, structures, works of art, or sites of "outstanding universal
value" from the historical, aesthetic, scientific, ethnological, or anthropological point of view,
including unrecorded graveyards and burial sites. Within this broader definition, cultural
property is defined as sites and structures having archaeological, paleontological, historical,
architectural, or religious significance, and natural sites with cultural values.
The proposed emergency reconstruction operations are unlikely to pose a risk of damaging
cultural property, as the sub-projects will largely consist of small investments in community
infrastructure and income generating activities, reconstruction of existing structures, and minor
urban public works. Further, the negative list of attributes, which would make a subproject
ineligible for support (Attachment 1), includes any activity that would significantly damage non-
replicable cultural property. Nevertheless, the following procedures for identification, protection
from theft, and treatment of chance finds should be followed and included in standard bid
documents.
Chance Find Procedures
Chance find procedures are defined in the law on Maintenance of Historical and Cultural
Monuments (Official Gazette, December 21, 1980), specifying the authorities and responsibilities
of cultural heritage agencies if sites or materials are discovered in the course of project
implementation. This law establishes that all moveable and immovable historical and cultural
artifacts are state property, and further:
1. The responsibility for preservation, maintenance and assessment of historical and cultural
monuments rests with the Archaeological Committee under the Ministry of Information
and Culture, which has representation at provincial level.
2. Whenever chance finds of cultural or historical artifacts (moveable and immovable) are
made the Archaeological Committee should be informed. Should the continuation of
work endanger the historical and cultural artifacts, the project work should be suspended
until a solution is found for the preservation of these artifacts.
3. If a moveable or immovable historical or cultural artifact is found in the countryside of a
province, the provincial governor (wali) or district-in-charge (woluswal) should be
informed within two weeks, and they should inform the Archaeological Committee. In
case the immovable historical or cultural artifact is found in a city, the provincial branch
of the Department of Maintenance of Historical Values of the Ministry of Information
and Culture should be informed within two weeks (art. 18). If the find is made within the
center, the Archaeological Committee must be informed directly within one week (art.
25).
4. Failure to report a chance find within the stipulated time limit will be punished with a
fine or imprisonment for a period of one week or up to one month (art. 72).
5. If someone intentionally damages a historical or cultural artifact, the culprit shall pay
compensation in accordance with the value of the artifact plus be imprisoned for a period
of one month to ten years depending on the gravity of the crime (art. 71).
12


﻿In case of a chance find of moveable or immovable historical or cultural artifact, the
implementing agency is responsible for securing the artifact from theft, pilferage and damage
until the responsibility has been taken over by the relevant authorities as specified above.
These procedures must be referred to as standard provisions in construction contracts, when
applicable. During project supervision, the Site Engineer shall monitor that the above
regulations relating to the treatment of any chance find encountered are observed.
Relevant findings will be recorded in World Bank Project Supervision Reports (PSRs), and
Implementation Completion Reports (ICRs) will assess the overall effectiveness of the
project's cultural resources mitigation, management, and capacity building activities, as
appropriate.
13


﻿Attachment 4
Codes of Practice for Prevention and Mitigation of Environmental Impacts
Disease caused by poor water      *      Prioritise leak detection and repair of pipe networks.
quality:                          *      Chemical and bacteriological testing of water quality from
*      contamination by seepage       ajcn     oprbesucspirt ntlaino                 e
from latrines, municipal waste or
agricultural areas.                      e
*      high mineral                   sore are fu     tbcoane
concentrations.                *        usqetmntrn           fisaldo     eaiiae
*      creation of stagnant pools     soues.
of water.                              Prorite loction          and rainage a roun
adjacent comparable sources prior to installation of new
sources.
Redesign to prevent contamination if adjacent comparable
sources are found to be contaminated.
SSubsequent monitoring of installed or rehabilitated
c      We    niagtsnt  larie sources.
locAppropriate location, apron and drainage around
tubewells and dug wells to prevent formation of stagnant
pools.
Provision of cover and hand-pump to prevent
contamination of dug wells.
Where pit latrines are used they should be located more
than 10m from any water source. The base should be sealed
and separated by at least 2m of sand or loamy soil from the
groundwater table.
g*     Where nightsoil latrines or septic tanks are built they
should be sealed. Outflows should drain either to a soakaway
located at least 10m from any water source or be connected to
a working drain.
14
Depletion of water source: *Urban interventions and abstraction limits to be planned in
*over-exploitation of the context of groundwater investigations.
aquifers.                     .*      Local water use planning (community and technical
*hazard of land subsidence. consultation).
Contamination of water supplies:  *hr           i arnsaeue        hysol      elctdmr
*  contamination ofthn1mfoanwaesoreThbaesulbeeld
groundwater because of seepage.     anseaaevetclybnolsshn2mfsndrlay
*  contamination of surfacesolfothgrudwerab.
waters due to flooding or over-  *hr          ihsi arnso       etctnsaebitte
flowing.hleeatlates aeusedte should beter loae orewa
located at least 10m from any water source or be connected to
a working drain.
*  Maintenance training to be delivered along with neiv
latrines.
14


﻿Disease caused by poor handling   *   Training and health education to be provided to nightsoil
practices of nightsoil.               handlers where affected by interventions.
*   Protective clothing and appropriate containers for nightsoil
transportation to be provided.
Disease caused by inadequate     *    Nightsoil should be handled using protective clothing to
excreta disposal or inappropriate     prevent any contamination of workers skin or clothes.
use of latrines.                 *    Where night-soil is collected for agricultural use it should be
stored for a sufficient period to destroy pathogens through
composting. At the minimum it should be stored in direct
sunlight and turned regularly for a period of at least 6 weeks.
*   Septic tanks should not be constructed nor septic waste
collected unless primary and secondary treatment and safe
disposal is available.
*   Health and hygiene education to be provided for all users of
latrines.
*   Awareness campaign to maintain sanitary conditions.
Disease caused by inadequate     0      Sufficient frequency of collection from transfer stations.
collection and disposal, including      Containment of waste during collection and transfer.
health risks from:               0      Promote separation at source to reduce spreading by rag-
* insects, rats.                      pickers during recycling.
* burning of waste.              0      Minimize burning.
* industrial/medical waste.      *      Separate collection and disposal system for medical or
hazardous wastes.
*      Assess requirement for additional investment in final
disposal site.
Contamination of water supplies:  *     Site transfer stations should have sealed base and be
*      lateral seepage into surface   located at least 15m away from water sources with the base
waters.                            separated vertically by not less than 2m of sand or loamy soil
*      seepage of contaminants        from the ground water table.
into aquifers.                 *      Assess requirement for additional investment in final
*      contamination from             disposal site to protect water sources.
clandestine dumping.           *      Monitoring of site to prevent illegal dumping
Disruption of drainage:          *      Design to provide adequate drainage and to minimize
*      hampers free drainage,         changes in flows, not limited to the road reserve.
causes stagnant pools of water.  *    Provision of energy dissipaters, cascades, steps, and check
*      increased sediments into       dams.
ponds, streams and rivers due to  *   Provision of sufficient number of cross drains.
erosion from road tops and sides. *   Balancing of cut and fill.
*      increased run-off and     *      Revegetation to protect susceptible soil surfaces.
flooding.                      *      Rehabilitation of borrow areas.
15


﻿Erosion:                                Design to prevent soil erosion and maintain slope stability.
* erosion of land downhill from         Construction in the dry season.
the road bed, or in borrow areas.     Protection of soil surfaces during construction.
* landslides, slips or slumps.          Physical stabilization of erodible surfaces through turfing,
* Bank failure of the borrow pit     planting a wide range of vegetation, and creating slope
breaks.
*      Rehabilitation and re-grading of borrow pits and material
collection sites.
Loss of vegetation:              *      Balancing of cut and fill.
*      Revegetation to protect susceptible soil surfaces.
*      Minimize loss of natural vegetation during construction.
*      Revegetation and replanting to compensate any loss of
plant cover or tree felling.
Loss of access:                         Design to include accessibility to road sides in case
roadbed is raised.
*      Alternative alignments to avoid bisecting villages by road
widening.
Impacts during construction:            Provision of fuel at work camps to prevent cutting of
*      fuelwood collection.          firewood.
*      disease due to lack of           Provision of sanitation at work camps.
sanitation.                           Removal of work camp waste, proper disposal of oil,
*      introduction of hazardous     bitumen and other hazardous wastes.
wastes.                               Management of construction period worker health and
*      ground/water                  safety.
contamination (oil, grease).
*      accidents during
construction.
abroisonofful tminocmp tigoprven sttemcs.uttig o
Siltation and erosion:           *      Plan disposal of spoil material from cleaned canals to
ensure it will not wash back into the system, and is not
deposited on fields without the owners' permission.
b       Re-grading and rehabilitation of borrow areas or pits.
Water-logging and salinization:   *     Incorporation of adequate drainage to prevent water-
.logging and salinization.
Over-exploitation of aquifers:           Analysis of the sustainability of groundwater yield, if
increased abstraction is proposed.
Injury, death or loss of productive  *  See section on dams, below.
resources caused by dam failure:
16


﻿Deforestation caused by:           *      Replace timber beams with concrete where structurally
*      unsustainable use of timber.    possible.
*      wood-firing of bricks.      *      Ensure fired bricks are not wood-fired.
*      Where technically and economically feasible, substitute
fired bricks with alternatives, such as sun-dried mud bricks,
compressed earth bricks, or rammed earth construction.
Injury and death from earthquake:  *      Apply low-cost aseismic structural designs.
Disease caused by inadequate       *      Ensure designs include adequate sanitary latrines and
provision of water and sanitation:     access to safe water.
Injury, death or loss of productive  *    Application of generic dam safety measures and rapid
resources caused by dam failure.       hydrological assessment by qualified engineers.
*      For earthen dams, crushing of earth lumps, watering to
near optimal moisture content, and compacting during
construction.
*      Design of earthen dams to prevent excessive seepage
through the dam-body and piping at or near the toe or
abutment of the dam.
*      Design to incorporate spillway to prevent over-topping.
*      Local awareness-raising for breach situations.
Emissions to air:                  *      use of the cleanest fuel economically available (natural
gas is preferable to oil, which is preferable to coal).
*      emissions control to achieve a maximum level for
Particulate Matter of 100 milligrams per cubic meter.
Fuel and lubricant spills:         *      improvements in maintenance and housekeeping, and
spill-containment structures.
Noise:                             *      location or sound-proofing to achieve a maximum
increase in background levels of 3 decibels, or a maximum of
55 decibels in residential areas, whichever is higher.
PCB disposal:                      *      waste transformer coolant oil should be stored in sealed
containers, pending safe disposal.
Erosion and deforestation caused   *      Selection of access road alignments to minimize cut and
by:                                    fill, and tree felling.
*      access roads.              *       See section on roads (above).
*      unsustainable use of timber. *     Substitute concrete or metal for timber in construction.
Injury or death caused by:         *      Awareness campaign (regarding electrocution dangers)
*      risk of accidents.              before construction starts.
*      Collapse of power lines.   *       Application of generic safety standards.
17


﻿Injury from machinery:             *       Ensure that safe practices for the use of new machinery
are understood and adopted.
Unsustainable grazing:             *       Before livestock are purchased, grazing requirements for
the new and projected herd should be estimated, and legal
access to sufficient sustainable grazing ensured.
18


