Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
GRANT NUMBER H007 AF
Development Grant Agreement
(Emergency Infrastructure Reconstruction Project)
between
AFGHANISTAN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 8, 2002
GRANT NUMBER H007 AF
DEVELOPMENT GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 8, 2002, between AFGHANISTAN (the Recipient) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
Page  2
WHEREAS (A) the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in 
the financing of the Project; 
(B)
the Association was authorized under Resolution No. IDA 194, adopted by its 
Board of Governors on April 8, 1999, to provide financing, under the Twelfth Replenishment, in 
the form of grants in the context of assistance to post-conflict countries, under a framework to be 
approved by the Executive Directors of the Association;
(C)
the Executive Directors of the Association approved such a framework with 
respect to post-conflict grants on July 1, 2001, and further determined that the development grant 
referred to in Section 2.01 of this Agreement (the Grant) is consistent with such framework; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to make 
the Grant available to the Recipient upon the conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The following provisions of the “General Conditions Applicable to 
Development Credit  Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), (8), (9), (10), (12), (as 
modified below), (13) and (14), 2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Sections 4.01 (as modified below) and 4.05;
(v)
Sections 5.01, 5.03 (as such sections are modified below), 5.05, 5.06 and 
5.07;
(vi)
Sections 6.02 (as modified below), 6.03 and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii)
Sections 9.01, 9.02, 9.03, 9.05, 9.06 (as modified below), 9.07 and 9.08;
(ix)
Article X; 
(x)
Article XI; and
Page  3
(xi)
Article XII.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
the terms “Borrower”, “Credit”, “Credit Account” and “Development 
Credit 
Agreement”, wherever they appear in the General Conditions, 
are replaced by 
“the Recipient”, “the Grant”, “the Grant Account” and 
“the Development Grant 
Agreement”, respectively; 
(ii)
the terms “Development Credit Agreement” and “development credit”, 
where 
used in Article I of the General Conditions, mean “Development 
Grant 
Agreement” and “development grant”, respectively; and
(c)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for 
any import of goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the Association, is 
prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII 
of the Charter of the United Nations.”
Page  4
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“AACA” means the Afghanistan Assistance Coordination Authority, an 
authority established pursuant to a Decree of the Recipient, dated March 30, 2002, as the same 
may be amended from time to time;
(b)
“AIA” means the Afghanistan Interim Administration established under the 
Agreement on Provisional Arrangements in Afghanistan Pending the Re-Establishment of 
Permanent Government Institutions, dated December 5, 2001, and any successor thereto;
(c)
“CAWSS” means the AIA’s Central Authority for Water Supply and Sanitation;
(d)
“DABM” means Da Afghanistan Breshna Moassesa, the AIA’s power utility;
(e)
“Financial Monitoring Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(f)
“Fiscal Year” means the Recipient’s fiscal year, commencing on March 21 of 
each calendar year and ending on March 20 of the following calendar year;
(g)
“Framework” means the Recipient’s Environmental and Social Safeguards 
Framework which sets out, 
inter alia:
 (i) key policy principles for social and environmental 
management; (ii) measures to guide the screening of activities for significant social and 
environmental impacts, and to assist in the mitigation of such impacts; (iii) procedures to ensure 
that these principles and measures are appropriately applied; and (iv) guidelines for capacity 
building and monitoring;
(h)
“MHBTP” means the Ministry of Housing, Building, and Town Planning of 
AIA;
(i)
“MMI” means the Ministry of Mines and Industry of AIA;
(j)
“MP” means the Ministry of Power of AIA;
(k)
“MPW” means the Ministry of Public Works of AIA; and
(l)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent 
to twenty six million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 26,500,000).
Page  5
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the 
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and 
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.
(b)
The Recipient may open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in its 
central bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments 
out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2004, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later 
date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through 
MHBTP, MPW, MP, MMI, the municipality of the city of Kabul, CAWSS and DABM with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate infrastructure, administrative, 
financial and technical practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall carry out 
the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement and with the environmental, social and other principles, measures, procedures and 
guidelines set out in the Framework.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, 
works and consultants’ services required for the Project, and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 (c) of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the Recipient shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish to 
the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Association, a plan  designed to ensure the 
continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Recipient on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Page  6
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall, not later than June 30, 2002, establish, and 
thereafter maintain, a financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare 
financial statements in a format acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account, for each Fiscal Year, audited in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, consistently applied by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each Fiscal Year, (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for such Fiscal Year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Association may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant Account 
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of 
this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received the audit 
report for the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal from the Grant 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such Fiscal Year, together 
with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Recipient’s progress reporting obligations 
set out in paragraph B of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Recipient shall prepare and furnish to 
the Association a Financial Monitoring Report, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association, which:
Page  7
(i)
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, showing separately funds 
provided under the Grant, and explains variances between the actual and 
planned uses of such funds;
(ii)
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for 
the period covered by said report, and explains 
variances between the actual
and planned 
Project 
implementation; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the end of the 
period 
covered by said report.
(b) 
The first Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the Association not 
later than forty five (45) days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, 
and shall cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through 
the end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each Financial Monitoring Report shall be 
furnished to the Association not later than forty five (45) days after each subsequent calendar 
quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01.  The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Vice Chairman and Minister of Finance of AIA is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Ministry of Finance
Afghanistan Interim Administration
Kabul 
Afghanistan
For the Association:
Page  8
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
Page  9
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Kabul, 
Afghanistan as of the day and year first above written.
AFGHANISTAN
By /s/ Hedayat Amin-Arsala
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ William Byrd
(Acting) Regional Vice President
South Asia Region
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Grant Allocated
% of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Works
8,700,000
100%
(2)
Goods
11,700,000
100%
(3)
Fuel
2,400,000
100%
(4)
Engineering services 
2,200,000
100%
(5)
Consultants’ services
1,500,000
100%
and training
TOTAL
26,500,000
Page  10
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 5,300,000, may be 
made in respect of Categories (1), (2), (3), (4) and (5) on account of payments made for 
expenditures before that date but after April 1, 2002.
3.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures: (i) for works and goods under contracts 
costing less than $300,000 equivalent each; (ii) for services under contracts costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent each for consulting firms; (iii) for services under contracts costing less than 
$50,000 equivalent each for individual consultants; and (iv) for training, all under such terms and 
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist AIA in its reconstruction effort by  improving 
the delivery of selected infrastructure services in order to enhance the quality of life, health and 
welfare of the population, and support the economic recovery of the country.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Recipient and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives.
Part A
: Urban Services
1.
Carrying out a program of labor-intensive public works, consisting of the provision of 
goods and services and the execution of works, in the cities of Herat, Jalalabad, Kabul, Kandahar 
and Mazar-i-Sharif.
2.
Carrying out a program, consisting of the provision of goods and services and the 
execution of works, to repair and rehabilitate the urban water supply systems in the cities of 
Herat, Jalalabad, Kandahar, Mazar-i-Sharif, Charikar, Ghazni, Kunduz, Mehterlam, Qala-e-Naw, 
Qalat, Shiberghan and Taluqan.
3.
Carrying out a program, including the provision of goods and services and the execution 
of works, to repair and rehabilitate the sanitation facilities in the city of Kabul, including the 
carrying out of pilot sanitation activities therein, and the provision of support to the municipality 
of the city of Kabul in the field of solid waste collection. 
4.
Provision of engineering and/or management support services to: (a) MHBTP to 
facilitate the carrying out of Part A.1 of the Project; (b) MPW to facilitate the carrying out of 
Part A.2 of the Project; and (c) the municipality of the city of Kabul to facilitate the carrying out 
of Part A.3 of the Project.
Part B:
Power Services
1.
Provision of power transmission and distribution materials, and other goods needed for 
the carrying out of urgent repair in selected cities, the installation thereof and the replacement of 
insulators and conductors on transmission lines.
Page  11
2.
Provision of essential tools, equipment, vehicles and other goods needed to restore MP’s 
capacity to operate and maintain the power system.
3.
Provision of strategic spare parts and other goods needed to repair hydropower stations 
countrywide, including the installation thereof.
4.
Carrying out of works, and provision of spare parts and other goods, including fuel, 
required to re-commission the gas turbine plant in the city of Kabul.
5.
Provision of engineering and management support services and training to MP to 
facilitate the carrying out of Parts B.1, B.2, B.3 and B.4 of the Project, and to assist in the 
preparation of future infrastructure projects.
Part C:
Policy Advice and Other Support Services
Provision of policy and regulatory advice, training and engineering support to assist AIA 
in putting in place, and commencing the implementation of, a reform agenda in: (i) the mining 
and hydrocarbon sector; and (ii) other infrastructure sectors.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
: General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of Section I of 
the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the 
Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this Section I.
Part B
: Procurement Procedures
1.
Modified International Competitive Bidding
Fuel estimated to cost $1,000,000 equivalent or less per contract may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.65 of the Guidelines. 
Bidding documents may provide that bidders may send their bids by facsimile, in which case, bid 
security shall not be required.  Furthermore, the entity responsible for the procurement of the 
above-mentioned commodities shall be required to put in place arrangements satisfactory to the 
Association to ensure confidentiality of the bids received by facsimile.  
2.
International Shopping
Page  12
Goods estimated to cost $500,000 equivalent or less per contract, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures, respectively, in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement through UN Agencies
Goods estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an amount 
equivalent to $500,000 in the aggregate, may be procured in accordance with the provisions of  
paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
4.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost $25,000 equivalent or less per contract, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures, respectively, in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
5.
Direct Contracting
Spare parts under Parts B.3 and B.4 of the Project which must be purchased from the 
original supplier may be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the 
Guidelines
6.
Procurement of Works 
Works under Parts A.1, A.2 and A.3 of the Project may be procured under any one of the 
following methods: (a) Lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations 
obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation.  The 
invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable.  The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest 
price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the 
contract successfully; (b) Direct contracting with a qualified  supplier /contractor; or (c) 
Community participation procedures in accordance with paragraph 3.15 of the Guidelines.
7.
Force Account
Works under Part B.1 of the Project, including the installation of materials associated 
therewith, shall be procured by force account in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.8 
of the Guidelines.  Contracts hereunder shall be financed exclusive of salaries of, and allowances 
to, civil service employees of the Recipient.
Part C
: Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement 
plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of 
all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have 
Page  13
been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to: (i) each contract for goods and each contract for works 
estimated to cost $300,000 equivalent or more; and (ii) and the first three (3) contracts for goods, 
and the first three (3) contracts for works irrespective of the contract’s value, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply when said contracts shall 
have been procured under the provisions of paragraphs B.1 or B.6 of this Schedule.
(b)
In the event that any of the contracts referred to under sub-paragraph (a) (ii) 
above shall have been procured under the provisions of paragraphs B.2, B.3, B.4 or B.5 of  this 
Schedule, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the execution of any contract under shopping  procedures, the 
Recipient shall provide to the Association a report on the comparison 
and evaluation of quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping or direct 
contracting procedures, or through a UN Agency, the Recipient shall 
provide to the Association a copy of the specifications and the draft 
contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
: General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Recipients” published by the Association in January 1997 and revised in September 
1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the following Parts 
of this Section II.
Part B
: Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection 
of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  The short list 
Page  14
of consultants for services for the Project, estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per 
contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C
: Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost $1,200,000 equivalent or less per contract may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
Services which are estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or less per contract may, with 
the Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant 
Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D
: Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for 
the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than 
the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its 
prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have 
been given.
3.
Post Review
Page  15
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
A.
Overall Project Implementation and Coordination
The Recipient shall vest responsibility for the implementation of Parts A.1 and A.4 (a) of 
the Project in MHBTP, Parts A.2 and A.4 (b) of the Project in MPW, Part B of the Project in MP 
and Part C (i) of the Project in MMI.  The Recipient shall cause CAWSS to assist MPW in the 
implementation of Parts A.2 and A.4 (b) of the Project and DABM to assist MP in the 
implementation of Part B of the Project. Labor-intensive public works under Part A.1 shall be 
implemented in accordance with arrangements agreed between the Recipient and the 
Association.  The Recipient shall cause AACA to consolidate progress and other reports 
prepared by the above-mentioned ministries and agencies on the implementation of their 
respective Parts of the Project and submit the consolidated reports to the Association in 
satisfaction of the Recipient’s obligations under paragraphs B (ii) (a) and B (ii) (b) of this 
Schedule.
B.
Progress Reports and Mid-Term Review
The Recipient shall:
(i)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate 
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(ii)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and furnish to 
the Association: (a) on a quarterly basis, commencing not later than forty five (45) days after the 
end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, a report on the progress achieved in the 
implementation of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; and (b) on or about 
June 30, 2003, a report, to constitute the basis upon which the mid-term review shall take place, 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph (i) of this Section and consolidating the results of the reports referred to under 
sub-paragraph (ii) (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof 
during the period following such date; and
(iii)
review with the Association, by July 31, 2003, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (ii) (b) of this paragraph, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said 
report and the Association’s views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
Page  16
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3), (4) and (5) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement in respect of the Project; 
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to three million 
three hundred thousand dollars ($3,300,000) to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and 
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule. 
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures 
in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts 
which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such 
request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall 
have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposits into the Special Account at such 
intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the 
Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn 
by the Association from the Grant Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient shall, 
at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures.
Page  17
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the  Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account in accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and 
accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Recipient of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant 
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the Special Account, minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions 
with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the 
Grant allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the 
extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit 
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Association, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Association may request; or   (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of 
such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, 
the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such 
outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the Association all 
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
Page  18
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this 
Schedule shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6
Performance Indicators
Unless otherwise agreed between the Recipient and the Association, the following 
indicators shall be used to judge progress in the implementation of the Project:
1.
Eighteen thousand (18,000) person-days of employment have been generated.
2.
Sixty percent (60%) of households in the Project area that were previously connected to 
the water supply system network have been reconnected thereto.
3.
Fifty percent (50%) of the remaining households in the Project area that were previously 
connected to the water supply system are being served by working standposts.
4.
Improvement in the sanitary and environmental aspects of the existing solid waste 
collection and disposal system in the city of Kabul.
5.
The re-commissioning of at least two (2) re-conductored transmission lines to take place 
by June 30, 2003.
6.
Fifty (50) underground joints have been repaired by November 30, 2002.
7.
The re-commissioning of units at two (2) hydropower stations with new spare parts 
installed by April 30, 2003.
8.
The re-commissioning of the gas turbine plant in the city of Kabul has taken place by 
December 31, 2002.
