                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 27601

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                        (CPL-38410 SCL-3841A)

                                                  ON A

                                                  LOAN

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$25.0 MILLION

                                   TO THE REPUBLIC OF PANAMA




                                                 FOR A

                                      RURAL HEALTH PROJECT




                                              May 18, 2004




Human Development Sector Management Unit
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                        (Exchange Rate Effective December 2003)

                                Currency Unit = Balboa
                                  1.00 Balboa = US$ 1.00
                                    US$ 1.00 = 1.00 Balboa

                                      FISCAL YEAR
                                 January 1  December 31

                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BHNSP   Basic Health and Nutrition Package of Services
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CHW     Community Health Worker (Promotor de Salud)
CWB     Community Water Board (Juntas Administradoras de Agua)
ERL     Economic Recovery Loan
FES     Panamanian Social Emergency Fund (Fondo de Emergencia Social)
FIS     Social Investment Fund (Fondo de Inversion Social)
GOP     Government of Panama
HA      Health Assistant (Asistentes de Salud)
ICB     International Competitive Bidding
IDB     Inter-american Development Bank
LCB     Local Competitive Bidding
LIB     Limited International Bidding
MIPPE   Ministry of Planning and Economic Policy (Ministerio de Planificación y Política
        Económica)
MINSA   Ministry of Health (Ministerio de Salud)
MTR     Mid-term Review
NGO     Non Governmental Organizations
PAU     Project Administration Unit
PCU     Project Coordinating Unit
PDO     Project Development Objectives
PNP-C   Pilot Nutrition Project - Chiriqui
SOE     Statement of Expenditures
UNICEF  United Nations Children Fund

                             Vice President:    David de Ferranti
                            Country Director    Jane Armitage
                    Sector Director/Manager     Ana-María Arriagada
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:         Montserrat Meiro-Lorenzo

                                            PANAMA
                                RURAL HEALTH PROJECT


                                           CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            8
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            17
6. Sustainability                                                                19
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 20
8. Lessons Learned                                                               22
9. Partner Comments                                                              24
10. Additional Information                                                       24
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             25
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             28
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             31
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             32
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             34
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                35
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            36
Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution                                                 37
Annex 9. Interventions of the Basic Health and Nutrition Package                 47

Project ID: P007846                                                  Project Name: PA RURAL HEALTH
Team Leader: Montserrat Meiro-Lorenzo                                TL Unit: LCSHH
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: May 18, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: PA RURAL HEALTH                                          L/C/TF Number: CPL-38410; SCL-3841A
   Country/Department: PANAMA                                                             Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Health (36%); Water supply (30%); Sanitation (28%); Central
                            government administration (6%)
                  Theme: Nutrition and food security (P); Child health (P); Rural services and
                            infrastructure (S); Civic engagement, participation and community
                            driven development (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 01/08/1993                                     Effective: 06/01/1995                10/11/1995
     Appraisal: 12/15/1993                                         MTR: 08/15/1997                  12/01/1998
      Approval: 02/07/1995                                      Closing: 06/30/2000                 06/30/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Republic of Panama/Ministry of Health
                      Other Partners:      FES/FIS, UNICEF, Municipalities, NGOs, private sector, communities

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 David de Ferranti                              S. Javed Burki
Country Manager/Director: Jane Armitage                                        Edilberto Segura
Sector Manager:                 Evangeline Javier                              Kye Woo Lee
Team Leader at ICR:             Montserrat Meiro-Lorenzo                       E. De Gaiffier
ICR Primary Author:             Maria R. Puech Fernandez;
                                Montserrat Meiro-Lorenzo;
                                Kathryn Johns Swartz


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
In the early 1990s, the Government of Panama (GOP) was engaged in an economic and social recovery
program to establish conditions for sustained economic growth with support from the World Bank-financed
Economic Recovery Loan (ERL; Ln. 3438-PA, 1992). At that time, Panama had very high rates of
malnutrition, particularly among young children, and inadequate access to safe potable water and basic
sanitation in rural areas. Based on the background work and issues identified in the ERL, and in response
to the GOP's request for support in preparing a pilot nutrition program, the Rural Health Project was
prepared and approved by the World Bank in May 1995. The project design was coordinated with other
partners in Panama, including the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), the Panama Social Investment
Fund (Fondo de Inversión Social, FIS, initially the FES, Emergency Social Fund), and UNICEF.

The project was designed to help improve the access of rural populations to basic services and strengthen
the country's social safety net. The main objectives were to:

(a) reduce the incidence of malnutrition among children under age five and breast-feeding and pregnant
women in the poorest 28 districts;
(b) increase the coverage of water supply and basic sanitation in all rural areas;
(c) train new or existing Community Water Boards (CWBs) to improve their capacity to operate and
maintain systems under their responsibility; and
(d) strengthen the institutional capacity of the Ministry of Health (Ministerio de Salud MINSA) to plan,
execute, monitor, and evaluate: (i) the nutrition strategies and programs supported by the project; and (ii)
its statutory obligations related to provision of basic water supply and sanitation to small rural
communities and environmental health regulations.[1]

Assessment
The project objectives were important for Panama and consistent with the country's policies and strategies
in the social sectors and for poverty alleviation, particularly related to nutrition, and water supply and
sanitation subsectors. Nevertheless, as detailed in the following sections, there were some serious problems
with the original project design, including a high degree of complexity, poor sequencing of activities, and
weak assessment of implementation capacity.

The original design relied almost exclusively on MINSA as the main implementing agency, which proved to
be over ambitious. At that time, MINSA was responsible for policy formulation, regulation, and program
monitoring of public health, including nutrition and water supply and sanitation. In 1993, MINSA's
responsibility for provision of simple rural water supply and sanitation systems was increased from
communities of less than 500 to communities of less than 1,500 residents--this project would help MINSA
carry out this new responsibility.

The Rural Health Project supported health and nutrition issues and the efficiency of social sector
expenditures identified in the ERL and it was the first Bank operation in the social sectors in Panama. The
project was consistent with the World Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS, 1994) and supported the
CAS objectives of poverty alleviation, rehabilitation of basic infrastructure, and improving equity in social
sector spending.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The project was radically restructured in 2000, yet the original objectives were not revised since they still
applied in the restructured project. The restructuring fundamentally altered the original implementation



                                                     - 2 -

arrangements and thereby substantially increased the likelihood of achieving the objectives (see Section
3.4). In the rural water sector, the new activities supported and went beyond reforms initiated by the GOP
and in the health sector, the new activities set in motion some structural changes, while also dovetailing
with reforms supported by the Health Reform Pilot (Ln. 4375-PA, 1998).

3.3 Original Components:
The project had three components financed with a US$25.0 million IBRD Loan, GOP counterpart of
US$15.4 million and an estimated beneficiary contribution of US$1.3 million for a total cost of US$41.7
million.

Component 1 ­ Nutrition (US$13.1 million or 31 percent of total project costs, no beneficiary
contributions under this component). This component would support the GOP's efforts to develop a
targeted and nutritionally superior program of food supplementation reaching the most vulnerable members
of the household--children under five, and pregnant and lactating women--in the 28 poorest districts
(mainly rural areas with dispersed populations). This component would be implemented in three phases to
test the proposed methodologies in a pilot area and gradually build MINSA's capacity in nutrition services.
There were three subcomponents:

a) Training of Community Health/Nutrition Workers (US$2.6 million or 6 percent of total cost) to provide
basic nutrition and health services to about 75,000 rural residents without adequate access to the public
health system.
b) Complementary Feeding Program (US$10.0 million or 24 percent of total baseline costs) for the most
vulnerable groups;
c) Training and Supervision (US$0.5 million or 1 percent of total cost) of MINSA staff assigned to
outpatient facilities in treatment of malnutrition and supervision of Community Health Workers (CHWs,
promotores de salud) and Health Assistants (HAs, asistentes de salud).

Component 2 ­ Rural Water Supply and Sanitation (US$21.3 million or 51 percent of total project costs
including contingencies). This component would support MINSA's efforts to provide water supply and
basic sanitation for rural communities of less than 1,500 inhabitants and monitor water quality and
environmental health conditions. There were three subcomponents:

a) Construction and/or Rehabilitation of Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Systems (US$19.1 million or
46 percent of total costs). It was expected that MINSA would execute about 75 percent of the systems and
FES would execute 25 percent. Communities were expected to participate in all phases of the subproject
cycle and contribute at least 15 percent of the investment costs in the form of land, materials, or unskilled
labor. Upon conclusion of the works, the community would have to establish and operate a Community
Water Board (CWB) with legal standing and pay monthly water fees to cover operations and maintenance.
b) Promotion, Training and Support of Community Water Boards (US$1.4 million or 3 percent of total
costs). MINSA would support the establishment or legalization of CWBs and provide regular supervision
and technical support in operating and maintaining a water supply and basic sanitation system.
c) Development of a Water Quality Control Program (US$0.8 million or 2 percent of total baseline costs)
for establishment of a central water quality laboratory and creation of a computerized information system.

Component 3 ­ Institutional Strengthening (US$7.3 million or 18 percent of total costs including
contingencies). This component would strengthen the technical and managerial capacity of MINSA to
direct, plan, and supervise implementation of Components 1 and 2. It would fund studies, poverty
monitoring, baseline studies, additional staff, technical assistance, training, equipment, vehicles, and
incremental operating budgets in three areas:



                                                      - 3 -

a) Sub-directorate General of Health Services (US$2.6 million or 7 percent of total costs);
b) Sub-directorate General of Environmental Health (US$2.8 million or 7 percent of total costs); and
c) Project Administration Unit (PAU) (US$1.9 million or 5 percent of total costs).

Assessment
The project components were linked to the objectives described above and addressed the main challenges
facing the GOP in terms of supporting the health sector and poverty alleviation. However, based on the
poor implementation performance from the beginning and the findings of the Mid-term Review in 1998,
there were disconnects in several areas (see Sections 3.4 and 3.5). In retrospect, it seems that the role of the
loan was to increase financial resources for new or already existing activities without really analyzing or
introducing any improvements or innovations. Also, the design did not seem to take into account all that
was known about overly bureaucratic procedures in the country and the low implementation capacity of
public agencies.

3.4 Revised Components:
First project revision (July 1997)
In 1997, the GOP requested and the Bank agreed with the inclusion of Community Farm Subprojects to
complement the Bank-financed complementary feeding program. These subprojects would address the
structural problems causing malnutrition in rural areas, thus increasing the sustainability of malnutrition
reduction in these areas. The Loan Agreement was amended to include about 300 Community Farm
Subprojects, financing agricultural supplies and materials, and the number of poverty districts (as defined
by MIPPE) where the project would concentrate its activities was increased from 28 to 30.

Second project revision - project restructuring (August 2000)
By the second half of 1998, implementation of the Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Component was
unsatisfactory, the lack of counterpart funding had become a chronic issue, and procurement procedures
were extremely lengthy and inflexible. The MTR in December 1998, identified significant design flaws and
noted that either a substantial restructuring or a cancellation of the loan was needed. The main problems
identified were:

· Coordination and targeting of the Nutrition Component was poor--it overemphasized supplemental
feeding versus more sustainable and effective interventions to reduce malnutrition such as counseling and
growth promotion;
· The implementation of the Nutrition Component was based on the deployment of the CHWs, but their
training was delayed and the project did not consider adequate incentives to keep them in the system;
· The implementation arrangements planned for MINSA to be responsible for the design, construction, and
maintenance of nearly all of the rural water systems, but MINSA clearly lacked the managerial capacity to
carry out this component;
· Monitoring and supervision of project-supported activities were weak, contributing to low quality
implementation;
· The decentralization reform of MINSA (which was approved just as the loan became effective in October
1995) further diffused accountability for implementation and generated a mismatch between the centralized
project management and MINSA's new structure; and
· The project-financed technical personnel, hired to strengthen MINSA's capacity to implement project
activities, mainly carried out the day-to-day work of MINSA and contributed little to improve the
implementation pace.

At that time, the country was in the middle of a pre-electoral period so decisions to revise the project


                                                     - 4 -

fundamentally had to wait until the new administration was in place. By mid-1999, with only one year left
in implementation, the project lagged substantially behind on implementation (only 32 percent of loan
disbursed), had a weak PAU and, most worrisome, was very unlikely to achieve its development objectives.
Bank management raised the problems with this project with the new authorities in September 1999 and
presented either the need to totally restructure the project or face potential cancellation of the loan. After
much discussion, the GOP and the Bank agreed on a radical restructuring of the project.

Project redefinition was participatory and thus somewhat lengthier than other restructurings (the GOP and
Bank teams worked intensively during 1999-2000), but it was worthwhile in the end. During that period,
several studies were carried out to assess the technical, financial and institutional aspects of the project
components and possible options to reorient the project. The restructuring was finalized during a two-day
workshop with open discussions to review the problems affecting project performance, the findings from
the studies, and the proposed alternatives.

The restructured project affirmed the original objectives, however the means to achieve them were deemed
inadequate. Based on country knowledge and the MTR findings, the restructuring changed how MINSA
was to finance, organize, manage and provide project-supported services and modeled what their role
would be as a modern ministry. Specifically, the redesigned project sought to:

(i) test third party arrangements for the provision of water and sanitation and basic nutrition and health
services to rural poor;
(ii) bring services to isolated populations;
(iii) foster decentralization to local authorities and community empowerment;
(iv) improve coordination among the project components by integrating activities in the same geographical
areas;
(v) combine health prevention and nutrition interventions, redirecting the latter towards the more
cost-effective growth promotion strategy; and,
(vi) increase implementation speed and reduce lengthy administrative procedures by contracting UNDP as a
procurement agent.

In August 2000, the Loan Agreement was amended to reflect agreed changes with a two-year extension of
the Closing Date until June 30, 2002. There was eventually one additional extension until June 30, 2003.
The total cost of the restructured activities was US$15.6 million and approximately US$12.0 million (60
percent) of the undisbursed balance of US$20.0 million was reallocated to finance 77 percent of these
estimated costs, and the GOP would finance the remaining US$3.7 million. The main changes in the
components are detailed below.

Component 1 ­ Basic Health Care and Nutrition (renamed)
This component introduced contracting-out to NGOs, through the National Coordination of Health
(Coordinadora Nacional de Salud, CONSALUD),[2] the provision of a basic package of 15 health and
nutrition services (BHNSP) to benefit approximately 90,000 residents in 120 rural communities (see Annex
9 for a list of services). All communities were located in districts where the incidence of poverty was over
70 percent (as determined by the Borrower's 1997 Poverty Map, published in March 1999). The
restructured component integrated nutrition and health interventions to address more effectively (from a
technical and administrative perspective) the health problems of the beneficiary population. The nutritional
activities focused on growth promotion and parent education to address nutritional deficiencies in infants
and toddlers between 6 and 36 months of age. Basic health services were to be provided to all children
under age five and pregnant or lactating mothers of the selected communities. The NGOs providing the



                                                        - 5 -

BHNSP were expected to carry out on-the job training and supervision of CHWs and ensure community
participation in the process.

Supplementary feeding, as a preventive measure, was removed, but it was maintained as a therapeutic
measure targeted to children with retarded growth. Food supplements purchased from UNICEF were
financed through counterpart funding. The reformulation cancelled the financing for Community Farm
Subprojects beyond the 92 that were already completed.

Component 2 ­ Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
The reorientation of this component was based on the Executive Decree No. 2 of Law 26 (1997), which
redefined the institutional and legal framework and private sector participation in the provision of water
and sanitation services. The Decree establishes functions for the main institutions in the water and
sanitation sector. Specifically, it defines MINSA's function as the sector's policy maker and the institution
responsible for monitoring and evaluating the implementation of sector policies and delivery of services by
third parties to rural communities.

The restructured component would support MINSA's efforts to reduce its direct implementation
responsibilities related to installing or supplying rural water and sanitation systems, and strengthen its role
in terms of policy formulation, regulation and quality monitoring. The component introduced testing of
innovative implementation arrangements for the execution of rural water systems and the supervision of the
services delivery. Detailed activities included contracting-out the design, construction and supervision of
water works to: (i) government agencies (such as the Social Investment Fund, FIS), (ii) local authorities i.e.
municipalities; and (iii) private firms, UNICEF, and NGOs. The new activities were designed to address
the efficiency, implementation speed, and cost bottlenecks identified. The project would finance the
promotion, design, construction, or rehabilitation of approximately 310 rural water systems, serving about
63,000 beneficiaries. Approximately three-quarters of the beneficiaries were to be in districts with a
poverty incidence of 50 percent (as determined by the Poverty Map). Priority was to be given to those
communities selected under the BHNSP.

The component would also continue to support water quality improvement through:
(i) equipping and training staff of six regional laboratories;
(ii) setting-up a simple computerized information system on rural water resources to include information on
the surveillance of water quality;
(iii) contracting NGOs to provide oversight and technical support on a regular basis to Community Water
Boards (CWBs); and
(iv) piloting a community-based water quality monitoring program.

Component 3 ­ Institutional Strengthening.
This component changed its focus from strengthening MINSA's capacity to design and construct water and
sanitation facilities to strengthening the Ministry's capacity to purchase, supervise and evaluate services,
not only in the construction of rural water and sanitation systems, but also in the provision of basic health
and nutrition services. Therefore, the new activities supported MINSA's efforts to carry out the
responsibilities and functions related to its leadership role in the health and water sectors. The restructuring
also transformed the PAU into a PCU, with a clear mandate and stronger technical capacity. In the water
sector, component activities included:

(i) training of MINSA staff on contract management, water quality surveillance, evaluation and protection
of water resources, assessment of community water needs and water system evaluation;
(ii) carrying-out studies on appropriate technologies and cost-effective methods related to well drilling,


                                                      - 6 -

water system and latrine design, and water quality detection and maintenance; and
(iii) completing a comparative evaluation of implementation arrangements supported by the project.

For basic health and nutrition, activities included training and technical assistance to develop purchasing
functions in MINSA, including NGO assessment selection, contract management, monitoring, evaluation,
benefit design, and evaluation of services delivered cost and outputs.

The total cost of the restructured project increased to US$42.5 million due to the increase in counterpart
funding for the therapeutic supplemental feeding as mentioned above. The largest increase was in the Rural
Water Supply and Sanitation Component.

Table 1: Original Component Amounts and Restructured Component Amounts
           Components              SAR Estimate          Restructured          Difference
                                    (US$million)     Project (US$million)    (US$million)
  1. Nutrition (renamed to Basic        13.1                 11.0                 -2.1
    Health Care and Nutrition)
     2. Rural Water Supply and          21.3                 26.0                +4.7
             Sanitation
   3. Institutional Strengthening        7.3                  5.5                 -1.8
              TOTAL                     41.7                 42.5


The restructured project introduced new operational arrangements that have subsequently been adopted by
MINSA and are the basis for the recently-approved IDB-financed project. In the health sector, by
contracting NGOs services through CONSALUD, the restructured project coincided with the most
fundamental reform in the sector that is being supported through the Health Reform Pilot (Ln. 4375-PA).
In summary, by reducing MINSA's direct implementation of day-to-day activities while strengthening its
capacity to manage and oversee sector activities, it demonstrated to both the GOP and the Bank, that it is
possible to successfully transform a project to meet new needs and implementing arrangements.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project's quality at entry is considered unsatisfactory. Although the project was consistent with the
country's development priorities and the Bank's CAS, there were several significant shortcomings in
project design and assessment of institutional capacity that affected project implementation from early
stages. Most of these issues, as detailed below, were identified in the MTR and addressed in the
restructured project.

Project Design
· The design was overly complex and had inadequate sequencing of activities, which jeopardized the
likelihood of achieving targets and objectives from the very beginning.
· The traditional operational procedures for construction of rural water systems that had proven to be slow
and inefficient were adopted without changes.
· The targeting of beneficiary communities was not coordinated between the Nutrition and Rural Water
Components--hindering the integration of interventions. Coordination between the two components was
left open, and the lack of technical coordinators further impeded any possible coordination on the ground.
· There was inadequate assessment of the difficulties that project implementation would encounter due to
the remoteness of the populations to be reached with the proposed nutrition and water activities. The
geographical and ethnic realities of the Panama were not properly factored in at the time of preparation.




                                                      - 7 -

Institutional and Management Issues
· The project relied heavily on MINSA as an implementing agency and the institutional and leadership
assessment overestimated its capacity to carry out project activities. The identified weaknesses were deeper
than originally perceived and could not be overcome by the measures envisioned in the project.
· Burdensome internal administrative procedures at the government and ministerial levels were seriously
underestimated. Numerous and lengthy approval steps had to be taken before resources could be made
available to the project. The power exerted by central government institutions--in particular the ex-ante
and ex-post controls exercised by the General Comptroller's office--and its lack of commitment to the
project, affected implementation from the very beginning.
· The Project Administrative Unit (PAU) was designed with a very limited technical and coordinating
mandate, which made it powerless to address project implementation issues.
· There were weak arrangements for monitoring progress and achievements at the time of project approval
and there were no baseline indicators that would allow an assessment of future project impact.
· The procurement arrangements for the water and sanitation systems were inadequate and fragmented
among diverse procurement methods, which resulted in long delays and poor coordination.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project's overall performance is considered satisfactory. Project restructuring successfully managed to
turn around project implementation and transform a poorly designed and implemented project into one that
successfully achieved its main development objectives. The original objectives and the impact indicators
were unchanged, although new targets and milestones were agreed upon during restructuring. The
following indicators measure the achievement of project objectives:

· reduction in malnutrition, particularly by the evolution of the prevalence of malnourished women and
children under five years of age; of low birth weight babies, and of growth retardation in children six years
old;
· increased access to basic water supply and sanitation systems;
· training of Community Water Boards to improve their capacity to operate and maintain systems under
their responsibility
· strengthening of MINSA's institutional capacity.


Reduction in malnutrition. The country has improved its capacity to reduce malnutrition. Available data
from MINSA on malnutrition of pregnant women has shown positive results, especially in recent years.[3] In
2002, the prevalence of pregnant women who are malnourished was 9.5 percent in the whole country
(versus 10.5 percent in 1997). MINSA's data do not include data from the Ngobe Bugle and Bocas del
Toro regions, which have a large number of indigenous population, showing a lower than real number of
malnourished pregnant women at national level. The percentage of malnourished children under age five
has improved as well, going from 3.7 percent in 1997 to 2.0 percent in 2001, excluding the same regions
mentioned above. In addition, low birth weight has been reduced from 9.8 percent in 1997 to 5.8 percent in
2001. Growth retardation in six-year-old children shows a dramatic improvement for rural and indigenous
population. According to census data, during 1994 to 2000, the prevalence of chronic malnutrition in
children under six years of age went from 9.9 percent to 8.0 percent. For the same period, in the rural
population, the prevalence went from 33.8 percent to 20.6 percent. For the indigenous population, the
improvement was not as dramatic (from 68.4 percent to 64.4 percent).

An impact evaluation of the Basic Health and Nutrition Component was carried out in the second half of
2003 to assess the impact of project interventions, during the years 2001-2003. The evaluation supports the



                                                    - 8 -

perception that, because of the project (although maybe not exclusively), the general health and nutrition
status of the target population has improved in recent years. The impact on reduction of malnutrition in
pregnant women and children under 36 months of age was greater in the communities with the project
interventions than in the control group. Data from the evaluation show that populations covered by the
itinerant services provided by NGOs had a greater use of basic health services than those that were not
covered. The evaluation also indicates that NGOs reached all the targeted communities, ensured that
supplementary feeding reached the beneficiaries when necessary, and that it was correctly prepared and
administered (see Annex 1).

The impact evaluation indicated that over the last two years, the introduction of the BHNSP had a positive
impact on the use of preventive health services among the poor rural population. More specifically, the
evaluation findings show that: [4]




· Over 85 percent of the surveyed population in the intervention areas knew about the services provided by
the NGOs' itinerant health teams.
· The population reported a high level of satisfaction with the package of services and the work of the
NGOs. Those who know about the services had a very high rate of use, indicating an acceptance of the
package.
· The evaluation showed evidence of socioeconomic factors (language, cultural heritage, accessibility) have
an influence in the use and acceptance of the BHNSP and they should be taken into account when
preparing a strategy to successfully reach the diverse communities.
· The use of prenatal care was higher for the population targeted by the BHNSP than in the control group
(the population serviced by MINSA). This confirms that the delivery of health services through itinerant
teams successfully reaches beneficiaries and allows for an improvement in the level of use of health
services for the poorer rural populations.
· The improvement in access to health services was higher for populations with significant numbers of
indigenous groups, generally located in more remote geographical areas and with less access to social
services.
· The use of preventive services, including vaccination and growth monitoring of healthy children, was
higher among the beneficiaries of the package.
· Once people were sick, the use of itinerant health teams did not affect the use of medical consultations in
the targeted population. This might have been influenced by the extended period (5-6 weeks) in between
NGO visits.
· Although the targeted group had a higher use of services, there were not significant differences in terms of
expenditures on health services between the targeted population and the control group, except for the
expenditures in after-delivery care. This is good news, as an increased use of health services did not imply
an additional burden on this poor population.

Increase in access to basic water supply and sanitation systems. By the end-of-project, the coverage in
access to basic water supply among rural populations (excluding indigenous communities) reached 91.4
percent (over 784,000 inhabitants) (MINSA data, 2002). In indigenous areas, coverage reached 42 percent
in 2002 (90,626 inhabitants). Regarding sanitation, progress was not as dramatic. Coverage of the total
        [5]                      [6]


population has increased from 86.9 percent in 1990 to 93.2 percent in 2000. Coverage in urban areas has
remained stable (around 98.7 percent in 2002). In rural areas, coverage increased from 73.2 percent in
1990 to 86.5 percent in 1996. Although coverage numbers are acceptable, they hide the enormous
differences among rural communities. The most remote communities, such as in the provinces of Darien
and Kuna Yala) still present serious deficiencies due to the difficulties to reach them, bring materials, and
actually build the water systems.



                                                     - 9 -

Training of Community Water Boards. The CWBs were successfully trained, the target was met, and it has
contributed to improving their capacity to operate and maintain the rural water systems under their
responsibility (see targets in Annex 1). The training delivered by MINSA evolved during the project and it
improved its effectiveness in the last three years and involved a larger number of community members. The
larger number of participants in the training contributed to a cascading effect and to the greater
involvement of community members in operating and maintaining the water systems. Nevertheless,
continuity of training and sustained technical support from MINSA will be required to sustain
achievements in the proper operation and maintenance of the systems.

Strengthening of MINSA's institutional capacity. Throughout the project, MINSA's institutional capacity
was strengthened by the change in its role from executing to contracting services and supervising and
monitoring the delivery. Thus, the project interventions have had a positive impact on the implementation of
sectoral policies. A significant number of technical experts have been incorporated as MINSA personnel,
thereby increasing its capacity to achieve the country's policy goals in the areas covered by the project.
MINSA's personnel have received relevant training in management, contracting, and information areas.

There has been progress towards decentralization of functions, where regional offices have undertaken
greater responsibility to monitor and supervise the delivery of services by third parties. Specialized
personnel have been incorporated in the offices (engineers, health educators), but not evenly across the
regional offices. MINSA has strengthened its role as rector of the water sector, although its capacity to
enforce the norms related to water aspects systematically and consistently monitor water quality provided
by the water systems is insufficient. MINSA has not yet been able to design and carry out a sectoral
strategy that integrates different actors in the sector. MINSA has progressed in setting up the basic
elements to launch a management information system, which will allow systematization of critical
information to fulfill its normative and supervisory role. Nevertheless, the system was not fully functioning
by project closing.

Institutional capacity has been strengthened across the system due to the innovative experiences piloted
under the project, including through: (i) the capacity built by NGOs and their experiences in the delivery of
the BHNSP; (ii) the leadership given to two municipalities (Bugaba and Gualaca) for the process of
provision of water services to their communities; and (iii) the capacity gained by the communities from the
training provided to the Community Water Boards and to community members to manage the rural water
systems. During the project, MINSA provided significant technical assistance to all of these actors,
addressing the weak capacity in municipalities and in NGOs at the early implementation stages of these
experiences.

The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) proposed a baseline study on health and nutrition for the districts
covered by the project, but it was never carried out. The information in the SAR was data for the whole
country and as a result, there is no actualized data for the outcome indicators as listed in the SAR.
However, during the ICR mission and through the impact evaluations of Components 1 and 2 (which
compared beneficiary to control groups), efforts were made to gather national indicators comparable to
those in the SAR, and most importantly indicators that could reflect progress related to the outcomes
indicators in the SAR and the poverty alleviation objective in the areas covered by the project.

Poverty Alleviation Objective. This project was a Program of Targeted Intervention. However, the SAR
did not detail specifically how the project will alleviate poverty. For the purposes of the ICR, poverty was
broadly defined and the strategy used in this project to alleviate poverty was increasing access to quality
basic services (nutrition, water and sanitation). With this is mind, the poverty alleviation objective was


                                                     - 10 -

partially achieved. By the end of the project, about 90,000 people that did not previously have access to
basic health and nutrition services, now had access. Likewise, more than 600 communities had access to a
cleaner and more reliable source of water closer to their houses. The impact evaluations carried out show
that the poor in rural areas benefited substantially from the project activities. However, some more remote
areas are still underserved due to difficult logistics.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1 - Nutrition - renamed Basic Health Care and Nutrition (US$ 11.0 million). Satisfactory.
This component had significant achievements after the restructuring, particularly in terms of reducing
malnutrition among vulnerable population groups and increasing the use of preventive health services by
communities in the poor, rural areas.

Activities carried out before project restructuring
For the first two years of implementation, the component was advancing at a reasonable pace. However,
although MINSA met the targets on paper, in practice, the actions had the wrong sequencing, thus
undermining their potential impact and the likelihood of achieving the corresponding objectives. Moreover,
current technical knowledge began to indicate strongly that supplementary feeding was: (i) not very
effective at reducing malnutrition in the medium and long term; (ii) costly and used scarce resources
inefficiently; and (iii) when it was facility-based (as it was in this case), it rarely reached marginal
populations that are the most likely to suffer from malnutrition. This same information pointed out that the
poor nutritional status of children under age two among poor populations in areas lacking food insecurity
(as it is the case in Panama) had several root causes, including: (i) poor hygienic conditions and food
preparation practices leading to diarrhea; (ii) inadequate breast-feeding, weaning, and toddler feeding
knowledge and practices; (iii) inadequate food practices during and after illness; and (iv) upper respiratory
infections. All these issues were better tackled through multisectoral interventions that integrated access to
water and sanitation, access to basic health services, and growth monitoring and counseling for behavior
change. Although the original design did not integrate this new knowledge and eventually proved inadequate
for its development goals, project implementation advanced and reached the following targets before
restructuring:

1.A Community Health/Nutrition Workers. Between 1995-2000, out of the US$2.6 million (or 6 percent of
total project cost), around US$1.02 million was spent in this subcomponent. This activity was executed,
but with considerable delays, which irreversibly undermined its impact. The manual for training CHWs and
HAs was developed only in the second half of 1998, and thus the training of 681 CHWs (47 percent of
target) and 141 HAs (117.5 percent of target) started only after the MTR (December 1998). Once the
training started, the quality was satisfactory, as evidenced by interviews during the ICR mission. Additional
problems included: (i) due to training delays, the delivery of health care to rural communities and the
celebration of health days to examine and weigh the target population did not happen as planned; (ii) once
trained, the CHWs who worked on voluntary basis and were not remunerated, tended to leave their
practice, undermining the sustainability of project interventions; (iii) the number of vehicles provided to the
health posts and centers (puestos and centros de salud) was insufficient to adequately carry out supervision
activities and reach the most remote communities to be covered by the project.

1.B Complementary Food and Micronutrients. Out of the US$10.0 million allocated to this component (24
percent of project cost), about US$6.44 million was executed before project restructuring. These funds
financed the development of a food supplement made with national products by a local firm (Nutricrema)
and its purchase and distribution to approximately 117,540 children aged 6 to 60 months and 34,166
pregnant and breast feeding women (137 percent and 237 percent of targets respectively). However, in this
case, attaining and even surpassing the targets provides an inaccurate picture of success for this



                                                       - 11 -

component. The MTR concluded that the impact of the activities was probably poor, particularly among
isolated and marginal populations, because: (i) food storage and distribution was weak, and once the
Nutricrema was acquired by MINSA it languished for long periods in the storage facilities and it was
irregularly distributed to the health facilities; (ii) contacts between the health facilities that were to provide
the services and hand-out supplementary feeding and rural beneficiaries were too intermittent and
dependent upon people arriving at the location were these inputs were provided.; (iii) the exit criteria
defined for the project were generally not applied, so the program became a food distribution program; (iv)
monitoring and supervision of project-supported activities was deficient; and (v) planned complementary
health interventions did not occur because there were no CHWs.

After the first amendment in 1997, this component also financed a total of 92 Community Farm Production
subprojects, out of the planned 300. The project restructuring cancelled these remaining subprojects.

1.C MOH Staff Training. Before the restructuring, about US$0.78 million was spent under this component
(above the US$0.5 million assigned in the SAR) to train 1,339 MINSA staff from the regional offices,
health centers, sub-centers, and posts (out of 950 foreseen in the SAR). Training concentrated on: (i)
identification, monitoring, and prevention of nutritional problems in the community and at the primary and
referral levels of the health system; and (ii) supervision of HAs, CHWs and community organizations.
Under this subcomponent, MINSA recruited nutritionists, auxiliary nutritionists, nurse assistants, health
educators, and administrative staff.

Restructured Component
As described previously, the sum of implementation problems together with the nature of the health
interventions prompted the decision to restructure the project--to change radically what was going to be
financed and how MINSA was going to finance, organize, manage and provide project-supported activities.
This entire component was condensed into one subcomponent to finance the delivery of a basic package of
15 nutrition and health services (BHNSP) by NGOs on an itinerant basis to a target population of 90,000
beneficiaries living in 120 rural, isolated mostly indigenous communities that had high levels of poverty and
very poor access to basic health services.

All milestones established for this component were met. This subcomponent was extremely innovative and
promoted a strategy to foster demand for health and nutrition services. The delivery of the BHNSP was
contracted out to NGOs, which acted as providers. After an evaluation of NGOs in the country, six NGOs
were invited to participate and five were selected to deliver the BHNSP through contracts signed with
CONSALUD (the contract with one NGO was discontinued due to poor performance). The delivery of
services was finally carried out by four NGOs, after training by MINSA on how to deliver the basic health
service package. A total of fourteen manuals (Guias) for BHNSP implementation were prepared, but there
was not a comprehensive operational and organizational manual for the different layers of the
subcomponent (BHNSP, Administrative unit of the contract, the basic health team and the community
health team) and each NGO presented a different profile of health personnel (yet this did not impact
implementation).

Consultants designed a monitoring and supervision system for the delivery of the BHNSP, which included a
steering committee with representatives of MINSA's different levels of authority, both national and
regional. The consultants also identified the procedures and areas of competence but, once implementation
started, the monitoring system did not function as planned. There were difficulties in the creation of the
committee, particularly at the central level, due to poor coordination between the MINSA technical
personnel and the technical coordination of the BHNSP. Finally, the monitoring was contracted out to a
firm. Although this decision allowed for close follow-up, it somewhat undermined the possibility of


                                                        - 12 -

strengthening the monitoring and evaluation capacity at MINSA's regional level. At national level the
situation was different because the PAU/PCU team, which has since been incorporated into MINSA and
now works in the new IDB project, accompanied and directed all supervision activities.

The impact evaluation of this component showed significant achievements as summarized in Section 4.1.
Among other outcomes that are not reflected in the evaluation are all the lessons learned during the
implementation of the restructured activities. Until the introduction of the BHNSP, there was no experience
in Panama on itinerant delivery of services through a third party to isolated populations. This component
served as a valuable learning opportunity for MINSA, particularly with respect to improving project
implementation and informing the new IDB-financed project. Among the important themes, it is worth
highlighting the following:

· It is necessary to find a balance between the role of the itinerant basic health team (equipo básico de
salud) and the roles of the CHWs. The manuals need to describe the activities expected from the CHWs.
· Given the beneficiaries' demands, it is easier to focus on curative aspects versus education, counseling
and behavior change.
· Resistance can occur when innovations are introduced, but evidence of results, community acceptance,
and dialogue can overcome such bottlenecks. Initially, NGOs were reluctant to participate in the initiative
and the regional and local health authorities felt it was an imposition from the central level. Although this
mistrust lessened, these attitudes somewhat affected implementation and a certain reluctance on the part of
MINSA's health staff remained during implementation.
· For costing a basic health package, it is necessary to introduce moderators based on remoteness of the
areas covered and population dispersion. Costs monitoring during implementation will provide a greater
understanding of these variables and how to take them into account in the contracting process. This aspect
was highlighted in the impact evaluation. The evaluation also recommends giving the NGOs more leeway
to organize the provision of services and encouraging more focus on results.
· Administrative procedures, including upfront clarity on payment methods, contract incentives, and
maintenance of archives, are an integral part of the whole process and need to be given attention.
· The evaluation results on the cost of delivering the BHNSP suggest that at current efficiency levels, the
costs of bringing the BHNSP to the beneficiaries is the same as the cost of delivering these services in
MINSA's health facilities--a somewhat surprising finding.
· While negotiating the package of services to be delivered, certain adjustments may have to be made in
terms of flexibility to provide services (number of health teams), frequency of the visits, use of
communications, and dissemination of the itinerant services (to make the services appropriate to the
particularities of language and specific cultural characteristics of the beneficiary population).
· The introduction of a beneficiary identification system would improve the monitoring and assessment of
the impact of the BHNSP.

Component 2. Rural Water Supply and Sanitation (US$26.0 million of total project cost). Satisfactory.
This component successfully increased access to water supply and basic sanitation systems by rural
communities of less than 1,500 inhabitants. It improved the water quality control system with monitoring of
water quality distributed for human consumption and environmental health conditions.

Unlike the first component, the original subcomponents were maintained after the restructuring, however in
order to increase the likelihood that the outputs and impacts would be achieved, the implementation
arrangements were radically changed. The MTR highlighted the basic lack of capacity in MINSA to
successfully carry out the planned activities. Thus, this was an issue of how the activities were being
carried out, not what type of activities were being financed. Given this situation, the restructuring focused



                                                     - 13 -

on reducing the bottlenecks to speed-up design and construction of water systems by contracting those
services to third parties. The restructuring successfully sought to change the way MINSA financed,
organized and managed the provision of services to the rural population. The main achievements by
subcomponent are below:

2.A Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Systems. The initial amount allocated for this subcomponent was
US$19.1 million (or 46 percent of total project costs). In the first few years before restructuring,
implementation was irregular, and administrative, organizational and planning errors resulted in poor
execution--by the MTR, the achievement of targets was well below the SAR's projections, including: (i)
only 156 new rural water supply systems (38 percent of the 425 planned in the SAR) were designed,
constructed and supervised, serving about 60,000 people (95,000 target); (ii) about 73 existing water
systems (30 percent of target) were rehabilitated, serving about 30,000 people (60,000 target); (iii)
approximately 104 shallow-drilled wells (target of 300), and 80 dug wells (target of 150) were installed;
and (iv) construction started on 22,450 latrines (target of 30,000), but only 16,000 were finalized. The
remaining 22,450 were only finalized in 2003.

An analysis of investments before the restructuring showed that the criteria used to select the communities
to receive the water supply and sanitation services were very different of the ones used to select beneficiary
communities for the nutrition component. At that time, MINSA lacked sufficient qualified personnel in the
regional offices to carry out execution of the works and it was relatively inexperienced in training CWBs
and organizing communities to responsibility for the new rural water system. In addition, one specific
design mistake that affected project implementation was that the SAR stated that the equipment, including
water pipes and pumps, would be purchased in bulk by MINSA and provided to contractors. This
arrangement proved to be inadequate and caused a loss of interest on the part of the contractors.

MINSA's new role in the construction of rural water supply and sanitation systems after restructuring was
to contract-out to the private sector or delegate the design, construction, and supervision to third parties,
rather than actually execute the works. After the restructuring, a total of 370 new rural water supply
systems and over 22,500 latrines were built, and close to 300 existing water supply systems were renovated
in rural communities. About 50 percent of the civil works were contracted to private sector companies and
MINSA entered into inter-institutional agreements with UNICEF, the Social Investment Fund (FIS) and
two municipalities (Gualaca and Bugaba) to carry out the works. The new milestones and targets were
surpassed for the construction of rural water systems (a total of 370 were built). UNICEF successfully
implemented 111 water supply systems (one more than the number agreed with MINSA), focusing on a
specific region and working closely with communities. FIS's performance was poor (they only constructed
ten water systems during the project) and the inter-institutional agreement was discontinued. In a pilot
effort to test different models, two municipalities were given the responsibility of creating rural water
systems, with support from the Ministry. MINSA was in charge of supervising all works, guaranteeing
adequacy to the norms and the quality of the water system and ensuring that once built, the ownership was
given to the community. The municipalities did not have experience managing construction and thus,
implementation was slow.      However, the quality of the works was adequate and near the end, the
implementation pace had increased considerably. Technical staff from all MINSA levels was trained and
technical personnel were added to the regional offices during this period.

2.B Promotion, Training and Support of Community Water Boards. (US$1.4 million or 3 percent of total
costs). This subcomponent intended to establish or legalize the CWBs and provide them with regular
supervision and technical support in operating and maintaining water supply and basic sanitation
infrastructure. As planned in the SAR, training would be targeted to MINSA's sanitary inspectors and
social workers; community leaders to organize the CWB (450 new and 1,150 existing); and designated



                                                    - 14 -

members of the CWBs. It would also provide on-the-job training and assistance on conflict resolution. The
targets were surpassed for the majority of these activities (see Annex 1). Training was provided to those
benefiting from project-financed construction, poor communities covered by the Nutrition Component and
communities at risk of cholera. Before the restructuring, training was provided to the presidents and
vice-presidents of the CWBs, which resulted in some loss of the technical knowledge as there was a
customary rotation in the CWB leadership. The MINSA personnel in the regional and local offices carried
out regular visits to organize the community and supervise the CWBs on a regular basis.

After the restructuring, a pilot program for about 50 Community Water Boards, consisting of technical
assistance and training for the CWBs members in the promotion of community participation in the
operation and maintenance of rural water supply systems, was introduced. Some changes were made to
improve the sustainability of training by extending training to community members beyond the CWB
members who had been traditionally receiving project-financed training.

2.C Water Quality Control Program (US$0.8 million or 2 percent of total project cost). This
subcomponent supported the establishment of a national system of water quality control with: (i)
establishment, equipment, training and operation of a central water quality laboratory and simple water
testing laboratories in five regional offices and (ii) creation of a computerized information center to provide
up-to-date information on Panama's water resources in rural areas and sector capacities. Through the
project, a central water quality laboratory was established and six of the existing laboratories were
upgraded. This activity supported on-going water quality testing programs that had been stopped due to the
lack of funds. The water quality control program was supposed to cover all rural areas, but it was actually
done based on demand from communities and not on a systematic basis. At the MTR, the mission found
that the construction conditions of the laboratories were poor (no security, inadequate environmental
conditions and slow implementation ­ in particular in the Veraguas Laboratory).

In order to address these deficiencies, project restructuring emphasized the achievement of the existing
target of improving six laboratories for water quality control and monitoring. This target was successfully
achieved by the end-of-project, with a working central lab and five labs in different places across the
country carrying out water quality control activities. However, during the ICR Mission, it was noted that
water testing is not always carried in a systematic way, most likely due to the lack of transport to the water
collection points. This issue will need to be raised in the dialogue with government for preparing a new
water project. Also, the project was not successful in fully creating an information system on rural water
resources in order to support water quality surveillance. Yet, by project closing, the information system
was in its early stages of development and its completion will be key in helping MINSA carry out the water
quality control function after project closing. As an innovation, two municipalities are involved in the
design and implementation of a pilot program on community-based water quality monitoring.

Component 3. Institutional Strengthening. (US$5.5 million of total project costs). Satisfactory. Initially,
this component was designed to support institutional strengthening of MINSA through financing a set of
dispersed studies, hiring personnel and creating a project unit. Before restructuring, this component had
executed US$0.2 million of the US$2.6 million foreseen in the SAR and had executed several activities
including:

· Carried out studies on: (i) the acceptability of the food supplement to the beneficiaries; (ii) the impact of
the nutrition program; (iii) the efficiency of the norms of the Ministry in addressing iron and vitamin A
deficiencies in women of child bearing age and infants and children under 5 years of age, within the
districts of the nutrition component; (iv) the efficiency and acceptability of the water and sanitation norms
applied under the project; (v) the level of tariffs and affordability; (vi) the operations of the CWBs; and


                                                       - 15 -

(vii) the comparative effectiveness and use of water disinfection techniques for rural water supply systems
in use in Panama. Unfortunately, the quality of the studies was irregular.
· Contracted: (i) five engineers who were deployed to the regional offices; (ii) technical personnel with
expertise in water systems, many of which remain in MINSA; (iii) technical personnel for nutrition, the
majority were dismissed from MINSA; and (iv) the PAU's (later PCU) personnel.
· Purchased: (i) equipment, vehicles and technical assistance for all components; and, (ii) office furniture,
vehicles and computers and software.

The baseline survey on health and nutrition conditions in the 28 districts to be originally covered by the
Nutrition Component was not carried out.

In light of the ineffectiveness of the activities included in the SAR to address institutional capacity issues,
this component was completely reoriented during the restructuring. It was agreed that this component
would support, and even help define, MINSA's new role, specifically to encourage the successful
implementation of Components 1 and 2 and more generally for MINSA's activities. The restructured
component centered its activities on strengthening MINSA's capacity to contract, manage, and supervise
the delivery of services.

The GOP hired UNDP as a procurement agent, which got around by mitigating the majority of problems
related to moving procurement documents through the legal and administrative system of the country. Also,
two technical coordinators were hired to lead and monitor progress in each of the components. Multiple
training activities were led by the PCU during this period in areas of contracting and evaluation, and health
education, etc. The SAR anticipated the creation of a system to maintain information on the volume and
quality of water sources in rural areas, the location and status of existing water systems and functioning of
CWBs. The design of this information system was initiated after the restructuring and finalized shortly
before project closing. Once the databases are input into the system, it will be ready for implementation. It
should be noted that all of the arrangements introduced by the project are now part of the Ministry's
operational procedures and are being used even after the project completion.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A

4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:
Overall, the project's institutional development was substantial in the following areas:

Impact on MINSA
l The project contributed to a greater technical and human resource capacity within MINSA in both
    health/nutrition areas and water management. Regular MINSA staff members were trained in areas of
    their expertise and in areas, which were new to the MINSA, such as contracting-out services delivery
    and management. A number of local consultants were hired and trained to implement the project and
    subsequently were incorporated as MINSA staff;
l There was progress in the decentralization of responsibilities from the central level to the regional
    offices.   Today, there are sufficient personnel in the regions to oversee and monitor water and
    sanitation projects.
l MINSA's capacity as a regulatory institution was improved, but not as much as its managerial
    capacity. MINSA has progressed in carrying out its responsibility to oversee the implementation of



                                                      - 16 -

    norms, make policy, supervise and monitor the quality of the national rural water systems.
    Nevertheless, it still needs further strengthening to be completely able to fulfill these responsibilities
    adequately.


Impact on Communities and NGOS
l Communities were involved in construction of the rural water supply systems, trained to manage and
    operate the rural water systems, and have shown a commitment to maintaining the systems. Generally,
    communities have been successful in generating resources to pay for maintenance and repairs through
    contributions and fundraising events.
l Improved capacity of NGOs to deliver health and nutrition services to rural populations and to work
    with government on the basis of performance-based contracts.
l Improved capacity of two municipalities to manage their own water supply construction projects.


Impact on Sectoral Policies.
l The transformation of MINSA's role as a manager and supervisor of services delivery rather than a
    direct provider has transformed the health sector policies, as evidenced by the IDB-financed project
    which uses this concept as its foundation.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Impact of "El Nino". This weather phenomenon caused some wells to dry up, compounding problems for
the management of the newly-built rural water systems.

Delays in the acquisition of equipment for the nutrition component. As planned in the SAR, due to more
favorable prices, basic medical equipment and provisions were to be purchased through UNICEF.
However, changes in UNICEF's computer system seriously delayed the process. Thus, at start up, the
trained personnel lacked the necessary tools to deliver health services as planned.

Financing for the construction of rural water systems through UNICEF: At the time of project
restructuring, UNICEF had a extensive knowledge of areas where it had ongoing work and a good track
record of working with rural communities in Panama. The restructured project envisaged using UNICEF as
one of the agencies implementing rural water systems, but because of fiduciary concerns about sole
sourcing, the Bank was unable to finance UNICEF activities with the loan proceeds. Instead it was agreed
to recognize the Borrower's financing of UNICEF's rural water systems as counterpart funds. In fact,
UNICEF was the best implementers in the water component. The impact evaluation gives them the best
rating on community mobilization and participation, and in quality of water systems. Unfortunately,
although they could have done more, the lack of additional funding limited the agency's activities to the 100
systems originally contracted by the government.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Lack of availability of counterpart funds. Project execution was disrupted, particularly in the early stages
of implementation due to the lack of counterpart funds. Since both counterpart funds and loan financing
had to be simultaneously available to execute activities, the lack of counterpart funds prevented
implementation from advancing.

Reorganization and decentralization of MINSA. MINSA's repeated reorganizations during the life of the
project affected the work of the technical teams, which were created to execute project activities. Moreover,
the Ministry was not able to coordinate the technical members of MINSA's team that were dispersed in


                                                     - 17 -

different departments, neither at design nor at implementation stages. In recent years, more authority was
delegated to the regional offices to execute project activities and MINSA's personnel at central level took a
more administrative and normative role.

Modernization of MINSA. After the promulgation of Decree No.2, MINSAs's role in the rural water sector
changed. Project restructuring appropriately supported this change and actually advanced it further than
even envisioned in the decree. The BHCNP program had a more fundamental impact on the health sector
since it initiated some of the structural reforms that have recently been adopted by MINSA. MINSA's role
in both water and health activities was progressively transformed to one of contracting, supervising,
monitoring and providing technical assistance. MINSA has made significant advances in this regard, but
the modernization process is ongoing and will continue to need to be deepened and strengthened.

Complexity of internal processes. Lengthy bureaucratic processes within the government as a whole and
within MINSA in particular, weighed heavily on the pace of implementation. In particular, the need to go
through the Comptroller's Office (Contraloría de la República) to request approval for contracts, even of
a small size, significantly hindered speedy project implementation. The approval time for contracts took
months and dragged on, until the Comptroller's office and all related offices reviewed them. The GOP and
the Bank made an effort to identify the main bottlenecks and reduce the number of steps before contract
approval, but this obstacle was only overcome by the decision to bypass the bureaucratic barriers and hire
UNDP as the procurement agent.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Frequent changes in the PCU. The PCU (called PAU in the initial period of the project) had five different
Directors between 1995-1999. This significantly affected project implementation, due to the lack of
continuity and weakened the PCU leadership. There were also frequent changes among the technical
personnel, undermining project achievements and producing poor continuity and lack of ownership of the
project. Most of these changes were due to changes of the minister and poor implementation.

Degree of involvement of MINSA regional and local offices. The central office did not seem to involve the
regional MINSA authorities in the elaboration of the annual operational plans, which were key to define
implementation activities.

Inability to carry out baseline studies and launch MINSA information system. Since the baselines were not
defined immediately after project launch, this affected the possibilities to monitor and evaluate the progress
and impact of project activities. More recently, MINSA established the basic elements of the information
system and it is expected to be in place soon.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The first Amendment to the Loan Agreement in 1997 allocated up to US$0.5 million to finance Community
Farm Subprojects (food production activities) from the food supplements category. The project was
restructured and amended a second time in August 2000. At that time, approximately US$12.0 million of
the undisbursed balance was reallocated to the restructured activities. The GOP committed to finance
US$3.6 million of the remaining costs. Two new disbursement categories in Schedule I were created: (i)
BHNSP service contracts; and (ii) a procurement service fee to be paid to UNDP, the procurement agent.

The total project cost was US$42.5 million. About US$24.2 million of the IBRD loan was disbursed and
approximately US$0.8 was cancelled at the end of the project. The GOP counterpart financing was
US$16.9 million (39 percent), substantially exceeding the amount projected in the SAR, because at
restructuring, the GOP agreed to finance the feeding program and the UNICEF rural water supply works



                                                     - 18 -

(originally expected to be financed under the loan). Beneficiary contributions in the Rural Water Supply
and Sanitation Component were estimated at US$1.3 million and totaled slightly higher at US$1.4 million
(see Table 2).

                            Table 2 ­ Actual Project Costs by Financing Source
Component                       SAR Total Cost         Actual Total Cost       % of Actual Total Cost
                                 (US$million)             (US$million)
IBRD                                  25.0                    24.2                       97
GOP                                   15.4                     16.9                      110
Beneficiaries                         1.3                      1.4                       108
TOTAL                                                          42.5




6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Overall, the project is likely to be sustainable from both the institutional and technical points of view. The
main challenge will be the medium-term financial sustainability of the activities. The project activities not
only created capacity in MINSA to manage and coordinate programs in a more efficient and expeditious
way, but they also tested new operational arrangements that have been now adopted by MINSA as part of
their routine procedures. In fact, the newly launched IDB-financed project incorporated most of these
arrangements in its design.

In addition, project activities supported the implementation of a successful model of health services delivery
built on demand. The project financed the definition of the BHNSP, which was delivered over two years
prior to closing. The evaluation of the BHNSP indicates that the targeted communities were reached and
that the development objectives in terms of improving nutrition and access to preventive services such as
vaccination were achieved. This package of health services and the number of communities to be covered
has been expanded, and included in a new project financed by IDB. From a technical point of view, the
sustainability of these achievements seems very likely. This implementation of this model strengthened
capacity across the health sector and expanded the number of institutions, mainly NGOs, capable of
delivering health services to isolated populations. Finally, training provided during the life of the project to
NGOs and MINSA staff will act as a factor to sustain project achievements.

The capacity of MINSA's Water and Sanitation Directorate to manage contracts involving the design and
construction of water systems has increased considerably. Contracting-out has become the main method for
the delivery of water and sanitation services to rural areas. In addition, the Borrower, with Bank support, is
currently designing a new water project that is taking these procedures and other lessons learned into
consideration. In Panama, as in other developing countries, there are ongoing issues related to maintenance
of new rural water supply systems, whether built by MINSA, UNICEF, FIS, municipalities, or NGOS.
During implementation, training on how to manage the water systems was provided first to the
representatives of the CWBs, and as implementation progressed, to more community members in order to
help make the capacity building effort more sustainable in the long term. MINSA is aware of the
continuous efforts that will need to be undertaken to strengthen the CWBs and the communities, once they
are provided with the elements to manage the water systems. Actions in the medium- and long-term will
need to concentrate on this area. During the stakeholder workshops (October/November 2003), there were
requests for continuous support to the communities already managing their own rural water systems.




                                                    - 19 -

The main challenge to sustainability is whether the Borrower will progressively assume financial
responsibility for delivering the above-mentioned services through, among other sources, MINSA's budget.
The GOP will need to make a commitment to clearly define priorities and back them up with financial
resources. It is worth noting that the total cost of delivering this package of basic health services amounts
to about US$16 per beneficiary a year versus MINSA's per capita health budget of about US$150 a year
(and about US$ 300 per beneficiary). The demand among communities (and even some health personnel)
for services provided by the project increased substantially over the last two years. Today, isolated
populations see itinerant health services and water supply as an acquired right. It is likely that pressure
from beneficiaries, accompanied by a gradual reduction in external financing, would contribute to a
progressive reallocation of the Ministry's budget. Another factor supporting the sustainability of project
achievements is the commitment of the communities that benefited from the rural water systems. These
communities participated in the construction of the water systems and have generally been successful in
generating resources to pay for maintenance and repairs through the collection of established contributions
from community members and fundraising events (dances, raffles, etc.).

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Project activities for the Basic Health and Nutrition Component have been incorporated in a new program
jointly financed by the Borrower and IDB. This program started in April 2003 and essentially covers the
same group of health interventions that were included in the BHNSP. The new program seeks to expand
coverage to a much larger group of the population. Regarding the activities included in the Rural Water
Supply and Sanitation Component, the GOP is preparing, with Bank support, a new project for the water
sector, which would focus on areas still in need of technical and financial support.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance in preparing the project is rated as unsatisfactory. Project preparation started in 1992
and the project was finally approved in 1995. During preparation, the Bank team provided technical
assistance during preparation missions, based its recommendations on Economic and Sector Work
available at the time, and worked closely with the Borrower. Although the project objectives were
consistent with the country development priorities and the CAS, as described previously, there were flaws
in design, which was too ambitious and complex for the institutional capacity of MINSA. During
preparation, the Bank was aware of some of the challenges that the project would encounter (i.e. the weak
institutional and managerial capacity in MINSA and the Government as a whole, the status of the CHWs
(voluntary non remunerated workers), etc.). However, the Bank did not adequately assess the readiness of
the Borrower for implementation--the depth of the weaknesses did not seem to be recognized and the SAR
did not introduce necessary steps to remedy the identified risks effectively.

7.2 Supervision:
The quality of the Bank's supervision performance varied over time, with continuous and notorious
improvement, particularly beginning with an effective MTR and development of a bold restructuring
proposal, and continuing during the last two years. As a result, overall, the Bank's supervision performance
is rated as satisfactory.

Project supervision started effectively in 1995-96 with close coordination between the Bank and the
Borrower to identify and overcome the implementation bottlenecks that appeared shortly after effectiveness.
Quite soon however, the design flaws began to surface, but it was not until the MTR in 1998 that the Bank
pro-actively reviewed all the serious implementation issues with the Borrower. At the MTR, the Bank
appropriately assessed the seriousness of the problems and made an appropriate recommendation.



                                                     - 20 -

Unfortunately, the second half of 1998 and first quarter of 1999 was a pre-electoral period, so plans to
restructure the project had to wait until the new administration was in place in September 1999. The Bank
used that transition period to carry out in-depth diagnoses and studies on the main implementation issues
and identification of possible restructuring options.

During 1999-2000, the Bank worked intensely with MINSA counterparts to turn around the project and
transform it into a project that could achieve its development objectives. The Bank team had the bold vision
to propose design changes that would transform the way activities were carried out by MINSA. The Bank
also made a concerted effort to have a participatory restructuring process. The Bank organized a workshop
to develop and agree on the main guidelines to orient and redefine the components. Despite these efforts,
there was some tension in the redefinition of the Basic Health and Nutrition Component, which was
partially resolved, but still affected the level of cooperation between MINSA personnel and the technical
team leading the implementation of the BHNSP.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall, the Bank's performance is rated satisfactory. This rating is justified based on the outstanding
supervision effort beginning in 1998-1999 that managed to redesign and turn around the project and that
produced good results, some of which have gone beyond the original expectations. During the MTR, the
Bank assessed the problems preventing successful implementation and achievement of the development
objectives and made the recommendation to either cancel or totally restructure the project.

During the restructuring process, the Bank provided adequate support to counterparts--focusing on a
participatory process and helping the GOP to identify new approaches to the delivery of basic social
services. In coordination with the Borrower, the Bank opted to implement innovative mechanisms for the
delivery of health and water services, supporting the dramatic change in MINSA's role. In general, the
Bank team provided timely and sound technical assistance during supervision; encouraged and supported
the Borrower in assessing the impact of project activities; and contributed to support the Government's
efforts to successfully implement project activities.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance during preparation is rated as unsatisfactory. While the Borrower engaged
closely with the Bank during preparation and involved its MINSA personnel, it failed to adequately assess
the weaknesses in its managerial and institutional capacity. Government was also too optimistic regarding
its readiness to handle implementation and its capacity to execute project activities as designed.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The GOP's implementation performance was generally satisfactory, despite some weaknesses. Over the life
of the project, the GOP approved sectoral regulations in line with the project objectives, in particular in the
water sector. The availability of counterpart funding was uneven, particularly in the early years of
implementation.

During 1995-1999, the GOP's performance was weaker and its commitment to project implementation
seemed to be fading at times. The project experienced multiple obstacles, ranging from the lack of
counterpart funds, to bureaucratic procedures to approve project activities and make resources available, to
the lack of adequate technical arrangements in MINSA, and to the leadership changes in the PAU/PCU.

After the 1999 elections, the incoming Government expressed its strong commitment to the project
objectives and decided to move forward with a far-reaching restructuring proposal aimed at improving



                                                     - 21 -

project implementation. The Government appointed technical coordinators as key staff to strengthen project
coordination and implementation. The GOP opted to hire the UNDP as a procurement agent to more
efficiently advance project activities.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
MINSA's implementation performance was satisfactory despite the differences in implementation progress
and achievements before and after the restructuring. MINSA consistently tried to advance project activities
as much as possible and had the flexibility to incorporate necessary changes as they were identified, even in
a very difficult operating environment due to the government's internal bureaucratic procedures.

During the first phase of implementation, the turnover in project coordinators and technical personnel
undermined the efficiency and accountability of the project activities. Implementation progress was
extremely slow and the PAU was not integrated into the Ministry. Yet, even at that stage, the project was
meeting several targets. The problem was a poor project design and the wrong targets rather than purely
implementation problems.
After project restructuring, the PAU was transformed into a PCU, with a clear mandate and stronger
technical capacity. With this new mandate, the PCU took on a leadership role that, together with a good
design, led to substantial progress in achieving project targets and objectives. Technical coordinators for
the project components were appointed to bridge the work between the PCU and MINSA. Project
performance improved with support from these technical coordinators and the incorporation of more
adequately trained technical personnel. The PCU and MINSA provided effective technical assistance that
was highly valued by the beneficiaries.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall the Borrower's performance is rated as satisfactory. The Borrower showed a proven interest in
keeping the project alive and overcoming the bureaucratic and financial difficulties that were stalling
project implementation. There was a strong commitment to project objectives and its implementation,
although the degree varied at different stages in the project, growing stronger after mid-term review. The
commitment to the project objectives and activities was higher at the regional and local levels. MINSA
successfully fostered the participation of communities in implementation, which had a significant positive
effect on the sustainability and ownership of the project achievements.

8. Lessons Learned

Project Design

Assess adequacy of project design to the Borrower's implementation capacity. As discovered in this
project, a thorough assessment of the Borrower's implementation capacity (both at the central
administrative and ministerial levels) is crucial to establish a realistic implementation plan. Failure to do so
creates frustrations among project stakeholders and results in delays. To smooth the way for efficient
implementation from early on, it is important to take the actions to simplify government procedures prior to
loan approval.

Consider geographical constraints when targeting poorest beneficiaries in remote areas. It is important to
assess the country's geographical and logistical reality, which may produce constraints in implementation.
As noted in this project, the remote location, dispersion, complicated logistics, and higher cost to reach the
beneficiary communities were not taken into account while planning how many water systems could be
constructed or how much they would cost.




                                                     - 22 -

Incorporate a social communication strategy. In the provision of basic social services, it is essential to
include a social communications strategy to reach out to beneficiaries, particularly the remote, rural
communities, and explain the benefits and implications of project interventions. As reflected in the impact
evaluations of both components of this project, and specifically in the Basic Health and Nutrition
Component, there was increased and better use of the services provided when the potential beneficiaries
were aware of them.

Contracting-out services delivery to third parties works, but it must be managed carefully. The involvement
of third party service providers, such as private entities and/or NGOs, contracted by government to deliver
social services can be positive, effective, and affordable. In this project, the participation of key
stakeholders in the sector and the use of different management/delivery models helped to ensure quality,
efficiency, and more rapid response. In particular, NGOs were able to successfully reach the very poor
rural populations, which previously had been completely excluded from access to basic health and nutrition
services. There were many lessons learned in the impact evaluation of the BHNSP, which are detailed in
Section 4.2, both in terms of the nature and type of services provided to different population groups and
contract management/administrative issues. The experience was also very positive related to contracting
municipalities to manage the construction of rural water systems.

Project Implementation

Consider the sustainability of project actions. It is important to consider the sustainability of project
investments at the design phase and also to monitor these actions, such as training and capacity building,
during implementation to ensure that they are carried out. All too often, there is too much emphasis place
on monitoring physical targets and completing physical investments, while the sustainability initiatives are
considered an afterthought or are not fully financed. Since this project experienced serious implementation
delays, most of the emphasis was placed on executing project activities to achieve targets and milestones.
Yet, the restructuring successfully re-focused attention on the important training and capacity building
activities, knowing how important they are to enhancing sustainability.

Close coordination among project components to achieve development objectives. In a project implementing
complementary activities in the same areas, it is very important to coordinate among components.
Coordination can, in these cases, increase the impact and effectiveness of the activities and facilitate
implementation, particularly at the level of the regional and local offices where physical, human, and
financial resources are scarce.

Involving communities in early stages of projects is the key to their success. The successful completion of
the rural water supply projects was due to community understanding and ownership of activities. The
involvement of communities is particularly important during the transition to operations and maintenance of
the rural water systems.

Bold project restructuring can produce results. Although this project suffered from weak quality at entry
and poor implementation and supervision early on, the remarkable turnaround resulting from the MTR and
restructuring shows that it is possible to carry out a radical restructuring and get good results. The most
important factors in this process are: (i) a strong commitment from the Government to the project
objectives; and (ii) close coordination and good communication among all levels of the Government,
implementing agency, and the Bank team.

Use of UNDP as Procurement Agent in Panama. Given the problems encountered in this and other projects,
at this time, the use of UNDP as a procurement agency it is a condition sine qua non for successful


                                                    - 23 -

implementation in Panama.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Borrower provided an evaluation of the impact of the project. A summary can be found in Annex 8.

There were not government comments on the ICR.

(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A

10. Additional Information

N/A




Text Notes

[1] The institutional capacity objective in the SAR also included support to the Ministry of Planning and Economic
Policy (Ministerio de Planificación y Política, MIPPE) for national monitoring of poverty alleviation efforts.
There was no progress on this and it was subsequently dropped.
[2] CONSALUD is an independent institution whose main purpose is to coordinate and contract the provision of
health services in the country.
[3] Assessment of the reduction of malnutrition proved to be difficult because of the disparity of existing data
within the country. To assess the evolution of malnutrition in Panama, the ICR mission took data provided by
MINSA.
[4] All the findings reflected in the evaluation were statistically significant.
[5] Data source "Perfil y Caracteristicas de los Pobres en Panamá" - MEF
[6] Total rural population is 1,074,406 inhabitants or 37.8 percent of country's total population (total country
population is 2,839,177 (2000 data). The indigenous population of the country represents 7.6 percent or 215,777
inhabitants while rural non-indigenous represents 30.2 percent or (858,629).




                                                         - 24 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome/Impact indicators
              Indicator                   Target in SAR                    Actual/Latest Estimate
                                               (1999)                             (20001)*
Nutrition Component
(Baseline 1994)
Prevalence of malnourished women
Baseline ­50%                                   30%                                  9.5%
Prevalence of malnourished children
under 60 months                                 30%                                 2..0%
Baseline ­ 50%
Prevalence of low birth weight                   9%                                  5.8%
babies
Baseline ­ 15%
Prevalence of growth retardation 6-8            1994                                2000
yrs
·         Urban                                 9.9%                                 8%
·         Rural                                33.8%                               20.6%
·         indigenous                           68.4%                               64.4%
Children under 60 months
hospitalized for severe malnutrition            15%                                  n.a.
Baseline - 30%
Rate of use of oral rehydration salts
under 60 months                                 50%                                  n.a.
Baseline ­ 10
Incidence of severe diarrhea during
last 15 days for children under 60               3%                                  n.a.
months
Baseline ­ 6%
Incidence of acute respiratory
infection during last 15 days for               12%                                  n.a.
children under 60 months
Baseline ­ 20%

Water and sanitation component
(baseline 1994)
Population with access to potable
water                                           80%                                 93.6%
Baseline ­ 62%
Rural Population with access to
potable water                                    n.a.                               81.4%
(2002 data) Source MINSA
-         Rural non indigenous                   n.a.                               91.4%
-         Indigenous                             n.a.                                42 %
Population with access to sanitation
Baseline ­ 72%                                  88%                                 93.6%
·         Rural areas                                                               81.4%
·         Rural Areas (without                                                      91.4%
indigenous areas)
·         Indigenous area                                                            42%
Rural water systems meeting the                 65%                                  n.a
quality norms
Baseline ­ 10%
*Source: MINSA ­SISVAN. Data do not include the regions of Ngobe Bugle and Bocas del Toro, where the levels of
malnutrition are higher.




                                                    - 25 -

Output Indicators: 1995-2000 period

                  Indicator                  End of Project Target in          Actual Output
                                                      SAR
              Nutrition Component
Communities with Community Health              1,000 communities        1,001 communities had at some
Workers and nutrition programs                                         point CHW and nutrition programs.
                                                                       CHW did not remain in their pots
                                                                               systematically.
Malnourished women receiving                     34,166 women                  16,600 women
supplementary feeding
Malnourished children under 5 receiving          85,500 children               117,540 children
supplementary feeding.
Women receiving prenatal care                         n.a.                     73,729 women
Children under-5 growth
MINSA Health posts (puestos de salud)               190 posts                    953 posts
supervised every two months
CHW supervised every two months                      1,400                          1,135
MINSA's Primary Health Care facilities w/              10                           252
nutr. & growth monitoring
              Human Resources
HAs trained and assigned to health facility            33                           120
CHWs trained and assigned to communities               75                           1,450
TBAs equipped w/scales                                100                           550
Haelth facilities w/ nutrition equipment               20                           190
MINSA staff trained in nutrition and                   80                           722
supervision
      Water and Sanitation Component
Coverage:

Community Water Boards established

·         With project investment                     120                           645
·         Others (reorganized)                                                      900

Rural communities supervised & water
monitored:
·         With investment                                                           550
·         Other                                       100                           900
Population served by new water systems               10,000                        95,000
Population served by rehab. of water systems         7,000                         60,000
Population served by wells with hand pumps                                         22,000
Population served by latrines                        15,000                        150,000

Water systems constructed                              45                           447
Water systems rehabilitated/expanded                   25                           245

Wells dug                                              15                           150
Wells drilled                                          51                           204
Latrines installed                                   3,000                         22,450




                                                      - 26 -

Output Indicators: 2000-2003 period

                   Indicator                      End of Project Target in               Actual Output
                                                       Reformulation
Basic Health and Nutrition
Provision of Basic Health Service package to 90,000 beneficiaries             90,000 beneficiaries covered
targeted population
Monitoring of nutritional status               - Implementation of programs    Interventions successfully
                                               to prevent and treat            implemented
                                               malnutrition
                                               - Provision of supplementary
                                               feeding
                                               - Implementation of a program
                                               of preventive and curative
                                               basic
Training program for the NGOs providers of     Implementation of the training  Four NGOs trained
the BHCN package                               program to all NGOs providing
                                               health services
Implementation of community farm               Implementation of 92            92 sub-project components
sub-project                                    community farm sub-projects

Water and Sanitation Component

Design, construction and supervision of rural  - 273 rural water systems       - 675 rural water systems
water systems                                  constructed                     constructed. Among this:
                                               - Expansion and rehab. Of       111 ­ Unicef
                                               existing water systems in rural  10 ­ Municipalities of Gualaca
                                               communities                     and Bugaba
                                                                               97 ­ By MINSA)
Creation and/or reorganization of CWBs         - Design and Implementation     - pilot program implemented
                                               of a pilot program to benefit
                                               500 CWBs                        - training and technical assistance
                                               - Provision of technical        provided in promotion of
                                               assistance and training for     community participation in the
                                               CWBs.                           operation and maintenance of rural
                                                                               water systems
Creation of a national system to control water - Improvement of six existing   Achieved
quality in rural areas                         labs
                                               - Upgrading the existing        Not achieved
                                               information systems
                                               - Design and implementation
                                               of a pilot program to monitor   Not achieved
                                               the quality of the water
Institutional Strengthening
Strengthening of the PCU to coordinate and     - Hiring of technical           Achieved
implement the two project components           coordinators
                                               - Hiring of UNDP
                                               - Elaboration of bi-annual
                                               reports to monitor and assess
                                               the progress of the project




                                                            - 27 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Costs by Component (in US$ million equivalent)

            Component             Appraisal Actual/Latest   Percentage
                                  Estimate  Estimate        of Appraisal
            Nutrition Component     13.1          11.0          84.7
            (renamed Basic
            Health)
           Rural Water Supply       21.3          26.0         122.06
           and Sanitation
           Institutional              7.3         5.5           75.3
           strengthening
            Total Project Costs      41.7         42.5        101.91




Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)

Component           Appraisal Estimate    Actual/Latest estimate        Percentage of
                                                                         Appraisal
                  Bank    GOP     Benef.   Bank    GOP    Benef.    Bank    GOP    Benef.
Basic Health        8.1    5.0             6.3      4.7              78      94
(Nutrition)
Rural Water        13.9    6.1     1.3     15.7     8.9     1.4      113    146      108
  Systems
 Institutional      3.0    4.3             2.0      3.3              67      77
Strengthening
   Total           25.0   15.4     1.3     24.0    16.9     1.4      96     110      108




                                            - 28 -

Project Cost by Procurement Arrangement (Appraisal Estimate)
(US$ million equivalent)

        Category        ICB    LCB     Other    Non-Bank     Total
                                                 Financed
                                5.7     3.1         0.5       9.3
      Civil Works              (4.1)   (2.2)                 (6.3)

      Goods and                 1.0     0.5                   5.2
      Equipment                (1.0)   (0.5)                 (5.2)

      Mat. and                  0.4     0.3                   0.7
      Equipment for            (0.4)   (0.3)                 (0.7)
      subproject
      executed by
      Force account

      FES                       2.2     1.3                   3.5
      Subprojects              (1.6)   (1.0)                 (2.6)

     Medical                            1.0                   1.0
     Equipment and                     (1.0)                 (1.0)
     Supplies

     Training                           0.2                   1.1
                                       (0.2)                 (1.1)

      Consultants and                   2.3                   2.3
     Studies, including                (2.3)                 (2.3)
           PAU

     Complementary                      9.8                   9.8
     Food                              (5.8)                 (5.8)
      Incremental
      Salaries                                      5.4       5.4
      Incremental                                   3.4       3.4
      Operating
      Costs
                         3.7    9.3     18.5       10.2      41.77
      TOTAL             (3.7)  (7.1)   (13.3)      (0.9)     (25.0)




                                       - 29 -

Project Cost by Procurement Arrangement (Actual/Latest Estimate)
(US$ million equivalent)

     Category          ICB      LCB           Other    Non-Bank   Total
                                                       Financed
Civil Works
(except those                     3.9          9.6                13.5
carried out by                   (2.8)        (7.0)               (9.8)
UNICEF)
Goods (other than
for medical             4.4       0.6          1.5                 6.5
equipment and          (3.9)     (0.5)        (0.2)               (4.6)
supplies
Goods and spare
parts for civil works
to be carried out by                           0.2                 0.2
force account                                 (0.2)               (0.1)
                                  0.4                              0.4
FIS Subprojects                  (0.3)                            (0.3)
Medical Equipment
and Supplies                                   0.6                 0.6
(UNICEF)                                      (0.6)               (0.6)
                                               1.0                 1.0
Training                                      (0.9)               (0.9)

Consultants and                                2.5                 2.5
Studies, including                            (2.4)               (2.4)
PAU
Complementary
Food:                   3.4                                        3.4
Food supplement        (2.9)                                      (2.9)

Agricultural                                                       0.2
materials and           0.2                                       (0.2)
supplies under         (0.2)
Community farm
subprojects
Basic health and                               3.3                 3.3
nutrition services                            (1.9)               (1.9)
Procurement Agent                              0.4                 0.4
fees                                          (0.4)               (0.4)
Salaries                                                  6.5      6.5
Operational costs                                         2.4      2.4
Beneficiaries                                             1.5      1.5
Contributions
                        7.8       4.9          19.1      10.4     42.5
TOTAL                  (6.8)     (3.6)        (13.7)             (24.11)




                                        - 30 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

N/A




                                      - 31 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              Oct. 1992                 4    TASK MANAGER (1);
                                             WATER/SAN. ENGINEER (1);
                                             NUTRITIONIST (1); RUTA
                                             SOC. OFFICER (1)
              Jan. 1993                 4    TASK MANAGER (1);
                                             WATER/SAN. ENGINEER (1);
                                             NUTRITIONIST (1); RUTA
                                             SOC. OFFICER (1)
              March 1993                3    TASK MANAGER (1);
                                             WATER/SAN. ENGINEER (1);
                                             NUTRITIONIST (1);
              May 1993                  3    TASK MANAGER (1);
                                             WATER/SAN. ENGINEER (1);
                                             NUTRITIONIST (1);
              June 1993                 4    TASK MANAGER (1);
                                             WATER/SAN. ENGINEER (1);
                                             NUTRITIONIST (1);

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              Dec. 1993                 4    TASK MANAGER (1);
                                             WATER/SAN. ENGINEER
                                             (1); NUTRITIONIST (1);
                                             RUTA SOC. OFFICER (1)


 Supervision

              08/04/1995                5    WATER/SAN. ENGINEER (1);         S               S
                                             TASK MANAGER (1);
                                             NUTRITIONIST (1); RUTA
                                             SOC. OFFICER (1);
                                             ENGINEER/INFORMATION
                                             (1)
              10/29/1995                4    WATER/SAN. ENGINEER (1);         S               S
                                             PROJECT OFFICER (1); TASK
                                             MANAGER (1);
                                             NUTRITIONIST (1)
              03/08/1996                1    HUMAN RESOURCES (1)              S               S
              07/10/1996                4    NUTRITIONIST (1); TASK           S               S
                                             MANAGER (1); WATER/SAN.
                                             ENGINEER (1); OPERATIONS
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              11/14/1996                2    TASK MANAGER (1);                U               S
                                             OPERATIONS SPECIALIST (1)
              05/22/1997                4    PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST           S               S
                                             (1); NUTRITIONIST (1);



                                              - 32 -

                                                        WATER/SANIT. ENGINEER
                                                        (1); TASK MANAGER (1)
               11/21/1997                           4   TASK MANAGER (1);                  S    S
                                                        NUTRITION SPECIALIST (1);
                                                        WATER & SANITATION ENG
                                                        (1); ASSISTANT (1)
               05/21/1998                           2   TASK MANAGER (1);                  S    S
                                                        OPERATIONS SPECIALIST (1)
               06/25/1999                           2   OPERATIONS SPECIALIST              U    S
                                                        (1); HEALTH SPECIALSIT (1)
               10/29/1999                           2   HEALTH SPECIALIST (1);             U    U
                                                        ECONOMIST (1)
               03/11/2001                           1   TEAM LEADER (1)                    S    S
               05/10/2002                           2   TEAM LEADER (1); SOCIAL            S    S
                                                        SECTOR ECONOMIS (1)
               09/2002                              2   Task Manager (1), Economist (1)    S    S

 ICR
               05/2003                             1     Task Manager                      S    S
               12/09/2003                          1     Consultant                        S    S



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                             Actual/Latest Estimate
                                            No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                         n.a.                           147
  Appraisal/Negotiation                              n.a.                           352
  Supervision                                         n.a                          998*
  ICR                                                   7                            30
  Total                                              n.a.                         1,527
* There were about US$63,000 used for supervision from Trust Funds.




                                                         - 33 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 34 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 35 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


Bank's Documents
l Staff Appraisal Report - 1994
l Legal Agreement 1995
l Amendment to the Legal Agreement ­ 1997
l Amendment to the Legal Agreement - 2000
l Statement of Mission Objectives (1994-2003)
l Aides Memoires ­ 1995- 2003
l Project Supervision Reports (1995-2003)
l Country Assistance Strategy


Borrower's Documents
l "Formulación de Estrategias y Lineamientos para la Implementación de Políticas para la
   Descentralización de los servicios de Suministro de Agua Potable y el Financiamiento de Proyectos
   para el Sector Agua y Saneamiento". ­ Dirección Nacional de Políticas de Salud, Departamento de
   Políticas de Salud Ambiental, Panamá ­ Marzo 2002.
l Evaluación de los Servicios de Agua Potable y Saneamiento 2000 en las Américas. ­ Panamá. OMS,
   2000.
l Auditoria Social del PAISS ­ BID, 2002.
l Medicion del Impacto del Componente de Agua y Saneamiento Rural - Borrador del Informe Final.
   Diciembre 2003. MINSA/BM. The Louis Berger Group INC.
l Evaluacion del Paquete de Servicios Basicos de Salud Integral y Nutricion del Programa de Salud
   Rural de Panama. Informe Final. Diciembre 2003. Centro de Proyectos para el Desarrollo (CENDEX).
l Informe de Cierre del Proyecto. MINSA. Diciembre 2003.
l Informe Final de cierre del Proyecto - Resumen. MINSA. Enero 2004.
l Informe del Seminario-Taller para la Creación del Consenso sobre el ICR y de la medicion de impacto
   del PSR. Noviembre 2003
l Informe - Presentación del Paquete Básico SBSIN por ONG y EBS contratados en el 2001 y 2002 a
   diciembre del 2002 - Panama febrero 2003.




                                                  - 36 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution

                     FINAL REPORT PANAMA RURAL HEALTH PROJECT

            (Translation of Borrower's Summary Document--full report in Project Files)

 Loan: 3841-Panama                                  Project Name: Rural Health Project
 Project Director: Juan Domingo Díaz                Report Date: December 2003

 I. Project Data

         Name:      Loan 3841-PN Rural Health Project/MINSA/World Bank
         Country: Panama
         Region:    Latin America and the Caribbean Region
         Sector:    Central Government Administration

     KEY DATES
            Date                                                    Event
 August 1992                   The Government of Panama (GP) presented a request to the World Bank
                               to support its efforts to alleviate poverty in the nutrition and environmental
                               health sectors.
 July 20, 1995                 Signature of Loan Agreement
 October 1995                  Loan started to be executed
 June 30, 2000                 Original Closing Date
 August 20, 2000               Amendment
 October 31, 2001              Closing Date according to the Amendment
 June 30, 2003                 Extended Closing Date

 Borrower/Implementing Agency: Government of Panama (GP) / Ministry of Health (MINSA)
 Other Partners:
 1995 ­ 1999:     Emergency Social Fund (FES)
 2000 ­ 2003:     Social Investment Fund (FIS)
                  UNICEF
                  UNDP
                  Pilot Projects: Gualaca and Bugaba Municipalities

 II. Principal Performance Ratings

 (HS = Highly Satisfactory, S = Satisfactory, U = Unsatisfactory, HL = Highly Likely, L = Likely, UN
 = Unlikely, HUN = Highly Unlikely, H = High, SU = Substantial, M = Modest, N = Negligible)

         Outcome:                                          S1
         Sustainability:                                   L
         Institutional Development Impact:                 H
         Bank Performance:                                 S
         Borrower Performance:                             S
         Quality at Entry:                                 U
         Project at Risk at Any Time:                      Yes2



                                                  - 37 -

III. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and Quality at Entry

3.1. Original Objective:

         The development objective of the project was to alleviate poverty in the nutrition and
environmental health sectors. The project was relevant for the health sector and for the country, in
addition to being consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy for the country.

      Originally, the objectives of the project were to:
·     Reduce the incidence of malnutrition in children less than 5 years old, pregnant and lactating
      women.
·     Increase the coverage of basic water supply and sanitation in rural areas.
·     Train the Juntas Administradoras de Acueductos Rurales (JAARs) (Rural Water Boards) to
      improve their capacity to operate and maintain the systems under their responsibility.
·     Strengthen MINSA's capacity to plan, execute, monitor, and evaluate:
      o Strategic action plans and the technical levels developed for the rural health sector; and
      o Quality of rural water supply.

         It should be noted that some of the initial data collection was not considered. For example, a
baseline was not established before starting the interventions. In addition, women and children were not
specifically indicated in the population that would be covered, which created a distortion in the impact
indicators. The capacity and conditions in MINSA were not appropriately evaluated with respect to its
ability to carry out the objectives and goals in the stipulated time.

3.2. Revised Objective:

         The objectives were revised and the project's components were adjusted as indicated in the
following table.

                  1995                                                     2000
Components:                               Components:
A.    Nutrition                           A.     Basic Health Care and Nutrition *
B.    Rural Water Supply and              B.     Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
      Sanitation                          C.     Institutional strengthening
C.    Institutional Strengthening
*Later known as Basic Health Package

         In the Basic Health and Nutrition Component, goals were included for the rural indigenous
populations and children under 36 months and not less than 5 years of age, control of pregnant women,
lactating mothers and women who had recently given birth. The support for nutrition remained as one
of the activities in this component.

         In the Water Supply and Sanitation in Rural Areas Component, the drilling of wells was
eliminated due to the lack of technical capacity of MINSA, the negative experience with contractors and
the rejection of the community.

         The evidence gathered and the interviews carried out point to the unsatisfactory performance



                                                   - 38 -

regarding macro and sectoral policies since the leadership role of MINSA was not achieved and there
was a lack of an integrated sectoral strategy.

         Regarding the administration of the public sector, the achievements were substantial; there was
significant learning from the experience and the speed and efficiency of a new management model was
demonstrated.

        The inclusion of the National Health Coordinator (CONSALUD) did not provide the expected
administrative benefits since this organization was essentially limited to the signature of contracts. The
performance of UNICEF was high based on the indicators it developed, similar to the impact of UNDP
in streamlining the procedures for contracting and payments.

3.3. Original Components

        The loan was estimated at US$25.0 million, supported by IBRD and the Government of
Panama.

Component 1: Nutrition. This component would finance: a) Training and equipment to provide basic
medical attention services to rural communities, b) Nutritional Supplement Program for specific groups
of children and women; and c) Training Program for local and regional MINSA staff on topics directly
related to nutritional problems, health assistants, health promoters and community organizations,
including methodologies for family food production and storage.

Component 2: Rural Water Supply and Health. This component would finance: a) Design,
construction, and supervision of new rural water supply systems, drilling and excavation of wells
equipped with manual pumps, latrines, and the renovation or expansion of a number of existing rural
water supply systems in rural communities, b) Establishment or regularization of the JAARs and
implementation of a system to supervise and assist the JAARs in the operation and maintenance of basic
water supply and sanitation infrastructure, and c) Establishment of a national system of water quality
control in rural areas, including labs and a center with computerized information on the sources of water
for rural areas and the activities of related sectors.

Component 3: Institutional Strengthening. This component would finance: a) Strengthening the
capacity of the General Subdivision of Environmental Health (SDGSA) to plan, monitor, and evaluate
the nutrition strategies and programs to be implemented in the project, b) Strengthening the SDGSA to
allow MINSA to fulfill its statutory obligations with respect to provision of services for families in small
rural areas and to define and fulfill the environmental health regulations to avoid water contamination, c)
Operation of the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) and d) Design and implementation of a national
system for monitoring poverty alleviation efforts in the social sectors within the Ministry of Planning
and Economic Policy.

3.4. Revised Components

Component 1: Basic Health Care and Nutrition. (Health and Nutrition Basic Services Package).
Includes: a) Provision of integrated basic health and nutrition services for beneficiaries in rural areas in
agreement with the Supplemental Letter, b) Design and implementation of a training program for service
providers; and c) Execute 92 community farm subprojects.

Component 2: Rural Water Supply and Sanitation. Includes: a) Carry out subprojects for the


                                                   - 39 -

promotion, design, construction, and supervision of new rural water supply systems and latrines in rural
areas or the renovation/expansion of water supply systems in rural communities, in agreement with the
Supplemental Letter, b) Establish or regularize the JAARs and design and implement a pilot program
for these committees; and c) Develop a national water quality control system in rural areas with
establishment of six regional laboratories for water testing, computerized information systems, and
design and implementation of a pilot program to monitoring the quality of community water.

Component 3: Institutional Strengthening. Includes: a) Strengthening the institutional and technical
capacity of MINSA to carry out Components 1 and 2 and carry out environmental health regulations, b)
Strengthening the operational capacity of the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) and, c) Contract a
Procurement Agent.

     During the revision, Bank financing was reassigned among the disbursement categories.

3.5. Quality at Entry

UNSATISFACTORY: The capacity of MINSA to execute the project was not considered during
preparation.    Based on interviews, it seems that there were dysfunctional conflicts among the
components that affected the initial execution. In addition, the original design was ambitious and
underestimated the execution time. There was some lack of completion by the Borrower which slowed
early implementation. The execution was slowed by: initial disbursements, the Public Contracting Law,
budgetary approval, and processes of the Controller General (Contraloría General).

IV. Achievement of Objective and Outputs. Annex of Achievements

4.1. Outcome/achievement of objective
     The performance indicators have been divided into two periods: 1995 to 1999 and 2000 to 2003.

1995 ­ 1999
UNSATISFACTORY
The project's main objective was not achieved during this period. The poor performance and the lack of
inter-institutional coordination affected execution. Also, the lack of inter-institutional coordination and
the administrative and technical capacity of the different actors in the project had an influence. The
specific objectives of the project were ambitious and the outputs were not satisfactory. The capacity of
the Borrower to fulfill the initial requirements was underestimated, which delayed execution.

2000 ­ 2003
HIGHLY SATISFACTORY
The main objective was achieved, even though the strengthening of the leadership role of MINSA was
not achieved and the implementation period was extended. The effectiveness of the new management
model was proven. This evaluation is apparent even though the Impact Evaluation showed that there
was an emphasis on curative health care and assistance (rather than preventive care) and participation of
the communities was varied.

4.2. Outputs by components. See Annex 1- Table 1a in full report in files.

·    1995 ­ 1999
Component 1: Nutrition
UNSATISFACTORY


                                                  - 40 -

The objectives were not achieved in this component during this time, as supported by information
gathered in interviews.

Component 2: Rural Water Supply and Sanitation.
UNSATISFACTORY
Of the 450 new systems proposed in the original project, only 182 have been executed (40 percent) as of
December 2000 (see details in Table 1d in full report in project files). The program to create the
computerized information center on the sources of water for rural areas was designed, but not
implemented.

Component 3: Institutional Strengthening
UNSATISFACTORY
There was a lack of coordination among the involved institutions and a divergence in the implementation
criteria. The procedures for contracting and payment took a long time and the administration was very
inefficient. The flow of information was slow from the central level to the regional level. The programs
were not monitored or evaluated, and there was no follow-up on fulfillment of the environmental health
regulations.

2000 ­ 2003
Component 1: Basic Health Care and Nutrition
HIGHLY SATISFACTORY
The objectives of this component were achieved, as observed in Table 1b of the Annex in the full report
in the project files. There was full coverage in control of pregnant women and infant mortality was
significantly reduced.

Component 2: Rural Water and Sanitation Supply
HIGHLY SATISFACTORY
This objectives of this component were achieved, as indicated in Table 1b of the Annex in the full report
in project files. The component can be considered successful during this time, although community
participation was varied.

Component 3: Institutional Strengthening
HIGHLY SATISFACTORY
The objectives of this component were achieved as observed in Table 1b of the Annex in the full report
in the project files. During this period, the use of UNDP as a Procurement Agent facilitated the
administrative procedures and the overall execution. The change in the mode of contract administration
increased the capacity for financial and physical execution. The development of infrastructure projects
improved the percentage of coverage.

I.    Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

1.1. Factors outside the control of GP and MINSA.

·     There was an elapse of time between the GP's request and the final approval of the loan.

1.2. Factors generally subject to GP control

·     Wide-ranging objectives did not consider the operational capacity of MINSA.
·     Lack of coordination among the involved institutions.


                                                - 41 -

·    Initial delays in the supply provisions; there was lack of understanding of the Bank's procedures.
·    Lack of initial training for MINSA on project administration.
·    Inefficient contracting and disbursement system.
·    Lack of follow-up during initial period of execution 1995 ­ 1999.
·    Changes in the designation of the Project Director by MINSA.
·    Lack of participation of the community in the selection of alternatives.
·    Emphasis of the Basic Package in the attention.

1.3. Factors generally subject to Bank control

·    The design did not consider the limitations of MINSA to execute the project execution, nor the
     requirements for appropriate community participation.
·    The design did not include a baseline before initial interventions.
·    Lack of continuity in staff members.

1.4. Costs and Financing

        The costs did not consider the geography of the country or the dispersion of the population. Due
to the project revision, there were adjustments in the allocations for the different disbursement
categories.
        The Table that was originally proposed to estimate the percentage of costs by component had to
be modified to estimate the costs by category see Table 2a in the full report in the project files.

II.  Sustainability
ICR Rating: L (Likely)

2.1. Rationale for sustainability rating

     The government initially considered project sustainability as unlikely, for the following reasons:

·    MINSA did not assimilate within its budget, in its structure, or in its form of management, the
     experience derived from the Basic Health Services Package Component.
·    The culture regarding the need for basic health prevention has not been changed.
·    Many communities are not adequately operating the systems and do not provide maintenance.
     Many do not contribute their quota for system maintenance.
·    The project was managed as an independent unit of MINSA; the institution has not internalized the
     culture of the new management model.
·    There is a lack of integration of the learning acquired by the interest groups.

     This situation was corrected with financing from the IDB for the continuation of the Basic Health
Services component, financing with its own resources the supervision of the JAARs and it is identifying
a new project to continue supporting the water system. For these reasons, subsequently the Government
concluded that the project's sustainability is likely.7

III. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
3.1. Overall Bank performance


                                                   - 42 -

SATISFACTORY
The Bank provided technical, administrative, and follow-up support to align implementation and develop
the capacity of the PCU to administer the project. There was frequent follow-up on the project activities
and the challenges with a contribution to the generation of solutions, and support for the changes
required to maintain project execution within the objectives. Annex 3 to the full report (in project files)
shows the mission visits and the results. See Annex on Bank Performance.

Borrower
3.2. Overall Borrower Performance

SATISFACTORY
In spite of the difficulties during initial execution, the overall borrower performance was satisfactory.
The Borrower learned from the initial experience and, in the reformulation, adjustments were
incorporated and the difficulties were reduced. The project's success is evidence of the good
performance. See Annex on Borrower Performance in the full report in project files.

IV. Lessons Learned

4.1. Project Design

·    Adjustment of the project design to the operational capacity of the Borrower. This is an
     important element for project success; in this case, the lack of congruence between the
     commitments assigned to the Borrower and its capacity to address them was problematic.
·    Preparation of a strategy to initiate the project. It is important to establish a training strategy
     and consider mechanisms to initiate the execution of the project with minimal difficulties and
     facilitate project execution.
·    Sustainability. Three aspects should be considered: a) communities, b) the sector strategies and
     policies and, c) Institutional Development.

4.2. Implementation

·    Community Participation. Community participation must be included in the definition of a
     solution and maintenance.
·    Social Marketing. Without social marketing, the communities will not understand their role nor
     will they understand the benefits and implications of the service.
·    Social Audit. Social participation is important for monitoring and proving inputs back to the
     project in order to make adjustments that will ensure fulfillment of the project objectives.
·    Sector Participation and Use of New Management Models. The use of new management models
     helps foster quality, efficiency and rapid response.
·    Information System. The project should have an information system, operational regulation
     (digital or manual) and an archiving system that allows real control.
·    Consultancies Carried Out. Create a library that collects all the consultancies carried out in one
     place and makes them available.

4.3. Pilot Projects

·    Basic Package. The use of third parties is an effective instrument to expand coverage of health



                                                  - 43 -

      services and to control the quality and associated costs.
·     Municipalities. It is important to consider the reality of the beneficiaries, which are the objects of
      the pilot project. Municipalities are developed in a context that transcends the objectives of a
      project. An
      institution should not develop projects that involve the development of other institutions outside of
      the sector and that depend on corresponding national and regional policies. This can raise the
      profile of a project and possibly put its effectiveness in danger.

4.4. Lessons from the Impact Evaluation of the Basic Health Package.

·     Contracting.
      o      CONSALUD was considered as the contractor, but in the practice, the contracting and
              administration were carried out by the Rural Health Project.
      o      MINSA considered that NGOs had to account for their actions and the resources spent and the
              initial investment was considered as the property of MINSA--the NGOs considered their
              payment based on per capita value.
      o      The terms of reference did not allow for competition among NGOs.

·     Supervision and Monitoring.
      o      The supervision model was focused on third parties and did not consider the development of
              the capacity of MINSA in this area.
      o      Monitoring and supervision would be facilitated with an information system.

·     Basic Package Costs.
      o      The dispersion of the population in the communities must be considered in the costs, including
              for the promoters.
      o      A unique source to establish the target population did not exist.

·     Performance.
      o      The itinerant teams increased the coverage of services, compared to the non-beneficiary
              population assisted by MINSA.
      o      The indigenous groups have better health services. Ibid
      o      There was not an impact on the improvement of attention to diseases. Ibid
      o      The use of radio was the most effective mechanism for dissemination of information about the
              visits of health teams.
      o      The itinerant teams had an efficiency of about 60 percent, according to the impact evaluation;
              the stationary teams showed less efficiency.

OBSERVATIONS DURING A SUBSEQUENT MEETING:

      The impact of the project in physical aspects was categorized as high after its reformulation.

      Regarding the impact on the development of the private sector, this is assessed as substantial in the
Basic Package Component.

Footnotes

1
 At the time this document was written, there was not a consensus about the Draft Report on the Impact Evaluation of Component 2.




                                                            - 44 -

  Consequently, this information has not been considered in the rating.
2
 The project was at risk during 1995-1999 due to low performance.
3
 At the time this report was compiled, MINSA was trying to obtain the numbers by component from the Bank to be able to evaluate the
  corresponding costs.
4
 The specific amounts can be found in the Report on the Impact Evaluation of the Basic Package Component.
5
 Ibid.
6
 Ibid.
7
 [See e-mails from M. Meiro to PCU dated 05/6/2004 and response from PCU dated 5/11/2004 in Project Files].




                                                             - 45 -

Additional Annex 9. Interventions of Basic Health Care and Nutrition Package


                             Health Promotion Services
             1. Health education
            2. Nutritional education (Healthy lifestyle and prevention of
            chronic diseases)
            3. Organization, training and support for the Health
            Committees, Community Water Boards and Community
            Board for the Farm Sub-projects
                             Health Prevention Services
            4. Immunizations
            5. Growth and Development Control (0-36 months)
            6. Distribution of micronutrients (Vitamin A, iron, etc)
            7. Prenatal control
            8. Afterbirth control
                                Health Interventions
            9. Diarrhea for children under 36 months
            10. Respiratory infections for children under 36 moths
            11. Attention to morbidity
            12. Supplementary feeding for children under 36 months,
            with severe or acute malnutrition
            13. Assistance at birth delivery
            14. Assistance to deficiencies in micronutrients for children
            under 5, pregnant women and school-age children
             15. Access to basic medicines




                                               - 46 -

- 47 -

