Page  1
August 10, 2000
Mr. Victor Juliao 
Minister of Economy and Finance
Panama City, Panama
PANAMA:
Rural Health Project
(Loan No. 3841-PAN) 
Amendment to Loan Agreement
Excellency:
Please refer to the Loan Agreement entered into between the Republic of Panama 
(the Borrower) and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the 
Bank), as amended.
In response to the request of  the Minister of MDS of October 28, 1999 to 
restructure the Project, the Bank hereby agrees to amend the Loan Agreement, as 
follows:
I.
Loan Agreement:
1.
Section 1.02 is hereby amended to read in its entirety as follows:
"Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Action Plan" means the Borrower’s plan of action, acceptable to the 
Bank, set forth in attachment A to the Supplemental Letter which describes the 
Project’s benchmarks;
(b)
"Balboa" means the currency of the Borrower;
(c)
"Community Farm Subproject" means an agricultural investment project 
designed to reduce the incidence of malnutrition among children aged less than 5 
years, breast-feeding and pregnant women and which investment project meets the 
criteria set forth in the Community Subproject Manual;
(d)
"Community Subproject Agreement" means each of the agreements referred to 
in Section 3.04 (a) of this Agreement;
(e)
"Community Subproject Manual" means the manual, approved by MDS and 
accepted by the Bank, setting forth the criteria, rules and procedures for the 
implementation of Part A.3 of the Project, as such manual may be amended from time to 
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank;
(f)
"CONSALUD" means the National Coordinator for Health (Coordinadora 
Nacional de la Salud), a state-owned entity established pursuant to the Borrower’s Law 
No. 27 of May 1, 1998;
(g)
"CONSALUD Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section 3.03 (a) 
of this Agreement;
(h)
"Decree 39" means the Borrower's Executive Decree No. 39 of April 18, 
1994, establishing the guidelines for the development of basic rural sanitation;
(i)
"Decree 40" means the Borrower's Executive Decree No. 40 of April 18, 
1994, establishing JAAs (as hereinafter defined);
(j)
"FIS" means the Borrower’s Social Investment Fund (Fondo de Inversion 
Social), established by the Borrower’s Executive Decree No. 189 of November 15, 1999;
(k)
"FIS Subproject" means any civil work carried out by FIS (as defined 
above) under Part B.1 on or before December 31, 1999;
(l)
"Food Supplement" means an enriched pre-cooked meal, in accordance with a 
formula satisfactory to the Bank, designed to supply a percentage of the minimum 
calorie, protein and micro-nutrient requirements of the beneficiaries under Part A.1 
Page  2
of the Project;
(m)
"Implementation Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to in 
Section 3.05 (a) of this Agreement;
(n)
"Implementing Entity" means FIS (as defined above), the United Nations 
International Children’s Emergency Fund and the Borrower’s Municipalities of Bugaba 
and Gualaca;
(o)
"JAA" means a community water board (Junta Administradora de Acueductos) 
responsible for the administration, operation and maintenance of a particular rural 
water supply systems;
(p)
"JAA Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to in Section 3.05 
(b) of this Agreement;
(q)
"JASPC" means a Junta Administradora de Subprojectos de Producción 
Comunitaria,  a community organization legally constituted in accordance with the 
rules and procedures of the Community Subproject Manual, and which community 
organization meets the criteria set forth in the Community Subproject Manual;
(r)
"MDS" means the Borrower's Ministry of Health (Ministerio de Salud);
(s)
"MEF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Economy and Finance (Ministerio de 
Economía y Finanzas);
(t)
"NGO" means a non-government organization, acceptable to the Bank;
(u)
"PCU" means the unit  referred to in Section 3.07 (a) of this Agreement;
(v)
"Pilot Nutrition Project" means the project carried out under paragraph 
12 of Schedule 5 to the Economic Recovery Loan (Loan No. 3438) between the Borrower 
and the Bank, dated February 27, 1992;
(w)
"Procurement Agent" means an entity, acceptable to the Bank, which has 
the capacity to assist the Borrower in the procurement of goods, works and services 
required for the Project;
(x)
"Procurement Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section 3.06 
(a) of this Agreement;
(y)
"Procurement Capacity Plan" means the Borrower’s plan, acceptable to the 
Bank, to strengthen MDS’ procurement capacity;
(z)
"Project Account" means the account referred to in Section 3.09 (a) of 
this Agreement;
(aa)
"Resolution 26" means MDS’ Resolution No. 26 of January 31, 1994, 
instituting procedures for requests of construction of water supply systems and 
establishment of JAAs;
(ab)
"Resolution 27" means MDS’ Resolution No. 27 of January 31, 1994, 
establishing quality control rules of water for human consumption;
(ac)
"Resolution 28" means MDS’ Resolution No. 28 of January 31, 1994, 
establishing the basic rules for the rational usage of water in rural water supply 
systems;
(ad)
"Resolution 29" means MDS’ Resolution No. 29 of January 31, 1994, 
instituting technical and administrative rules for rural water supply systems and 
latrines programs, as amended by MDS’ Resolution No. 78 of August 24, 1998;
(ae)
"Rules and Procedures Manual" means the manual referred to in Section 
6.01 (b) of this Agreement; 
(af)
"Service Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to in Section 
3.03 (a) (i) of this Agreement;
(ag)
"Service Provider" means an NGO (as defined above) or a private entity, 
as the case may be, acceptable to the Bank, which has the capacity of delivering the 
services referred to in Part A.1 of the Project;
Page  3
(ah)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(ai)
"Supplemental Letter" means the letter of even date herewith from the 
Borrower to the Bank setting forth the Action Plan, the counterpart funds for the 
Project, the criteria for selecting the beneficiaries under Part A.1 of the Project, 
including the beneficiaries of Food Supplements, the criteria for selecting 
communities for Water Subprojects (as defined below) and the Procurement Capacity Plan 
(as defined above); and
(aj)
"Water Subproject" means any of the investments referred to in Part B.1 
of the Project after December 31, 1999.".
2.
Section 2.03 is hereby amended to read in its entirety as follows:
"Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2002 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.".
3.
Article III is hereby modified in its entirety to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out: (i) Part A.1 of the Project through MDS with the participation of CONSALUD and 
the assistance of the Service Providers; (ii) Part B.1 of the Project through MDS with 
the assistance of the Implementing Entities; and (iii) Parts A.2, A.3, B.2, B.3 and C 
of the Project through MDS, all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, financial, environmental and sanitary practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with: (i) the Action Plan; (ii) the Rules and 
Procedures Manual; and (iii) the Procurement Capacity Plan. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) For purposes of carrying out Part A.1 of the Project, the 
Borrower shall not later than October 31, 2000 enter into an agreement (the CONSALUD 
Agreement) with CONSALUD on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including 
inter alia, the obligation of: CONSALUD (i) to enter into a separate agreement (the 
Service Agreement) with each Service Provider on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Bank including, inter alia, the obligation of the Service Provider to assist the 
Borrower in the carrying out of Part A.1 of the Project; (ii) to not later than 
December 31, 2000 enter into a separate Service Agreement with at least 4 Service 
Providers; (iii) to exercise its rights under each Service Agreement in such manner as 
to protect the interests of the Borrower, CONSALUD and the Bank and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Loan; and (iv) except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, not to 
assign, amend, terminate, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce any Service Agreement or 
any provision thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the CONSALUD Agreement in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish 
the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall not assign, amend, terminate, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce the CONSALUD 
Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall, prior to the carrying out of a Community 
Farm Subproject, enter into an agreement (the Community Subproject Agreement) with the 
corresponding JASPC on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each Community Subproject 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and 
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, terminate, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce 
any Community Subproject Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.05. (a) For purposes of carrying out Water Subprojects, the Borrower 
Page  4
shall not later than October 31, 2000 enter into a separate agreement (the 
Implementation Agreement) with each Implementing Entity on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including, inter alia, the obligation of each Implementing 
Entity to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of said Part of the Project. 
(b)
Prior to the construction of a Water Subproject, the Borrower shall enter 
into an agreement with the corresponding JAA on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Bank, whereby such JAA shall be obligated, inter alia: 
(i)
to participate in the design and construction of said investment;
(ii)
to pay monthly water charges covering at least the full cost of 
operating and maintaining the water supply system to be included 
in said investment;
(iii)
to construct latrines; and
(iv)
to contribute land, local materials and labor in an amount 
equivalent to at 
least 10 percent of said investment cost.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each Implementing Agreement 
and JAA Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, terminate, abrogate, waive or 
fail to enforce any Implementation Agreement or any JAA Agreement or any provision 
thereof. 
Section 3.06. (a) For purposes of carrying out Part C. 3 of the Project, the 
Borrower shall not later than October 31, 2000 enter into an agreement (the 
Procurement Agreement) with the Procurement Agent, under terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank; and (b) except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall not assign, amend, terminate, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce the 
Procurement Agreement or any provision thereof. 
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall operate and maintain at all times until 
completion of the Project, within MDS, a Project coordination unit (the PCU), with 
functions and respon-sibilities satisfactory to the Bank, including, inter alia, the 
following functions and responsibilities:
(i)
coordinating the implementation of the Project;
(ii)
supervising, monitoring and evaluating the implementation of the 
Project;
(iii)
preparing the reports referred to in Section 3.16 (b) of this 
Agreement;
(iv)
providing assistance to the Procurement Agent in the procurement 
of goods and works and the selection of consul-tants to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; and
(v)
managing the Special Account and the Project Account.
(b)
The Borrower shall ensure that PCU is at all times headed by a Project 
Director and assisted by qualified staff in adequate numbers, all with qualifications 
and experience, acceptable to the Bank.
(c)
As part of the PCU’s staff referred to in paragraph (b) above, the 
Borrower shall not later than October 31, 2000 employ 2 technical coordinators to 
provide assistance to the Project Director of the PCU in the coordination and 
supervision of Parts A and B of the Project. 
Section 3.08. With regard to the services of the consultants to be employed 
under the Project, the Borrower shall:
(a)
promptly after the completion of each service, furnish to the Bank a copy 
of the consultants’ findings and recommendations;
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment on such findings and 
recommendations; and
Page  5
(c)
implement, whenever appropriate, the recommendations of such consultants, 
taking into account the Bank’s comments thereon.
Section 3.09. (a) Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall operate and maintain until completion of the Project, an 
account in Balboas in Banco Nacional de Panamá under terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Bank, for the purposes of depositing and managing the counterpart funds 
required for the execution of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
provide in its annual budget, and deposit in the account referred 
to in paragraph (a) above, promptly as needed, in Balboas 
equivalent, the amounts required as counterpart funds for the 
execution of the Project as set forth in attachment B to the 
Supplemental Letter; and
(ii)
furnish to the Bank, by no later than thirty days after each 
annual budget has been approved, a certified copy of such budget 
reflecting the amounts referred to in subparagraph (i) above.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall approve the designs of all Water Subprojects in 
accordance with the rules set forth in Resolution 29.
Section 3.11. With regard to Part B.3 of the Project, the Borrower shall:
(a)
ensure that MDS staff will collect water samples in rural areas, during 
regular supervision of the implementation of Part B.1 (a) and B.2 of the Project; and
(b)
in case unsafe levels of contamination or pollution of drinking water 
supplies are detected in the samples referred to in paragraph (a) above, carry out, 
through MDS, a follow-up supervision to determine the causes of the problem and to 
develop and implement, jointly with the affected community, a corrective action plan.
Section 3.12. By no later than July 31, 1997, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank, for its comments, the results of the following studies, to be carried out by MDS 
under Part C of the Project:
(a)
an inventory of existing rural water supply and sanitation services; and
(b)
studies aimed at determining the water supply and sanitation needs of 
unserved and undeserved rural communities, including possible location, quality and 
yield of prospective services that can be implemented under the Project.
Section 3.13. The Borrower shall:
(a)
by no later than six months after the Effective Date, establish, equip 
and staff a computerized information center, provided with adequate operating funds, 
within MDS’ General Sub-Directorate for Environmental Health, all in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank, for the purposes of preserving information on:
(i)
quantitative and qualitative aspects of water sources in rural 
areas;
(ii)
status, location, operating conditions and coverage of water and 
sanitation services; 
(iii)
data on the functioning of JAAs; and
(iv)
the main results of the studies indicated in Section 3.12 of this 
Agreement, taking into account the Bank's comments thereon.
(b)
until completion of the Project, update the information referred to in 
paragraph (a) above, through data collected on regular basis by the national and 
regional staff of MDS.
Section 3.14. The Borrower shall: (a)  not later than October 31, 2000 prepare 
and  furnish to the Bank, a plan, acceptable to the Bank (which shall include, inter 
alia, a timetable) to transfer the Project-financed technical personnel to MDS’ 
payroll; and (b) thereafter, carry out said plan in accordance with its terms. 
Section 3.15. By no later than March 15, 1998, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Page  6
Bank, for its comments, the results of the following studies, to be carried out by MDS 
under Part C of the Project:
(a)
a study on the efficacy and acceptability of Health Promoters and Health 
Assistants’ training programs; 
(b)
a study on the performance, compensation and turnover of Health Promoters 
and Health Assistants;
(c)
a study to assess the eligibility criteria for the distribution of the 
Food Supplement, from the standpoint of their relative efficiency, practicability and 
beneficiary acceptance;
(d)
a study on the efficacy and impact of MDS’ norms for addressing iron and 
vitamin A deficiencies;
(e)
a study on the efficacy and acceptability of the water and sanitation 
rules of Resolutions 26, 27, 28 and 29;
(f)
a study on the adequacy and affordability of rural water tariffs;
(g)
a study on the operations of JAAs; and
(h)
a study on the comparative effectiveness and utilization of water 
disinfection techniques for rural water supply systems.
Section 3.16. The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Project’s benchmarks set forth in 
the Action Plan, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, not later than January 31 and July 31 of each year of Project 
implementation, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the calendar semester period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; 
(c)
with respect to the report to be furnished to the Bank by July 31, 2001 
as provided in paragraph (b) above, also include information concerning the amount of 
Loan proceeds (allocated to finance Water Subprojects) which have not been committed 
by the Borrower or the Implementing Entities to finance Water Subprojects by June 30, 
2001; and
(d)
review with the Bank, by August 15, 2001, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the pertinent reports referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, 
and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said reports and the Bank’s views on the matter, including, 
inter alia, the possibility of reallocating the Loan proceeds which have not been 
committed by the Borrower or the Implementing Entities to finance Water Subprojects by 
June 30, 2001 amongst the Borrower and/or the Implementing Entities in a manner 
acceptable to the Bank. 
Section 3.17. By no later than one month after the Effective Date, the Borrower 
shall designate a standing bid evaluation committee of MDS, responsible for: (a) 
reviewing and approving the procurement of goods and works and the selection of 
consultants, proposed by the PCU pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.07 (a) (iv) 
of this Agreement; and (b) acting as the evaluating committee provided by Article 27 
of the Borrower's Executive Decree No. 33 of 1985, as amended by Article 1 of the 
Borrower's Executive Decree No. 50 of 1992.".
4.
Article V is hereby amended in its entirety to read as follows:
"Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
Page  7
(a)
Decrees 39 or 40, or Resolutions 26, 27, 28 or 29, or the Rules and 
Procedures Manual, or any provision thereof shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect, in the opinion of the Bank, materially 
and adversely the ability of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under this 
Agreement;
(b)
any of the Service Providers shall have failed to comply with any of 
their obligations under the corresponding Service Agreement;
(c)
any of the Implementing Entities shall have failed to comply with any of 
their obligations under the corresponding Implementation Agreement;
(d)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that FIS will be able to perform its obligations under the corresponding 
Implementation Agreement; 
(e)
the Procurement Agent shall have failed to comply with any of its 
obligations under the Procurement Agreement; 
(f)
CONSALUD shall have failed to comply with any of its obligations under 
the CONSALUD Agreement; and
(g)
the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of FIS or for the suspension of the 
operations of FIS so as to affect, in the opinion of the Bank, materially and 
adversely the ability of the Borrower or FIS to perform any of its obligations under 
this Agreement or the corresponding Implementation Agreement, respectively.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
any event specified in paragraphs (b) or (c) or (e) or (f) of Section 
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after 
notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and
(b)
any event specified in paragraphs (a) or (g) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur.".
5.
The reference to the Minister of Planning and Economic Policy and Ministerio de 
Planificación y Política Económica referred to in Sections 7.01 and 7.02, 
respectively, shall be replaced by Minister of Economy and Finance and Ministerio de 
Economía y Finanzas, respectively.
6.
The table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 is hereby amended to read in its entirety 
as set forth in Annex 1 to this Amendment Letter.
7.
Paragraph 2 of Schedule 1 is hereby amended to read in its entirety as follows:
"2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term "Procurement Agent Fees" means the fees to be paid by the 
Borrower to the Procurement Agent in connection with the services provided by the 
Procurement Agent.".
8.
Schedule 2 is hereby amended to read in its entirety as set forth in Annex 2 to 
this Amendment Letter.
9.
Schedule 4 is hereby amended to read in its entirety as set forth in Annex 3 to 
this Amendment Letter.
10.
Paragraph 1 (a) of Schedule 5 is hereby amended in its entirety to read as 
follows:
Page  8
"(a)
the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (10) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;".
11.
Schedule 6 is hereby deleted.
II.
Supplemental Letter No.1:
1.
"Supplemental Letter No. 1" is re-named as "Supplemental Letter".
2.
The text is hereby amended to read in its entirety as follows:
"Please refer to the Loan Agreement of even date herewith entered into between 
the Republic of Panama and the Bank.
With respect to Sections 3.01 (b) and 3.09 (b) of, Parts A.1 and B.1 of Schedule 
2 to, the Loan Agreement, attachments A, B, C, D and E set forth the Action Plan, the 
counterpart funds for the Project, the criteria for selecting the beneficiaries under 
Part A.1 of the Project, including the beneficiaries of Food Supplements, the criteria 
for selecting communities for Water Subprojects, and the Procurement Capacity Plan, 
respectively.".
3.
The Attachment to the Supplemental Letter is deleted and attachments A, B, C, D 
and E are added thereto to read as set forth in annexes 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8 to this 
Amendment Letter, respectively. 
III.
Supplemental Letter No. 2:
The terms of Supplemental Letter No. 2 are hereby deemed to have no effect.
IV.
Supplemental Letter No. 3:
The terms of Supplemental Letter No. 3 are hereby deemed to have no effect.
V.
Effectiveness:
This Amendment Letter shall be executed in two counterparts each of which shall 
be an original.  Upon receipt by the Bank of one fully executed original of this 
Amendment Letter, these amendments will have effect as of June 30, 2000. Please 
confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by signing and dating the two 
counterparts of this Amendment Letter.
Sincerely,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Gerard M. La Forgia
Authorized Representative
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF PANAMA
By /s/ 
(Authorized Representative)
Date: _____________________________
ANNEX 1
"1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Category
   Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed
Page  9
(1)
Works under 
  8,125,000
70%
Water Sub-
projects
(2)
Goods other
  5,210,000
100% of foreign
for medical
expenditures, 100%
equipment and
of local expendi-
supplies
tures (ex-factory
cost) and 85% of
local expenditures
for other items
procured locally
(3)
Goods and 
    207,000
100% of foreign
spare parts
expenditures, 100%
for civil works
of local expendi-
to be carried
tures (ex-factory
out by force
cost) and 85% of
account
local expenditures
for other items
procured locally
(4)
FIS Subprojects
(a) carried out under
    165,000
70%
procurement procedures
referred to in Part
C.4 of Section I of
Schedule 4 to this
Agreement
(b) carried out under
    105,000
70%
other procurement 
procedures
(5)
Medical equipment
 
    683,000
100%
and supplies
(6)
Consultants' services
  2,155,440
100%
other than under Part
A.1 of the Project
(7)
Training
  1,155,000
100%
(8) 
(a) Food Supplement
  2,876,900
100% of expenditures
made as from October
8, 1996 until the
aggregate amount of
withdrawals under this
category reaches
$2,100,000; and 60%
thereafter
(b) Agricultural
    331,660
100%
materials and supplies
under Community Farm
Subprojects
(9)
Basic health and
  3,600,000
60%
nutrition services
under Part A.1 of
the Project
(10)
Procurement Agent
    386,000
100%
Fees
(1)
Unallocated
 0
TOTAL
 25,000,000"
Page  10
ANNEX 
2
"SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to reduce the incidence of malnutrition 
among children aged less than 5 years, breast-feeding and pregnant women; (b) to 
increase the coverage of basic water supply and sanitation in the Borrower's rural 
areas; (c) to train JAAs so as to improve their capacity to operate and maintain 
systems under their responsibility; and (d) to strengthen MDS capacity to plan, 
execute, monitor and evaluate: (i) the policies, strategies and technical standards 
developed for the Borrower's rural health sector; and (ii) rural water quality.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Basic Health and Nutrition
1.
Provision of integrated basic health care and nutrition services to rural 
beneficiaries who meet the criteria set forth in attachment C to the Supplemental 
Letter, said services to include, inter alia: (a) the monitoring of nutritional status 
and prevention and treatment of malnutrition through counseling of mothers on feeding 
practices and the provision of Food Supplements; and (b) basic preventive and curative 
care.
2.
Design and implementation of a training program for the benefit of Service 
Providers which consists of, inter alia: (a) upgrading the technical skills of the 
Service Providers’ staff; (b) proposing methodologies for the effective organization 
and delivery of basic health care and nutrition services; and (c) improving the 
Service Providers’ financial management, human resources and administrative capacity, 
all to support the provision of services referred to in Part A.1 of the Project.
3.
Carrying out of 92 Community Farm Subprojects.
Part B:
Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
1.
Carrying out of subprojects which consist of either:
(a)
the promotion, design, construction and supervision of about:
(i)
273 new rural water supply systems; and
(ii)
2,720 latrines; or
(b)
the renovation or expansion of about 44 existing water supply systems in 
rural communities, as the case may be, all in accordance with the criteria set forth 
in attachment D to the Supplemental Letter.
2.
(a)
Establishment or regularization of JAAs.
(b)
Design and implementation of a pilot program for the benefit of about 50 
JAAs which consists of, inter alia, providing technical assistance and training to 
said JAAs in the promotion of community participation in the operation and maintenance 
of rural water supply systems. 
3.
Establishment of the Borrower's national system of water quality controls in 
rural areas, including, inter alia:
(a)
the upgrading of six regional water-testing laboratories (selected by the 
Borrower in accordance with criteria acceptable to the Bank) for the purpose of 
carrying out advanced biological and physico-chemical water analyses, including the 
provision of training required therefor; 
(b)
the upgrading of the existing computerized information systems on rural 
water resources for the purpose of including in said systems information regarding 
water quality surveillance; and
(c)
the design and implementation of a pilot program on community-based water 
Page  11
quality monitoring.
Part C:
Institutional Strengthening
1.
Strengthening of the institutional and technical capacity of MDS to, inter alia, 
carry out Parts A and B of the Project  and enforce environmental health regulations 
with respect to water quality assessment and surveillance and water-borne 
contamination or pollution.
2.
Strengthening of the operational capacity of the PCU to assist the Borrower in 
the coordination, monitoring and supervision of the Project.
3.
Contracting of the Procurement Agent. 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2001.".
ANNEX 
3
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this 
Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods (including medical equipment and 
supplies and vehicles) shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $250,000 
equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
Limited International Bidding
Food  Supplements estimated to cost more than $100,000 equivalent per contract 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines.
Page  12
2.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more per 
contract shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
(b)
Goods (other than Food Supplements and vehicles), including medical 
equipment and supplies estimated to cost the equivalent of more than $25,000 but less 
than $250,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to: (i) 
$207,000 in the case of procurement of goods required for civil works to be carried 
out by force account; and (ii) $260,000 in the case of procurement of other goods 
(including medical equipment and supplies), may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(c)
Vehicles up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $125,000, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(d)
Procurement of goods and works under this Part shall be carried out using 
standard bidding documents acceptable to the Bank. 
3.
Shopping
(a)
Food Supplements estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or less per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $900,000 may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of international or national shopping procedures, at 
the Borrower’s option, in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of 
the Guidelines.
(b)
Goods (other than Food Supplements ,vehicles and agricultural materials 
and supplies financed under Community Farm Subprojects) including medical equipment 
and supplies, estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or less per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount equivalent to: (i) $75,000, in the case of goods required for 
civil works to be carried out by force account; and (ii) $100,000 in the case of 
procurement of other goods (including medical equipment and supplies), may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of international or national shopping procedures, 
at the Borrower’s option, in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 
of the Guidelines.
(c)
Agricultural material and supplies financed under Community Farm 
Subprojects shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national 
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
4.
Procurement of Small Works
Civil works  estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $250,000 equivalent 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $10,774,000, may be procured 
under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from 
at least three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. 
The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic 
specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to 
the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the 
contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has 
the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
5.
Direct Contracting
Contracts for small works located in rural areas estimated to cost 
$35,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to 
$200,000, may be procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank. 
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Page  13
Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with a 
procurement plan, acceptable to the Bank.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to: (i) each contract for goods to be procured under Part B 
of this Section; (ii) each contract for Food Supplements to be procured under Part C.1 
of this Section; and (iii) each contract for works  to be procured under Part C.2 (a) 
of this Section, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to the first two contracts for works to be procured in the 
years 2000 and 2001 by each Implementing Entity and MDS under Part B.1 of the Project 
in accordance with the procedures referred to in Part C.4 of this Section, the 
following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the execution of any contract under the basis of 
quotations procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a 
report on the comparison and evaluation of quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under the basis of 
quotations procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a 
copy of the specifications and the draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for consultants’ services for the supervision of the 
provision of services and civil works under Parts A.1 and B.1 of the Project, 
respectively, estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may 
comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 
2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Least-cost Selection
Consultants’ services for the Project (other than for Parts A.1 and C.3 of the 
Page  14
Project) estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of 
the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Consultants’ services for the Project (other than for Parts A.1 and C.3 of the 
Project) estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of 
the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Single Source Selection
Consultants’ services for Part C.3 of the Project may, with the Bank’s prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 
3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
4.
Individual Consultants
Consultants’ services for the Project (other than for Part A.1 of the Project) 
that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines 
shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with a 
selection plan, acceptable to the Bank.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $100,000 the terms of reference and 
short lists of the consulting firms shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior 
review and approval. The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall 
have been given.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
(d)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $50,000 the terms of 
reference of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and 
approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been 
given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
Section III.  Special Provisions
A.
In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this 
Page  15
Schedule or the Guidelines, the following principles of procurement shall expressly 
govern all procurement of goods and works referred to in Parts B.1 and C.1 of Section 
I of this Schedule:
1.
Foreign bidders shall not be required to:
(a)
have a local representative for purposes of submitting bids;
(b)
be registered with local authorities as a prerequisite for bidding; and
(c)
be associated with local contractors or suppliers.
2.
Bids may be:
(a)
submitted at any reasonable time before bid opening, either by mail, 
courier or person; and
(b)
accompanied by a bid security in the form and amount specified in the 
standard bidding documents.
3.
No provisional award shall be made at the time of bid opening.
4.
No minimum number of bids shall be required as a condition to award a contract.
5.
Contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has been evaluated as the 
lowest and responsive, in accordance with criteria clearly set forth in the standard 
bidding documents.
6.
After contract award, performance securities shall be provided within the time 
period, and in form and amount specified in the standard bidding documents.
B.
In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this 
Schedule or the Guidelines, the following principles of procurement shall expressly 
govern all procurement of goods and works referred to in Part C.2 of Section I of this 
Schedule:
1.
Bids may be:
(a)
submitted at any reasonable time before bid opening, either by mail, 
courier or person; and
(b)
accompanied by a bid security in the form and amount specified in the 
standard bidding documents.
2.
No provisional award shall be made at the time of bid opening.
3.
No minimum number of bids shall be required as a condition to award a contract.
4.
Contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has been evaluated as the 
lowest and responsive, in accordance with criteria clearly set forth in the standard 
bidding documents.
5.
Contracts for civil works shall provide for mobilization advances, whenever 
appropriate.
6.
After contract award, performance securities shall be provided within the time 
period and in the form and amount specified in the standard bidding documents.
7.
Price adjustment provisions, acceptable to the Bank, may be included in work 
contracts.
C.
In addition to and without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this 
Schedule or the Consultants Guidelines, the following principles of procurement shall 
expressly govern all procurement of consultants' services referred to in Section II of 
this Schedule:
1.
Foreign consultants shall not be required to:
(a)
be locally registered as a condition of participation in the selection 
process;
(b)
give any participation in or share of any consulting contracts to any 
Page  16
local firm or person for the purposes of participating in the selection process or 
receiving an award, except in connection with a joint venture arrangement where: (i) a 
sufficient number of capable domestic firms or individual consultants exist to allow a 
foreign consultant reasonable freedom of choice; (ii) the contribution of either party 
to the joint venture arrangement will not be constrained by any prescribed manner or 
extent of participation; and (iii) the foreign consultant is not required to associate 
itself with any specific named domestic firms or individual consultants;
(c)
furnish any certificate issued by a local authority about their legal 
capacity or tax status for the purposes of submitting a proposal; and
(d)
personally submit their proposals. 
2.
Consultants shall be selected from a short list of firms invited to submit 
proposals on the basis of terms of reference, employment conditions and evaluation 
criteria clearly set forth in the respective letter of invitation.
