Page  1
                                                              CONFORMED COPY
                                                         LOAN NUMBER 3841-PA
                               Loan Agreement
                           (Rural Health Project)
                                   between
                             REPUBLIC OF PANAMA
                                     and
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                               AND DEVELOPMENT
                             Dated July 20, 1995
                                                         LOAN NUMBER 3841-PA
                               LOAN AGREEMENT
       AGREEMENT, dated July 20, 1995, between REPUBLIC OF PANAMA
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
       WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to
the feasibility and priority of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project; and
       (B)   the Bank has received a letter (the Policy Letter)
dated June 2, 1994, from the Borrower, describing the
Borrower's policies on poverty alleviation in marginal sectors
and the measures intended to enhance access and quality of
public services for the poor, and declaring the Borrower's
commitment to the execution of such policies;
       WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
       NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                  ARTICLE I
                       General Conditions; Definitions
       Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan
Page  2
and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985,
with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
       (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
       (b)   In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as
subparagraph (l) and a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
             "(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
       under which any further withdrawals under the Loan would
       be inconsistent with the provisions of Article III,
       Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
       Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
       (a)   "Annual Work Program" means any of the programs
referred to in Section 3.20 (b) of this Agreement;
       (b)   "AS" means any of the community health assistants
(Ayudantes de Salud) referred to in Section 3.09 of this
Agreement;
       (c)   "Balboa" means the currency of the Borrower;
       (d)   "Decree 39" means the Borrower's Executive Decree No.
39 of April 18, 1994, establishing the guidelines for the
development of basic rural sanitation;
       (e)   "Decree 40" means the Borrower's Executive Decree No.
40 of April 18, 1994, establishing JAAs (as hereinafter
defined);
       (f)   "FES" means the Borrower's Social Emergency Fund
(Fondo de Emergencia Social), established by the Borrower's
Decree 146 of 1990, as amended;
       (g)   "FES Agreement" means the agreement referred to in
Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement;
       (h)   "FES Subproject" means any civil work to be carried
out by FES pursuant to the provisions of the FES Agreement;
       (i)   "Food Supplement" means an enriched pre-cooked meal,
in accordance with a formula satisfactory to the Bank, designed
to supply a percentage of the minimum calorie, protein and
micro-nutrient requirements of the beneficiaries of Part A.2 of
the Project;
       (j)   "JAA" means any of the community water boards (Juntas
Administradoras de Acueductos), responsible for the
administration, operation and maintenance of rural water supply
systems;
       (k)   "JAA Agreement" means any of the agreements referred
to in Section 3.02 (b) of this Agreement;
       (l)   "Health Day" means any of the days referred to in the
Section 3.11 (a) of this Agreement;
       (m)   "MDS" means the Borrower's Ministry of Health
(Ministerio de Salud);
       (n)   "MIPPE" means the Borrower's Ministry of Planning and
Economic Policy (Ministerio de Planificacion y Politica
Economica);
       (o)   "Monitoring and Supervision Indicators" means the
indicators set forth in the letter from the Borrower to the
Page  3
Bank of even date herewith (Supplemental Letter No. 1),
designed to measure progress towards the achievement of Project
objectives;
       (p)   "Monitoring and Evaluation System" means the system
referred to in Section 3.04 (a) (ii) of this Agreement;
       (q)   "ONG" means any non-government organization,
acceptable to the Bank;
       (r)   "Pilot Nutrition Project" means the project carried
out under paragraph 12 of Schedule 5 to the Economic Recovery
Loan (Loan No. 3438) between the Borrower and the Bank, dated
February 27, 1992;
       (s)   "Project Account" means the account referred to in
Section 3.07 (a) of this Agreement;
       (t)   "PS" means any of the community health workers
(Promotores de Salud) referred to in Section 3.10 of this
Agreement;
       (u)   "Resolution 26" means MDS' Resolution No. 26 of
January 31, 1994, instituting procedures for requests of
construction of water supply systems and establishment of JAAs;
       (v)   "Resolution 27" means MDS' Resolution No. 27 of
January 31, 1994, establishing quality control rules of water
for human consumption;
       (w)   "Resolution 28" means MDS' Resolution No. 28 of
January 31, 1994, establishing the basic rules for the rational
usage of water in rural water supply systems;
       (x)   "Resolution 29" means MDS' Resolution No. 29 of
January 31, 1994, instituting technical and administrative
rules for rural water supply systems and latrines programs;
       (y)   "Rules and Procedures Manual" means the manual
referred to in Section 6.01 (b) of this Agreement;
       (z)   "SDGSA" means the General Sub-Directorate for
Environmental Health (Sub Direccion General de Salud Ambiental)
of MDS;
       (aa)  "SDGSP" means the General Sub-Directorate for Health
Services (Sub Direccion General de Salud de la Poblacion) of
MDS;
       (ab)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
       (ac)  "Staffing Plan" means the plan set forth in the
letter from the Borrower to the Bank of even date herewith
(Supplemental Letter No. 2), for permanent staffing of SDGSA
and SDGSP, including personnel assigned to their regional and
local offices; and
       (ad)  "UAP" means the Project Administration Unit (Unidad
Administradora del Proyecto) referred to in Section 3.04 (a) of
this Agreement.
                                 ARTICLE II
                                  The Loan
       Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan
Agreement, various currencies that shall have an aggregate
value equivalent to the amount of twenty-five million Dollars
($25,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of
the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the
Page  4
date of such withdrawal.
       Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
       (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in Banco
Nacional de Panama or other commercial bank acceptable to the
Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank,
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
       Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
       Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.
       Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the
Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).
On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest
Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.
       (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each
Semester, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
       (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
             (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                   Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period
                   in which this Agreement is signed.
            (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the
                  cost, as reasonably determined by the Bank
                  and expressed as a percentage per annum,
                  of the outstanding borrowings of the Bank
                  drawn down after June 30, 1982, excluding
                  such borrowings or portions thereof as the
                  Bank has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's
                  investments; and (B) loans which may be
                  made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
                  bearing interest rates determined
                  otherwise than as provided in paragraph
                  (a) of this Section.
            (iii) "Semester" means the first six months or
                  the second six months of a calendar year.
      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than
six months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c)
(iii) of this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
Page  5
             principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
             outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each
             Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
             determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, plus
             one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
             dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
             the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
             principal amount outstanding during the preceding
             Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable
             during such Interest Period."
                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
             each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of
             the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
             respect of such Quarter."
                   "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
             commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October
             1 in a calendar year."
       Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
       Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                                 ARTICLE III
                          Execution of the Project
       Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out: (i) all
Parts of the Project other than Part C.4, through MDS; and (ii)
Part C.4 of the Project, through MIPPE, with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, environmental and sanitary practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the Project.
       (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of
paragraph (a) of this Section and except as the Borrower and
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out
the Project in accordance with: (i) the Annual Work Programs;
(ii) the Rules and Procedures Manual; and (iii) the Monitoring
and Supervision Indicators.
       Section 3.02. (a) By no later than June 30, 1995, the
Borrower, through MDS, shall enter into an agreement with FES,
containing terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, for
the execution of certain civil works under Part B.1 of the
Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
including the following terms and conditions:
             (i)   provisions whereby FES shall be obligated:
                   (A)   to abide by the FES operating manual
                         previously approved by MDS and the Bank
                         and to furnish to MDS and to the Bank, for
                         their respective approvals, any proposed
                         amendment to such manual;
                   (B)   to comply with the schedule of standard
                         regionalized unit prices for the procure-
                         ment of civil works under Part C.4 of
                         Section I of Schedule 4 to this Agreement,
                         as approved by MDS and the Bank for the
                         corresponding period, and, by no later
                         than March 31 and September 30, of each
                         year during the execution of the Project,
                         furnish to MDS and to the Bank, for their
Page  6
                         respective approvals, the schedule for the
                         following semester;
                   (C)   to comply with the annual work program
                         approved by MDS and the Bank for the
                         corresponding period, and, by no later
                         than August 15, of each year during the
                         execution of the Project, furnish to MDS
                         and to the Bank, for their respective
                         approvals, the program for the following
                         calendar year; and
                   (D)   to comply with the obligations set forth
                         or referred to in Sections 3.04 (c), 4.01
                         and 3.21 of this Agreement, with respect
                         to all civil works to be carried out by
                         FES; and
                   (ii)  a provision whereby FES shall not initiate
                         any new FES Subproject, if the Bank has
                         not approved the annual work program
                         referred to in subparagraph (i) (C) above,
                         for the respective calendar year.
       (b)   The Borrower shall enter into agreements with
interested JAAs, containing terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank, whereby such JAAs shall be obligated, inter alia:
                    (i)   to participate in civil works design and
                          execution;
                   (ii)   to pay monthly water charges covering at
                          least the full cost of operating and
                          maintaining the systems to be included in
                          such civil works;
                  (iii)   to construct latrines; and
                   (iv)   to contribute land, local materials and
                          labor in an amount equivalent to at least
                          10 percent of the respective civil works
                          cost.
       (c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the FES
Agreement and the JAA Agreements and in such a manner as to:
             (i)   protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank;
            (ii)   comply with its obligations under this
                   Agreement; and
           (iii)   achieve the purposes of the Project.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the FES Agreement and the
JAA Agreements, or any provision thereof.
       Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
       Section 3.04. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions
of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall maintain
until completion of the Project, within MDS, a Project
administration unit, with functions and responsibilities
satisfactory to the Bank, including, inter alia, the following
functions and responsibilities:
             (i)   preparing the Annual Work Programs and, after
                   the Bank's approval, coordinating their
Page  7
                   implementation;
            (ii)   supervising, monitoring and evaluating the
                   implementation of the Project, through a
                   system satisfactory to the Bank;
           (iii)   preparing the reports referred to in
                   Section 3.20 (a) of this Agreement and the
                   terms of reference referred to in Section
                   3.21 (c) of this Agreement;
            (iv)   with the participation of MIPPE, SDGSA and
                   SDGSP, as the case may be, procuring the
                   goods and works and selecting the consul-
                   tants to be financed out of the proceeds
                   of the Loan;
             (v)   by no later than one month after the end of
                   each quarter, reviewing the reports referred to
                   in Section 3.23 (d) and furnishing to the Bank
                   a summary of their findings and
                   recommendations; and
            (vi)   managing the Special Account and the
                   Project Account.
       (b)   The Borrower shall ensure that UAP is at all times
headed by a Project administrator with qualifications and
experience, acceptable to the Bank, assisted by qualified staff
in adequate numbers, all in accordance with staffing plans
satisfactory to the Bank.
       (c)   For the purposes of the responsibilities of UAP,
referred to in subparagraph (a) (i) of this paragraph, the
Borrower, through SDGSA and SDGSP, shall maintain adequate
records about the actual performance of national, regional and
local offices with respect to the Monitoring and Supervision
Indicators.
       (d)   For the purposes of the responsibilities of UAP
referred to in subparagraph (a) (iv) of this Section, the
Borrower shall, by no later than June 30, 1995, through MIPPE,
SDGSA and SDGSP, as the case may be, prepare all procurement
documents required for Project implementation, including the
documents referred to in Part E of Section I of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
       Section 3.05. With regard to the services of the
consultants to be employed under the Project, the Borrower
shall:
       (a)   promptly after the completion of each service,
furnish to the Bank copy of the consultants' findings and
recommendations;
       (b)   afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment
on such findings and recommendations; and
       (c)   implement, whenever appropriate, the recommendations
of such consultants, taking into account the Bank's comments
thereon.
       Section 3.06. With regard to the training programs to be
carried out under the Project, the Borrower shall:
       (a)   furnish to the Bank, for its approval, the
description of the respective training programs as well as the
schedule for their implementation;
       (b)   select the beneficiaries of such training programs,
in accordance with criteria satisfactory to the Bank;
Page  8
       (c)   carry out such training programs, in accordance with
the description, schedule and selection criteria approved by
the Bank; and
       (d)   furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in
such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the
results of each such training program and the benefits to be
derived therefrom.
       Section 3.07. (a) Without limitation to the provisions of
Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall operate and
maintain until completion of the Project, an account in Balboas
in Banco Nacional de Panama or other commercial bank acceptable
to the Bank, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank, for the purposes of depositing and managing the
counterpart funds required for the execution of the Project.
       (b)   The Borrower shall:
             (i)   provide in its annual budget, and deposit in
                   the account referred to in paragraph (a) above,
                   promptly as needed, in Balboas equivalent, the
                   amounts required as counterpart funds for the
                   execution of the Project; and
            (ii)   furnish to the Bank, by no later than
                   thirty days after each annual budget has
                   been approved, a certified copy of such
                   budget reflecting the amounts referred to
                   in subparagraph (i) above.
       Section 3.08. With regard to Part A of the Project and in
accordance with timetables satisfactory to the Bank, the
Borrower shall discontinue all programs for the distribution of
food commodities designed to address cases of malnutrition
among the beneficiaries of such Part of the Project, other than
the Food Supplement program, once the Food Supplement program
is implemented in the respective region in accordance with the
phases set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
       Section 3.09. The Borrower shall ensure that the health
assistants will:
       (a)   be personnel proposed by the interested community and
trained by MDS, to perform functions described in the
Borrower's Law 69 of 1983;
       (b)   be deployed within MDS's local offices agreed with
the Bank, under direct supervision of MDS's staff; and
       (c)   receive the monthly remuneration determined in MDS
regular budget.
       Section 3.10. The Borrower shall ensure that the health
promoters will:
       (a)   be volunteer personnel, proposed by the interested
community and approved and trained by MDS, operating with the
assistance and under the supervision of MDS staff;
       (b)   provide a limited range of primary health care
services, including:
             (i)   monitoring of nutrition status and growth of
                   children aged less than 5 years and pregnant
                   women;
            (ii)   disseminating health and nutrition
                   information and education materials;
           (iii)   counselling women on health and nutrition
                   practices (including breast-feeding and
Page  9
                   weaning);
            (iv)   encouraging the search of assistance to
                   improve food production and storage
                   capacity;
             (v)   performing regular house visits to promote
                   appropriate utilization of preventive health
                   services and recommended health and nutrition
                   practices within the household; and
            (vi)   participating in the Health Days; and
       (c)   receive the compensation determined by the sponsoring
communities.
       Section 3.11. Until completion of the Project, the
Borrower shall:
       (a)   for every two-month period and in each community
where PSs operate, designate one specific day as "health day",
aimed at encouraging community participation in the activities
to be carried out under the Project; and
       (b)   ensure that the appropriate staff of MDS' local
offices will: (i) for every two-month period, carry out at
least one supervision visit of the PSs operating within the
jurisdiction of the respective office; and (ii) at least once
a year, make all the arrangements necessary for one of the
supervision visits referred to in subparagraph (i) above to
coincide with one of the Health Days.
       Section 3.12. The Borrower shall carry out the screening
and selection of the beneficiaries of Part A.2 of the Project
in accordance with the procedures and eligibility criteria set
forth in the letter from the Borrower to the Bank of even date
herewith (Supplemental Letter No. 4).
       Section 3.13. With regard to Part B.1 of the Project, the
Borrower shall:
       (a)   approve the designs of all civil works, in accordance
with the rules set forth in Resolution 29;
       (b)   supervise the activities of the regional and local
personnel of MDS responsible for the organization and training
of JAAs;
       (c)   contract the execution of civil works with FES,
private enterprises or ONGs, as the case may be, pursuant to
the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
       (d)   supervise such execution, so as to assure that it
follows the designs previously approved.
       Section 3.14. The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, for
its comments, in form satisfactory to the Bank:
       (a)   by no later than September 30, 1995, the results of
a baseline epidemiological survey, to be carried out by MDS
under Part C of the Project; and
       (b)   by no later than March 31, 1996, the results of a
program of participatory research on household attitudes and
behaviors related to health and nutrition, to be carried out by
MDS under Part C of the Project.
       Section 3.15. With regard to Part B.3 of the Project, the
Borrower shall:
       (a)   ensure that MDS staff will collect water samples in
rural areas, during regular supervision of the implementation
Page  10
of Parts B.1 and B.2 of the Project; and
       (b)   in case unsafe levels of contamination or pollution
of drinking water supplies are detected in the samples referred
to in paragraph (a) above, carry out, through MDS, a follow-up
supervision to determine the causes of the problem and to
develop and implement, jointly with the affected community, a
corrective action plan.
       Section 3.16. By no later than June 30, 1996, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank, for its comments, the results of the
following studies, to be carried out by MDS under Part C of the
Project:
       (a)   an inventory of existing rural water supply and
sanitation services; and
       (b)   studies aimed at determining the water supply and
sanitation needs of unserved and undeserved rural communities,
including possible location, quality and yield of prospective
services that can be implemented under the Project.
       Section 3.17. The Borrower shall:
       (a)   by no later than six months after the Effective Date,
establish, equip and staff a computerized information center,
provided with adequate operating funds, within SDGSA, all in a
manner satisfactory to the Bank, for the purposes of preserving
information on:
             (i)   quantitative and qualitative aspects of water
                   sources in rural areas;
            (ii)   status, location, operating conditions and
                   coverage of water and sanitation services;
           (iii)   data on the functioning of JAAs; and
            (iv)   the main results of the studies indicated
                   in Section 3.16, taking into account the
                   Bank's comments thereon; and
       (b)   until completion of the Project, update the
information referred to in paragraph (a) above, through data
collected on regular basis by the national, regional and local
staff of MDS.
       Section 3.18. The Borrower shall:
       (a)   carry out the Staffing Plan, in accordance with its
terms; and
       (b)   enforce, at all times until completion of the
Project, the procedures set forth in the Rules and Procedures
Manual.
       Section 3.19. By no later than March 31, 1997 and for the
purposes of the review referred to in Section 3.21 (c), the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, for its comments, the
results of the following studies, to be carried out by MDS
under Part C of the Project:
       (a)   a study on the efficacy and acceptability of PSs and
ASs' training programs;
       (b)   a study on the performance, compensation and turnover
of PSs and ASs;
       (c)   a study to assess the eligibility criteria for the
distribution of the Food Supplement, from the standpoint of
their relative efficiency, practicability and beneficiary
Page  11
acceptance;
       (d)   a study on the efficacy and impact of MDS' norms for
addressing iron and vitamin A deficiencies;
       (e)   a study on the efficacy and acceptability of the
water and sanitation rules of Resolutions 26, 27, 28 and 29;
       (f)   a study on the adequacy and affordability of rural
water tariffs;
       (g)   a study on the operations of JAAs; and
       (h)   a study on the comparative effectiveness and
utilization of water disinfection techniques for rural water
supply systems.
       Section 3.20. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions
of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, the Borrower,
through UAP, shall, by no later than May 31 of each year of
Project implementation, prepare and furnish to the Bank for its
review, progress reports for the previous twelve-month period,
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank may reasonably
request, on the progress achieved by the Borrower in the
carrying out of the Project.
       (b)   By no later than August 31 of each year of Project
implementation, the Borrower, through UAP in conjunction with
the regional and local offices of MDS and in consultation with
MIPPE, shall furnish to the Bank, for its approval, an annual
work program for the following calendar year, including:
             (i)   the activities to be implemented under each
                   Part of the Project and their respective costs
                   and financial sources; and
            (ii)   the respective quarterly performance
                   targets and Monitoring and Supervision
                   Indicators.
       Section 3.21. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions
of Section 9.01 of the General Conditions, the Borrower,
through MDS and MIPPE shall review jointly with the Bank, by no
later than August 15 of each year, starting in 1995, excepting
1997, the progress made by the Borrower in the execution of the
Project and in the achievement of its objectives during the
previous year period, including the activities carried out by
FES. Any such review shall be based in the Monitoring and
Supervision Indicators, the respective Annual Work Program, and
the corresponding progress reports referred to in Section 3.20
(a) of this Agreement and shall focus, inter alia, on:
             (i)   progress in Project implementation;
            (ii)   implementation of nutrition and water
                   supply and sanitation policies;
           (iii)   performance of the regional and local
                   offices of MDS under the respective Annual
                   Work Program;
            (iv)   allocation and availability of counterpart
                   resources pursuant to Section 3.07 of this
                   Agreement; and
             (v)   any possible adjustment to Project
                   implementation arrangements.
       (b)   If as a result of any of the reviews referred to in
paragraph (a) above, the Bank determines that the progress
achieved by the Borrower in carrying out the Project or in the
implementation of the social policies set forth in the Policy
Page  12
Letter is not satisfactory, the Bank may require that the
Borrower: (i) by no later than thirty days after the conclusion
of such review, prepare and furnish to the Bank an action plan,
satisfactory to the Bank, to make adjustments in the carrying
out of the Project or in the implementation of such social
policies; and (ii) thereafter, carry out such action plan in
accordance with its terms.
       (c)   By no later than August 15, 1997 and under terms of
reference, satisfactory to the Bank, prepared by UAP, the
Borrower, through MDS and MIPPE, shall review jointly with the
Bank and FES the overall execution of the Project and the
achievement of its objectives. Such review shall focus, inter
alia on: (i) the matters set forth in subparagraph (a) above;
and (ii) the progress in social policy implementation and
institutional reforms, including:
                   (A)   the institutional strengthening of MDS;
                   (B)   the findings and recommendations of the
                         studies referred to in Section 3.19 of
                         this Agreement, and their possible
                         implementation; and
                   (C)   the basis for the implementation of the
                         second phase of Part A of the Project, in
                         accordance with Schedule 6.
On the basis of this review the Borrower, through MDS and
MIPPE, shall: (i) by no later than three months after the
conclusion of such review, prepare and furnish to the Bank an
action plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for the subsequent years
of Project implementation; and (ii) thereafter, carry out such
action plan in accordance with its terms.
       (d)   By no later than three months after the completion of
the reviews referred to in paragraphs (a) and (c) hereof, the
Borrower, through UAP, shall have carried out workshops in each
regional and local offices of MDS for the dissemination of the
conclusions of each such review and the presentation of the
following Annual Work Program.
       Section 3.22. By no later than one month after the
Effective Day, the Borrower shall designate a standing bid
evaluation committee of MDS, responsible for: (a) reviewing and
approving the procurement of goods and works and the selection
of consultants, proposed by UAP pursuant to the provisions of
Section 3.04 (a) (iv); and (b) acting as the evaluating
committee provided by Article 27 of the Borrower's Executive
Decree No. 33 of 1985, as amended by Article 1 of the
Borrower's Executive Decree No. 50 of 1992.
       Section 3.23. The Borrower shall ensure that each of the
regional and local offices of MDS shall:
       (a)   carry out their corresponding activities to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, as specified in the
Annual Work Program for such office;
       (b)   provide facilities, services and other resources
determined in the respective Annual Work Program;
       (c)   by no later than May 31 of each year of Project
implementation, furnish to UAP a proposal of the activities to
be carried out by such regional or local office, and the
counterpart resources to be provided, for the preparation of
the following Annual Work Program;
       (d)   by no later than March 31, June 30, September 30 and
December 31 of each year of Project implementation, furnish to
UAP reports on its progress in the implementation of the Annual
Work Program; and
Page  13
       (e)   in the event that the Bank and UAP determine that its
progress in the implementation of the Annual Work Program is
not satisfactory:
             (i)   by no later than thirty days after the Bank and
                   UAP have notified their determination, prepare
                   and furnish to UAP an action plan, satisfactory
                   to the Bank and UAP, to take all measures
                   necessary or advisable to achieve satisfactory
                   progress in the implementation of its
                   respective parts of the Annual Work Program; and
            (ii)   thereafter, carry out such action plan in
                   accordance with its terms.
                                 ARTICLE IV
                             Financial Covenants
       Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect
in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
       (b)   The Borrower shall:
             (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                   for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate
                   auditing principles consistently applied, by
                   independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
            (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available,
                   but in any case not later than six months
                   after the end of each such year, the
                   report of such audit by said auditors, of
                   such scope and in such detail as the Bank
                   shall have reasonably requested; and
           (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records and accounts and
                   the audit thereof as the Bank shall from
                   time to time reasonably request.
       (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
             (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;
            (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the
                   Bank has received the audit report for the
                   fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
                   from the Loan Account or payment out of
                   the Special Account was made, all records
                   (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
                   receipts and other documents) evidencing
                   such expenditures;
           (iii)   enable the Bank's representatives to
                   examine such records; and
            (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to
                   in paragraph (b) of this Section and that
Page  14
                   the report of such audit contains a
                   separate opinion by said auditors as to
                   whether the statements of expenditure
                   submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation,
                   can be relied upon to support the related
                   withdrawals.
                                  ARTICLE V
                            Remedies of the Bank
       Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
       (a)   Decrees 39 or 40, or Resolutions 26, 27, 28 or 29, or
the Rules and Procedures Manual, or any provision thereof,
shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or
waived so as to affect, in the opinion of the Bank, materially
and adversely the ability of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under this Agreement;
       (b)   FES shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the FES Agreement;
       (c)   as a result of events which have occurred after the
date of this Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have
arisen which shall make it improbable that FES will be able to
perform its obligations under the FES Agreement; and
       (d)   the Borrower or any other authority having
jurisdiction shall have taken any action for the dissolution or
disestablishment of FES or for the suspension of the operations
of FES so as to affect, in the opinion of the Bank, materially
and adversely the ability of the Borrower or FES to perform any
of its obligations under this Agreement or the FES Agreement.
       Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
       (a)   any event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Bank to the Borrower; and
       (b)   any event specified in paragraphs (a) or (d) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                                 ARTICLE VI
                         Effective Date; Termination
       Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the
General Conditions:
       (a)   that the Borrower shall have appointed the chiefs of
MDS' Potable Water, Basic Rural Sanitation, and Quality Control
Departments and the Chief Engineers of SDGSA regional offices,
all with experience and qualifications acceptable to the Bank;
       (b)   that the Borrower shall have approved a rules and
procedures manual, satisfactory to the Bank, for: (i) the
efficient execution of the Project by MDS, including
appropriate coordination measures to assure enforceability of
MDS' decisions at the regional and local levels in the process
of preparing, budgeting, monitoring and evaluating the Annual
Work Programs; and (ii) the procurement, contracting and
disbursement procedures to be applied during Project
implementation;
Page  15
       (c)   that the Borrower shall have opened the Project
Account and deposited therein an amount in Balboas equivalent
to $500,000;
       (d)   that the Borrower shall have staffed UAP with a
procurement officer, an accounting officer and an
administrative assistant, all with experience and
qualifications satisfactory to the Bank; and
       (e)   that the Borrower shall have furnished to the Bank
the Annual Work Program, satisfactory to the Bank, for fiscal
year 1995.
       Section 6.02. The date October 18, 1995 is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
                                 ARTICLE VII
                  Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
       Section 7.01. The Minister of Planning and Economic Policy
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
       Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
       For the Borrower:
             Ministerio de Planificacion y Politica Economica
             Via Espana y Calle 52 Este
             Apartado Postal 2694
             Panama 3, Republica de Panama
       For the Bank:
             International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
             1818 H Street, N.W.
             Washington, D.C. 20433
             United States of America
             Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INTBAFRAD                  248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.            82987 (FTCC)
                                               64145 (WUI) or
                                              197688 (TRT)
       IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
                         REPUBLIC OF PANAMA
                         By /s/ Ricardo Arias
                                                   Authorized Representative
Page  16
                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                         By /s/ Sri-Ram Aiyer
                                              Acting Regional Vice President
                                             Latin America and the Caribbean
                                 SCHEDULE 1
                   Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.     The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                           Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated               % of
                            (Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) Civil works, other          5,700,000          70%
    than FES
    Subprojects
(2) Goods, other than           4,700,000          100% of foreign
    medical equipment                              expenditures,
    and supplies, and                              100% of local
    goods for civil                                expenditures
    works to be carried                            (ex-factory
    out by force                                   cost) and 85%
    account                                        of local expen-
                                                   ditures for other
                                                   items procured
                                                   locally
(3) Goods for civil               600,000          100% of foreign
    works to be carried                            expenditures,
    out by force                                   100% of local
    account                                        expenditures
                                                   (ex-factory cost)
                                                   and 85% of local
                                                   expenditures for
                                                   other items pro-
                                                   cured locally
(4) FES Subprojects
    (a) to be carried            300,000           70%
        out under Part
        C.4 of Section I
        of Schedule 4 to
        this Agreement
    (b) to be carried          2,000,000           70%
        out under other
        procurement pro-
        cedures
(5) Medical equipment           1,000,000          100%
    and supplies
(6) Consultants'                2,000,000          100%
    services
(7) Training                    1,000,000          100%
(8) Food Supplement             5,000,000          100% of payments
                                                   made on or before
Page  17
                                                   December 31, 1996; 60%
                                                   of payments made on or
                                                   before December 31, 1998;
                                                   and 30% thereafter
(9) Unallocated                 2,700,000
        TOTAL                  25,000,000
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
    (a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount
not to exceed $2,000,000, may be made in respect of Categories
(1) through (8) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures before
that date but after December 15, 1993; and
    (b)   payments made under Categories (5) and (8) of the table
set forth in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, unless the Bank has
received evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, that the Borrower
has adopted, and started to implement, an action plan,
satisfactory to the Bank, to ensure the satisfactory execution
of the Pilot Nutrition Project.
4.  The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures
under contracts:
    (a)   for goods or works not exceeding $100,000 equivalent;
    (b)   for consulting firms not exceeding $50,000 equivalent;
and
    (c)   for individual consultants not exceeding $20,000,
respectively, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                 SCHEDULE 2
                         Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are: (a) to reduce the
incidence of malnutrition among children aged less than 5
years, breast-feeding and pregnant women; (b) to increase the
coverage of basic water supply and sanitation in the Borrower's
rural areas; (c) to train JAAs so as to improve their capacity
to operate and maintain systems under their responsibility; and
(d) to strengthen MDS capacity to plan, execute, monitor and
evaluate: (i) the policies, strategies and technical standards
developed for the Borrower's rural health sector; and (ii)
rural water quality.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Page  18
Part A:   Nutrition
1.  Training and equipping of approximately 1,500 PSs and
approximately 120 ASs that will provide primary health care
services to approximately 70,000 rural inhabitants; such
training to include monitoring of the nutritional status, and
treatment and prevention of malnutrition, mainly in rural
areas.
2.  Introduction and operation of a food supplement program
targeted on malnourished members of the following vulnerable
groups: (a) children aged more than 6 months and less than 60;
and (b) pregnant and breast-feeding women.
3.  Carrying out of a refresher training program for MDS' staff
assigned to the regional and local offices, on the following
subjects:
    (a)   identification, monitoring, treatment and prevention of
nutritional problems in the community, at the primary and
referral levels of the health system, including effective
community organization and interpersonal communication
methodologies;
    (b)   supervision of ASs, PSs and community organizations,
including health committees; and
    (c)   methodologies for fostering organization and promotion
of community and families' small food production and storage
development projects.
Part B:   Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
1.  (a)   Design, construction and supervision of approximately:
          (i)   450 new rural water supply systems;
         (ii)   300 drilled wells and 150 dug wells, all
                equipped with handpumps; and
        (iii)   30,000 latrines.
    (b)   Renovation or expansion of approximately 250 existing
water supply systems in rural communities.
2.  (a)   Establishment or regularization of JAAs.
    (b)   Implementation of a system in MDS to supervise and
assist JAAs in the operation and maintenance of basic water
supply and sanitation infrastructure, including:
          (i)   training of MDS's sanitary inspectors and health
                educators in methodologies for promoting
                effective community participation in the
                selection and construction of basic water supply
                and sanitation systems;
         (ii)   training of community leaders in the
                organization and operation of JAAs; and
        (iii)   training and technical assistance for
                designated JAA members.
3.  Establishment of the Borrower's national system of water
quality controls in rural areas, including:
    (a)   establishment and operation of a central water quality
laboratory in MDS and basic biological and physico-chemical
water analysis facilities in four regional offices; and
    (b)   creation of a computerized information center on the
Page  19
Borrower's water sources for rural areas and related sector
activities.
Part C:   Institutional Strengthening
1.  Strengthening the capacity of SDGSP to direct, monitor and
evaluate the nutrition strategies and programs to be
implemented under the Project.
2.  Strengthening of SDGSA aimed at allowing MDS to perform its
statutory obligations with regard to:
    (a)   providing households living in small rural communities
with access to basic water supply and sanitation
infrastructure; and
    (b)   defining and enforcing environmental health regulations
to protect the general public from water-borne contamination or
pollution.
3.  Operation of UAP.
4.  Design and implementation, within MIPPE, of a national
system for monitoring poverty alleviation efforts within the
social sectors.
                                    * * *
    The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1999.
                                 SCHEDULE 3
                            Amortization Schedule
                                           Payment of Principal
    Date Payment Due                      (expressed in Dollars)*
On each April 1 and October 1
    beginning October 1, 2000
    through October 1, 2011                     1,040,000
And on April 1, 2012                            1,080,000
_____________________________
*   The figures in this column represent Dollar equivalents
    determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
    General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
Page  20
                           Premiums on Prepayment
    Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the
Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the
applicable time of prepayment below:
    Time of Prepayment                        Premium
                                    The interest rate (expressed as a
                                    percentage per annum) applicable
                                    to the Loan on the day of
                                    prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                              0.18
    before maturity
More than three years but                              0.35
    not more than six years
    before maturity
More than six years but                                0.65
    not more than 11 years
    before maturity
More than 11 years but not                             0.88
    more than 15 years
    before maturity
More than 15 years before                              1.00
    maturity
                                 SCHEDULE 4
                    Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.      Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.  Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
    (a)   For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid
referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide
that, when contract award is delayed beyond the original bid
validity period, the successful bidder's bid price will be
increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed correction
factors acceptable to the Bank, one to be applied to all
foreign currency components and the other to the local currency
component of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken
into account in the bid evaluation.
    (b)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with Parts A
and C.1 of this Section, the Borrower shall use the relevant
standard bidding documents issued by the Bank, with such
modifications thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to be
necessary for the purposes of the Project. Where no relevant
standard bidding documents have been issued by the Bank, the
Borrower shall use bidding documents based on other
internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the Bank.
2.  To the extent practicable, contracts for goods under Part
A.1 shall be grouped into bid packages, as follows:
          (i)   four contracts each for plastic pipes, pumps, and
                latrines;
Page  21
         (ii)   two contracts for vehicles;
        (iii)   one contract for office equipment; and
         (iv)   one contract for laboratory equipment.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
    In the procurement of goods in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in
Panama may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and
2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix
2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.  Food Supplements estimated to cost the equivalent of more
than $100,000 per contract may be procured under contracts
awarded through limited international bidding procedures on the
basis of evaluation and comparison of bids obtained from
qualified suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and in
accordance with the procedures set forth in Sections I and II
of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56
thereof).
2.  The following may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Bank:
    (a)   civil works, other than FES Subprojects, estimated to
cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more per contract, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $5,700,000;
    (b)   contracts for FES Subprojects estimated to cost the
equivalent of less than $100,000 and more than $50,000 per
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $2,200,000;
and
    (c)   goods, other than Food Supplements, medical equipment
and supplies, estimated to cost the equivalent of less than
$150,000 but more than $25,000 per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $400,000, in the case of goods required
for civil works to be carried out by force account, and
$1,000,000 in the case of other goods, respectively.
3.  The following may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least
three suppliers in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Bank:
    (a)   civil works, other than FES Subprojects, estimated to
cost the equivalent of less than $50,000, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $3,100,000;
    (b)   contracts for FES Subprojects estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or less and more than $35,000, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $800,000;
    (c)   Food Supplements estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $900,000; and
    (d)   goods, other than Food Supplements, medical equipment
and supplies, estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or
less, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $300,000, in the
case of goods required for civil works to be carried out by
force account, and $500,000 in the case of other goods,
respectively.
4.  Contracts for FES Subprojects, estimated to cost $35,000 or
Page  22
less, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $500,000 may be
awarded after direct negotiations with contractors, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
5.  Medical equipment and supplies, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $1,000,000, may be procured through direct
negotiations with the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF)
in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.  Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
    (a)   With respect to: (i) each contract for goods under
Parts A.1 and C.1 hereof; (ii) the first three contracts under
Part C.2 hereof; and (iii) each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure
that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment
out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
    (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3
and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the
two conformed copies of the contract together with the other
information required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to
said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5
to this Agreement.
    (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.  The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Part E:   Standard Bidding Documents
    All procurement of goods and works pursuant to the
provisions of Part C.2 hereof shall be carried out using
standard bidding documents satisfactory to the Bank, prepared
by SDGSA and SDGSP, and reviewed by UAP.
Section II.     Employment of Consultants
1.  In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant
Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower
shall employ such consultants under contracts using the
standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by
the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by
the Bank. For lump-sum contracts or where no relevant standard
contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower
shall use other standard forms agreed with the Bank.
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring
prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists,
Page  23
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to: (a)
contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to
cost less than $50,000 equivalent each; and (b) contracts for
the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less
than $20,000 equivalent each. However, this exception to prior
Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for
such contracts; (b) single source selection of consulting
firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature as reasonably
determined by the Bank; (d) amendments of contracts for the
employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to
$50,000 equivalent or above; and (e) amendments to contracts
for the employment of individual consultants raising the
contract value to $20,000 equivalent or above.
Section III.  Special Provisions
A.  In addition and without limitation to any other provisions
set forth in this Schedule or the Guidelines, the following
principles of procurement shall expressly govern all
procurement of goods and works referred to in Parts A.1 and C.1
of Section I of this Schedule:
1.  Foreign bidders shall not be required to:
    (a)   have a local representative for purposes of submitting
bids;
    (b)   be registered with local authorities as a prerequisite
for bidding; and
    (c)   be associated with local contractors or suppliers.
2.  Bids may be:
    (a)   submitted at any reasonable time before bid opening,
either by mail, courier or person; and
    (b)   accompanied by a bid security in the form and amount
specified in the standard bidding documents.
3.  No provisional award shall be made at the time of bid
opening.
4.  No minimum number of bids shall be required as a condition
to award a contract.
5.  Contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has been
evaluated as the lowest and responsive, in accordance with
criteria clearly set forth in the standard bidding documents.
6.  After contract award, performance securities shall be
provided within the time period, and in form and amount
specified in the standard bidding documents.
B.  In addition and without limitation to any other provisions
set forth in this Schedule or the Guidelines, the following
principles of procurement shall expressly govern all
procurement of goods and works referred to in Part C.2 of
Section I of this Schedule:
1.  Bids may be:
    (a)   submitted at any reasonable time before bid opening,
either by mail, courier or person; and
    (b)   accompanied by a bid security in the form and amount
specified in the standard bidding documents.
2.  No provisional award shall be made at the time of bid
opening.
Page  24
3.  No minimum number of bids shall be required as a condition
to award a contract.
4.  Contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has been
evaluated as the lowest and responsive, in accordance with
criteria clearly set forth in the standard bidding documents.
5.  Contracts for civil works shall provide for mobilization
advances, whenever appropriate.
6.  After contract award, performance securities shall be
provided within the time period and in the form and amount
specified in the standard bidding documents.
7.  Price adjustment provisions, acceptable to the Bank, may be
included in work contracts.
C.  In addition to and without limitation to any other
provisions set forth in this Schedule or the Consultants
Guidelines, the following principles of procurement shall
expressly govern all procurement of consultants' services
referred to in Section II of this Schedule:
1.  Foreign consultants shall not be required to:
    (a)   be locally registered as a condition of participation
in the selection process;
    (b)   give any participation in or share of any consulting
contracts to any local firm or person for the purposes of
participating in the selection process or receiving an award,
except in connection with a joint venture arrangement where:
(i) a sufficient number of capable domestic firms or individual
consultants exist to allow a foreign consultant reasonable
freedom of choice; (ii) the contribution of either party to the
joint venture arrangement will not be constrained by any
prescribed manner or extent of participation; and (iii) the
foreign consultant is not required to associate itself with any
specific named domestic firms or individual consultants;
    (c)   furnish any certificate issued by a local authority
about their legal capacity or tax status for the purposes of
submitting a proposal; and
    (d)   personally submit their proposals.
2.  Consultants shall be selected from a short list of firms
invited to submit proposals on the basis of terms of reference,
employment conditions and evaluation criteria clearly set forth
in the respective letter of invitation.
                                 SCHEDULE 5
                               Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (8) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to this Agreement;
    (b)   the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $1,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account
and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3
(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank
Page  25
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be
limited to an amount equivalent to $500,000 until the aggregate
amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $3,000,000.
2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                deposits into the Special Account at such
                intervals as the Bank shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                and other evidence required pursuant to
                paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                payments in respect of which replenishment is
                requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
                from the Loan Account and deposit into the
                Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall
                have requested and as shall have been shown by
                said documents and other evidence to have been
                paid out of the Special Account for Eligible
                Expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective Eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively
for Eligible Expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
    (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
    (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Bank, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
    (c)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the
Page  26
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account
pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions; or
    (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the Eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the Eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.  (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph
2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if
the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
    (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required
to cover further payments for Eligible Expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to
the Bank such outstanding amount.
    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to
the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
    (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
                                 SCHEDULE 6
                   Implementation of Part A of the Project
   Phase 1 (1995)
   Borrower's districts to be
   covered:                                   Tole and Remedios.
   Phase 2 (1996-1997)
   In addition to the districts
   covered under Phase 1, the
   following districts:                       Lorenzo, San Felix,
                                              Las Palmas, Canazas,
                                              Santa Fe, San Francisco,
                                              Colon, Panama, San
                                              Miguelito and Chepo.
   Phase 3 (1998-1999)
   In addition to the districts
Page  27
   covered under Phase 1 and 2, the
   following districts:                       Chiman, La Mesa,
                                              Montijo, Rio de Jesus,
                                              Calobre, Sona, Bocas del
                                              Toro, Chiriqui Grande,
                                              Ola, Donoso, Chagre,
                                              Chepigana, Pinogana,
                                              Las Minas, Los Pozos
                                              and San Blas.
