Documenl of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15642
PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
BRAZIL
ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
(LOAN 3227-BR)
May 24, 1996
Infrastructure and Urban Development Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perforrnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalent
Currency Unit    =   Brazilian Novo Cruzado(NCz$)
US$1.00          =   NCz$1.10'
Units and Measures
kv               =   kilowatt
MW               =   megawatt (1,000 k"
kWh              =   kilowatt hour
Gwh              =   gigawatt hour (million kwh)
kV               =   kilovolt (1,000 volts)
kVa              =   kilovolt-ampere
MVA              =   megavolt-ampere (1,000 kVA)
MVRA             =   megavolt-ampere, reactive (1,000
kVAr)
Fiscal Year of the Borrower
January 1 -December 31
Glossary of Acronyms
CEMIG                =     Companhia Energetica de Minas Gerais
CESP                 =     Companhia Energetica de Sao Paulo
CERJ                 =     Companhia Energetica do Rio de Janeiro
COELBA               =     Companhia de Eletricidade do Estado da Bahia
COPEL                =     Companhia Paranaense de Energia Eletrica
CPFL                 =     Companhia Paulista de Forca e Luz
DNAEE                =     Departamento Nacional de Agua e Energia Eletrica
ELETROBRAS           =     Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras, S.A
ELETROPAULO          =     Eletricidade de Sao Paulo
LIGHT                =     LIGHT-Servicos de Eletricidade, S. A.
PCN                  =     Project Completion Note
PROCEL               =     National Electric Energy Conservation Program
RAP                  =     Rate Adjustment Plan
Exchange rate prevailing in May 1989 was used for all calculations in the Staff Appraisal Report (No.
8223-BR, dated May 28, 1990). Since then the Cruzado was devalued several times and on March 16, 1990, it was
renamed the cruzeiro. The rate of exchange was US$1.00 = CrS38.40.



-2-                      FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE (PCN)
BRAZIL
ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
(Loan 3227-BR)
This is the Project Completion Note (PCN) for the Electricity Transmission and
Conservation Project in Brazil, for which Loan 3227-BR in the amount of US$380 million was
approved on June 14, 1990 by the Executive Directors of the World Bank. On April 22, 1992,
the Bank, dissatisfied with the Government's not authorizing sufficient sector-wide power tariff
increases to comply with the major condition for effectiveness, withdrew the loan. The borrower
was Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras, SA (ELETROBRAS), the Federal holding company in the
power sector.
The PCN was prepared by Mr. Andrew Waldrop, LAIIU and was reviewed by Messrs.
Asif Faiz, Chief, LAIIU; Vladimir Jadrijevic, Senior Power Engineer, LAIIU; and Orville Grimes,
Projects Adviser, LA1DR. Preparation for this PCN began in March 1996. It is based on
material in the files, and interviews with Bank staff.
Power Loans to Brazil. The borrower of Loan 3227-BR ($385 million) was to be
Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras, SA (ELETROBRAS). The beneficiaries were to be a group of
operating power companies chosen by meeting agreed technical, financial, and institutional criteria
(para. 1). Since 1980, the Bank has loaned ELETROBRAS US$2.58 billion despite a regulatory
regime which gave priority to short-term political and macroeconomic goals over the long-term
financial health of the power sector (paras. 2-8).
A. Background
1.    The Borrower. The borrower was to be Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras, SA
(ELETROBRAS), the Federal holding company with sector-wide planning and investment
banking responsibilities. The beneficiaries were to be a group of nine operating power utilities
selected according to agreed technical, financial, and institutional criteria. 2
2.    Bank Lending to ELETROBRAS. Since 1980, the Bank has loaned ELETROBRAS
US$2.47 billion--eight investment loans (US$1.97 billion) and one sector adjustment loan (Loan
2720-BR; 1986; US$0.50 billion). Through relending agreements, the proceeds of the investment
loans were passed to Federal and State power companies primarily to finance transmission and
2     The beneficiaries included: Centrais Eletricas do Sul do Brasil, S.A. (ELETROSUL), LIGHT-Servicos de
Eletricidade, S.A. (LIGHT), Companhia Energetica de Sao Paulo (CESP), Eletricidade de Sao Paulo
(ELETROPAULO), Companhia Paulista de Forca e Luz (CPFL), Companhia Energetica de Minas Gerais
(CEMIG), Companhia Paranaense de Energia (COPEL), Companhia Energetica da Bahia (COELBA), and
Companhia de Eletricidade do Estado do Rio do Janiero (CERJ). ELETROSUL and LIGHT were operating
subsidiareis of ELETROBRAS; the other future beneficiaries were state owned.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.



- 3 -
distribution works. Associated with Loan 2720-BR, which financed general imports, was a
comprehensive Power Sector Rehabilitation Plan (PSRP) featuring (i) a balanced and rational
least-cost expansion program; and (ii) measures to improve sector finances, including
contributions from the Government (primarily through the conversion of debt into equity) to the
Federal generating companies and annual tariff increases (from 1986 to 1989) which would
provide the sector with a return of 10% on remunerable assets by 1989. As indicated later (para.
4), results under the plan fell short of expectations.
3.    Political and Economic Context.  Between 1984 and 1992, while civilian, elected
government became the norm in Brazil, the economy experienced irregular and declining rates of
growth, high levels of inflation, public sector deficits, and periodic problems in servicing foreign-
currency debt. Further complicating an already difficult economic situation were the disputes as
to the respective powers of the President, the Congress, and the States --disputes which delayed
policy formulation.
4.    Regulation. During the years 1980-1992, sector regulation was such that the power
utilities were strongly linked to one another and to the Government through centrally coordinated
tariffs, revenue sharing, financing, planning, and operations. The Departmento Nacional de Aguas
e Energia Eletrica (DNAEE) set tariffs and ELETROBRAS carried out sector planning and
financial functions. However, the authority of both entities was subordinated to a planning body--
Secretaria de Controle de Empresas Estatais (SEST)--which reviewed the decisions of DNAEE
and ELETROBRAS to ensure consistency between macroeconomic policy and sector policy on
tariffs, borrowing, and investment expenditures.  Under this arrangement, the Government
ignored legislative standards for setting power tariffs (10% return on remunerable assets) and
subordinated the rehabilitation of sector finances to political, short-term macroeconomic
objectives. This regime resulted in poor or deteriorating sector finances and non-compliance by
the Bank's borrowers with respect to the revenue covenants of their loan agreements.
5.    Financial Restoration Plans. Instead of suspending and canceling its power loans to
Brazil, the Bank, beginning in 1980, took an understanding attitude toward the political and
economic problems of that country, and obtained the Government's agreement to a series of plans
to restore sector finances. Between 1980 and 1983, the Bank and the Government agreed to
three such plans to increase tariffs in connection with various loans. These plans, however, did
not reverse the deteriorating financial trend due to defects inherent in the plans, delays in their
implementation, and precedence given by the Government to macroeconomic strategic objectives.
6.    The financial goals of the 1986 PSRP were adjusted to be consistent with the stabilization
plan (Cruzado Plan)--meaning that significant tariff increases were deferred to 1987 and later
years. The Cruzado Plan was based principally on price controls, including the freezing of power
tariffs. In 1987 and 1988, the Government increased average tariffs above the levels prevailing in
1985 and 1986, but these levels were well below target levels, leading to shortfalls in actual net
sector internal cash generation and investment expenditures.
7.    During these two years, the Bank and the Government could not reach agreement on



-4 -
the terms for a second sector loan due to the short-term reintroduction of price controls (1987),
nor could agreement be concluded on a proposed nuclear power plant (Angra III) in the sector
expansion program. In 1989, an election year in Brazil, the Government, to contain inflation in a
politically popular manner, introduced a price freeze which undermined the power tariff gains of
the prior two years. Due to the deteriorating macroeconomic situation, the Bank discontinued the
processing of a proposed Environmental Reform and Energy Conservation Adjustment loan. The
last financial restoration plan--the Rate Adjustment Plan (RAP) which was negotiated in 1990 in
connection with Loan 3227-BR --provided for an average tariff sold of US$54/MWh in July 1989
prices. Reaching this average tariff level was a condition for effectiveness; maintaining this level
was a condition for continuing disbursement.
8.    As long as the Government appeared to be serious about implementing the financial
restoration plans, the Bank was willing to waive compliance with the financial covenants of loan
agreements. The revenue covenants required a 10% rate of return on remunerable assets.
However, when it became clear in 1992 that the Government was unable to implement the RAP,
the Bank withdrew Loan 3227-BR.
B. Proiect Objectives and Description
9.    Project Objectives. The principal objectives of the project were to: (i) increase the
transmission system  capacity and reliability through increased funding for high priority
transmission works; (ii) improve sector finances, primarily through tariff increases; (iii) expand
energy conservation and demand management programs under the National Electric Energy
Conservation Program (PROCEL); and (iv) improve sector institutional arrangements through the
implementation of the Power Sector Study of Institutional Structure and Policies (REVISE).
10.   The project's objectives were designed to address high-priority problems of the power
sector. Besides the Government's poor regulation of the sector (para. 4), these problems had their
origins in the objectives and programs established by the Government for the energy and power
sectors. As a consequence of the sharp increases in international oil prices in the 1970s, the
Government directed energy policy toward achieving: (a) improved conservation and more
rational energy use; (b) substitution of domestic energy sources for imported sources; and (c)
exploitation of existing domestic energy resources. For the power sector, these objectives
translated into specific programs leading to greater investment emphasis on power plant
construction without adequate provision for transmission expansion. For hydrocarbons, these
objectives led to greater investment in petroleum exploration, production, and refining and alcohol
production. By 1987, Brazil's dependence on imported petroleum had been reduced from 85 % in
1979 to 47 %, but this success was achieved at a price, since the resources needed to increase
domestic energy supply consumed more than half of all Federal investment in state-owned
enterprises, thereby contributing to the public sector deficit and inflation.
11.   Description. The project was to consist of a time-slice (1990-1993) of the transmission
investment programs of the beneficiaries, including the construction of high voltage transmission



- 5 -
lines (11,400 circuit-km) and the installation of transformer capacity (25,400 MVA) and reactive
capacity (5,400 MVAR) at power substations, and Part A (1990-1991) of the Electric Energy
Conservation Programs (PROCEL) being implemented by ELETROBRAS. PROCEL was to
consist of studies related to co-generation, furnaces, and improved power uses in buildings,
purchase and installation of about 100,000 units of efficient public lighting fixtures, purchase and
installation of about 500 MVAR of distribution capacitor banks to reduce system losses, the
purchase of laboratory and metering equipment, and training on the application of energy
conservation technology and practices. The project was expected to cost about US$3.8 billion
with a foreign-currency cost of $385 million to be covered with the Bank loan. The project
execution period was to be 1990-1993.
C. Achievement of Project Obiectives
12.   Assessment. For reasons outlined below (para. 14), the loan, after approval by the
Executive Directors on June 14, 1990, was withdrawn unsigned on April 22, 1992, thereby
terminating the Bank's association with the project. Given these developments, it is not known
what components of the project were carried out; hence it is not possible to assess results, if any,
under the project. The Bank spent a total of 171.5 staffweeks from the time the project was
identified in 1984 until it was cancelled in 1992.
13.   Effectiveness of the loan agreement was conditioned on: (i) the Government's authorizing
tariff increases sufficient to generate a sector-wide average revenue per MWh sold of US$54 in
July 1989 prices; and (ii) the selection of at least five of the potential beneficiaries based on their
meeting the agreed technical, financial, and institutional criteria. (To take account of the impact
of inflation and rate of exchange, this figure was revised to US$67/MWh based on July 1991
prices.)
14.  In June 1991 and December 1991, at Governmient request, the Bank extended the deadline
for loan signing, first for six months to December 14, 1991 and later for three months to March
14, 1992. On March 8, 1992, ELETROBRAS requested a further extension of three months. On
March 26, 1992, the Bank advised the Government and ELETROBRAS that it was Bank policy,
in case of prolonged signing delay, to withdraw and cancel a loan if conditions had changed so
much since approval that the loan as designed might no longer be appropriate; and that the
deterioration in sector finances as a result of inadequate tariffs appeared to constitute such
changed conditions. The Bank further advised it would extend the signing deadline an additional
three months, provided that the Government and ELETROBRAS provided a credible plan for
raising average tariffs to US$67/MWh and identified five qualified beneficiaries at the end of the
three months. The responses of the Government and ELETROBRAS were not satisfactory,
leading the Bank to withdraw the loan.
D. Maior Factors Affecting Loan Withdrawal
15.   Inadequate Regulatory Regime. In the 1980s, the Government ignored power tariff
legislation and the regulatory authority of DNAEE in favor of financial rehabilitation plans and



-6 -
review by SEST. The substitution of these plans for the norms of tariff legislation started the
sector on a downhill path which allowed for the subordination of the long-term financial needs of
the sector to short-run political and macroeconomic objectives. For example, in 1982-1983, the
prospect of default by Latin American countries posed a threat to the stability of the international
banking system. Calming these fears was an explicit part of the rationale for new Bank lending
during the period (e.g. Loans 2564-5-BR in 1985). In 1986, to support the first civilian, elected
government in twenty years, the Bank agreed to a PSRP which deferred implementation of
significant tariff increases until 1987.
E. Lessons to be Learned
16.   Regulation. Since the existence of an autonomous regulatory agency might have avoided
the financial deterioration of the sector, the Government should establish a truly autonomous
regulatory agency--DNAEE or a new agency--with clear and primary authority to perform the
basic regulatory task: tariff setting, based on transparent and clear rules and not subject to
political interference. The institutional setup of the regulatory agency, its responsibilities, its
relations with the different branches of the Government, and its staffing system should be such as
to ensure independence and avoid conflict of interest with private and publicly owned utilities.
17.   Circumstances for Bank Lending. Another, seemingly contradictory lesson concerns
the circumstances of Bank lending. Continuing to lend despite a record of unkept plans for
financial rehabilitation undermined the credibility of the Bank and led the Government to expect
the Bank not to insist on adherence to either financial covenants or plans.  This message
undoubtedly detracted from implementation of the plans.  It seems clear that lending in
circumstances of continuing financial deterioration sends the borrower the wrong message and
leads to a significant risk that agreed plans for financial rehabilitation will not be observed.















_MAGI'NG
Reepc,rt Nc:         1 5d12
Type: PCN



